
    
      Background: Many studies have linked pre-pregnancy obesity and the metabolic syndrome, with
      an increased risk of developing gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM). These factors are
      associate with increased risk of newborn obesity, insulin resistance and diabetes. Recently,
      studies have shown that the "Chrono-Biological" (CB) aspects need to be considered in this
      context. These factors are related to endogenous circadian clocks, which regulate many body
      functions depending upon cycle of light and darkness during a day of almost 24 hours. By
      tracks daily fluctuations in heart rate, blood pressure, hormone secretion and control of a
      variety of metabolic pathways. Factors that can affect the setting of the circadian clock may
      include; Change dark and light hours, consumptions of certain nutrients during the day and
      more.

      Chronic rhythm disruption associated with the development of obesity, diabetes, and more.
      Factors such as "chrono-nutrition" (CN) have a significant impact on variations in circadian
      rhythms includes: meals program schedule, glucose, saturated fat, caffeine and alcohol
      intake, and the ratio of macronutrients. Intervention studies in adults who are obese and
      diabetes were able to reduce the impact of these disorders by changing the composition and
      schedule of meals that lead to weight loss and diabetes control. Moreover, Insomnia during
      pregnancy can be caused by disorders CB. Insomnia affects 30-40% of all pregnancies. Some
      sleep disorders can be worsening by pregnancy, particularly overweight. Currently, routine
      monitoring and treatment of women with GDM does not include screening for sleep disorders and
      CN factors.

      Working hypothesis and aims: To asses CB factors during the third trimester of participants
      with GDM pregnancies with a weight of childbirth and related complications. The investigators
      hypothesize that participants with GDM pregnancies with higher CB status will be ended with
      higher birth weight compared to participants with GDM pregnancies with a lower status.

      In addition, the investigators assume that the CN intervention program will contribute to
      reducing the rate of birth weight above the 90 percentile compared to control group.

      Methods: In a prospective cohort study, n= 280, The investigators will review the obstetric
      outcomes and the impact of CB disorders and complications for mother and fetus, through
      questionnaires. In a clinical trial n=100, The investigators will assess the effect of CN
      intervention on birth weight in participants with GDM pregnancies.

      Expected results: Based on the investigators preliminary research and literature, The
      investigators expected that due to the increasing prevalence of obesity and sleep disturbance
      among GDM pregnancies , and the feasibility of high interference CN factors in pregnancy,
      Therefore, it is important to examine the impact of CB factors on maternal and fetal.

      The importance of the study: Since there is a high probability that GDM is exposed to the
      interference of CB factors which are not monitored during GDM, this unique study, is of great
      importance for understanding the potential impact of the CB factors on higher birth weight
      rates.
    
  