
    
      Coronary angiography (CAG) for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes such as percutaneous
      coronary intervention (PCI) is one of the common procedures associated with Contrast-induced
      nephropathy (CIN). The reported incidence of contrast induced nephropathy (CIN) in high-risk
      patients following CAG varies from 10% to 30%1. The development of CIN after diagnostic
      coronary angiography and/or percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is associated with
      prolonged hospitalization and a remarkable increase in morbidity, early and late mortality
      and costs. The high rate of CIN in post-PCI patients could be related either to the patient
      (advanced age, previous CKD, diabetes, dehydration, and concomitant use of other nephrotoxic
      drugs) or procedure related (intra-arterial route of administration, use of high osmolar CM,
      repeated exposure to contrast within 48 h, volume of contrast used, etc.)2-5. Several
      strategies to prevent or treat CIN have been developed, including hydration,
      N-acetyl-cysteine, statins, ascorbic acid, bicarbonate, aminophylline, forced diuresis, renal
      replacement therapy, and choice of lowosmolarity or alternative agents, but one of the most
      obvious means is to minimize contrast volume. Patients that have a serum creatinine of >
      1.5mg/dl and an eGFR < 60ml/min might be at higher risk for AKIs. In quarter one of 2018,
      CAMC's in-hospital risk-adjusted acute kidney injury for patients undergoing PCI was 10.64,
      and the US 50th percentile was 6.476. The goal of this study is to reduce in-hospital
      risk-adjusted acute kidney injury for patients undergoing PCI, below the US 50th,
      percentile-based NCDR quarterly results of the Cath-PCI registry by quarter one of 2020.

      CIN is one of the leading causes of acute kidney injury at Charleston Area Medical Center it
      is imperative to take steps to prevent it. CIN is associated with a 13% increase in one- year
      mortality rate when comparing patients without CIN. Studies have also shown an increase in
      inpatient length of stay and substantial increase cost for patients who experienced CIN. The
      economic burden associated with CIN is high, the average in-hospital cost of CIN is $10,345
      7. Adopting targeted interventions will reduce the incidence of CIN and the overall economic
      burden at Charleston Area Medical Center.

      This trial is aimed at observing whether the use of the monitoring system Dye-Vert PLUS in
      conjugation with implementing a pre-hydration protocol on patients with high risk for CIN
      admitted for cardiac angiography and/or interventional cath lab procedures may reduce the
      incidence of CIN. An additional aim of the study will be to assess if use of the Dye-Vert
      PLUS monitoring system reduces the use of mean contrast media given in high-risk patients.
      Additional aims of this initiative will be to evaluate contrast-related complications, such
      as hypersensitivity reactions, as well as the associated impact of contrast-related
      complications on hospital health 3 care economics. This initiative will strive to incorporate
      clinical practice guidelines from SCAI Expert Consensus Statement: 2016 Best Practices in the
      Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory related to patient risk screening, pre-procedure
      hydration, and minimizing contrast media dose used.
    
  