
    
      Cardiac resynchronisation therapy (CRT) improves symptoms and quality of life and improves
      the prognosis of patients with chronic heart failure. CRT works by improving co-ordination of
      cardiac contraction, and is indicated in people with heart failure and left bundle branch
      block (LBBB) on an ECG. The importance of LBBB is that it indicates that the electricity is
      spreading only very slowly over the surface of the heart with each heart beat, thereby making
      contraction very "dyssynchronous"; that is, instead of all the heart muscle contracting
      simultaneously, parts contract and are relaxing before other parts even start to contract.

      With a standard pacemaker, a pacing lead is implanted in the right ventricle. In those
      patients with a normal heart rhythm ("sinus rhythm"), a second lead is usually placed in the
      right atrium close to the heart's natural pacemaker. The lead in the ventricle can then track
      the heart's natural heart rate as detected by the lead in the atrium, or, if the natural rate
      is too slow, the pacemaker can sequentially pace the atrium and then the ventricle.

      A CRT system is similar, but with the addition of an extra lead positioned to pace the left
      ventricle. Now, the pacemaker is able to stimulate both left and right ventricles
      simultaneously, restoring the normal co-ordination of ventricular contraction.

      Approximately 25% of patients do not achieve significant clinical benefit with CRT. Such
      patients are termed "non-responders", and lack of response is typically measured as a failure
      to improve exercise capacity with CRT, or a failure of the heart to improve on
      echocardiography. One option to reduce the number of non-responders may be to optimise the
      CRT device by adjusting its settings based on clinical variables (such as ECG and
      echocardiogram findings). Both ECG and echocardiogram optimisation give similar results in
      terms of clinical response to CRT, but patients who had their CRT optimised using ECG
      variables had a significantly greater impact on echocardiographic response, that is a greater
      proportion of that group had a LV end-systolic volume reduction >10%) 3. Another possibility
      for optimising CRT is cardiogoniometry (CGM), which is what the study aims to investigate.
      CGM is form of 3D vector electrocardiography which can provide quantitative analysis of
      myocardial depolarisation and repolarisation. Like standard 12 lead electrocardiogram (ECG),
      CGM uses different electrodes to identify electrical potential gradients produced by cardiac
      electrical activity. The ECG can only visually represent this information in a two
      dimensional way, whereas CGM can create a three dimensional display. Electrode placement is
      important: and complex mathematical modelling is used to generate the displays. CGM gives the
      same output as a standard ECG. One additional output is vector loop graphs. These are
      sequentially plotted values of electrical activity of the heart in the x, y and z axis, in
      three orthogonal planes. When the vector loops follow the same pathway it means that the
      electrical activity of the heart is following the same pathway with each ventricular
      depolarisation and repolarisation. By contrast, when there is abnormal electrical conduction,
      the vector loop pathways can vary. CGM is useful for identifying stable coronary artery
      disease and recognising the acute coronary syndromes, but its clinical value outside patients
      with acute ischaemic heart disease is unclear. This feasibility study aims to see if CGM can
      detect the different settings of a CRT device, by assessing the CGM vector loops with
      different device settings.
    
  