
    
      Overweight (defined as BMI ≥25kg/m2) and obesity (defined as BMI ≥30kg/m2) during pregnancy
      is becoming more common. Approximately 25-30% of women of childbearing age are obese and
      around 50% are overweight at the time of conception. Women who are either overweight or obese
      have a much higher risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes. For example, they are more likely to
      develop gestational diabetes, pregnancy-induced hypertension, pre-eclampsia, Caesarean
      section and other complications. Recent research suggests that overweight and obese pregnant
      women are less active than normal weight ( BMI≤ 25kg/m2) pregnant women and also that the
      level of physical activity decreases throughout pregnancy. The evidence also suggests that
      maintaining a good level of physical activity can reduce the risks of adverse pregnancy
      outcomes. A large study which looked at the most preferred types of physical activity
      identified that walking and swimming were the most preferred types of physical activity by
      pregnant women. Although there is an association between walking at a brisk pace and a
      reduced risk of gestational diabetes, there is no definitive conclusion on the effectiveness
      of walking interventions. The investigators are proposing this feasibility study in order to
      find out whether a walking intervention can be implemented during pregnancy in the obese
      population to reduce adverse pregnancy health outcomes. The current study will investigate
      whether a Fitibit Pedometer and a Social networking Site (Facebook) can be used to encourage
      pregnant, obese women to increase and maintain activity during pregnancy. The feasibility
      study will test the recruitment strategy, acceptability of the intervention design,
      randomisation acceptability, and timing of the intervention. Participants from both the
      control and the intervention will be purposefully selected to take part in focus group
      following the intervention in order to give feedback on the study. The investigators will be
      working with an Obstetrics & Gynaecology consultant at Jessop Wing, Hallamshire Hospital to
      help with the recruitment process and provide clinical advice. Women who are obese
      (BMI>30kg/m2) in their early pregnancy (12-14 weeks) will be recruited. Participants that
      consent to take part in the study will be given a Fitbit pedometer and enrolled in a closed
      Facebook group. Each participant will wear a Fitbit for a week in order to measure their
      baseline physical activity level. Thereafter, the participants in the intervention will be
      asked to gradually increase their physical activity level (they will be given a weekly step
      target)for 4 weeks in total. The Facebook component of the intervention will contain
      motivational and educational posts and rewarding messages about their progress. The control
      group will be asked to wear a Fitbit for 5 weeks and do their usual activities in total with
      a covered screen so as to not see the step count
    
  