
    
      Project approach and work plan:

      Phase 1: In the week prior to the collection of standard pre-clinic blood work (to include
      calcium, phosphate, PTH), PD patients will keep a 3-day diary that will include all foods and
      beverages consumed in addition to the portion sizes. At the time of standard pre-clinic
      bloodwork collection, patients will perform an adequest. Medication lists will be reviewed
      for: 1) Proton pump inhibitors/ H2 receptor antagonists 2) 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 and 1,25
      dihydroxyvitamin D3 and 3) phosphate binders. Doses taken the week prior to standard
      pre-clinic blood work when the diet diaries are compiled will be recorded. This information
      will be used for 2 separate purposes: 1) A list of the foods that are actually being eaten by
      the PD patients will be generated 2) The 3-day average phosphate content will be estimated
      from each PD patient's food diaries. A regression equation that predicts serum phosphate
      concentration taking into account phosphate intake, the amount of phosphate binders taken,
      the dose of vitamin D, use of proton pump inhibitors/H2 antagonists, dialysis adequacy, and
      serum PTH concentration will be generated.

      Phase 2: An iTouch program will be developed using Phase 1 information to assist patients in
      meal phosphate counting and appropriate binder selection. Processes used to develop similar
      programs such as the pilot study in patients with diabetes mellitus will be used. A
      convenience sample of 10 PD patients will use the iTouch program for one month and document
      their impressions about ease of use, convenience and applicability to their diet choices.
      Changes to the program will be incorporated based on the patient's comments and laboratory
      values. If substantial changes are required, another convenience sample of 10 PD patients
      will be invited to use the program and provide feedback.

      Phase 3: 80 consenting PD patients from the Ottawa Hospital and St. Michael's Hospital (if
      required) will be randomized to usual care for managing phosphate versus use of the iTouch
      program for meal phosphate counting and matching binder use. This phase of the trial will
      last 3 months. As simply recording meal phosphate intake in the iTouch program may have an
      impact on patient behavior, the control group will be asked to enter this data into the
      program but no binder therapy information will be provided to the patients. During the course
      of the study, the dose of vitamin D and PD prescription will be held constant in both groups.

      Expected Outcome:

      Phase 1: All 60 PD patients will be recruited over a 6-month period. Data entry and
      statistical analysis are expected to take another 2-4 months. Phase 2: Actual development of
      the iTouch program using the data generated in phase 1 is expected to take about 6 months. It
      is anticipated that all 10 patients will be recruited over a 2-month period with a further
      one-month of follow-up. Interviews with the patients and collation of the data are expected
      to take another month. It is unclear how much time will be required to make adjustments to
      the iTouch program but we anticipate <3months.

      Phase 3: We anticipate that we can recruit the 80 patients from the greater than 250 patients
      at the Ottawa Hospital and St Michaels Home Dialysis programs and complete the 3 months of
      follow-up in approximately 12-18months. Data analysis and manuscript preparation should take
      another 4-5 months.

      Feasibility Given the large number of PD patients in the two programs, the novelty of Phase 2
      and 3 and the incentives in Phase 3, we do not anticipate difficulties with recruitment. The
      laboratory tests are all standard and visits will occur during a patient's regularly
      scheduled PD visit.
    
  