
    
      Patients who elect to be enrolled in the study will receive an initial enrollment survey
      (attached, Initial Survey) and baseline exhaled carbon monoxide (see below) and be in one of
      three arms. The arms in brief include (1) standard of care with research follow-up (as
      mentioned in the below protocol, control arm), (2) standard of care + a 10-30 minute
      discussion while an inpatient in the hospital regarding the negative effects of smoking with
      regards to their traumatic injury with research follow-up, and finally (3) standard of care +
      a 10-30 minute discussion while an inpatient in the hospital regarding the negative effects
      of smoking with regards to their traumatic injury with research follow-up and follow-up with
      the investigators smoking educator.

      Participants in arms 2 and 3 will receive their education session at the time of enrollment.
      Research follow-up (as outlined below) will be conducted at the time of normal clinic visits
      (to avoid unnecessary visits by the patient for the purposes of research), or over the phone
      if the patient is unable to make the appointment. Arm 3, which includes 'follow-up with the
      investigators smoking educator' will receive follow-up with the smoking educator at the time
      of their research follow-up, eliminating the need for additional visits.

      Descriptions of arms:

      Arm 1, Control: Standard of care intervention: All patients at the University as a standard
      of care receive informational materials about smoking cessation. They are referred to the
      patient resource center. The brochure/document that patients are given which details the
      resources available is standardized. Patients will be provided this, also they will be
      provided with a Quitline Brochure.

      Arm 2, Standard of care + brief counseling: Patients who are randomized into this arm will
      receive the standard of care (outlined above). Additionally, patients will also receive a
      smoking education/counseling session. Patients will receive 10-30 minutes of guided
      discussion regarding the risks and benefits with regards to smoking and the healing of their
      traumatic injuries. The smoking educators, who will be trained in accordance with the
      guidelines provided by MdQuit.org will utilize motivational interviewing techniques to
      enhance interest in quitting. Patients will receive a description of the quitline, and the
      quitlined will be the recommended resource. If patients elect to enroll in the quitline, they
      will be consented using the standardized quitline consent/referral form .

      Arm 2, Standard of care + brief counseling + extended follow-up: Patients who are randomized
      into this arm will receive the same intervention as patients in Arm 2, except when patients
      arrive for their follow-up, the smoking educator will "check-in" with their progress for
      approximately 5 minutes. The techniques utilized during this check-in visit will include
      repetition of previously described motivational interviewing, at this point patients who
      elect to be referred to the quitline will be given this opportunity.

      Research follow-up: All participants in the study will receive follow-up at approximate
      intervals of 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months. These time points were selected as
      they most closely align with clinical follow-up. Patients will receive their research
      follow-up at the time of their scheduled clinical encounters, to prevent the participant from
      having to make additional visits. If the participants are unable to make the visits, or their
      clinical follow-up is not within 1 week of expected timepoint, follow-up will be attempted
      via phone. All patients during their follow-up visit will receive the follow-up survey. This
      survey includes the primary outcome, which is self-reported 7-day abstinence from smoking.
      Additionally, patients exhaled carbon monoxide level will be measured at these intervals
      using a standard carbon monoxide meter that is frequently used in research (Pico+
      Smokerylyzer, Bedfont Scientific, Haddonfield, NJ, USA). A reference of 8ppm will be utilized
      to determine abstinence. Otherwise, no other deviation from the standard of care will occur.
      In the event that patients are unable to follow-up at these schedule intervals, attempt will
      be made to contact the participants over the phone to perform the survey, and if possible,
      arrange a visit to perform the exhaled carbon monoxide metering.

      At all time points patients will have the ability to receive the informational materials or
      referral to the quitline that had been received at the time of enrollment.

      Conclusion of the patients involvement in the study will occur at their 6-month follow-up
      visit.

      Referral to the quitline will be recorded. Successful referral will be defined as patients
      who sign the referral form. As part of the standard usage of the quitline and permission of
      the participant, the quitline will notify us the participants progress via their
      fax-to-assist program. Information including number of phone calls, services utilized
      (nicotine patches, text messaging, etc.) will be provided, in addition to self-reported
      abstinence at 6 months. This will be recorded.
    
  