
    
      Rationale: Health related Quality of life (HRQoL) is impaired in patients with Turner and
      Klinefelter syndrome (TS and KS). It is unknown what the optimal endocrine treatment target
      values are that maximize HRQoL in patients with these syndromes. Therefore the relation
      between HRQoL and biochemical parameters will be studied in large cohorts of patients with TS
      and KS. This information will give essential insight that will help to improve endocrine
      treatment and HRQoL in these patients.

      Research objectives: To explore the relationship between biochemical parameters and HRQoL in
      patients with TS and KS.

      Hypothesis: Biochemical parameters are related to HRQoL in patients with TS and KS.

      Study design: Cross-sectional, observational, multicentre study

      Study population: Patients with KS or TS, 18 years or older Methods and procedures: To
      measure fatigue the Checklist Individual Strength (CIS-20) will be used, for QoL the 5-level
      EQ-5D (EQ-5D-L5) will be used and for stress the Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) and hair
      cortisol levels. For patients with KS the anxiety scale from the Liebowitz social anxiety
      scale (LSAS) will be used to measure social anxiety. To measure the long-term exposure to
      testosterone in KS patients, testosterone concentrations in hair will be measured. For
      patients with KS, all questions from the questionnaires will be discussed orally during a
      visit to the outpatients clinic. One extra tube of blood and a strand of hair will be
      collected during routine blood withdrawal. All other variables are already part of the
      standard patient care and are available in patient records. For patients with TS all
      information including the questionnaires and laboratory values is already available and will
      be collected from clinical records.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The relationship between different hormonal parameters and
      HRQoL as measured by questionnaires. The main hormonal parameter that will be investigated in
      KS is testosterone in hair. For patients with Turner syndrome, free thyroxine (FT4), thyroid
      stimulating hormone (TSH) and liver enzymes, which have already been collected, will be
      investigated. The relationships between the EQ-5D-L5 score and testosterone in hair (in
      patients with KS) and thyroid hormone status (in patients with TS) are the primary outcomes.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective:

      To explore the relationship between thyroid hormone status* and QoL as measured by the
      EQ-5D-5L in patients with TS.

      To explore the relationship between testosterone concentrations in hair and QoL as measured
      by the EQ-5D-5L in patients with KS.

      Secondary Objective(s):

      For TS:

      The relationship between thyroid hormone status* and the CIS-20 and PSS scores. The
      relationship between liver enzymes** and the EQ-5D-5L, CIS-20 and PSS scores.

      The relationship between hair cortisol levels and the EQ-5D-5L, CIS-20 and PSS scores.

      For KS:

      The relationship between testosterone concentrations in hair and the CIS-20, LSAS and PSS
      scores.

      The relationship between hair cortisol levels and the EQ-5D-5L, CIS-20, LSAS and PSS scores.

      *Variable that consists of the following 6 categories:

        -  Overt hyperthyroidism (FT4>25pmol/L and TSH<0,4mU/L)

        -  Overt hypothyroidism (FT4 <11 pmol/L and TSH >4,3 mU/L)

        -  Subclinical hypothyroidism with TSH <10mU/L (FT4 11-25 pmol/L and TSH 4,3-10mU/L)

        -  Subclinical hypothyroidism with TSH >10mU/L (FT4 11-25 pmol/L and TSH > 10mU/L)

        -  Subclinical hyperthyroidism (FT4 11-25 pmol/L and TSH <0,4 mU/L)

        -  Euthyroidism (FT4 11-25 pmol/L and TSH 0,4- 4,3 mU/L)

             -  aspartate aminotransferase (ASAT), alanine aminotransferase (ALAT), alkaline
                phosphatase (ALP), gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT), bilirubin, lactate
                dehydrogenase (LDH)

      Study design:

      2. STUDY DESIGN This is study is a multicentre cross-sectional cohort study with the Erasmus
      Medical Centre (EMC), the VU University Medical Centre (VUmc) and the Amsterdam Medical
      Centre (AMC) as contributing centres. The duration of the study is 26 months.

      The following data will be collected: laboratory values, fatigue scores, HRQoL scores,
      stress-scores, date of birth, age at diagnosis, height, weight, use of medication, genetic
      background, comorbidities. All information is already available in clinical records for
      patients with TS. For patients with KS information on HRQoL, fatigue and stress scores needs
      to be collected. A strand of hair to measure long-term testosterone and cortisol levels in
      hair and an extra tube of blood for storage will also be collected. This tube of blood could
      later be used to determine CAGn polymorphism in the androgen receptor, see paragraph below.
      Patients with KS visit an endocrinologist at the outpatients clinic of the AMC, VUmc or the
      EMC every one or two years and will be asked all questions of the questionnaires right after
      their appointment with the endocrinologist. The executive researcher will be present at the
      outpatients clinic to obtain informed consent and ask all questions. All laboratory values
      needed are routinely assessed at every visit for standard patient care and will be collected
      from clinical records afterwards.

      2.1 Laboratory values

      Laboratory outcomes:

      For KS: luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), testosterone in blood
      and testosterone and cortisol levels in hair.

      For TS: thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), free T4 (fT4) and liver enzymes: aspartate
      aminotransferase (ASAT), alanine aminotransferase (ALAT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP),
      gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT), bilirubin, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and cortisol
      levels in hair.

      2.2 Genotype The classic form of KS, which is present in the 80-90 % of the cases, is defined
      by a 47,XXY karyotype. Higher-grade aneuploidies (e.g. 48,XXXY or 48,XXYY), structurally
      abnormal X chromosome (e.g. 47,iXq,Y) or mosaicisms (e.g. 47,XXY/46,XY) make up the remaining
      10-20 % of cases.

      The most common genetic background in TS patients is a 45,X karyotype, which is present in
      approximately 60% of TS patients. Around 20% of cases of TS are caused by a mosaicism
      45X/46,XX and structural abnormalities chromosome X explain the last 20%. (26) As genetic
      background influences phenotype, information on karyotype from clinical records will be
      collected.

      2.3 Questionnaires Checklist Individual Strength (CIS-20) To measure fatigue the Checklist
      Individual Strength (CIS-20) will be used. The CIS-20 consists of 20 questions that measure
      the amount of fatigue experienced by the subject during the last two weeks. The subject has
      to indicate on a 7 point Likertscale to what extent each statement applies to him or her. The
      CIS-20 consists of 4 subscales: subjective fatigue (8 questions), concentration (5
      questions), motivation (4 questions) and activity (3 questions). The CIS-20 questionnaire has
      been validated in several populations and has proven to be a valid and reliable questionnaire
      for the assessment of fatigue. Utilization of the CIS-20 questionnaire is free, as long a
      reference to two articles is included in the publication.

      5-level EQ-5D (EQ-5D-L5) To assess HRQoL the EQ-5D-L5 questionnaire will be used. This
      questionnaire consists of two components: the EQ-5D descriptive system and the EQ visual
      analogue scale (EQ VAS). In the descriptive system the patient is asked to rate how many
      problems he or she experiences in the following five dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual
      activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. The scores for these five dimensions can
      be combined to get a number that describes the health state of the respondent. The EQ VAS is
      also a measure of health outcome. The patient is asked to indicate on a visual analogue scale
      how good he or she thinks his or her health is. References values for the Dutch general
      population are available.

      Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) To measure stress the PSS questionnaire will be used. The PSS
      consists of 10 questions that measure the degree of stress experienced by a subject after or
      during certain events during the preceding month. The PSS has proven to be a valid measure
      for perceived stress with good psychometric properties.

      Liebowitz social anxiety scale (LSAS) To measure social anxiety in patients with Klinefelter
      syndrome, the LSAS will be used. The LSAS is widely used to measure social anxiety. It
      consists of two subscales: the scale for anxiety and for avoidance. Respondents are asked to
      rate their level of fear and avoidance in 24 social situations. Research shows good
      psychometric properties. Only the scale for anxiety will be used to minimize the burden for
      the patient.

      2.4 Androgen receptor CAGn polymorphism A study by Zitzmann et al. showed an association
      between androgen receptor CAG repeats and androgen action. KS men with a shorter CAGn length
      seem to have less gynecomastia, bigger testis and higher bone density. When KS men with a
      shorter CAGn length receive testosterone replacement therapy, they show a better suppression
      of LH levels, prostate growth and higher haemoglobin concentrations. However, a more recent
      study by Valente et al. showed no relevant clinical differences in KS patients due to CAGn
      length variation on the androgen receptor. Therefore it is currently unclear whether CAG
      repeats are of clinical importance. Blood samples (buffy coat) will be collected and stored
      to be able to measure androgen receptor CAG repeats when the role of these CAGn polymorphisms
      has been clarified.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      For patients with KS: There are no risks associated with participation. All measurements will
      take place right after a planned visit at the outpatients clinic. All subjects with KS need
      to answer questions from four questionnaires, which will take about 30 minutes (including
      collection of informed consent). The biochemical parameters measured are already routinely
      assessed during the visits to the outpatients clinic. Only one extra tube of blood will be
      collected and stored. Blood will be collected during blood withdrawal for the assessment of
      laboratory values needed for standard care. One strand of hair will also be collected.The
      burden is therefore minimal.

      For patients with TS: For patients with TS all information is already available. Therefore
      there will not be any burden or risk.

      There is no direct benefit for the participants, but all patients with KS and TS could
      benefit from better hormonal treatment in the future due to the results of this study. When
      the questionnaires indicate severe psychological problems, psychological care will be
      offered.
    
  