
    
      OUTLINE

      Cell Procurement

      Peripheral blood, up to 300 mL total (in up to 3 collections) will be obtained from subjects
      for cell procurement. In subjects with inadequate lymphocyte count in the peripheral blood, a
      leukopheresis may be performed to isolate sufficient T cells. The parameters for apheresis
      will be up to 2 blood volumes.

      Lymphodepleting Regimen

      Subjects will receive a lymphodepleting regimen of fludarabine 25 mg/m2/day administered IV
      over 30 min for three consecutive days and a single IV dose of cyclophosphamide 900 mg/m2
      administered over 1 hour on the fourth day. If iC9-CAR19 T cell infusion is delayed for >4
      weeks, lymphodepletion may be repeated prior to iC9-CAR19 T cell infusion.

      Administration of iC9-CAR19 T Cells

      Post lymphodepletion, subjects who meet eligibility criteria for cellular therapy will
      receive iC9-CAR19 T cells within 2-14 days after completing the pre-conditioning chemotherapy
      regimen. We will administer iC9-CAR19 post lymphodepletion at dose levels specified. A phase
      I trial performed by Lee et al established that 1×106 CAR19+ T cells/kg was safe and
      associated with significant in vivo expansion and we anticipate similar results with
      iC9-CAR19+ T cells.

      Second Cell Infusion Requirements:

      Subjects will be offered a second infusion based on B-cell recovery and MRD status >4 weeks
      after the initial infusion if cells are available or if the subject has sufficient stored
      peripheral blood to manufacture additional iC9-CAR19 T cells.

      Duration of Therapy

      Therapy in LCCC1541-ATL involves 1 infusion of iC9-CAR19 cells. Treatment with one infusion
      will be administered unless:

        -  Subject decides to withdraw from study treatment, or

        -  General or specific changes in the subject's condition render the subject unacceptable
           for further treatment in the judgment of the investigator.

      A second infusion with prior lymphodepletion will be given to subjects enrolled in the
      expansion cohort and to subjects enrolled in the dose escalation cohort once the RP2D is
      reached if they meet the eligibility requirements for lymphodepletion and infusion.
      Specifically, only subjects with the following characteristics will be offered a second
      infusion:

        -  B-cell recovery (defined as absolute CD19+ cell count >50/μL in the blood or bone marrow
           within 6 months of initial infusion AND/OR

        -  MRD positive (defined as ≥0.01% as assessed by multi-parameter flow cytometry) with
           CD19+ expression at any time after the initial infusion.

        -  *Note that subjects who receive dose level 1 in the dose escalation will receive the
           RP2D for their second infusion, if applicable.

      Duration of Follow-up

      Subjects will be followed for up to 15 years after the final iC9-CAR19 T-cell infusion for
      RCR evaluation or until death, whichever occurs first. Subjects removed from study for
      unacceptable adverse events will be followed until resolution or stabilization of the adverse
      event.

      Subjects who receive new therapy (such as hematopoietic stem cell transplant) after a cell
      product administration will still be required to complete abbreviated follow up procedures.
    
  