
    
      Background:

      Risk of GDM and offspring's metabolic risk:

      There is an escalating epidemic of type 2 diabetes (T2D) across the world in all ethnic
      groups, in particular, people of South Asian origin. Current strategies for preventing T2D
      rely mainly on altering risk factors such as obesity, sedentary lifestyle and healthy eating.
      Though this is important, it is unlikely to make a big impact on this escalating epidemic,
      which consumes significant proportion of health care budgets, world-wide. Some of the risk of
      developing metabolic diseases such as T2D and cardiovascular disorders (CVD) are evident even
      at birth. Indeed, recent research suggests that factors acting during early development,
      including foetal growth restriction and exposure to gestational diabetes (GDM) in the mother
      increases diabetes and obesity risk in later life. The investigators recent work has shown
      that maternal vitamin B12 insufficiency and hyper-homocysteinaemia, in combination with
      normal/high maternal folate status, is associated with an increased risk of GDM in the
      mothers, growth restriction in the foetus, and adiposity and insulin resistance in the
      children.

      GDM is described as glucose intolerance first recognised in pregnancy. Similar to T2D, GDM is
      also increasing at an alarming rate, attributed partly to increasing maternal age and body
      weight. The current estimate is around 4% of all pregnancy though this could increase to as
      much as 17% if the new IADPSG guidelines are implemented. Women who develop GDM are at 7-8
      times higher risk of T2D13 and the children born to them are at higher risk of developing
      T2D, abdominal obesity and metabolic syndrome later in life thus increasing their risk of CVD
      in adulthood. Though the exact etiological processes of such increased risk not clear, some
      of these effects could act through epigenetic mechanisms (intra-uterine programming).

      The study by Krishnaveni et al raises an intriguing possibility for a simple measure for
      preventing GDM and future T2D. It is believed that the high prevalence of B12 insufficiency
      in India was attributed to vegetarianism. As the majority of the UK population is
      non-vegetarian, it is conceivable that B12 deficiency is unlikely during pregnancy. However,
      the investigators have recently shown: a) B12 deficiency is not uncommon in women of
      childbearing age (14%) and pregnant women (20% at 16-18 weeks of pregnancy) and b) B12
      deficiency in GDM is associated with higher BMI and higher birth weight in a clinic
      population.

      Psychological impact of GDM:

      Mothers who are screened for GDM have lower perceived well-being. Diagnosis of GDM during
      pregnancy often comes as a shock and causes significant distress to expectant mothers. There
      is some evidence that such distress improves after treatment, presumably due to education and
      support. These limited data come from women of Caucasian origin and no such data exists in
      women of South Asian origin.

      To confirm these observations in the UK multi-ethnic population, the investigators plan to
      carry out an adequately powered case-control study to examine: a) the influence of early
      pregnancy B12, folate and homocysteine levels (as well as other clinical, biochemical and
      genetic markers) on the risk of GDM and offspring's risk of future metabolic disorders by
      measuring detailed anthropometry of the babies along with their biochemical and genetic
      markers from the cord blood; and b) the psychological impact of diagnosis of GDM by measuring
      the anxiety and distress by questionnaires.

      Hypothesis:

      Imbalance of B12, folate and homocysteine in early pregnancy predicts the risk of GDM in
      mothers and metabolic risk of offspring

      Research plan and methodology:

      Population: Pregnant women attending antenatal care in the UK; Cases will be pregnant women
      carrying singleton foetuses, without pre-gestational diabetes, who are diagnosed with GDM
      during the pregnancy. Equal number of South Asian and Caucasian mothers with GDM will be
      recruited.

      Intervention / Exposure: Maternal vitamin B12, folate and homocysteine levels in early
      pregnancy (<16 weeks of gestation) Comparison Group: Mothers from the cohort who do not
      develop GDM and are matched in age, parity and BMI to the cases

      Study Design:

      A prospective observational case-control study designed to compare early pregnancy B12,
      folate and homocysteine levels in pregnant women who develop GDM (cases) and those who do not
      (controls).

      Sample size:

      There is no published data on the rate of B12 deficiency in GDM women in the UK and limited
      data exists in non-GDM women in Caucasians. Preliminary results from the investigators' group
      have shown that approximately 15% insufficiency in non-GDM and around 20%-25% in GDM women of
      Caucasian origin. To detect a 5% difference in the prevalence of B12 insufficiency with 90%
      power at the 5% significance level, 700 GDMs will be required. We plan to identify 1400
      controls matched for age, BMI and parity. To achieve this,4080 pregnant women will be
      required in their first trimester over the 2.5 years (if 20% develop GDM). Allowing for a 10%
      drop-out rate and for age, parity & BMI matching 4500 pregnant mothers will be recruited.

      Implementation plan:

      Several study launches are planned to raise the awareness among the public, midwifes and
      general practitioners in the region. The relevant clinical research networks (CRNs) will be
      involved from the beginning both to raise the awareness and for direct involvement in the
      study.

      Most potential participants will be given the participant information sheet (PIS) when they
      are seen for their booking visit by the community midwife. The midwife will assess their
      eligibility for the study and hand out the PIS if they fit the inclusion criteria. The
      midwife will inform the research team of the mothers' details via a Reply Slip if she has no
      objection to be contacted. The research team will then contact the mother and if possible,
      the recruitment visit will be planned to coincide with her booking bloods or dating scan
      appointment (usually around 12 weeks of gestation) to minimise the study visits ('Research
      Team Recruitment', see right-hand side of Recruitment Flow chart).

      In the situation where a mother has been identified by her midwife as fitting the inclusion
      criteria for the study (i.e. she has high-risk factors for GDM and is therefore referred for
      a GTT), but is not given a PIS at the booking visit, the research team will send this out by
      post to the mother with an invitation letter.

      Feedback from the mothers at the recruitment visit (i.e. dating scan) suggests that the
      mothers would have been happy to partake in the study at the same visit as receiving the PIS
      for 4 main reasons: 1) the study (and the PIS) is simple to understand; 2) they spend a
      significant amount of time awaiting scan and midwife appointment during this visit; 3) they
      want to have their blood sample taken at the same visit (mothers have a blood test routinely
      as a standard care); and 4) they prefer not to come back for a separate visit. The
      investigators also believe this is reasonable as this is a non-interventional study and
      provides opportunity for more mothers to participate in the study. Therefore if the mother
      has had enough time to read and understand the PIS and provides consent, she could be
      recruited straightaway and blood tests done together with her routine bloods on the same day.
      However, if she prefers to take the PIS away and have more time to decide, the research team
      will see her at a future date. Such a strategy can also be replicated in the community
      booking visit to facilitate participation in the study.

      The participants will have basic demographic information collected and anthropometric
      measurements done during the recruitment visit and be asked to fill out physical activity and
      psychological well-being questionnaires. To facilitate the ease of filling the questionnaire,
      where ever possible patients will be given iPads to complete them. We will then collect blood
      samples (approximately 15-20ml in addition to their routine booking bloods), a urine and
      stool sample (optional) from them.

      Mothers will have their OGTT at 24-28 weeks gestation and further blood, urine and stool
      (optional) samples will be taken at this time for study purposes. Modified WHO (1998) and
      NICE criteria will be used to diagnose gestational diabetes or not(i.e. fasting plasma
      glucose ≥ 6.1 mmol/l OR fasting plasma glucose < 6.1 mmol/l and 2 hour plasma glucose >
      7.8mmol/l but < 11.1 mmol/l on 75g glucose tolerance test). The criteria will be changed if
      the new IADPSG criteria is adopted during the course of the study (or NICE updates its
      criteria). The mothers will be asked to fill out further psychological well-being
      questionnaires during the waiting time during the OGTT and for mothers subsequently diagnosed
      with GDM, when they attend the antenatal-diabetes clinic.

      The remainder of a participant's antenatal care will then carry on in the joint
      antenatal-diabetes clinic (if she has been diagnosed with GDM) or in the community (for
      non-GDM mothers, unless she has any other indication to be referred to the obstetric clinic).

      All the participants will have their deliveries in one of the NHS Hospitals involved in the
      study. Cord blood, a piece of cord and placental biopsies (around 2cm each) will be taken at
      the time of birth as well as detailed birth and neonatal outcome data and a stool sample from
      the baby shortly afterwards. Baby's body fat content and distribution will be measured by the
      'PEAPOD' machine. This is a non invasive, baby friendly way of accurately measuring the fat
      distribution in the baby. This is optional. For mothers who have Caesarean sections (for
      medical/obstetric reasons), we will ask for separate consent to take a sample of abdominal
      fat and subcutaneous as well as myometrial smooth muscle tissues. All the samples obtained
      will stored for future DNA isolation.

      During the post-natal OGTT for GDM mothers (6 weeks post-partum) additional blood samples
      will be collected and stored. Also, well-being questionnaires will be given out to all
      participants post-natally. From 3 to 12 months, breast feeding mothers will be contacted
      either through postal questionnaire or over the telephone.

      Appendices and summary of additional data collection:

        1. IPAQ (Physical activity) questionnaire - baseline

        2. PhQ9 questionnaire - at baseline

        3. GAD7 questionnaire - at baseline

        4. Warwick - Edinburgh well being questionnaire (WEMWBS) - baseline, 24-28 weeks and 6
           weeks postpartum during OGTT

        5. Euro-QoL - Quality of Life measure at baseline, 24-28 weeks and 6 weeks postpartum GTT

        6. Socio-economic measure - baseline, 24-28 weeks and 6 weeks postpartum GTT

        7. PSQI (Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index questionnaire)

        8. Breast feeding questionnaire (post natal)
    
  