
    
      Cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPXT) has a long history in the evaluation and management
      of cardiovascular diseases, particularly in patients with advanced heart failure.

      Cardiovascular exercise testing is a safe, well-developed, and validated method for risk
      stratification and objective documentation of exercise capacity in patients with severe heart
      failure (1,2). Recent studies have also shown that exercise testing has prognostic power for
      heart failure hospitalization and mortality (3,4), but limited published data are available
      in a large group of advanced heart failure patients, such as those with cardiac
      resynchronization therapy (CRT) and left ventricular assist devices (LVAD)

      Advanced or suspected advanced heart failure. Typical patients screened for this study will
      be patients who have been referred to the University of Minnesota for evaluation for advanced
      heart failure options, such as cardiac transplant or mechanical circulatory support. This is
      a somewhat heterogeneous population, but all have been diagnosed by referring physician as
      having sufficiently severe heart failure to seek tertiary care. Most are anticipated to have
      severely depressed ejection fraction (<30% and typically <20%), but patients with preserved
      ejection fraction and either hypertrophy or restrictive cardiomyopathy will also be eligible.
      Patients pulmonary hypertension, on any therapy (other than diuretics alone), are also felt
      to be at high risk of developing right heart failure and may also be included. Patients who
      have already undergone LVAD or cardiac transplant are also considered to have advanced heart
      failure and are eligible to participate, regardless of the severity of their symptoms at the
      time of enrollment.

      Healthy volunteers may be included for comparison.

      This is a non-randomized, observational investigation of sub-maximal exercise ventilation
      parameters in patient diagnosed with, or suspected to have, advanced heart failure.

      Duration of follow-up will be up to five years. Some subjects will undergo only one exercise
      test. Patients who present with heart failure but subsequently undergo CRT implantation, LVAD
      implantation, or cardiac transplant will be asked to repeat the submaximal exercise test. The
      timing between any of these events is unpredictable, so the duration of follow-up cannot be
      predicted. Subjects will be followed for change of status for up to 5 years. The total number
      of tests that any one person could potentially have is 5 (baseline plus one after each
      therapy), although we expect that most participants would not be asked to undergo more than 3
      tests.

      For patients without a device: Patients start at rest for 2 minutes and will wear a face mask
      and breathing parameters are recorded using the SHAPE-HF system (SHAPE Medical St. Paul, MN)
      that measures respiratory airflow and the constituent respiratory gases, oxygen and carbon
      dioxide. The SHAPE-HF system will continue to monitor and the patient then will start walking
      on a treadmill with a variable speed of 1-3 mph and a variable grade of 0-6%. The total
      treadmill time will be no more than 10 minutes.

      For patients with a device: patients will be at rest and the adjustments of their device will
      be made by a study physician or device coordinator, done routinely in clinical practice. This
      will take up to 15 minutes and during this time; participants will wear a face mask and
      breathing parameters are recorded using the SHAPE-HF system (SHAPE Medical St. Paul, MN) that
      measures respiratory airflow and the constituent respiratory gases, oxygen and carbon
      dioxide. Device parameters will be returned to baseline settings following this part of the
      test.

      Sub-maximal exercise testing approximately 30 minutes in duration will be performed on a
      treadmill at a slow and constant pace, the speed of the treadmill will range from 1-2 mph and
      the grade will range from 0-2% depending on the patient's exercise tolerance. The exercise
      will be split into two rounds of exercise up to 15 minutes each. Subjects may rest as long as
      they would like between the two tests.

      The first round, participants will wear a face mask and breathing parameters are recorded
      using the SHAPE-HF system. (See section 13B for sample report).

      In the second round, every two minutes, up to 15 minutes, participants will be asked to take
      8 breaths using a breathing bag containing a standard mixture of gases (0.7% acetylene, 21%
      oxygen, 9% Helium and the balance of nitrogen)-this gas mixture is routinely used in
      pulmonary function laboratories to measure lung function and has the same amount of oxygen as
      room air. Acetylene mass spectroscopy is then used to measure cardiac output noninvasively.

      Neither the SHAPE-HF system, nor the methods of gas exchange during exercise are
      investigational.

      Participants who are treated with cardiac resynchronization therapy and/or ventricular assist
      device may have minor adjustments made to their device parameters every 2 minutes during the
      testing. The adjustments will be made by a study physician or device coordinator, as
      mentioned before, done in routine practice. Device parameters will be returned to baseline
      settings following the test.
    
  