
    
      This study is designed as a crossover, randomized, three-arm postprandial study. All
      participants attend the Nutrition Intervention Unit of the Centre for Nutrition Research in
      the University of Navarra three times separated by at least one week. The day before each
      study day, participants should avoid vigorous physical exercise, alcohol consumption or
      high-fiber food consumption. Moreover, they are asked to follow a standardized dinner before
      9 pm.

      On each study day, participants visit the Nutrition Intervention Unit in fasting state. After
      5 minutes rest and having answered the first hunger / satiety visual analogue scale (VAS)
      questionnaire, blood pressure is measured. After that, participant are asked to collect a
      baseline urine sample.

      Once the cannulation is placed, first blood collection is performed in fasting state (time
      0). Then, the participant is provided with the randomly assigned standardized breakfast (250
      g of custard) with the addition of 20 g of experimental protein or 20 g of casein or 20 g of
      water. After custard consumption, volunteer is asked to drink 50 mL of water.

      When participant finishes the breakfast, the time is registered and every 15 minutes the
      participant have to complete a VAS questionnaire (15´, 30´, 45´, 60´, 75´ and 90´). Moreover,
      blood samples are drawn at different time points after breakfast intake (15´, 30´, 60´ and
      90´). The cannula is removed when the last blood sample is collected. In addition,
      participants are asked to collect the urine sample at 90 minutes postingestion and to fill a
      questionnaire about gastrointestinal symptoms.

      Finally, participant is offered an ad libitum lunch (ham and cheese sandwiches) to eat until
      feeling comfortably satiated. Once completed, participant leaves the Centre for Nutrition
      Research with the necessary material to register the food intake (solids and liquids) during
      the rest of the day. Likewise, the participant is provided with the questionnaire of
      gastrointestinal symptoms to be filled before the dinner of the same day.
    
  