
    
      Screening Procedures This study will have a three-phase screening process.

      Phase One:

      Participants will be screened either in person or via the telephone.

      Phase Two:

      If the person being interviewed is eligible and interested, study staff will obtain phone
      consent for a brief interview to obtain basic medical and treatment information and to share
      this information with the study doctor, who will write prescriptions for treatment based upon
      these data. After a prescription is obtained, study staff will contact participants by phone
      and schedule the on-site visit.

      Phase Three:

      Participants will come to the Vanderbilt University for measurement of arms and truncal
      assessment. Phase Three Screening informed consent will be obtained prior to any
      measurements. These measurements will serve as baseline entry into the study for those who
      meet criteria.

      Baseline Interview All Participants: Once written informed consent is obtained, study staff
      will interview the participants to obtain demographic and treatment (lymphedema and breast
      cancer) history. Participants will complete symptom and quality of life forms.

      Part One Study:

      Dosage and Setting:

      Participants will receive a total of 10 treatments, one hour per day for 10 days
      consecutively. Treatment One will be conducted under study staff supervision at VUSN or other
      Vanderbilt location. Treatments Two through Ten will be self-administered, at home, as this
      is an FDA approved at-home self-care device.

      Study staff will make an at home visit for Treatment Two in order to observe the application
      and use of the device and to measure the participant's trunk and arms and examine arm and
      trunk.

      Home Treatment One Observation and Measurement:

      Physical Assessment/Measurement:

        -  Study staff will visually examine the affected and unaffected arms and truncal areas
           (collarbone to navel and small of back).

        -  Participants will be asked to sit at their dining table with arms extended to the side
           at shoulder height at shoulder level. A non-flexible tape will be used to measure girth
           at the metacarpal shaft of the hand and then, starting at the ulnar styloid, in 10 cm
           intervals to the shoulder. Each arm will be measured 2 times and the average used.

        -  Study staff will then measure the trunk twice at five locations.

        -  During bioimpedance: Study staff will assist the patient onto a bed or sofa and measure
           arm volume using bioelectrical impedance. Participants will be placed in a supine
           position with legs not touching one another. An alcohol pad will be used to prep each
           wrist next to the joint, the dorsal surface of each hand (1 cm proximal to the middle
           knuckle), and the dorsal surface of one foot (1 cm proximal to the joint of the second
           toe). These areas will be allowed to dry and lightly adhesive electrodes will be
           applied. Measurement of affected and unaffected arms will be conducted as directed by
           the computer software in each impedance device. This measurement will take less than
           five minutes. The leads and electrodes will then be removed.

        -  Study staff will weigh the participant twice and record the average.

        -  At the end of the treatment session, study staff will again measure the arms and trunk
           of the participant. Using the same procedures.

      Treatment Observation:

      Staff will observe for:

        -  Participants going to restroom, removing any compression garments, constrictive
           clothing/undergarments or foot coverings they are wearing, and to removing any jewelry
           prior to treatment.

        -  Participants changing into scrub suits.

        -  Use of treatment record checklist to set dials

        -  Participants resting in a supine position during treatment.

        -  Appropriate placement of garments.

        -  Pressures will be set at manufacturers recommended levels of compression using program
           UEO1/U1 and standard pressure (not intense pressure) only.

        -  Active time on the device approximately 60 minutes.

        -  Completion of treatment record checklist after treatment.

        -  Staff will correct any errors noted and educate as needed.

      Measurement Visits (Between Treatment 5 and 6 (+ or - 1 treatment), and within 72 hrs after
      Treatment 10, Exit from Study):

      Data Collection:

      Physical Assessment/Measurement:

        -  Study staff will visually examine the affected and unaffected arms and truncal areas
           (collarbone to navel and small of back) and document findings on the Skin Checklist.

        -  Participants will be asked to sit at their dining table with arms extended to the side
           at shoulder height at shoulder level. A non-flexible tape will be used to measure girth
           at the metacarpal shaft of the hand and then, starting at the ulnar styloid, in 10 cm
           intervals to the shoulder. Each arm will be measured 2 times and the average used.

        -  Study staff will then measure the trunk at the five locations. During bioimpedance:
           Study staff will assist the patient to lay flat on a bed or sofa and staff will measure
           arm volume using bioelectrical impedance. Participants will be placed in a supine
           position with legs not touching one another. An alcohol pad will be used to prep each
           wrist next to the joint, the dorsal surface of each hand (1 cm proximal to the middle
           knuckle), and the dorsal surface of one foot (1 cm proximal to the joint of the second
           toe). These areas will be allowed to dry and lightly adhesive electrodes will be
           applied. Measurement of affected and unaffected arms will be conducted as directed by
           the computer software in each impedance device. This measurement will take less than
           five minutes. The leads and electrodes will then be removed .

        -  Study staff will weigh the participant twice and record the average.

      Interview:

      • Participants will complete the symptom and quality of life forms.

      Part Two (Experimental and Control Groups)

      Dosage and Setting:

      Participants will receive a total of 30 treatments lasting up to approximately one hour per
      day for 30 days. Treatment One will be provided under study staff supervision . Treatments
      Two through Thirty will be self-administered, at home, as this is an FDA approved at-home
      self-care device.

      Data Collection Initial On-Site Visit:

      Physical Assessment/Measurement:

        -  Participants will be asked to void (for comfort during procedure), to remove any
           compression garments, constrictive clothing/undergarments, or foot coverings they are
           wearing, and to remove any jewelry.

        -  Participants will be asked to change into scrub suits.

        -  Participants will have their height (using a portable stadiometer) and weight (using a
           Pro-fit Electronic Scales) measured twice and the average will be recorded .

      Treatment:

        -  Study staff will review the procedure in the manual for self-administration of the
           device and ask for participants to demonstrate their ability to apply the device and use
           the appropriate settings. Participants will view a video about the device.

        -  Participants will apply the Flexitouch® System garments (actual garment to be placed
           will be determined by randomization to experimental or control group) over and scrubs in
           the arm and trunk areas.

        -  Participants will rest supine on the massage table with their head on a pillow, if
           necessary, during treatment.

        -  For subjects randomized to the Experimental Group: Pressures will be set at
           manufacturers recommended levels of compression using the standard upper extremity
           program (UEO1/U1) and standard pressure (not intense pressure) only. Active time on the
           device will be approximately 60 minutes.

        -  For subjects randomized to the Control Group: pressures will be set at manufacturers
           recommended levels of compression using program for arm compression only (UE04/U4),
           chest will not receive compression, and standard (not intense pressure) only. Active
           treatment time for Group B patients will be approximately 40 minutes.

        -  Study staff will remain present during the treatment. Should a participant experience
           discomfort or request to stop the treatment, study staff will immediately turn off the
           device and remove the garments.

        -  At the end of the treatment session study staff will measure the arms and trunk.

        -  Trunk will be measured twice using a non-flexible tape.

        -  Bioelectrical Impedance: Study staff will assist the patient onto a non-metal massage
           table covered with clean linen and staff will measure arm volume using bioelectrical
           impedance. Participants will be placed in a supine position with legs not touching one
           another. An alcohol pad will be used to prep each wrist next to the joint, the dorsal
           surface of each hand (1 cm proximal to the middle knuckle), and the dorsal surface of
           one foot (1 cm proximal to the joint of the second toe). These areas will be allowed to
           dry and lightly adhesive electrodes will be applied. Measurement of affected and
           unaffected arms will be conducted as directed by the computer software in each impedance
           device. The leads and electrodes will then be removed and cleaned with an alcohol pad.

        -  Circumferential: With arms extended to the side and at shoulder level, a non-flexible
           tape will be used to measure girth at the metacarpal shaft of the hand and then,
           starting at the ulnar styloid, in 10 cm intervals to the shoulder.

      Measurement Visits (After Treatment 14 (+or- 2 treatments) and within 72 hours after
      Treatment 30 (Exit from Study) :

      Data Collection:

      If the participant opts to come to Vanderbilt the measurement procedures for arms and weight
      will be the same as in the first onsite. If the visit takes place at-home the following
      procedures a will be used:

      Physical Assessment/Measurement:

        -  Study staff will visually examine the affected and unaffected arms and truncal areas
           (collarbone to navel and small of back) and document findings on the Skin Checklist
           (Attachment C form 12).

        -  Participants will be asked to sit at their dining table with arms extended to the side
           at shoulder height. A non-flexible tape will be used to measure girth at the metacarpal
           shaft of the hand and then, starting at the ulnar styloid, in 10 cm intervals to the
           shoulder. Each arm will be measured 2 times and the average used.

        -  Study staff will then measure the trunk at the five locations noted on Attachment C form
           11. Study staff will assist the patient onto a non-metal massage table covered with
           clean linen and staff will measure arm volume using bioelectrical.

        -  During bioimpedance: Study staff will ask the patient to lay flat on a bed or sofa and
           staff will measure arm volume using bioelectrical impedance. Participants will be placed
           in a supine position with legs not touching one another. An alcohol pad will be used to
           prep each wrist next to the joint, the dorsal surface of each hand (1 cm proximal to the
           middle knuckle), and the dorsal surface of one foot (1 cm proximal to the joint of the
           second toe). These areas will be allowed to dry and lightly adhesive electrodes will be
           applied. Measurement of affected and unaffected arms will be conducted as directed by
           the computer software in each impedance device. This measurement will take less than
           five minutes. The leads and electrodes will then be removed .

        -  Participants will be weighed twice and the average recorded.

      Interview:

      • Participants will complete the symptom and quality of life forms.
    
  