
    
      The median survival of patients with unresectable gastric cancer treated with systemic
      chemotherapy is about 12 months. In patients with histologically proven unresectable or
      recurrent gastric cancer limited to the peritoneum and/or cancer cells in peritoneal
      cytology, the combination of i.p. paclitaxel with systemic chemotherapy reported a median
      survival time of 23.6 months. The peritoneal cytology turned negative for 86% of patients. In
      an updated report, gastrectomy was performed on 52 patients after disappearance or obvious
      shrinkage of peritoneal metastasis. In this cohort, the median survival time (MST) was 34.9
      months. A phase III trial (PHOENIX-GC trial (Phase III study of S-1 plus intravenous and
      intraperitoneal paclitaxel versus S-1 plus cisplatin for gastric cancer with peritoneal
      metastasis )) comparing intraperitoneal(IP) regimen with systemic chemotherapy versus
      systemic therapy alone is currently opened for recruitment in Japan.

      The multidisciplinary treatment combining IP-containing chemotherapy and surgery was found to
      be safe and effective for gastric cancer patients with peritoneal metastasis. A phase I study
      combining i.p. paclitaxel with oxaliplatin and S-1, found no dose limiting toxicity in all
      dose levels. Grade 3 neutropenia was observed in one patient at recommended phase 2 dose
      (RP2D) of i.p. paclitaxel of 40 mg/m2. In addition, grade 2 non-hematological toxicities
      observed were anorexia (n=6/12), fatigue (n=4/12) and nausea (n=2/12).

      Both S-1 and capecitabine are orally available fluoropyrimidine. When combined with
      oxaliplatin, both S-1 and capecitabine were found to be equally active and well tolerated in
      advanced gastric cancer patients. As S-1 is not yet widely available worldwide, the
      combination of capecitabine and a platinum chemotherapy is still one of the most commonly
      adopted chemotherapy regimen for patients with advanced gastric cancer. In this study, we
      intend to assess the efficacy and feasibility of combining weekly i.p. paclitaxel with
      oxaliplatin and capecitabine.
    
  