
    
      Objective:

      There is compelling evidence to support that the neuropharmacology of oxytocin (OT) warrants
      further investigation as a potential therapeutic agent for addiction. To that end, the link
      between OT and dopaminergic pathways, with respect to motivated behaviors such as drug and
      social reward, is important to establish as a mechanism. Although preliminary clinical
      findings suggest a role of OT to treat withdrawal in alcoholic individuals, there is no
      direct human evidence on the effects of OT administration on dopamine release. Additionally,
      there is no direct human evidence on the effects of OT on the subjective response to alcohol.
      There have been no studies investigating the differential effect, if any, of OT, on the
      neurobehavioral response to various rewarding stimuli including alcohol, food and social
      reward. We propose, therefore, to investigate whether intranasal administration of OT is able
      to significantly reduce subjective response to alcohol, alcohol cue-induced craving and
      self-administration, as well as to examine the neural response to social, alcohol and food
      stimuli.

      Study Population:

      32 (24 completers) males with Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD) as defined by DSM-5 and
      non-treatment seekers for AUD.

      Design:

      A within-subject, double-blind placebo-controlled study investigating the effect of
      intranasal OT on the response to alcohol challenge, cue reactivity and alcohol
      self-administration, and the neural response to rewarding stimuli. Outcome measures: a)
      effect of OT on subjective response to cumulative alcohol challenge, cue reactivity and
      alcohol self-administration; b) neurobehavioral response to social, alcohol and food stimuli.

      Outcome measures:

      A) effect of OT on subjective response to cumulative alcohol challenge, cue reactivity and
      alcohol self-administration; B) neurobehavioral response to social, alcohol and food stimuli.
    
  