
    
      This will be a single center, prospective, randomized controlled open label trial with a
      cross over design. Patients will be recruited from outpatient department of internal medicine
      and rheumatology clinic of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research(PGIMER),
      Chandigarh, India, a tertiary care hospital. .

      Inclusion Criteria

        1. Patients of confirmed Chikungunya virus infection as per World Health Organisation(WHO)
           guidelines defined as atleast one of the following

             1. Presence of viral ribonucleic acid in sera determined with Real Time Polymerase
                Chain Reaction(RT PCR) in acute phase < 7 days of fever

             2. Presence of virus specific IgM antibodies in serum

        2. Persistent arthritis after 4 weeks of onset of fever and duration less than 12
           weeks(early post viral arthritis)

        3. Age more than 16 years

        4. Patients willing to give informed consent

      Exclusion Criteria:

        1. Patients with mixed infection i.e. dengue.

        2. Having a known rheumatological disease and currently taking treatment

        3. Pregnant and breastfeeding women

        4. Any contraindication to methotrexate(Mtx)

      The clinical details of patients will be recorded in the proforma which includes details
      regarding the fever and musculoskeletal symptoms.

      At baseline, a complete blood count (CBC), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C-Reactive
      protein(CRP), liver function tests(LFT), Renal Function Test(RFT), rheumatoid factor (RF),
      anti- citrullinated peptide antibodies (ACPA) will be done. All eligible patients will be
      randomized to two groups. Randomization will be done by computer generated block
      randomization in blocks of four and six. In one group methotrexate will be started at a dose
      of 10 mg/week after checking basal CBC,LFT and RFT and will be increased gradually(5mg/each
      visit)to 25 mg if there is no response at subsequent visits and the other group will be
      continued on NSAID.If remission (no swollen or tender joints at the visit) is not achieved in
      the NSAID group at 2 months they will be given MTX .MTX group will be given NSAID on need
      basis and this will be recorded in each visit. Both groups will be given depot methyl
      prednisolone 80 mg ,2 doses 1 week apart if there is 5 or more swollen or tender joints at
      any visit.The patients will be assessed at 0,1, 2,4 and 6 months for Tender Joint
      Count(TJC),Swollen joint count( SJC) and Indian Health Assessment Questionnaire(HAQ). If a
      patient achieves remission in methotrexate group, the last dose of methotrexate will be
      continued till next visit. The dose will be halved in the next visit and stopped in the
      next.In the NSAID group, if remission is achieved, dose will be changed to on need basis and
      if the patient relapses will be started on methotrexate. Allocation concealment will be
      ensured by means of enclosing the randomization sequence in sealed opaque envelopes. One of
      the investigator, blinded for the treatment received by the subjects, will assess the
      subjects at recruitment to the study and subsequently during their next visits and at the end
      of study period.

      Primary efficacy end point will be proportion of patients achieving remission (No tender or
      swollen joint)at 6 months. Secondary end points will be the time duration to achieve
      remission, change in DAS28 ESR/CRP score, proportion of patients achieving remission by
      simplified disease activity index(SDAI) and clinical disease activity index( CDAI) score,
      functional status assessed by Health Assessment Questionnaire-Indian version (HAQ) , change
      in pain VAS(Visual Analogue Scale) 100mm,adverse effects and the difference in NSAID and
      intra muscular steroid injection requirement among the groups.
    
  