
    
      An estimated 450,000 infant deaths can be prevented each year with the universal
      implementation of KMC at facility and community levels. The "Every Newborn Action Plan"
      endorsed and launched by the World Health Assembly in May 2014 includes the goal of scaling
      up KMC to 50% of babies weighing under 2000 grams by 2020, and to 75% of these babies by
      2025(7).

      Despite the availability of KMC as a cost-effective intervention its acceptance and uptake in
      Pakistan has been negligible. A situation analysis carried out by WHO of 12 countries in Asia
      and Africa to explore health system bottlenecks affecting the scale-up of KMC revealed
      Pakistan to be far behind other countries(8).Community ownership and health financing
      bottlenecks were significant challenges cited for majority of Asian countries in implementing
      KMC. The important barriers to KMC implementation highlighted for Pakistan were health
      financing, community births, lack of awareness of KMC at health care providers level,
      presence of sociocultural barriers, experiential and lack of effective resources including
      trained staff and absence of a National policy for implementation of KMC(8).

      Some of the other socio-cultural factors identified at facility and community level included
      specific garments that most women wear which does not facilitate KMC administration, lack of
      support for KMC by elder members of the household. Facility bottlenecks that contributed to
      reduced uptake of KMC were lack of space and privacy, shortage of staff, early discharges.
      Majority of delivered women and babies were discharged within 6 to 12hours of childbirth.

      Several studies have shown KMC as an effective intervention for the baby and mother dyad.
      However, majority of these studies are hospital based and require substantial investment in
      human resources and health system infrastructure in the Low-and Middle-Income Countries
      (LMIC). Currently, WHO recommends initiation of KMC in hospitals with continuation at home
      after discharge. However, community-initiated KMC (cKMC) is not currently a part of WHO
      because of lack of research into its effectiveness. For this reason, one of the top global
      research priorities by WHO for 2015-2025 is to assess the efficacy of community-initiated
      kangaroo mother care(9). Only a few studies have been conducted to address this question. One
      such community-based randomized controlled trial in India reported that in babies with low
      birthweight and no significant comorbidities, community-initiated kangaroo mother care
      substantially improved survival compared with usual care. (10). The study also highlighted
      the need for more implementation research studies in other low-income and middle-income
      countries to assess the feasibility of delivering the intervention effectively.

      Another RCT on community-based application of KMC in rural Bangladesh did not report any
      difference in neonatal or infant mortality rates (11). Studies in Pakistan have been
      conducted to assess and review the barriers and enablers for practicing KMC in rural
      areas(12, 13) however, to the best of our knowledge no trial has been conducted to evaluate
      the impact of cKMC on newborn survival in Pakistan, where a large proportion of deliveries
      still take place at home. Hence it is important to evaluate efficacy and barriers to
      implementation of cKMC in a well-conducted community-based trial. We therefore propose to
      implement community Kangaroo Mother care (cKMC) in our socio-cultural context and design
      strategies to overcome system and community challenges. This proposed implementation trial
      will take a deep dive to further explore socio-cultural barriers and develop a model that can
      be implemented and scaled up in Pakistan. For this purpose, a cKMC package will be developed.
      The cKMC Package will consist of strategies to overcome socio-cultural barriers for families
      to practice KMC in a sustained manner in the community. The strategies include creation of
      KMC champions within the communities, community mobilization to create awareness using
      powerful IEC tools including video messages, and capacity building of health care providers
      on KMC and essential newborn care.

      We will carry out a cluster randomized controlled trial to evaluate the impact of a community
      based "KMC intervention package" on neonatal mortality among the low birth weight infants.
      The study will have 2 phases: a formative study, followed by community-based cluster
      randomized controlled trial (cRCT) in a rural district of Pakistan. The formative study
      (manuscript under development) was done to develop a robust model of cKMC intervention
      package that was acceptable to the community and would be easily scaled up in the country.

      Project goal:

      Hypothesis:

      We hypothesize that implementation of KMC through a "community based KMC Package" at
      community level will result in 30% decrease in neonatal mortality rates among low birthweight
      infants at 28 days of age.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective:

      To develop, implement and evaluate a community Kangaroo Mother Care cKMC package in rural
      district of Pakistan.

      Secondary Objectives:

      The secondary objectives of the study are to evaluate the impact of cKMC on the following:

        -  Growth measured as weight gain at 14th, 28th, 59th, 120th, 180th, and 365th day.

        -  Incidence of possible serious bacterial infection (PSBI) and referral to hospital at
           14th, 28th and 59th day of life.

        -  Exclusive breast feeding at 14th, 28th, 59th, 120th, 180t, and continued breast feeding
           at 365th day of life.

        -  Neurodevelopmental assessment in a subset of recruited LBW babies at 12 months of age.

      Methodology:

      Study Design:

      In order to achieve the objectives, we propose a community-based Cluster Randomized
      Controlled Trial (cRCT). The study will be carried out in the selected Union councils (UC) of
      the two Talukas of district Dadu (Taluka Johi and Khairpur Nathan Shah). The duration of
      trial intervention would be for 2 years. A total of 18 union councils (9 UCs from each
      Taluka) have been selected from the 62 union councils.

      A union council is the smallest administrative unit of a district. Nine UCs will be allocated
      to the intervention clusters from 2 Talukas; remaining 9 union councils will serve as
      control.

      Sample Size:

      Considering Union Councils as a unit of randomization, a total of 9 union councils (clusters)
      per arm is required to achieve 90% power and 5% level of significance in order to reduce 30%
      neonatal mortality among LBW babies in intervention arm. (ANNEX 1)

      Baseline Survey:

      A Baseline survey will be conducted at pre-assessment phase in the two Talukas and its
      selected union councils to capture baseline indicators. This will be a one-time activity. A
      line listing process will be done to capture all households having at least one alive WRA
      i.e. (mother and her alive offspring less than 1 year). This will be followed by a survey to
      capture baseline indicators.

      The baseline indicators are: prevalence of low birth weight babies, neonatal mortality, KMC
      practices, skin-skin contact, breast feeding practices, immediate and essential newborn care
      practices, special care of low birth weight babies provided by families and care seeking
      behavior for newborns. This phase requires three months duration.

      Randomization:

      A restricted randomization scheme was used to assign allocation, based on population size of
      each Union Council, live births, LHW coverage and neonatal mortality. The allocation of
      intervention was based on clusters.

      Eligibility criteria for participants:

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Mother or family consent to participate in the study.

        -  Stable small babies weighing between ≥1200-<2500 grams born in the community.

        -  Stable babies as those: tolerating oral feeds, absence of respiratory distress or any
           danger signs and absence of congenital anomaly.

      Exclusion criteria:

      Newborn babies less than 1200 grams and baby ≥ 2500 will be excluded. Whereas, babies
      presenting with danger signs (such as fast breathing, chest in-drawing, temperature <35o C or
      >38o C, unable to take feed, cyanosis, no movement and convulsions) will be excluded and
      referred to advance care facility.

      Study Intervention Package: KMC intervention Package The KMC package will include creation of
      KMC Champions from within the community, social mobilization to create awareness and its
      acceptance with families using powerful IEC tools such as docudrama, flip charts, pictorials
      in local languages; engagement of community and community leaders, capacity building of
      health care providers on Kangaroo mother care, essential newborn care ENC, policy dialogues
      with stake holders in the public and private sectors and delivery of a "KMC kit " to the
      pregnant female by the Implementation team

      KMC Kit for Implementation of cKMC:

      The study implementation team will also provide KMC kit to the enrolled mothers comprising of
      diapers, cap, socks, towel, soap and sanitary pads for mothers. This kit will ensure the
      practice of KMC by families and will give confidence to mothers to practice KMC.

      The interventions implemented in the study will be the administration of KMC, defined as
      prolong and continuous skin-to-skin contact of baby with mother or a replacing caregiver
      along with exclusive breast feeding. KMC will be initiated in community (cKMC) within 48
      hours after birth. Mothers and family members will be trained for KMC at home by study staff
      (Implementation team). Participating mothers will be taught KMC by the implementation team
      and will be advised to practice KMC until newborn is 28 days of age or as long as they are
      comfortable doing it(14). A KMC training module has been developed in local language in
      adherence with the WHO guidelines and findings of formative KMC for this purpose.

      In addition, implementation team will also teach mothers and other family members to use KMC
      calendars to record the time duration of KMC administration. Hours that they practice KMC
      will assist us to evaluate dose related impact of KMC as well. This would be a daily/weekly
      record for 4 weeks post-partum.

      A supervisory team at the level of 2 Taluka comprising of study managers will oversee the
      monitoring of KMC practices in the community. In case of any disruption in KMC practices
      after enrollment, the household will be visited and troubleshooting done. Lost to follow-ups
      will be tracked and reasons will be recorded.

      Study Activities:

        1. Baseline Survey

        2. Pregnancy surveillance

        3. Birth notification

        4. Enrollment and KMC administration in Community

        5. Community Mobilization

        6. Development of KMC Champions

        7. KMC Community sessions

        8. Follow-up visits

        9. Neurodevelopment Assessment:
    
  