
    
      Before consent patients will be thoroughly informed about possible risks or benefits and
      about their possibilities to end the study at any time point or to ask for additional
      sedation if they feel uncomfortable or anxious. After they consent, they will be randomly
      assigned to either receive standard sedation (Group 1) or audiovisual distraction (Group 2).
      Each group will consist of 30 patients. The randomization schedule will be created by a
      member of the Healthcare Research Institute using SAS software, who is not otherwise involved
      in the trial.

        1. Standard of care sedation with an initial dose of midazolam in preparation for the
           administration of the neuraxial anesthesia; propofol infusion titrated to effect.

        2. Audiovisual distraction during surgery and in the recovery room using video goggles and
           headphones; patients can choose a movie from a preexisting library; with an initial dose
           of midazolam in preparation for the administration of the neuraxial anesthesia,
           additional sedation with midazolam in 1 mg increments if requested by the patient or
           deemed necessary by the anesthesia provider.

      The intraoperative anesthesia regimen will be standardized:

        -  All patients will be monitored according to the American Society of Anesthesiologists
           standard, receive either a radial arterial line or non-invasive blood pressure
           measurement according to the preferences of the anesthesia provider and O2 via nasal
           cannula or face mask in the operation room and the recovery room.

        -  ondansetron,decadron and ketorolac may be administered as per clinical judgment of the
           attending anesthesiologist.

        -  Patients in both groups will receive neuraxial anesthesia. The attending
           anesthesiologist is free to add an ultrasound guided peripheral nerve block:

             -  Neuraxial anesthesia (combined spinal-epidural, epidural or spinal) as preferred by
                the attending anesthesiologist. Decadron may be used as in addition to the local
                anesthetic if the anesthesia provider wishes to do so.

             -  If a peripheral nerve block is performed the appropriate amount of bupivacaine will
                be administered under ultrasound-guidance as a single shot.

             -  In case an epidural catheter was placed patients will receive a patient controlled
                epidural analgesia immediately after arrival at the recovery room for postoperative
                pain management.

        -  Opioids and other medications with sedative or respiratory depressant side effects that
           are not specifically mentioned above should be omitted (if possible without harm for the
           patient) Patients in the audiovisual distraction group will choose a movie, start
           watching it in the holding area and continue watching it in the operation room as well
           as the first 30 min in the recovery room. Audiovisual equipment will be removed for
           transfers or at patient request.
    
  