
    
      Intervention approach: Appreciative Inquiry Change Agents (CA) program (NAMWEZA) (see
      Appendix D for draft Facilitators' Guide). The intervention is based on an Appreciative
      Inquiry approach that comprises a 10-session program based on learning by doing rather than
      factual classroom type learning, although it includes discussion of relevant facts about HIV,
      and other STIs. The intervention is based on the template of Stepping Stones (Jewkes et al.,
      2008), which is internationally one of the most widely used participatory behavioral
      interventions targeting sexual health. The Stepping Stones curriculum was shortened and
      radically adapted from more than 20 sessions. However NAMWEZA borrows generously from many of
      the exercises and games. It also employs the successful experience of stratification by age
      and sex to engage 4 different working groups (younger and older, male and female). The
      intervention is described in detail in Appendix D in the facilitators guide. A full draft
      curriculum is available on request. It is currently being translated into Swahili for use in
      Tanzania.

      The intervention uses a number of psychological methods for creating change as effectively
      and rapidly as possible. It focuses on showing affirmation and being appreciative by looking
      for what is working in people's lives. Looking for resilience and coping strategies, and
      naming these, aims to raise self-esteem and the sense of competence in
      'someone-who-has-a-future'. In every session, participants dream or imagine whom they might
      talk to about the things they have learned, or what they might do to prevent the spread of
      HIV personally or in their community. Imagining or dreaming their personal scenarios creates
      possibilities for different positive futures, for ways of behaving and being in relationship
      with people. These exercises, that are repeated every session in different forms, are
      designed to empower participants, giving them energy and hope. Participants learn and
      practice these life skills and report on their practical utility as they interact with their
      social networks each week.

      Every exercise is discussed in small groups or role-played so that ideas and strategies can
      be shared and different responses can be practiced. Participants rehearse and try different
      ways of saying and doing things, until they find their own words and personal approaches
      within the given format. Discussions about love and safe, enjoyable sex allow participants to
      explore these personal subjects in the security of sex and age stratified groups. There is a
      particular emphasis on assertiveness and communication skills to raise self-esteem and
      decrease interpersonal violence.

      Most sessions end with meditation or mindfulness so that people become aware of how their
      bodies feel. This helps them to recognize their own and others' body language and non-verbal
      communication, helping them to be more aware of other people's responses. Integration and
      awareness of the body is developed in the process of mindfulness training. This is
      particularly useful when thinking about disclosure and potential intimate partner violence
      (IPV).

      Closing circle is a daily session closing/winding up activity where all participants gather
      into a circle and each has a chance to say one thing they have learned in that day which they
      might share with someone in the community and one thing they are looking forward to doing
      before the next meeting. As part of the intervention, facilitators will be required at the
      end of each session to document their perception of how the session was conducted and meet
      with other facilitators in a self evaluation and support session that will form the basis for
      preparation for the next training session. They will be requested to provide reports on level
      of participant's comfort with content of sessions, level of participation, range of learning
      reported, and areas for improvement reported.

      The last sessions engage participants in thinking about practical issues of encouraging
      entrepreneurial skills. Participants explore ways that they might work in their local
      communities as change agents to reduce the spread of the virus and improve the situation of
      those living with HIV.
    
  