
    
      1. Approval will be obtained from Ethics Committee of general organization of teaching
           hospitals and institutes and Research Ethics Committee of Faculty of Pharmacy, Damanhour
           University.

        2. Getting informed consent from all participants to take part in this study.

        3. Two groups each of 20 post-menopausal women with a bone fracture. One group will be
           treated randomly with metformin Retard 850 mg once daily for two weeks then 850 mg twice
           daily. The other group will be untreated and served as control group.

        4. Venous blood samples will be taken from each patient before fracture stabilization and
           later for determination of serum irisin level with corresponding radiological
           evaluations.

      Inclusion criteria:

      • Age range from 55 to less than 65 years old with bone fracture.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Age equal or less than 55 years

        -  Age equal or more than 65 years

        -  Unstable or hospitalized patients with heart failure

        -  Hepatic impairment

        -  Chronic kidney disease with eGFR <45 mL/minute/1.73 m2

        -  Open fractures

        -  Pathological fractures

        -  Diabetic patients Statistical tests appropriate to the study design will be conducted to
           evaluate the significance of the results.

      Methodology:

        -  Active Human Irisin ELISA kit will be used.

        -  Bone-specific Alkaline phosphatase BAP

        -  Serum creatinine, serum albumin, prothrombin time.

        -  Fasting insulin, fasting blood glucose and Calcium level.

        -  BMI, weight, waist, waist-hip ratio, total cholesterol and low-density-lipoprotein
           cholesterol.

        -  radiological scoring system will be used to evaluate the degree of new bone formation in
           the fracture line on anterior-posterior and lateral radiographs will be taken two months
           post stabilization.
    
  