
    
      Purpose for this study:

      This research group has previously investigated the usefulness of a powerful new MRI scanner
      and have found that the 7 Tesla MRI is able to provide detailed structural images of the
      cortex of the brain which can uncover pathology such as cortical demyelinating lesions in MS
      patients. Multiple sclerosis (MS) affects the grey matter as well as the white matter of the
      brain and spinal cord. However as white matter lesions are more easily visible both
      pathologically and on MRI, therefore most MS research has focused on white matter
      demyelination. The investigators would like to assess whether MS lesions in Gray Matter as
      well as White Matter can be more readily identified on Magnetic Transfer Ratio (MTR) images
      as opposed to standard protocols such as DIR, T2* and T1-weighted MPRAGE by comparing the
      results of the manual detection.

      The investigators will correlate lesion loads against cortical thickness and both lesion
      loads and cortical thickness against disease state both globally and on a regional basis. The
      investigators will then compare averaged, normalized profiles from different cortical ribbon
      regions between patients and controls to determine whether a particular layer of the cortical
      strip is more affected. The investigators will also correlate Gray Matter changes with
      distant and neighboring White Matter lesions. In addition, the investigators will also build
      an average lesion map across all subjects, which can be compared against the results
      published in literature. The investigators will use the manual lesion maps to characterize
      the regions of the cortex that deviate from normally appearing Gray Matter.

      How this project will be carried out:

      The investigators will study patients with MS and other neurological disease, and patients
      who are followed already at the neurology. All patients would have had already a brain scan.

      For comparison purposes the investigators will study healthy volunteers, in order to
      demonstrate that any new findings demonstrable with the 7T MRI scan are indeed related to
      pathology.

      Ethical issues:

      Occasionally the investigators discover incidental abnormalities on brain scans of those who
      participate in the study. In such circumstances the investigators will adhere to University
      of Nottingham Incidental Findings Procedure. In the Participant Information Sheet the
      investigators will explain that if the investigators notice any abnormality on MR scans (for
      healthy volunteer) or abnormality on MR scan not expected to be seen under patient's
      neurological diagnosis (for patients) the investigators will refer them to their GP. The
      investigators will send a letter to patient's GP informing that the investigators have
      detected a possible abnormality on the scan. The investigators will show the scans to a
      radiologist based in Academic Radiology at the QMC, who will contact participant's GP if
      further action is required.
    
  