
    
      Background: Elderly adults represent the majority of stroke cases worldwide. Sequelae after a
      stroke causes the stroke individuals to live a more isolated life 5 years after the stroke.
      This makes the stroke individuals an especially vulnerable group of elderly people regarding
      social reintegration. Reintegration into the community post-stroke depends highly on support
      from the family. However, the stroke individual's closest relatives are at risk of developing
      anxiety and depression.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of a novel self-management intervention
      supporting older adults after stroke

      Methods/Design: Randomized controlled observer-blind trial. More than sixty stroke survivors
      over 65 years will two weeks before leaving a rehabilitation hospital be randomized to either
      a group receiving conventional rehabilitation (control) or a novel self-management
      intervention addition to standard rehabilitation.

      During a period of 6 months the patients will be offered additional 6-8 sessions of
      self-management intervention of 45-60 minutes duration by a physiotherapist or an
      occupational therapist.

      Study outcome measurements: Stroke Self-efficacy questionnaire, Stroke Specific Quality of
      Life Scale and Impact on participation and Autonomy and activity by accelerometers will be
      evaluated at baseline, three and nine months post hospital treatment.

      Patient, informal caregiver and therapist satisfaction will be with examined with
      questionnaires and interviews.

      Discussion: Self-management interventions are promising tools for rehabilitation of
      self-efficacy, quality of life as well as participation and autonomy. The introduction of
      novel self management intervention in combination with traditional physical and occupational
      therapy may enhance recovery after stroke, quality of life and burden on relatives. Stroke
      65+ trial will provide further evidence of self management strategies to clinicians, patients
      and health economists.
    
  