
    
      MATERIAL AND METHODS:- A non-surgical interventional clinical study was carried out from
      January 2015 to March 2015 in 51 patients at the department of Periodontology, Tatyasaheb
      Kore Dental College & Research Centre, New Pargaon. Prior approval for the study was obtained
      from the local ethical committee.

      Patients with chronic generalized periodontitis [(moderate and severe) according to CDC
      working group, 2007 criteria]. Age ranging from 35-60 ( mean 45) years, should have at least
      20 natural teeth, who have not received periodontal therapy, within preceding six months were
      included in this study. Tobacco in any form and alcoholics, any other systemic disease which
      can alter the course of periodontal disease, subjects should have pregnant, women on hormone
      replacement therapy or hormonal contraceptives, patients taking steroidal or non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs (previous 3 months) or antibiotics (previous 6 months),
      anti-inflammatory drugs and antibiotics in the previous six month and patients with
      aggressive periodontitis were excluded from this study.

      Study was explained, including the benefits, risks and alternative treatments, the patients
      signed an informed consent form indicating their agreement to participate in the study and
      each patient was assigned a patient number in ascending order to maintain the masking of
      evaluators. Eg. First patient is given a number D1, Second D2, and so on.

      GROUPS This was a Phase 2 clinical trial with an Interventional model of parallel assignment
      with two arms. Hence, after screening through inclusion and exclusion criteria patients were
      divided into two groups, 25 (13 males and 12 females) patients were included in TG and 26 (13
      males and 13 females) subjects included in CG.

      INTERVENTION:- The study was non-surgical controlled clinical trial. A single study
      co-ordinator patients into two groups by using Quick Cals, Graph pad software and it has
      stratified with a 1:1 allocation. SRP had performed for all subjects in TG at baseline by one
      trained Periodontist under local anaesthesia (if required) using Piezoelectric scaler
      [Satelec ACTEON P5TM], Hand scalers, Universal curette and Gracey Curette. Clinical and
      biochemical parameters had recorded by trained examiner in both TG and CG.

      BLOOD COLLECTION:- 5 ml of blood was collected from the antecubital fossa by venipuncture
      using 20-guage needle with 5 ml syringes. Blood samples were left to clot for (1-2) hours,
      then centrifuged to obtain the serum. Serum was collected in disposable plastic serum
      containing tube, which was stored at (2-40C) until time of assay. Estimation of levels of
      urea (by GLDH- urease method), bilirubin total (by Diazo Method), creatinine (modified
      JAFFE'S method) was done at the baseline and one month in both the groups, at ANANT
      laboratory, kodoli, Kolhapur (INDIA).
    
  