
    
      The first stage of this study proposes to perform a pilot observational study looking at the
      doses of propofol used for the induction of general anesthesia. We will determine the percent
      (as a function of age, Elixhauser score, ASA status) of patients who receive more than the
      FDA approved induction dosage. We estimate 30% with the power defined as the width of the 95
      percent confidence interval around that number that is given by 80% power and n=500.

      In the second stage, the investigators will look at the association between dose and the
      development of hypotension (in the time after induction and before surgical incision) and
      post-operative AKI among elderly patients at YNHH while controlling for age, Elixhauser
      score, and ASA status. The results of this study will also hopefully be used in a quality
      improvement project to prevent overdosing of the elderly patient population with induction
      anesthetic.

      Hypothesis 1: Elderly patients are being overdosed (per FDA guidelines) with anesthetic
      agents for induction of general anesthesia.

      Hypothesis 2: Overdose of anesthetic agents for induction of general anesthesia in the
      elderly population leads to an increased chance of developing AKI.

      Hypothesis 3: Overdose of anesthetic agents for induction of general anesthesia in the
      elderly population leads to an increased chance of developing hypotension post-induction,
      which may contribute to development of AKI or vice-versa.

      This research will be done via analysis of data and associated records contained in the
      Multicenter Perioperative Outcomes Group databases at Yale (the latter is a research database
      approved under HIC#1206010438).

      The possible risks are primarily the risk to privacy that is inherent in any retrospective
      chart review. The benefit may be to suggest areas for quality improvement in induction
      practices for elderly patients at YNHH and elsewhere.
    
  