
    
      This prospective study will be conducted under IRB approval at Memorial Blood Centers.
      Approximately 1000 donors will be enrolled over a two-year period.

      Participant Recruitment Donors presenting to donate whole blood at MBC who have a Hb value
      between 12.5-13.5 (males) or 12.0-13.0 (females) will be asked to participate. Written
      informed consent will be obtained from each participant.

      STUDY PROCEDURES MBC will be responsible for donor consenting, specimen collection and
      testing, donor deferral, donor-follow-up, and record keeping. Before any study participation,
      donors who meet the inclusion criteria will be required to sign and date an informed consent.
      All participants will receive a study information sheet and be asked screening questions and
      donor information.

      An EDTA and red top tube will be taken from the diversion pouch of each participant during
      their donation, or obtained from samples already drawn for donor screening. The EDTA sample
      and red top tube will be used to determine baseline CBC and ferritin levels, respectively.

      Female participants who have a Hb of 12.0-12.4 will not be allowed to donate per FDA
      regulations, but will be asked to have an EDTA and red top tube drawn to determine baseline
      CBC and ferritin levels, respectively.

      Participants whose ferritin levels are <30 (males) or <20 (females) will be eligible for
      enrollment into the low ferritin group. Those with ferritin levels >30 (males) or >20
      (females) will be enrolled into the low Hb only group. Females whose Hb was in the range of
      12.0-12.4 and with ferritin levels >20 will not be followed.

      Once ferritin levels are determined, participants in both groups will be contacted by a study
      nurse. Those in the low Hb only group will be notified of their results and allowed to return
      after a standard 56 day deferral. Those in the low ferritin group will be offered iron
      replacement therapy and deferred from blood donation for 112 days.

      Oral Iron Replacement Therapy Participants in the low ferritin group will be offered 200
      tablets of Ferrous gluconate 325 mg (36 mg elemental iron) sent by mail. Tablets will be in
      child proof containers. This amount and form of iron were chosen because of its ready
      accessibility over the counter in packs of 100 at low cost to donor/donor center. Also, the
      following anemia website suggests 60mg elemental iron daily, i.e. 2-3 iron tablets in divided
      doses daily.Participants will be instructed to take one at lunch and one at bedtime.
      Participants will be instructed to contact the study physician or study nurse immediately if
      any adverse events occur.

      Between 25 and 35 days, the study physician or nurse will contact all participants in the low
      ferritin group to assess their compliance and tolerance with the iron replacement therapy
      using a standard instrument. Those with unacceptable intolerance to the ferrous gluconate may
      be offered carbonyl iron at this time, and re-interviewed between days 60 and 70 using the
      same instrument.

      Participant Follow-Up Participants in both groups will be asked to return to donate after
      their deferral period. During their follow-up donation, participants will be asked to
      complete a follow-up questionnaire, and samples will again be taken to determine CBC and
      ferritin levels. Participants will be notified of their results. Statistical analysis will be
      performed to determine outcome measures.
    
  