
    
      The study will be divided into 2 phases - 1st phase will last 1.5 months and will aim to
      recruit at least 50 patients and at most 100 patients. This phase will aim to recruit
      near-equal split of patients across the 3 disease states of COPD, asthma and pneumonia - 35
      COPD, 35 Asthma and 30 pneumonia patients. The 2nd phase will last 3 months and will aim to
      recruit at least 50 patients. This phase can have a mix of patients having either COPD,
      asthma, pneumonia, congestive heart failure or any other respiratory diseases

      The aim in the 1st phase is to benchmark the device against manual counting of respiration
      (number of breaths per minute). The aim in the 2nd phase is to benchmark the device against
      existing technologies, namely lead-based-ECG sensing, acoustic sensing and capnography. This
      phase can have a mix of patients having either COPD, asthma, pneumonia or any other
      respiratory diseases

      Following is the study protocol that will be implemented over the 2 phases:

      Phase 1: 1.5 months - 100 patients - General Wards (Time taken for each patient is 25 mins)

      a. Delegated study team members will brief the study details to the potential participants.
      Investigators will answer the query from potential participants if any, and complete the
      consent process. (5 mins) b. Trial coordinator will setup the device as follows: (10 mins) i.
      Disinfect the device by wiping with an alcohol swab, ii. Turn on the sensor - ensure the USB
      dongle is connected to the RIGHT ports on the laptop - check that the USB dongle AND the
      sensor light is NOT blinking iii. Paste the sensor on patient using a medical-grade adhesive
      tape.

      c. Trial coordinator will begin data collection by double click the software .exe file -
      select the COM ports and enter participant no. (a folder will be created in root directory
      for the participant number) d. Click "run" button on the software and start to manually count
      the number of breaths after 1 minute. After 1 minute, the number of breaths counted manually
      will be recorded on the case report form.4 rounds of 1-minute measurements will be taken e.
      Trial coordinator will turn off the device and pass it back to team-member or keep it. Trial
      coordinator will remove the medical-grade adhesive tape and throw it away. (5 mins) f.
      Team-member will post-process the collected respiration data, benchmark against the manually
      counted data in the data collection form provided by trial coordinator and discuss the
      results with investigating P.Is.

      Phase 2: 3 months - 50 patients - Medical intensive care units (MICU), medical dependency
      units (MDU), cardiology high dependency units, and general wards (for congestive heart
      failure patients) (Time taken for each patient is 30 mins) g. Delegated study team members
      will brief the study details to the potential participants. Investigators will answer the
      query from potential participants if any, and complete the consent process. In the event that
      the patient is unable to provide consent, the next-of-kin will be approached for consent. (5
      mins) h. Trial coordinator will setup the device as follows: (10 mins) i. Disinfect the
      device by wiping with an alcohol swab, ii. Turn on the sensor - ensure the USB dongle is
      connected to the RIGHT ports on the laptop - check that the USB dongle AND the sensor light
      is NOT blinking iii. Paste the sensor on patient using a medical-grade adhesive tape. iv.
      Attach another sensor on the patient's finger using an adapter. The purpose of this is to
      collect heart rate and Sp02, and to calculate respiration from the collected data.

      i. Trial coordinator will begin data collection by double click the software .exe file -
      select the COM ports and enter participant no. (a folder will be created in root directory
      for the participant number) j. Click "run" button on the software. After 1 minute, the number
      of breaths, heart rate and Sp02 from other technology devices will be recorded on the case
      report form.4 rounds of 1-minute measurements will be taken.

      k. Trial coordinator will turn off the device and pass it back to team-member or keep it.
      Trial coordinator will remove the medical-grade adhesive tape and throw it away. (5 mins).
      Trial coordinator will also remove the device and adapter from the finger location.

      l. Team-member will post-process the collected respiration data, benchmark it and discuss the
      results with investigating P.Is.

      All data collected will be anonymous and no video-taping will be done. The trial coordinator
      will act as the control arm. They will measure the respiration or breathing rate of the
      subject manually - by counting the number of breaths per minute. The non-control arm will be
      the device itself and it will be benchmarked to the manual respiration data collected by the
      trial coordinator. The data collected will be kept with the P.I and confidentially of the
      data will strictly be maintained. The case report forms or the collection forms will be
      passed to the P.I. and kept safely. The subject may choose to withdraw from the study at any
      time.

      The device is based on multi-modal sensing using illumination at extremely low emission
      levels on the order of microwatts. This sensing technique is able to detect the
      micro-vibrations along the neck due to breathing.
    
  