
    
      In Parkinson's disease, gait disturbances represent one of the most disabling motor symptoms,
      frequently associated with an increased risk of falls, loss of independence and a negative
      impact on quality of life. Patients with Parkinson's Disease, display an abnormal gait
      pattern (reduced gait speed, shortened stride length, and a longer double-limb support phase)
      and they are typically unable to generate a proper stride length and to maintain a steady
      gait rhythm. Therefore, improving gait ability is a primary goal of physical therapy in
      patients with Parkinson's Disease. Conventional Physiotherapy aimed at enabling patients to
      maintain their maximum level of activity and independence is often prescribed, but treatments
      for gait give only limited benefits. Promising reports have suggested that external sensory
      cueing (acoustic, visual, verbal cues), through an attention mechanism, may help to increase
      the deficient internal cueing in Parkinson's Disease, thus improving gait pattern.Treadmill
      training, which induces a constant horizontal movement, generates a rhythmic input for
      locomotion, coordinating the upper and lower limbs, offering a useful retraining modality
      that complements conventional therapy. In the last decade some researchers focused on the use
      of partial body weight support systems on the ground or with the combination of treadmill
      training (Body weight support-treadmill). These systems, which improves the ability to stand
      in an upright position with a redistribution of forces on the trunk, thus disengaging the
      girdle and upper limbs, suggests a greater improvement in motor performance and walking
      ability compared with conventional phisiotherapy. In recent years, the interest in automated
      robotic devices for gait training for Parkinson's Disease patients has grown. With their
      consistent, symmetrical lower-limb trajectories, robotic devices provide many of the
      proprioceptive inputs that may increase cortical activation and improve motor function while
      minimizing the intervention of a therapist. Moreover, proprioceptive inputs may share
      mechanisms that are common to external cues, thus stimulating the cerebellar-premotor pathway
      to improve gait. Besides,the preprogrammed walking pattern corresponds to normal gait
      kinematics including: gait cycle timing, inter-limb and inter-joint coordination, appropriate
      limb loading, and afferent signaling. A recent randomized controlled trial that compared a
      comprehensive rehabilitative program vis-à-vis robot-assisted gait training has shown that
      the latter displays some advantages. A pilot, non-controlled study explored the effect of
      robot-assisted gait training on freezing of gait.Still, despite recent interest in automated
      locomotion training, there is still very little evidence to support the superiority of this
      technique over traditional gait training. A computerized gait analysis represents an useful
      aid to study gait disturbances. The analysis sets objectives and defines quantitative data
      about gait changes occurred in a patient, in relation to the progression of underlying
      disease or th effectiveness of treatments administered (medication, surgery or physical). So
      the main aim of this study will be to analyze, through a clinical and an instrumental
      evaluation, the effectiveness of a Lokomat gait training in subjects affected by Parkinson's
      disease in comparison to a ground conventional gait training
    
  