
    
      Peroral cholangioscopy (POC) provides direct visualization of the bile duct during ERCP and
      its benefits are well documented in numerous published studies. POC has been described for
      therapy of difficult to remove biliary stones utilizing electrohydraulic lithotripsy or laser
      lithotripsy with success rates of >90%. POC has also been used for evaluation of
      indeterminate filling defects and to assess for residual stones missed with cholangiogram. In
      a multicenter study evaluating POC for a variety of indications, 11% (7/66) of patients had
      bile duct stones identified only by POC that were missed on ERCP. In a study of patients with
      primary sclerosing cholangitis, 30% (7/23) of patients were found to have stones with POC
      that were missed with cholangiography. Takao et al. assessed residual bile duct stones found
      with POC in comparison to balloon-cholangiography; they found that 24% (26/108) of patients
      had residual stones seen with POC that were missed with balloon-cholangiography.

      Although POC has been available for over thirty years, it has not become a widespread
      technique due to the fact that traditional cholangioscopes are fragile, cumbersome to use,
      and usually require two endoscopists to perform the procedure. A recent single operator
      semi-disposable cholangioscope, SpyGlass (Boston Scientific, Natick, Massachusetts), has
      addressed those concerns and has been shown in a studies to be a useful tool in visualizing
      the bile ducts and performing therapeutic maneuvers for biliary stones. Both ERCP and
      Cholangioscopy are standard of care procedures to treat gall stones.

      The primary goal of the study is to assess if POC will enhance the diagnostic yield in the
      detection of residual biliary stones that are missed during conventional ERCP. Residual bile
      duct stones can especially be seen in the setting of bile duct dilation, history of recurrent
      abnormal liver function tests, and after lithotripsy (mechanical, electrohydraulic, or
      laser). Missed biliary stones can lead to recurrent biliary symptoms, pancreatitis, and
      cholangitis. POC after conventional ERCP can be a useful diagnostic tool to confirm complete
      extraction of bile duct stones, and thus lead to decreased morbidity and decreased cost by
      avoiding unnecessary tests and repeat procedures.
    
  