
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if six cycles of modified fluorouracil, leucovorin calcium, and oxaliplatin
      (mFOLFOX7) plus bevacizumab (Avastin) will yield complete pathologic response (cPR) of 25% or
      more in the primary tumor of patients with stage II and III rectal cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the rate of tumor regression (pathologic stage lower than clinical stage) after
      6 cycles of mFOLFOX7 and bevacizumab in the primary rectal cancer.

      II. To assess local recurrence rate over 3 years after 6 cycles of mFOLFOX7 and bevacizumab.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Correlation of the following marker with response (defined as CPR or down staging):

        -  Intratumoral Gene expression and germline polymorphism of genes involved in the vascular
           endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and VEGF independent pathways (VEGF, vascular
           endothelial growth factor receptor 1 [VEGFR1], VEGFR2, interleukin-8 [IL8], chemokine
           (C-X-C motif) receptor 2 [CXCR2], intercellular adhesion molecule [ICAM], VEGFR1 and
           VEGFR2, neuropilin 1 or 2 [NRP1,2], cluster of differentiation [CD] 44, aldehyde
           dehydrogenase [ALDH], leucine-rich repeats and immunoglobulin-like [LRIG].

        -  Circulating tumor cells (CTC) and VEGF-factor A (A) on the CTC.

      II. Prediction of surgical resection margin by pretreatment magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive bevacizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes, oxaliplatin IV over 2
      hours, leucovorin calcium IV, and fluorouracil IV continuously over 46-48 hours on day 1.
      Treatment repeats every 14 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Within 6-8 weeks after treatment, patients undergo surgery.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  