
    
      Chronic pain is defined as pain lasting more than three months duration. Between one third
      and one half of the population of the UK are affected by chronic pain. This corresponds to
      just less than 28 million adults. Chronic low back pain is an important contributor to the
      chronic pain burden. Up to a third of UK's population is affected by low back ache each year
      and 20% visit their general practitioner for advice. The result is that nearly 2.6 million
      people are seeking medical care for back pain in a year. This translates into a huge economic
      burden on the already stretched healthcare budgets. The health care cost of low back ache was
      estimated to be £1632 million in 1998.4 However the indirect cost of low back pain mainly due
      to lost productivity is much higher and conservative estimates put it at £3440 million in
      1998. It would not be hard to imagine what the present economic burden of chronic low back
      pain would be if inflation is factored in to the above figures. Apart from the fact that
      chronic low back pain has a huge economic impact, it does cause significant loss of function
      from an individual's perspective, damaged relationships and difficulties at workplace.

      Lumbar facet joint pain

      Mechanical low back pain is the most common cause of chronic low back pain. Anatomical
      structures, such as facet joints, sacro-iliac joints, posterior longitudinal ligaments and
      muscles have been found to generate and contribute to the mechanical low back pain. The
      lumbar zygapophyseal (facet) joints are the pain generators in 15% to 45% of patients with
      chronic low back pain. Variety of interventional treatment modalities have been used to treat
      facet joint pain. Intraarticular injections of steroids and radiofrequency (RF) ablation of
      the nerve supply of the facet joints are the most widely practised. A recent NICE guideline
      (NG 59) has recommended radiofrequency denervation but not steroid injections for proven
      lumbar facet joint pain.

      The lumbar facet joints are innervated by the medial branches of posterior primary ramus of
      the spinal nerve (L1-L5). Each of these posterior primary rami divide into medial,
      intermediate and lateral branches (except L5 posterior primary ramus). The medial branches
      innervate the facet joints and the multifidus muscle. The intermediate branches innervate the
      muscle longissimus thoracis. The lateral branches innervate the iliocostalis lumborum muscle.
      The lateral branches of L1, 2 ,3 supply the skin over the lower back.

      The nerve supply - medial branch and dorsal ramus have been the target for RF interventions
      to relieve facet joint pain. Anatomical studies in 1980s found that facet joint has a dual
      innervation - for instance, the L4-5 facet joint derives its innervation from the medial
      branches of dorsal rami of L3 and L4. The medial branches of L1-4 and the posterior primary
      ramus of L5 have a relatively fixed anatomical course, thereby rendering themselves good
      targets for interventions. This forms the basis of targeting two nerves to denervate one
      facet joint. The success rate of RF denervation varies from 50 to 90% .9, 10 The varied
      success rate is often attributed to single diagnostic blocks and procedural variations. But
      anatomical variation is not often considered. A recent study has showed that there is
      significant variation in the individual nerve supply to facet joints which may add to the
      false -negatives of diagnostic blocks and inadequate pain relief from radiofrequency
      denervation. One way of improving the success rate is to reproduce the pain by electrical
      stimulation prior to RF treatment.

      Lumbar medial branches and fifth lumbar dorsal ramus have been electrically stimulated not
      only in healthy volunteers but also in pain patients. A recent study has shown that
      supratheshold stimulation of facet joints in healthy volunteers results in local and referred
      pain.However none of the studies have correlated the suprathreshold stimulation to map the
      painful area. Hence we propose to map the painful area by suprathreshold stimulation.

      Rationale for Study Based on conventional anatomical studies, two medial branches are
      denervated to treat pain from one facet joint. But this does not take into account of the
      anatomical variation of individuals, thereby potentially over or under treating the pain. In
      this study the investigators will map the painful areas by stimulating the medial branches,
      thus estimating how necessary it is to lesion the medial branches according to the standard
      practice.
    
  