
    
      Skin Picking Disorder (SPD) is a new diagnosis in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of
      Mental Disorders (DSM) 5 and affects about 1.4% to 5.4% of the general population, increasing
      this prevalence to 7% to 30% in psychiatric patients. Despite the importance of this
      pathology, less than half of the patients with SPD seek treatment, only 53% receive the
      correct diagnosis and more than 57% are not satisfied with the treatment received. About 85%
      of patients think that professionals are not trained to treat SPD. Skin Picking Disorder
      occurs frequently with other mental disorders, with 13-48% of patients having major
      depressive disorder and 5-23% having anxiety disorders. The literature suggests that neither
      Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) nor Lamotrigine are effective when compared
      to placebo in treating SPD, and only treatment with behavioral techniques are effective.
      However, studies using behavioral techniques do not address associated symptoms, as anxiety
      and depression.

      Some studies found that the rate of co-occurrence of dermatillomania and trichotillomania is
      higher than expected, so it has been hypothesized that these disorders are part of the
      spectrum of a single pathology. It is known that the Rothbaum Protocol, a standardized
      treatment for Trichotillomania, is effective in treating this disorder, addressing also the
      management of anxiety and depressive symptoms, besides working with relapse prevention.

      Thus, our study works with the hypothesis that the Rothbaum CBT Protocol can be effective in
      the treatment of dermatillomania, in both individual or group format. Having the same
      protocol to treat SPD and Trichotillomania might facilitate the patient access to treatment
      and the therapist training, and also might improve the SPD treatment in a long-term, by
      managing the relapse prevention.

      Methods: this study is a thwo armed randomized controlled and single masked clinical trial.
      Participants with SPD according to DSM 5 will be included and randomly allocated in
      individual or group format of treatment with the Rothbaum CBT Protocol. The protocol will be
      adapted to SPD, changing the habit of pulling the hair to the habit of picking the skin.
      Symptoms of anxiety, depression and the SPD severity will be evaluated by specific
      instruments and by a photographic measurement before the intervention, after and in a 6 moths
      follow-up. The motivation of patient to the CBT will be measured at the baseline. Will be
      excluded patients with current psychotic disorder, suicide risk or mental disability.

      The CBT protocol will consist of 8 weekly sessions, during 45 minutes in individual format
      and 90 minutes in group format, always applied by a trained therapist. This protocol includes
      psychoeducation, habit reversal techniques, anxiety management, change of disfunctional
      cognitive schemes and relapse prevention.

      The primary outcome will be the remission of symptoms of SPD, assessed by the Clinical Global
      Impression scale. The secondary outcomes will be the improvement of depressive symptoms,
      anxiety and SPD symptoms assessed by the others instruments.
    
  