
    
      Sleep apnea syndrome (SAS) is characterized by repetitive events of apnea and hypopnea. These
      events are often part of a periodic breathing pattern, in which relative hyperventilation is
      followed by apnea or hypopnea.

      Recently the investigators described the 'double-loop gain' of the respiratory control system
      as a measure of periodic breathing. This is a frequency-dependent variable which describes 1)
      the tendency of the respiratory system to oscillate at a given frequency and 2) the degree to
      which the relation between oscillations in ventilation and oscillations in arterial blood gas
      values is linear. The underlying hypothesis is that periodic breathing results from negative
      feedback regulation of arterial O2 and CO2 pressure through the chemoreflexes. The
      double-loop gain describes the gain in the negative feedback loop under the assumption that
      accidental changes occur in both ventilation and arterial blood gas pressures. A simple
      version of the double-loop gain is derived from nasal pressure changes and arterial O2
      saturation. From all-night recordings, the 'double-loop index' (DLI) can be derived, which is
      determined by the time during which the double-loop gain exceeds a given threshold.

      Currently, the presence of sleep-apnea is determined by the apnea-hypopnea index (AHI), using
      in-hospital sleep recording. With a growing number of referrals, waiting lists for sleep
      registration are emerging. Screening for SAS using home-measurement of nasal pressure and
      SaO2 seems to be a good alternative. The investigators hypothesize that the DLI derived from
      these signals gives a better reflection of the pathophysiology of the disease than the AHI.
      As a result, the investigators expect that the DLI improves the distinction between healthy
      and diseased subjects in comparison to the simple counting of apneas and hypopneas. This is
      reflected in a higher area under the ROC curve, which describes the sensitivity and
      specificity of the test.
    
  