
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the toxicity of an intensive program of chemoradiotherapy followed by HLA
           identical related bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in patients
           with relapsed or refractory cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, Hodgkin's lymphoma, or
           non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

        -  Determine the response rate and disease free survival in patients treated with this
           regimen.

      OUTLINE: HLA identical related donors undergo harvest of bone marrow or peripheral blood stem
      cells (PBSC).

      Patients are assigned to one of two treatment groups based on prior radiation to abdomen or
      mediastinum:

        -  Group A (prior radiation no greater than 2,000 cGy): Patients with complete response
           (CR) or partial response (PR) after completion of chemotherapy receive cyclophosphamide
           IV over 1 hour on days -6 and -5, followed by total body irradiation twice daily on days
           -4 to -1. Patients with minimal response after completion of chemotherapy receive
           cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days -8 and -7, followed by etoposide IV over 30
           hours beginning on day -6, followed by total body irradiation twice daily on days -4 to
           -1.

        -  Group B (prior radiation greater than 2,000 cGy): Patients with CR or PR after
           completion of chemotherapy receive oral busulfan every 6 hours on days -7 to -4,
           followed by cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days -3 and -2. Patients with minimal
           response after completion of chemotherapy receive oral busulfan every 6 hours on days -9
           to -6, followed by cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days -5 and -4, followed by
           etoposide IV over 30 hours beginning on day -3.

        -  Both groups: Bone marrow or PBSC are reinfused on day 0. Patients with bulky nodal
           disease (greater than 5 cm) may undergo involved field radiotherapy two weeks before
           transplantation.

      Patients are followed every month for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Not specified
    
  