
    
      Protocols and Randomization of subjects: Subjects were randomized into 4 groups: control
      group (GI), individual counseling (GII), group counseling (GIII) and aerobic training set
      (GIV). The protocols of interventions are described in detail below:

      GI - Control: Comprising session of 15-20 minutes duration. It took place guidelines on
      physical activity, delivering a manual with general information about physical activity.

      GII - Individual counseling: Consisting of three sessions within a maximum period of 3
      months. We conducted a counseling, aimed at increasing physical activity, aiming to raise at
      least 2000 steps over the first week of monitoring. Furthermore, we discuss the importance of
      physical activity, such as overcoming barriers to physical activity and targets agreed
      between the parties. The pedometer is given along with a diary to record the number of steps
      and returned in the last session.

      GIII - Group Counseling: The counseling was conducted in groups (10-12 individuals) for 6
      sessions at weekly intervals, and two sessions with fortnightly. Each session lasts 60
      minutes. The advice is aimed at behavioral changes using the following approaches: advantages
      and disadvantages of behavior change, how to overcome barriers to physical activity,
      self-monitoring of physical activity by using the pedometer and setting goals (number of
      steps / day) in the short term and what to do in case of relapse (not accomplish what was
      represented) besides livings practices. As the GII and the goal is to raise steps daily, with
      the main focus physical activity in leisure time and transport.

      GIV - Programmed Aerobic Training: The fitness program is held two times per week with
      individuals and groups with three sessions lasts for 40 minutes performed on a treadmill.

      All interventions lasted between 12 and 15 weeks and were carried out on time or before the
      commencement of work or during lunch or after work hours.
    
  