
    
      Long-term oxygen treatment (LTOT) improves survival of COPD patients with severe hypoxemia .
      The improved survival was proven in COPD patients with severe chronic hypoxemia (PaO2< or =
      55 mmHg), providing oxygen was delivered for = or >15 hours/day. Since then, > 15 hours/day
      LTOT has become the standard treatment for COPD patients with severe hypoxemia. LTOT has been
      extended without evidence to COPD patients with moderate hypoxemia (55< PaO2 <60mmHg), when
      associated with some clinical and laboratory signs of cardiac diseases and to patients with
      decreased oxygen saturation (SO2 < 90%) during exercise or sleep. Chronic heart failure (CHF)
      is a common co-morbidity of COPD (>30% ) particularly in the elderly. Whether LTOT improves
      survival in patients with moderate chronic hypoxemia and CHF is unknown. This is an issue of
      concern because of the potential importance of LTOT in severe COPD, and of the cost of LTOT
      (about Euro 250 millions/year in Italy). The aim of this 3 year randomized clinical trial is
      to investigate whether, in COPD patients with moderate hypoxemia associated with CHF
      treatment including LTOT is no different from treatment without LTOT in term of survival and
      of exacerbations, hospitalizations, and quality of life. The study will be conducted in 76
      Italian hospital pulmonary units, and will start on May 15th 2008 and end on October 31st
      2012. One thousand stable COPD patients treated according to COPD and CHF international
      guidelines will be randomized to treatment including LTOT (Study Group) or treatment without
      LTOT (Control Group). All patients will regularly undergo clinical assessment, arterial blood
      gases (3 monthly), and Saint George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ, 6 monthly),and will be
      contacted with monthly telephone calls.

      Considering 1) the lack of evidence supporting LTOT in COPD patients with moderate hypoxemia
      and CHF, 2) the pathophysiology of CHF , and 3) the improvement of pharmacological treatment
      of both COPD and CHF, we expect that, after optimization of medical therapy, LTOT will not
      improve survival or frequency and severity of exacerbations and/or hospitalization, and not
      even quality of life due to the balance of small clinical benefits (improved exercise
      tolerance, better sleep) with the inconveniences associated with LTOT. This non-inferiority
      study is powered on survival, which is the primary outcome of the study.
    
  