
    
      Stroke is the leading cause of severe acquired disabilities in adults. It can affect sensory
      and motor functions which are closely entangled. Among them, upper limb function is often
      strongly impaired. In this study the investigators are interested in the eventuality to
      improve motor recovery by the mean of stimulating the proprioception.

      Proprioception can be stimulated by tendinous vibrations in order to act on the neuromuscular
      system through the vibratory tonic reflex and by movement illusion.

      Stimulation by tendinous vibrations, applied to the musculotendinous endings, has been
      already proposed in post stroke rehabilitation, but only at late stages.

      Thus the aim of our study is to observe the effects of repeated tendon vibrations, applied in
      the early post stroke phase, the effect being measured on the excitability of the motor
      cortex by the Motor Evoked Potentials and on the motor recovery (motor control and
      activities).

      Patients: 30 patients recruited after a first ever stroke whatever the cause and the site;
      age >18; stroke delay< 60 days; the maximum duration of participation for each patient is 3
      months.

      Protocol:

      This rehabilitation protocol will be added to the usual rehabilitation program during
      inpatient rehabilitation.

      Participants are randomized into two groups: experimental group and placebo group.

      The experimental group benefits from upper limb tendon vibration sessions produced by small
      electromechanical vibrators on the elbow and the wrist. Frequency of the vibration is 80 Hz,
      two 15-minutes sessions per day scheduled for 10 days over a period of two weeks (2 x 5
      days). During the sessions, the participant wearing opaque glasses, in a seating position, is
      asked to move if possible his/her arm in the opposite direction of the perceived movement.

      The placebo group receives apparently the same treatment but with "sham" vibration.

      Assessment:

      Motor recovery will be assessed:

        -  At the brain level by the efficiency of the primary motor pathway, measured by Motor
           Evoked Potentials recorded at the contralateral hand (main outcome criteria after 30
           days from inclusion).

        -  At the limb level by the motor control effectiveness measured by the Fugl Meyer scale,
           the Tardieu scale, the Action Research Arm Test (ARAT), the Box and Blocks Test (BBT)
           and the range of upper limb exploration with the ArmeoSpring, Hocoma brand.

      The secondary objectives are:

        -  To assess any impact on nerve fibers density on the main motor pathway by Magnetic
           Resonance Imaging.

        -  To test the feasibility of such a rehabilitation protocol in a Physical Rehabilitation
           Medicine department

      Four consultations are planned:

      D0 (day 0): (before starting stimulation): Motor skills assessments, Motor Evoked Potentials
      (MEP) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI).

      D15 (day 15): (as soon as stimulation ends): Motor skills assessments. D30 (day 30): Motor
      skills assessments and Motor Evoked Potentials (MEP) D90 (day 90): Motor skills assessments,
      Motor Evoked Potentials (MEP) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI).
    
  