
    
      The present phase II study evaluates the clinical outcomes and potential treatment-related
      toxicity following definitive ultra-high dose single fraction external beam radiation therapy
      (SDRT) in patients with localized adenocarcinoma of the prostate. A large body of data
      suggests that extreme hypofractionated radiation schedules, which employ ultra-high dose per
      fraction (≥7 Gy) in a small number of fractions (≤5), appear equal or superior to
      conventionally-fractionated (1.8-2.0 Gy/fraction) and moderately hypo-fractionated schemes
      (2.5-3.5 Gy/fraction) in terms of both tumor control and toxicity profiles. Modern
      computer-driven technology enables the implementation of ultra-high hypofractionated
      Image-Guided Radiotherapy (IGRT) safely. The Radiation Oncology team at Champalimaud Centre
      for the Unknown has been engaged in a large phase II study (HYPO) of extreme
      hypofractionation (9Gyx5) which accrued over 200 cases and, with a median follow-up of over 3
      years, showed the safety and efficacy of this approach. The feasibility of SDRT in localized
      prostate cancer has been tested by the in a randomized phase II trial (PROSINT) comparing
      extreme hypofractionation as per the HYPO trial regimen vs. a single dose of 24Gy. While the
      long-term results of this study are still pending, its toxicity profile in both arms has been
      extremely good with no G3 adverse events at 2 years and superimposable biochemical response
      between the two regimens. Taken together, these observations provide the basis for the
      prospective clinical studies proposed herein.

      Patients enrolled in the study will undergo image-guided, volumetric intensity-modulated arc
      radiotherapy (IGRT-VMAT) with state-of-the-art treatment-planning and quality assurance
      procedures with emphasis on normal tissue sparing and delivery accuracy via the use of
      devices that ensure stability and beam location reproducibility. A rectal balloon with air
      filling will be used for prostate target immobilization and anatomical reproducibility, while
      a urethral catheter loaded with beacon transponders will be used to ensure set-up
      reproducibility and online target tracking. Previously untreated patients with low and
      intermediate risk (NCCN criteria) localized prostate cancer will be treated with 24 Gy SDRT.

      Patients will be followed at one and three months post-treatment, every 3 months for up to 12
      months (+/- 4 weeks) and every 6 months thereafter. Acute and chronic toxicity evaluations
      will focus, though not exclusively, on urinary, rectal and sexual functions and will be
      assessed through validated EPIC questionnaires. Serum PSA values will be drawn on the same
      schedule as clinical follow-up. A multiparametric MRI will be performed at baseline, and at
      6, 12 and 24 months following intervention. The study will be continuously monitored for a
      minimum of 5 years.
    
  