
    
      Patients fulfilling inclusion criteria will be distributed in two groups, each one will be
      (60) patients (more than sample size number) to avoid the drop in the size of the study.

      Group (A):(60) Active TENS during office hysteroscopy. Group (B)(60) placebo TENS during
      office hysteroscopy. The active TENS intervention consisted of a varying high-frequency
      (80-100 Hz), pulse duration 400-microseconds.Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation
      therapy will be initiated 5 minutes before starting the hysteroscopy and for the duration of
      the procedure. Two sets of two self-adhesive electrodes (circular pads) will be placed
      parallel to the spinal cord at the T10-L1 and S2-S4 levels .

      Group (A)(60) Active TENs during office hysteroscopy The device intensity (amplitude) will be
      individually adjusted to each participant's maximum sensory level (strongest reported
      tingling feeling without pain and with no muscle contractions. Patients will be informed
      about the importance of maintaining the stimulation at a maximum non painful level. Thus, the
      TENS output intensity will be increased during the treatment every time the patient
      accommodated to the TENS stimulus. All the hysteroscopies will be performed by the same
      experienced consultant in (ECDU), who will be blinded to the patients' group allocations.
      Uterine cavity will be distended with normal saline

      Group (B):(60) placebo TENs during office hysteroscopy To achieve blinding in the placebo
      group, participants will be connected to the TENS unit in exactly the same way as
      participants in the active TENS group with the unit emitting the active indicator light and
      sound but delivering no electrical stimulation.

      Primary Outcome Measures :

      The level of pain at the end of office hysteroscopy procedure (primary outcome) will be
      measured 5 minutes after procedure on a 100-mm-long horizontal line visual analog scale (VAS;
      0 mm=no pain and 100 mm=worst possible pain).

      A discrete, 5-point, verbal Likert scale including the following options: "no pain," "minimal
      pain," "moderate pain," "severe pain," and "worst pain possible," will be used to assess the
      internal consistency of the pain rating 5 minutes after procedure.

      Secondary Outcome Measures The pain of hysteroscopy entry, contact, and biopsy. The duration
      of the procedure, vital parameters (blood pressure, heart rate, arterial oxygen saturation),
      vasovagal symptoms (dizzin ess, nausea, vomiting, shoulder pain, vertigo, sweating, or
      fainting), and unusual or adverse TENS events (skin allergy, pain, or burning at the
      electrode site) will be recorded during all the hysteroscopy procedures.

      Finally, the level of satisfaction with the hysteroscopy, as indicated on a scale of ( 0-10),
      was measured at the end of the procedure .
    
  