
    
      The overall aim of this study is to hasten drug development for facioscapulohumeral muscular
      dystrophy (FSHD). Recent breakthroughs in FSHD research have identified the primary disease
      mechanism as the aberrant expression of a normally silenced gene, DUX4, resulting in a toxic
      gain-of-function. This disease mechanism is particularly amenable to knock-down of DUX4 using
      epigenetic strategies or RNA therapies, as well as to other interventions targeting the
      downstream effects of DUX4 expression. There are many drug companies actively working towards
      disease-targeted therapies, and two clinical trials either under way now, or planned to start
      in early Fall 2016. However, meetings with industry, advocacy groups, and FSHD researchers
      have identified several gaps in the clinical trial arsenal, and clinical trial planning as a
      major goal for the community. Consequently, there is an urgent need to establish the tools
      necessary for the conduct of currently planned and expected therapeutic trials in FSHD.

      To this end, the researchers propose to develop two novel clinical outcome assessments (COA),
      a composite functional outcome measure (FSH-COM) and skeletal muscle biomarker, electrical
      impedance myography (EIM). In addition there is broad consensus a better understanding of the
      relationship of genetic and demographic features to disease progression will be necessary for
      enumerating eligibility criteria.

      The specific aims are to: 1. Determine the multi-site validity of the COAs, 2. Compare the
      responsiveness of new COAs to other FSHD outcomes and determine the minimal clinically
      meaningful changes, and 3. establish FSHD cohort characteristics useful for determining
      clinical trial eligibility criteria. To achieve these aims, the researchers are conducting a
      multicenter, prospective, 18 months study of 160 subjects.
    
  