
    
      It is our hypothesis that liver machine perfusion will increase the safe utilization of the
      existing supply of extended criteria donor (ECD) livers by (1) increasing the quality and
      duration of preservation thereby reducing the clinical effects reperfusion injury (2)
      improving early outcomes in patients receiving ECD liver allografts (3) developing reliable
      markers for pretransplant assessment of the potential graft (4) giving surgeons more
      confidence when transplanting ECD livers and (5) allowing an avenue for ex vivo manipulation
      of the liver to protect or restore a transiently injured liver.

      The proposed study is a matched cohort design. Potential subjects will be recruited from the
      Center for Liver Disease and Transplantation (CLDT) active Liver Transplant Waiting List. The
      Principal Investigator as well as the CoInvestigators, are all actively involved in the pre
      transplant evaluation process. Patients who are on the Waiting List and have provided written
      consent to receive an ECD graft will be recruited for this trial. Subjects will be matched
      with 24 historical control patients who received similar cold stored ECD grafts. Subjects
      will be matched on known covariates including donor age, donation after cardiac death,
      steatosis, both warm and cold ischemia times, recipient age, Model End-Stage Liver Disease
      (MELD) score and disease etiology.

      Subjects will be noncritically ill, not in an intensive care unit, and have a MELD < 35 in
      order to minimize the variability in outcome in the sickest patients. All subjects must
      provide written informed consent and meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Subjects will be followed for one year post transplantation, in conjunction with their
      routine liver transplant followup appointments. Retention of subjects for this trial will not
      be a challenge, in that the followup visit time points (postoperative days 1 through the
      discharge date, 7, 14, 30, 90, 180 and 365) are all consistent with our standard of care.
    
  