
    
      NF2 is a condition that mainly affects the skin and nervous system. It causes non-cancerous
      tumors to grow on the nerves around a person's body. Some signs of NF2 include a gradual loss
      of hearing and tumors growing on the skin, the brain and the spinal cord, which can lead to
      complications.

      AXITINIB is an oral drug (taken by mouth) that is approved by the United States Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) for the treatment of other types of tumors. However, in this research
      study, AXITINIB is considered investigational because it is not approved by the FDA for
      treatment of NF2. Much is known regarding how well it is tolerated (handled), but
      investigators do not know if it is effective in treating NF2.

      This research study will test whether AXITINIB may shrink tumors commonly found in patients
      with NF2 or stop them from growing. This will help to decide if AXITINIB should be used to
      treat NF2 patients in the future. AXITINIB is a drug that has been used to treat various
      forms of cancer. It has not been studied for the treatment of tumors in NF2 patients.
      Investigators have selected AXITINIB for this clinical trial in patients with NF2 and
      NF2-related tumors because a very similar drug, bevacizumab, can shrink Vestibular
      Schwannomas (VS) in some NF2 patients.

      Pfizer, Inc., the manufacturer of the study drug, AXITINIB, will provide the AXITINIB being
      used in this study.

      Primary Objective: To estimate the objective volumetric response rates to axitinib in adult
      NF2 patients with VS.

      Secondary Objectives: To assess the toxicity of axitinib given daily in patients with NF2 and
      to examine the association of objective measures of response on MRI, i.e. volumetric tumor
      analysis with clinical measures of response, i.e. (audiogram), as well as quality of life
      assessments (NFTI-QOL). In addition, response in non-VS tumors, such as other schwannomas and
      meningiomas, may be explored.
    
  