
    
      In a recent study it was found that neurologist care for Parkinson's provides a 20% reduction
      in nursing home placement, hip fracture, and death (Willis 2011). However, as the authors
      recognized, we don't know what it is about expert care that delivers this benefit. The
      Parkinson's Foundation's Quality Improvement Initiative was designed to identify the
      components of great care that yield great outcomes. By capturing demographics, clinical
      interventions and outcomes over time from multiple centers across the U.S, Canada and
      internationally, the best care practices for improving care, survival, and quality of life
      from different clinics and different healthcare systems will be analyzed.

      The Parkinson's Foundation's QII contains demographic data, information about the patient's
      Parkinson's disease and other comorbid illness, patient assessments of Parkinson's related
      physical, emotional and cognitive disability and clinician tests of mobility, memory and
      cognition. It also includes data on the burden of the disease on caregivers. The tests and
      questionnaire instruments are currently in regular use in clinical practice. The intent of
      the registry is not to evaluate the instruments themselves but to collect essential data from
      previously validated tools.

      Registry data will be used to study the relationship between treatment and clinical symptoms
      of patients with Parkinson's. It will also be used to evaluate and improve care of patients
      at participating Centers. Through presentation and publication of results, it is hoped that
      improvement will become more widespread. Important benefits provided by such a Registry may
      ultimately be to:

        -  Determine the long term effects of Parkinson's disease and related conditions on quality
           of life;

        -  Generate regular reports for Centers including descriptions of their Parkinson's patient
           populations, treatments utilized at the Center and trends in their patients' outcomes
           over time;

        -  Describe differences in current practice across Centers in the care of Parkinson's
           patients;

        -  Identify patients who may be candidates for participation in trials of new medications;

        -  Facilitate or initiate quality improvement efforts intended to enhance survival and/or
           improve quality of life for Parkinson's disease patients; and

        -  Publish and otherwise disseminate findings related to most effective treatments to
           encourage rapid adoption of "best practices."
    
  