
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the efficacy of the combinations MEDI4736 (durvalumab) plus olaparib and
      cediranib, MEDI4736 (durvalumab) plus cediranib, or olaparib and cediranib, as measured by
      progression-free survival (PFS), as compared to physician's choice standard of care
      chemotherapy, in patients with recurrent platinum-resistant ovarian, primary peritoneal or
      fallopian tube cancer who had prior bevacizumab.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the efficacy of the combinations MEDI4736 (durvalumab) plus olaparib and
      cediranib, MEDI4736 (durvalumab) plus cediranib, or olaparib and cediranib, as measured by
      overall response rate (ORR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version
      1.1, as compared to physician's choice standard of care chemotherapy, in patients with
      recurrent platinum-resistant ovarian, primary peritoneal or fallopian tube cancer who had
      prior bevacizumab.

      II. To assess the efficacy of the combinations MEDI4736 (durvalumab) plus olaparib and
      cediranib, MEDI4736 (durvalumab) plus cediranib, or olaparib and cediranib, as measured by
      overall survival (OS), as compared to physician's choice standard of care chemotherapy, in
      patients with recurrent platinum-resistant ovarian, primary peritoneal or fallopian tube
      cancer who had prior bevacizumab.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15,
      or pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 60 minutes on day 1, or topotecan
      hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8 and 15 or days 1-5 per the discretion of the
      treating physician. Cycles repeat every 21 or 28 days in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1, cediranib maleate orally
      (PO) once daily (QD) Monday through Friday, and olaparib PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-28.
      Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM III: Patients receive durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1 and cediranib maleate PO QD
      Monday through Friday. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM IV: Patients receive cediranib maleate PO QD on days 1-28 and olaparib PO BID on days
      1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for up to 5 years.
    
  