
    
      Following screening for eligibility and consent, subjects will be assigned randomly to one of
      three groups: a placebo control group and two roller massage groups (treatment groups). The
      treatment groups will each receive a single bout of roller massage. One treatment group will
      receive a massage at medium intensity (25 newtons of force directed perpendicular to surface
      of thigh), the other treatment group at high intensity (45 newtons of force directed
      perpendicular to surface of thigh). The placebo group will receive a single bout of sham
      ultrasound. Both placebo and treatments will be delivered to the anterior thigh with the
      participant in a supine position. Each procedure will last for 10 minutes. In all groups,
      muscle stiffness, natural oscillation frequency, elasticity, relaxation time, and creep at
      the vastus lateralis will be measured using a myotonometer. PROM for knee flexion will also
      be measured in both groups using goniometry. All measurements will be taken at 3 different
      times: immediately before treatment or placebo, immediately after treatment or placebo, and
      30 minutes after treatment or placebo. Myotonometric measurements of the vastus lateralis
      will be taken 2/3 of the way down between the anterior superior iliac spine and lateral
      aspect of the patella, in accordance with guidelines for the Surface ElectroMyoGraphy for the
      Non-Invasive Assessment of Muscles. For goniometric measurement, participants will be in
      supine position on an examination table. The investigator will flex the participant's hip to
      90 degrees and then, using a dynamometer (to ensure consistent applied force for all
      participants), flex the participant's knee. To measure knee flexion PROM, the goniometer will
      be positioned with the axis at the lateral epicondyle of the femur, the stationary arm in
      line with the lateral midline of the femur toward the greater trochanter, and the moving arm
      in line with the fibular head and lateral malleolus. During the time between the second and
      third measurements, subjects will be asked to sit quietly.
    
  