
    
      HIV infects the central nervous system (CNS) very early in the infectious course and
      establishes a chronic infection with markedly increased intrathecal immune activation. Modern
      antiretroviral treatment (ART) is effective not only to supress HIV in the blood and lymph
      system, but also in the CNS. After commencement of ART, markers of intrathecal immune
      activation such as cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) neopterin decreases markedly, but remains
      slightly increased in a substantial number of patients despite several years of receiving
      ART. CSF markers of immune activation correlates to markers of neuronal injury and the axonal
      marker neurofilament light protein (NFL) has been found to be slightly increased in
      asymptomatic patients compared to HIV-negative controls despite effective ART. This indicates
      a linkage between inflammation and neuronal injury, however, the long-term effect of
      low-grade immune activation within the CNS is not known.

      CSF neopterin correlates also to levels of CSF HIV RNA in patients on ART when measured with
      ultrasensitive methods in the range 0.3-20 copies/mL highlighting the potential for the CNS
      to serve as a viral reservoir and for persistent infection to cause subclinical CNS injury.

      There are several indications that abacavir could act pro-inflammatory, a factor that might
      influence the proposed increased risk for coronary heart disease during abacavir treatment.

      Tenofovir alafenamide fumarate (TAF) is a new prodrug for tenofovir and have some interesting
      differences compared to the currently used prodrug, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF). Both
      TDF and TAF require conversion to the active drug tenofovir diphosphate (DP). TDF is
      converted initially to tenofovir in the blood, then tenofovir is taken up into cells. In
      lymphocytes, macrophages, and some other cells, it is phosphorylated to the DP form. TAF,
      however, is largely delivered as TAF to lymphocytes and macrophages, then metabolized
      intracellularly to tenofovir and phosphorylated to the active tenofovir DP. Thus, plasma
      levels of tenofovir are much lower with TAF than with TDF, and tenofovir DP levels are much
      higher within lymphocytes and macrophages. This is of large interest since macrophages and
      microglia (a tissue macrophage) is the main target cells for HIV in the CNS.

      A longitudinal study on HIV in CNS has been ongoing since more than 30 years in Gothenburg,
      Sweden. Subjects are followed with clinical follow up and annual lumbar punctures (LP), both
      before and during ART. Blood sampling is performed in parallel. The study protocol is
      approved by the Regional Ethical Review Board in Gothenburg and patients are included after
      written informed consent.

      This is a pilot study and if we find interesting changes after treatment switch the idea is
      to continue with a larger study with design dependent on results and with enough power to
      demonstrate differences. However, the results from this study will be presented in a
      scientific publication irrespective of the outcome.

        1. No change in CSF viral load or CSF immune activation after switch.

           a. This outcome reassure a high effect in CNS also by TAF

        2. Decrease in CSF immune activation after switch from abacavir (ABC)/lamivudine (3TC)

           a. This would be a very interesting finding that in such case needs to be tested in a
           larger setting.

        3. Decrease in CSF viral load and/or CSF immune activation after switch in both groups

           a. This is an unlikely outcome but would imply that increased intracellular
           concentrations of tenofovir DP in macrophages and microglia could decrease an ongoing
           low-grade replication in the brain

        4. Increase in CSF immune activation after switch in one or two groups a. This is a highly
           unlikely outcome
    
  