
    
      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the effect of R-mabHDI in Patients with
      late stage, widespread stage and recurrent Lymphocytic Predominant Hodgkin's Lymphoma.

      The hypothesis is that the combination of R-mabHDI with the standard ABVD therapy in patients
      with late stage (Stage III and Stage IV) and recurrent stage Lymphocytic Predominant
      Hodgkin's Lymphoma will have a favorable outcome on the response and progress free survival.
      The study is also aimed at evaluating the safety of R-mabHDI .

      A total of 1200 subjects will be recruited to the study from various centers. Enrollment
      period will last for up to one and half year and treatment period is for six months.
      Treatment will be considered a failure if the tumor size and signs of LPHD does not decrease
      after 3 months.

      Subjects having late stage HD, widespread HD or recurrent HD fulfilling the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria will be recruited in this study. Females who are nursing babies or are
      pregnant will be excluded from the study.

      All subjects will receive the drugs according to the randomization process. The eligible
      subjects will be randomly assigned to 1 of 2 "treatment" groups after screening. No matter
      which group the subjects are assigned to, the doses of the drugs will be the standard doses
      that are currently used to treat lymphoma.

      Group 1: subjects assigned to group 1 will receive the ABVD combination intravenously for
      about 1 hour on day 1 and 15 of every cycle (every 2 weeks). Each cycle is 4 weeks. ABVD will
      to be given for 6 cycles.

      The subjects will also receive R-mabHDI intravenously, separately for about 7 hours on days
      1,8,15 and 22 (once a week) of every cycle. Each cycle is 4 weeks. R-mabHDI will be given for
      2 cycles.

      Group 2: subjects assigned to group 2 will receive the ABVD combination intravenously for
      about 1 hour on day 1 and 15 of every cycle (every 2 weeks). Each cycle is 4 weeks. ABVD will
      to be given for 6 cycles.

      Subjects in group 2 will not receive R-mabHDI .
    
  