
    
      Current treatment strategies for the eradication of H. pylori include a proton pump inhibitor
      (PPI) and one or two anti-bacterial agents, such as amoxicillin, clarithromycin, and
      metronidazole.

      PPIs, such as lansoprazole and omeprazole, are mainly metabolized in the liver by a
      genetically determined enzyme, S-mephenytoin 4'-hydroxylase (CYP2C19). Plasma concentrations
      of PPIs and their activity for acid inhibition depend to a significant extent on the genetic
      differences in the activity of this enzyme. The acid inhibition attained by the standard dose
      of a PPI is sometimes therapeutically insufficient in individuals with the rapid extensive
      metabolizer (RM) genotype of CYP2C19, whereas that in individuals with poor metabolizer (PM)
      genotype of CYP2C19 is in most cases clinically sufficient. We have reported that the CYP2C19
      genotype status is one of the determinants of H. pylori eradication therapy. In the triple
      therapy with a PPI, amoxicillin, and clarithromycin, bacterial susceptibility to
      clarithromycin as well as the CYP2C19 genotype status was significantly related to
      eradication rates of H. pylori. Therefore, the tailored treatment based on these two factors
      is expected to increase the eradication rates of the initial therapy.

      Interestingly, both of CYP2C19 genotypes and bacterial susceptibility to clarithromycin can
      be measured by the genetic test of the single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the CYP2C19
      gene and the 23S rRNA gene of H. pylori, respectively. We have recently developed the
      inexpensive and reliable high-throughput method for measurement of such SNPs by the invader
      assay. Polymorphisms of CYP2C19 of patients and mutations of 23S rRNA of H. pylori associated
      with susceptibility to clarithromycin can be detected from the gastric tissue samples
      infected with H. pylori, such as the gastric tissue sample already used for rapid urease test
      (RUT).

      Then, we treat H. pylori-positive patients by the tailored regimen based on genotypes of
      CYP2C19 of patients and 23S rRNA of H. pylori or the standard regimen and test the
      therapeutic efficacy of this pharmacogenomics-based tailored strategy in a prospective
      manner.

      Patients were randomly assigned to the standard or tailored regimen group with the use of a
      computer-generated randomization list based on a blocked randomization method.

      Patients assigned to the standard regimen group were treated with 30 mg of lansoprazole bid,
      400 mg of clarithromycin bid, and 750 mg of amoxicillin bid for one week, which had been
      approved under the Japanese formulary regulation regardless of any pharmacogenomic
      backgrounds of H. pylori-infected peptic ulcer patients.

      In the tailored regimen group, patients infected with a clarithromycin-sensitive strain of H.
      pylori are treated with triple therapy consisting of clarithromycin 200 mg tid, amoxicillin
      500 mg tid and the individualized doses of lansoprazole dose (i.e., 30 mg tid in RMs, 15 mg
      tid in IMs, and 15 mg bid in PMs) for one week, while patients infected with a
      clarithromycin-resistant strain of H. pylori are treated with dual therapy consisting of
      amoxicillin 500 mg qid and the individualzed dose of lansoprazole (i.e., 30 mg qid in RMs, 15
      mg qid in IMs, and 15 mg bid in PMs) for two weeks.
    
  