
    
      Obtaining high-quality analgesia in prehospital patients with severe pain is an important
      treatment objective for medical team. Opioids are recognized as the treatment of choice for
      relief of severe acute pain. Recommended initial analgesia of patients with severe acute
      pain, defined as a numerical rating scale (NRS) score of 6/10 or higher, in a prehospital
      setting in France consists of the administration of morphine by the medical staff of mobile
      intensive care units. The intravenous administration of morphine is usually considered as the
      gold standard for any emergency setting. Nevertheless, even when using high dose boluses and
      aggressive titration protocols, pain relief remains inconsistent for some patients. Moreover,
      unexpected acute pain in an emergency setting causes anxiety, insecurity, and stress that can
      diminish perceptions of control over pain and diminish ability to decrease pain. This may
      interfere with the opioid treatment and poses the question of whether an anxiolytic drug
      added to the morphine titration could relief pain and/or anxiety.There is no study, to our
      knowledge, assessing the clinical efficacy of hydroxyzine added to the morphine in a
      prehospital setting. Hydroxyzine is used primarily as an antihistamine drug for the treatment
      of itching, allergies, motion sickness-induced nausea, and insomnia, as well as notably for
      the treatment of mild anxiety. This randomized double-blind group clinical trial is designed
      to determine the efficacy and safety of hydroxyzine in addition to a conventional intravenous
      morphine titration protocol by comparing hydroxyzine and placebo for medical prehospital
      treatment of adult patients with severe traumatic acute pain. Eligible patients with a
      numerical rating scale (NRS) score of 6/10 or higher will be randomly allocated to receive
      either hydroxyzine 1mg/kg at inclusion (group A) or an intravenous placebo. The intravenous
      morphine analgesia will be given and titrated according to the pain score every 5 minutes.
      The drugs will be administered by the physician from syringes of similar appearance prepared
      by the nurse who is not otherwise involved in the study. The protocol-defined primary outcome
      measure is the percentage of patients with pain relief (with a NRS score of 3/10 or lower) 15
      minutes after the first injection. Secondary outcomes include pain score comparisons every 5
      minutes within the first 30 minutes and comparison of adverse events. The physician blinded
      to the analgesic treatment groups will do all assessments of patients. The safety evaluation
      will include non invasive monitoring of blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, oxygen
      saturation by pulse oximetry (Spo2), and a sedation scale (0, patient is awake; 1, patient is
      with intermittent sleeping; 2, patient is sleeping, awakened by verbal stimulation; 3,
      patient is sleeping, awakened by tactile stimulation; 4, patient is not aroused by
      stimulation) at these periods. Fifteen minutes after the first injection, overall patient and
      investigator satisfaction with analgesia will be recorded. Moreover, several assessments will
      be done by psychologists 2 and 21 days after the trauma, including post traumatic stress and
      anxiety levels.
    
  