
    
      The treatments for acute unipolar depression have been extensively researched. However,
      despite the availability of a wide range of antidepressant drugs, clinical trials indicate
      that 30% to 40% of depressed patients fail to respond to first-line antidepressant treatment,
      despite adequate dosage, duration, and compliance. Very few studies have examined the
      efficacy of somatic treatments for the acute phase of bipolar depression. Thus, there is a
      clear need to develop novel and improved therapeutics for bipolar depression. Recent
      preclinical studies suggest that antidepressants may exert delayed indirect effects on the
      glutamatergic system. Clinical data suggests that lamotrigine an inhibitor of glutamate
      release and the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist ketamine may have antidepressant
      effects. Finally, our group recently found in two separate studies that the glutamate
      modulating agent riluzole was effective in treatment-resistant unipolar and bipolar
      depression (Zarate et al 2004). Together, these data suggest that the glutamatergic system
      may play a role in the pathophysiology and treatment of depression, and that agents, which
      more directly reduce glutamatergic neurotransmission, may represent a novel class of
      antidepressants.

      In this study, we propose to extend our findings from open-label studies with riluzole in
      treatment-resistant depression by investigating its efficacy in a double-blind
      placebo-controlled study in bipolar depression.

      Patients, ages 18 to 70 years with a diagnosis of bipolar disorder I or II current episode
      depressed (without psychotic features), will be randomized to double-blind treated to receive
      either riluzole (50-200 mg/day) or placebo for a period of 8 weeks. Acute efficacy will be
      determined by demonstrating a greater response rate using specified criteria.

      Approximately 78 patients with acute bipolar depression will be enrolled in this study.
    
  