
    
      This trial will be designed as a randomised, participant-blinded, superiority trial, with a
      2-group parallel design to be conducted in Denmark. Reporting of the trial will follow
      CONSORT guidelines for reporting non-pharmacologic treatments and TIDieR for intervention
      description. Reporting of the protocol will follow the SPIRIT statement. The planning of the
      trial was done in accordance with the PREPARE Trial guide (25).

      In addition to the exercises, both groups receive patient education on their condition. They
      will be informed about what is known about the condition in terms of risk factors and
      aetiology, the pathology, activity modification, and the rationale for why their specific
      exercise programme (self-managed or predetermined) could lead to recovery. The participants
      of the predetermined group will be informed that this specific exercise and exercise
      programme has been found to be superior to stretching but it is important to follow the
      protocol as closely as possible. The participants of the self-managed group will be informed
      that this specific exercise has been found to be superior to stretching but based on previous
      research of other tendinopathies we believe that doing the exercise as heavy as possible but
      not heavier than 8RM and with as many sets as possible will increase the odds of recovery.
      Both groups are told that compliance to their protocol is very important and that compliance
      to the exercises are associated with their recovery. They are also informed about other types
      of evidence-based treatments however, they are asked to refrain from seeking other treatments
      during the course of the study. A silicone heel cup will be given to all participants. If the
      participant already uses an insole or any other type of foot orthosis they will be allowed to
      continue wearing this if they do not want to use the heel cup.

      All statistical analyses will be performed according to a pre-established analysis plan in
      consultation with a statistician. STATA ver. 14 will be used as statistical software. The
      primary intention-to-treat analysis will test the between-group difference in the FHSQ pain
      domain at the 12-week follow-up. In addition to this, between-group comparisons of the other
      FHSQ domains, PSEQ, IPAQ, and plantar fascia thickness will be performed using a repeated
      measures ANCOVA with the outcome as the dependent variable, time (baseline, 4 weeks and 12
      weeks) as the within-subjects factor, group allocation as the between-subjects factor and the
      baseline value as the covariate. If any interactions are found, post hoc Bonferroni
      adjustments for multiple comparisons will be made. The between-group difference in time to
      PASS among participants who report PASS, and the number of training sessions performed during
      the trial using independent t-tests. The relative risk (RR) will be calculated for the
      dichotomized GROC to determine the probability of being improved and for the dichotomized
      PASS (Yes/No) to determine the probability of achieving a satisfactory result within the 12
      weeks of intervention. The difference in mean training sessions performed per week from
      before to after PASS among participants who report PASS no later than during week 11 of the
      intervention will be investigated using a paired t-test. The number needed to treat will be
      calculated as 1/risk difference for the primary outcome. The association between the PSEQ
      score and compliance will be investigated using Pearson's correlation coefficient.
    
  