
    
      Hepatitis C virus infection (HCV) is nowadays one of the leading causes of chronic liver
      disease, with prevalence of liver cirrhosis still increasing. The hepatitis C virus (HCV) is
      primarily transmitted through blood-to-blood contact. In the Western world, overall
      prevalence of HCV antibodies is low. In Belgium, prevalence of HCV in the general population
      is estimated around 1% by expert opinion. However, in high-risk populations prevalence of HCV
      increases. Data for HCV antibody prevalence in Belgium show rates of 60-80% in people who
      inject drugs (PWID). Populations at increased risk of HCV infection include:

        -  PWID

        -  recipients of infected blood products or invasive procedures in health-care facilities
           with inadequate infection control practices (western world: before 1992)

        -  children born to mothers infected with HCV

        -  people with sexual partners who are HCV-infected

        -  people with HIV infection

        -  prisoners or previously incarcerated persons

        -  people who have used intranasal drugs

        -  people who have had tattoos or piercings

      Based on international guidelines, the Belgian Association for the Study of the Liver (BASL)
      recommends targeted screening for these populations to assess HCV prevalence. This is not yet
      executed in Belgium, despite the severe health and economic burden accompanied with chronic
      hepatitis C virus infection (CHC). In response to this lacuna in the Belgium health care, the
      "Hepatitis C Plan (2014-2019)" was developed. This action plan aims to improve the following
      goals:

        -  Uptake for screening in high-risk populations

        -  Creation of a national systematic screening procedure

        -  Development of an HCV expertise network to improve care and linkage-to-care Furthermore,
           in April of 2015 the federal government of Belgium distributed a pact with the
           pharmaceutical industry, called "The Future Pact". This pact between industry and
           government focuses on accessibility to care, specifically for high-risk groups. Goals
           are to create a national registry for therapy and develop patient support programs, next
           to the expansion of reimbursement of therapy for HCV infection in fibrosis stadium II.
           However, despite the international guidelines and despite the strategic aims in the
           Hepatitis C plan and the Future Pact, no specific actions are described, and screening
           is not systematically executed in high-risk groups in Belgium.

      The importance of this screening cannot be underestimated as HCV is now curable, with success
      rates of 60-100% according to other associated factors (e.g. use of direct acting antivirals
      (DAAs), severity of liver disease, HCV genotype, resistance). Furthermore, different studies
      state that treatment of patients with CHC in an early stage has the potential to be
      cost-effective, as hospitalization costs after development of liver disease far exceed the
      cost of antiviral therapy. Nonetheless, treatment uptake also remains low.

      One of the reasons why PWIDs were excluded from treatment in the past was stigmatization
      based on greater risk of reinfection. Latest studies show low rates of reinfection among
      PWID, even with continued injection drug use during and after treatment. The pooled HCV
      reinfection risk was 2.4 per 100 person years, combined for six studies, across the UK,
      Australia, the Netherlands and Greece, suggesting that HCV treatment should not be withheld
      due to concerns about reinfection alone. However, with ongoing risk behaviour, current
      guidelines recommend monitoring with annual HCV RNA assessments. Furthermore, data from the
      National Scottish Hepatitis C Clinical Database show that an increasing significant minority
      of PWID continue to inject post-SVR at an intensity which leads to either hospitalisation or
      death and increased risk of reinfection. Thus, harm reduction and counselling remain
      necessary.

      With this trial, the investigators want to evaluate a possible approach to reach the
      different goals defined in the Hepatitis C plan and the future pact. The investigators will
      study the impact of case management on the outcome of care for HCV infected PWID in Belgium.
    
  