
    
      Mycobacterium tuberculosis (TB) is the leading cause of death for persons living with HIV
      (PLWH) in South Africa (SA). Estimates suggest that if factoring in immediate lost to
      follow-up, a mere 52% of TB/HIV co-infected individuals have successful treatment outcomes.
      Factors contributing to this bleak reality occur throughout the TB/HIV cascade and include:
      limited capacity for TB screening; delays in linkage or failure to link into care; treatment
      non-adherence; and long and toxic treatment regimens that lead to disengagement in care.
      Reducing mortality and improving TB treatment outcomes among PLWH requires system-level,
      patient-centered interventions that enhance movement along both cascades. Through innovative
      mobile health (mHealth) approaches, designed to optimize human resources, and create
      efficiency for all users and engage patients in care, it is possible to reduce system
      bottlenecks and rapidly improve treatment outcomes.

      Studies addressing the TB or HIV care cascades are increasingly common, yet few offer an
      integrated, sustainable approach to TB/HIV co-infection and, to date, no intervention spans
      the entire cascade. The TB/HIV care cascade begins with diagnosis of TB in a PLWH or in a
      person newly diagnosed with both diseases. Patients newly diagnosed with TB and HIV face a
      burdensome model of care influenced by: a) timing of HIV treatment initiation; b) worsened
      symptom profiles associated with immune reconstitution syndrome; c) higher pill burden; d)
      differential adherence challenges; e) and more frequent care visits for directly observed
      therapy (DOT) and laboratory evaluations. Many, have struggled with adherence to HIV regimen,
      prior to the TB diagnosis. Data found that 44% of PLWH on anti-retroviral therapy (ART)
      present with viral suppression to first TB visit, suggesting the need to further intensify
      adherence interventions in this group.

      Hypothesis: The intervention will have fewer composite negative TB outcomes (i.e. treatment
      failure, loss to follow-up, and death) compared to attention controls.

      Primary Aims:

        1. to evaluate willingness to participate, the time to linkage to care and time to
           treatment initiation in a time-limited prospective cohort

        2. to determine the feasibility, acceptability and preliminary impact of a triggered,
           escalating mHealth enabled linkage, engagement, and adherence intervention by community
           health workers (CHW) to improve TB treatment outcomes among PLWH in Kwa-Zulu Natal,
           South Africa through a pilot randomized controlled trial.

      Secondary Aims:

        1. to evaluate study process indicators to further refine the behavioral and technological
           components of the intervention (patient symptom reporting; vDOT submission compliance;
           CHW adherence coaching sessions; intervention theoretical models; and m-health
           application feature enhancements to support care coordination).

        2. To characterize the emergence of resistance among patients with non-adherence to TB
           treatment, by obtaining two additional sputum specimens (i.e., 1) on treatment
           initiation for all phase II intervention patients and 2) among intervention patients
           with a 30-day period of sporadic adherence, defined as <90% of vDOT submissions) to
           fully characterize resistance patterns through genotypic and phenotypic resistance
           testing through whole genome sequencing techniques.

        3. Future Aim: to assess the feasibility of bi-monthly home-based sputum collection and
           telehealth-based video visits for highly adherent patients in the continuation phase of
           treatment. Details of this aim are not included in this protocol, as it will be
           submitted as a sub-study at a later time.
    
  