
    
      Investigators aimed to conduct an exploratory study- an open-label, single-arm and
      multi-center -to evaluate the efficacy and safety of sorafenib plus toripalimab for
      unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with portal vein tumor thrombus (PVTT). The
      primary objectives are 6-month progression free survival (PFS) rate and safety. Secondary
      objectives include objective response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR), progression
      free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS) and duration of response. The study is divided
      into dose escalation stage and expansion stage.

      Stage I (escalation stage) was designed to identify the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) of the
      combination therapy. Subjects enrolled were divided into two cohorts. Subjects (n=3) in
      cohort A received oral sorafenib at doses of 400 mg once daily, in combination with
      intravenous toripalimab 240 mg on the first day, every 3 weeks. Subjects (n=3) in cohort B
      received oral sorafenib at doses of 400 mg twice daily, in combination with intravenous
      toripalimab 240 mg on the first day, every 3 weeks. If DLT does not occur within 42 days of
      the first administration, the dose is escalated. If one subject experienced DLTs, additional
      3 subjects are enrolled at that level. Unless no DLT occurs, the next dose level test is
      continued.

      Once ≥2 subjects in cohort A experienced DLT, the study is suspended in advance. If ≥2
      subjects in cohort B experienced DLT, the dose of cohort A is recommended in expansion stage.
      If DLT does not occur in cohort B or only 1 of 6 subjects suffered DLT, the dose of cohort B
      is recommended in expansion stage.

      For subjects who experienced DLT, if adverse events (AEs) return to normal or common
      terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) level 1 within 2 weeks and researchers
      believe continuing treatment is beneficial to the subjects, they can continue treatment after
      dose adjustment. Otherwise, termination of treatment is suggested.

      According to CTCAE version 4.0, DLT was defined as any grade ≥3 treatment-related toxicity
      occurring within the first 42 days of administration. Six to twelve patients will be included
      in this stage.

      Stage II (Expansion stage): According to the expansion dose based on stage I, subjects are
      enlarged to 39. Subjects enrolled are treated with oral sorafenib in combination with
      toripalimab (every 3 weeks) until suffering progressive disease (PD) or un-tolerated
      toxicities. Previous literature indicated 6-month PFS rate for HCC with PVTT treated with
      sorafenib is about 20%. Investigators hypothesize sorafenib plus toripalimab could improve
      6-month PFS rate to 40%. Software (PASS) is used to calculate the sample size (β=0.2，α=0.05).
      According to the results, 35 subjects should be enrolled. When 10% missing rate is
      considered, total subjects is 39.
    
  