
    
      Ultrasound is a non-invasive, effective imaging methodology that is being used for many
      applications. The clinical availability of an ultra-portable app-based ultrasound system is a
      technology leap that has the potential to completely change the way ultrasound is used.

      The objectives of this study are:

        1. Evaluate feasibility of use of a new app-based ultra-portable, ultrasound system in the
           clinical setting

        2. Review image quality and consistency of quality

        3. Examine the use of new app-based ultra-portable ultrasound as an extension of the
           physical exam and implementation into medical education

        4. Determine potential clinical applications, opportunities, and limits

        5. Perform intra-individual comparison to current clinical use ultrasound device

        6. Exam the perception and integration of new, ultra-portable ultrasound systems

        7. Determine the potential educational value to medical student experience

      Experimental activities performed as a part of this research study are divided into three
      different categories based on participant population: Patient population: For these patients,
      the non-research activities will be their standard of care ultrasound examination or their
      ultrasound examination within another clinical research trial. For these participants, the
      experimental activities could involve four different scenarios: 1) Patient having a standard
      of care US and participates in the comparator assessment using the new or ultra-portable US
      technology, 2) Patient having a physical examination by a medical student, resident or
      physician, 3) Patient requiring vascular access, 4) Patient has a medical diagnosis and
      within this clinical trial the investigators will use and evaluate the new ultrasound
      technology regarding its potential of enabling novel application. For each of these
      scenarios, in addition to the investigational ultrasound examination, the patient will be
      given a questionnaire to give feedback from his or her perspective. Staff population: For the
      staff population, research activities will involve a questionnaire to provide feedback
      regarding the experience and perception of the ultraportable ultrasound technology at the
      completion of each ultrasound imaging session. Volunteer population: For these participants,
      all activities will be performed solely for the research study (i.e. there is no standard of
      care ultrasound examination). The investigators plan to have the volunteers involved in two
      different scenarios, which would all take place after informed consent has been given and
      documented: 1) Participation in a single ultrasound exam session, 2) Participation in
      multiple ultrasound exams and multiple operator sessions. In addition to receiving one or
      more ultrasound examinations, the volunteers will be asked to complete a questionnaire to
      provide feedback from his or her perspective regarding the ultraportable ultrasound
      technology.
    
  