
    
      This will be a prospective, single-center observational study of patients 65 years of age or
      older undergoing elective surgical procedures. Phase 1 (Aims 1 and 2), will examine the
      prevalence of preoperative cognitive impairment and its relationship to postoperative
      outcome. In Phase 2 (Aim 3), will implement routine structured cognitive screening in a busy
      surgical preadmission evaluation center and confirm its utility for predicting adverse
      perioperative outcomes in elders.

      For Phase 1, 211 randomly selected patients 65 years of age or older of either gender will be
      enrolled presenting to the Brigham and Women's Hospital Weiner Center for Preoperative
      Evaluation (CPE) scheduled for elective joint replacement surgery. The Brigham and Women's
      Hospital performs more than 600 joint replacement procedures each year in patients 65 years
      of age or older. This is the age range where cognitive impairment becomes prevalent and
      postoperative cognitive and non-cognitive morbidity is common. Exclusion criteria will be
      patients diagnosed with dementia or cognitive impairment; scheduled for a procedure affecting
      the brain or cerebrovasculature (i.e. intracranial neurosurgery, carotid endarterectomy,
      cardiac surgery); planned to go to an ICU postoperatively; with uncorrected vision or hearing
      impairment (who cannot see the pictures or read or hear instructions); unable to use their
      dominant hand (limited ability to draw); and/or unable to speak, read or understand English.
      The investigators will use the CPE computerized scheduling system, which is updated
      continuously in real time and captures relevant information such as age and procedure to
      identify potential subjects. When patients check in with the receptionist for their
      appointment they will be notified that they may be eligible to participate in a study
      involving patients 65 years of age or older. The receptionist will then provide them with a
      brochure about the study that includes information about the purpose of the study, the risks
      to the patient, and potential benefits to society. The patient will then be asked if they are
      willing to speak with one of the study investigators and only those patients that agree to
      speak with a study investigator will be approached. A member of the study team will then
      contact the patient and verify that they satisfy the inclusion criteria and discuss the goals
      and risks of the study and ask them to participate. After all questions have been answered
      and the patient has had an opportunity to read the consent form, written consent will be
      obtained. After obtaining consent the patient will be interviewed by a member of the study
      team to obtain information about their years of education and self-reported functional status
      according to standardized scales for basic and instrumental activities of daily living (ADLs
      and IADLs, respectively). Grip strength as an index of frailty and mood assessed with the
      Geriatric Depression Scale-Short (GDS). An investigator will also administer a survey to
      assess the patient's perspective about the importance of preoperative cognitive screening.
      Information about ASA physical status, medications, and Charlson comorbidity index will be
      extracted subsequently from the patient's electronic medical record and patient interview.
      The patient will then be administered the MiniCog a simple cognitive screening tools that
      take just 2-4 min to complete and has little or no education, language, or race bias. During
      this phase of the project, a trained study team member will administer the test in the quiet
      of the evaluation room. The practitioner conducting the actual preoperative evaluation will
      be blinded to the cognitive test results and will complete a questionnaire about the
      patient's cognitive status based on their interactions during the visit. A trained, blinded
      member of the study team will score the test. Discharge to place other than home will be used
      as the primary outcome to determine the relationship between pre-existing cognitive
      impairment and patient outcome (Aim 2). As a secondary outcome delirium will be assessed once
      per day on postoperative days 1, 2, and 3 by a member of the study team using the Confusion
      Assessment Method (CAM) a well-validated measure of delirium in surgical patients. Other
      secondary outcomes that will be evaluated will include the use of restraints, hospital length
      of stay (LOS), complications (including in-hospital falls), 30 d readmission rate, and 30 d,
      6 month, 1 year and 5 year mortality. Data will be extracted from the medical record and the
      BWH Balanced Scorecard. Phase 2 will examine the feasibility of implementing routine
      structured cognitive screening for elective surgical procedures into a busy preoperative
      evaluation center. 500 patients will be enrolled according to the criteria outlined above and
      ask CPE practitioners to administer the structured cognitive screen to all patient ≥ 65 years
      of age scheduled for a surgical procedure as part of their routine preoperative evaluation. A
      study team member will train the CPE staff in administration of the MiniCog prior to
      beginning this phase of the study; the test will be administered as part of the routine CPE
      visit. Outcome measures will be rate of successful testing (a score-able test), and impact of
      testing on patient flow. The latter will be obtained by extracting and comparing data from
      the CPE's computerized patient flow tracking system on time spent with a provider in a
      preoperative evaluation room and total duration of the CPE visit (check-in time to departure
      time) between enrolled subjects and age and procedure matched patients seen in the CPE the
      previous year.
    
  