
    
      There is a reason to believe that female sex hormone fluctuations during the peripartum
      period are linked with the occurrence of SCAD, and may be associated with a distinctive
      clinical presentation. In addition, symptoms of psychological distress may be linked to the
      development of SCAD and post-event distress is higher in SCAD patients than in those with
      coronary artery disease (CAD).

      The primary objective is to determine differences in clinical and imaging presentation,
      in-hospital management and prognosis in peri-partum and non-peri-partum SCAD patients. At the
      methodological level, the purpose is to apply a systematic image analysis protocol for
      classifying SCAD lesions and to pool data to achieve adequate statistical power.

      The secondary objective is to gather more information about psychological and psychosocial
      factors in SCAD patients. Specifically, to assess pre-event stress and psychological
      diagnoses and determine differences in post-event distress between peripartum and
      non-peripartum SCAD.

      It is expected that these aims will result in two important outcomes. First, implementation
      of a systematic image analysis protocol for SCAD data will lead to improved reliability and,
      we expect, the detection of clinically meaningful differences between peripartum and
      non-peripartum SCAD. These differences may align with potential causal mechanisms for further
      study to ultimately better understand SCAD and develop treatment(s). Second, by
      characterizing the psychological distress experienced by SCAD patients, and differences
      between patients who experienced peripartum vs. non-peripartum SCAD, psychosocial risk
      factors may be identified and psychosocial interventions can be tailored to meet the needs of
      this unique patient population.

      This is an observational study using cross-sectional design. There are two main components: a
      retrospective collection of medical history pertaining to SCAD event and prospective
      questionnaires. Sites may elect not to contact patients and not collect the prospective
      questionnaire.

      Clinical variables will include demographic data, cardiac risk factors, medications and
      details of presentation (including peak troponin, left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF),
      and days to discharge), as well as follow-up data, including recurrent events, and symptoms
      of depression, anxiety, stress, and PTSD.

      Clinical data will be obtained by study collaborators and entered into a secure database
      maintained on Stanford systems. De-identified imaging data will be uploaded by collaborators.
      Imaging data will be analyzed by two independent readers (selected from participating
      institutions).
    
  