
    
      Paliperidone palmitate is being developed as a long-acting intramuscular injectable
      formulation for the treatment of schizophrenia. Many patients with schizophrenia achieve
      symptom stability with the available oral antipsychotic medications; however, it is estimated
      that up to 75% have difficulty adhering to a daily oral treatment regimen. Long-acting
      injectable formulations may make compliance with the treatment regimen easier by eliminating
      the need for daily medication. An injectable formulation of risperidone is widely used in the
      treatment of schizophrenia and has been well tolerated by patients with chronic schizophrenia
      at the recommended dosage of 25 to 50 milligrams every 2 weeks. The present study is designed
      to evaluate the comparability of paliperidone palmitate and long-acting injectable
      risperidone over 1 year of treatment.

      This is a randomized, double-blind, active-controlled, parallel-group, multicenter
      comparative study in patients with schizophrenia. The study comprises a screening period of
      up to 1 week (including periods for washout of psychotropic medications and, if necessary, an
      oral tolerability test) and a 53-week double-blind treatment period. In the double-blind
      treatment period, patients will be randomly assigned in equal numbers to receive treatment
      with either (1) flexibly dosed paliperidone palmitate administered every 4 weeks or (2)
      flexibly dosed long-acting risperidone administered every 2 weeks. Drug effectiveness and
      safety will be evaluated periodically throughout the study. Samples for pharmacokinetic
      evaluation will be collected at designated time points, and a blood sample will be collected
      at baseline (before the start of the double-blind treatment period) or at any subsequent
      visit for an optional pharmacogenomic (genetic) analysis. The study hypothesis is that
      paliperidone palmitate will be as effective as long-acting risperidone in the treatment of
      patients with schizophrenia. Paliperidone palmitate (25, 50, 75, or 100 milligrams (mg)
      equivalent) every 4 weeks, or long-acting risperidone 25, 37.5, or 50 mg every 2 weeks of
      double-blind treatment period, injected into the gluteal muscle (buttocks). Oral risperidone
      (1-6 mg) first 4 weeks of double-blind period
    
  