
    
      BACKGROUND:

      A predominant consequence of Type 2 diabetes mellitus is accelerated development of
      atherosclerosis related conditions. Conventional cardiovascular risk factors only explain a
      portion of the excess risk for atherosclerosis in this population. This ancillary study uses
      the study population and framework of the V A Cooperative study of "Glycemic Control and
      Complications in DM 2". The Cooperative study is a prospective, two-arm, randomized,
      controlled, multicenter trial to assess the effects of tight glycemic control, achieved
      through intensification of treatment, on clinical macrovascular and microvascular
      complications in patients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus who are in poor glycemic control
      despite pharmacologic therapy. Cooperative study subjects from multiple sites (340 subjects)
      are participating in the trial.

      The study is in response to an initiative "Ancillary Studies in Heart, Lung, and Blood
      Disease Trials" released by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute in June 2000.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This ancillary study examines non traditional risk factors which may contribute to
      accelerated cardiovascular disease in Type 2 diabetes and the effects of intensive versus
      standard glycemic management on these risk factors. Specific short-term primary aims include
      determining the cross-sectional relationship between baseline levels and the presence of
      atherosclerosis as measured by electron beam computed tomography assessment of coronary
      artery (CAC) and abdominal aortic calcium (AAC) and the prevalence of clinical macrovascular
      disease. An estimated 340 Cooperative study subjects from multiple sites will be asked to
      participate in this additional study. At their baseline visit, subjects will have additional
      blood and urine collected for a) VLDL, IDL and LDL subfractions b) measures of in vivo
      oxidative stress (oxidized-phospholipids on plasma LDL, autoantibodies to epitopes of
      oxidized LDL, F2-isoprostane levels) c) AGE-LDL levels, and d) markers of endothelial
      activation/injury (PAI-1, VCAM-1 and ICAM-1) and inflammation (C-reactive protein and
      fibrinogen). Subjects will also have CAC and AAC determined. After enrollment in the study,
      participants will have measurements of cardiovascular risk factors repeated at six months.
      Primary and secondary macrovascular endpoints will be identical to those defined in the VA
      Cooperative study (Primary: myocardial infarction, cardiovascular death, stroke, congestive
      heart failure, invasive vascular therapy (coronary or peripheral), and amputation due to
      ischemic gangrene; Secondary: angina pectoris, transient ischemic attacks, and peripheral
      artery disease). Statistical methods, depending on the specific aim will include categorical
      age and sex adjusted analyses, t-tests, and multiple regression models. Long-term aims will
      include evaluating the prospective relationship of these novel cardiovascular risk factors to
      the progression of atherosclerosis and the development of macrovascular disease in this same
      population.
    
  