
    
      Chronically photodamaged skin is visually characterized by dryness, wrinkles, brown spots,
      leathery appearance, etc. While photodamage leaves the skin's surface visibly changed, the
      skin's unseen immune system may also be permanently altered as a result of the exposure,
      making it more likely to develop a variety of skin cancers and infections.

      This study will aim to evaluate the lasting changes that lifetime UV exposure causes to the
      different components of the skin's immune system in chronically sun damaged skin (forearms)
      compared to sun-protected skin (buttocks). Investigators will compare the cellular responses
      to stimulation of the skin's innate immune system, the skin's adaptive immune system, and the
      skin's hypersensitivity responses between these two sites.

      In order to stimulate the different arms of the immune system, investigators will be using
      the following interventions: an intradermal injection of Candida Albicans antigen, an
      intradermal injection of histamine phosphate, a topical application of imiquimod 5% cream,
      and a tape stripping procedure with adhesive tape. Skin testing with the C. albicans antigen
      is a useful procedure for measuring the capacity of a person to manifest a delayed-type
      hypersensitivity response and is commonly used in clinical settings to evaluate cellular
      immunity. Similarly, histamine phosphate is frequently used as a positive control in clinical
      tests to assess type I Immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated hypersensitivity reactions. Imiquimod
      5% cream is a direct stimulator of toll-like receptor (TLR) 7, a key component of the innate
      immune response with downstream signaling effects involving the adaptive immune response. It
      is FDA-approved for the treatment superficial basal cell carcinomas, actinic keratoses, and
      genital warts. Finally, tape stripping is a validated procedure used to remove superficial
      layers of the epidermis in clinical study environments.

      Objective: This is a mechanism of action pilot study designed to characterize the molecular
      nature of the local innate and adaptive immune response in chronically photodamaged skin
      (forearm) as compared to photoprotected skin (buttocks) using non-photodamaged individuals
      (forearms and buttocks) as a control.

      Population: Adult subjects with or without photodamage will be entered into the study at the
      University of Michigan.

      Procedures: study interventions (tape stripping, candida albicans and histamine phosphate
      injections, imiquimod 5% cream application), photography, Chroma Meter reading, biopsies,
      skin assessment
    
  