
    
      The present study aims to

      1) primary objective: To explore the magnitude of the effect of a semi-automated tele
      coaching intervention to enhance physical activity in patients with interstitial lung
      disease, as measured at 12 weeks, expressed as mean daily step count.

      2) Secondary objectives:

        1. To test the magnitude of the effect of a 12 weeks coaching intervention on mean time in
           at least moderate intense activity, walking time, movement intensity, activity bout
           duration, exercise capacity, quadriceps force and health status.

        2. To investigate the patient's experience with this intervention

        3. To test the effect of a 12 weeks coaching intervention on the physical activity from a
           patient experience.

        4. To explore the relation between physical activity and vitamin D

      Therefore, the study will include stable patients with interstitial lung disease who will be
      randomized into an intervention (semi-automated coaching intervention) and control (usual
      care) group. The study consists of a total of 3 visits.

        -  visit 1: Screening visit

        -  visit 2: Randomization visits, scheduled 1-2 weeks after visit 1

        -  visit 3: Follow-up visit, schedules 12 weeks after visit 2

      Patients will be randomized into the intervention and control group. In both groups patients
      will receive information about the importance of being physically active and the physical
      activity recommendations provided by the world health organization. This information will be
      provided in a leaflet that will be discussed in an education session (one-to-one) of 10-15
      minutes.

        1. The control group will receive usual care together with the educational information.

        2. Patients in the intervention group will receive a multicomponent tele coaching
           intervention that consists of 1) education about the importance of physical activity and
           a one-to-one interview with the coach discussing motivation and barriers to be active,
           2) a step counter providing direct feedback, 3) application installed on a smartphone
           providing an adaptive goal and daily and weekly feedback and 4) contact with the coach
           if the patient is not compliant with the intervention or not increasing physical
           activity. The patient is asked to have a daily interaction with the smartphone
           application.
    
  