
    
      Study design and overview - This is a laboratory-based study. The investigators plan to
      establish a list of host cellular proteins regulating norovirus infection. Methods will
      include establishment of patient-specific stem cell-derived human intestinal enteroids as an
      infection model and genome-wide CRISPR and CRISPR SAM genetic screens upon infections of two
      norovirus genotypes.

      ***Establishment of human intestinal enteroid model***

        1. Duodenal biopsies and saliva collection - After obtaining IRB-approved informed consent,
           two duodenal biopsy samples will be obtained from each participant undergoing upper
           gastrointestinal endoscopy without contraindications for biopsy sampling, such as
           participants on anti-coagulation or with other causes of bleeding diathesis. Biopsy
           samples will be immersed in ice-cold 1xPBS and transported immediately to the laboratory
           within 30 minutes for further processing. In addition, saliva (1-2 mL) will be collected
           from each participant for secretor status testing by ELISA.

        2. Isolation of crypt stem cells and differentiation - Upon arrival, biopsy samples will
           first be chopped into smaller pieces. Intestinal crypt cells will be isolated by
           repeated washing and incubation with 1x Complete Chelating solution (1xCCS) and EDTA
           buffer. Supernatant containing crypt cells will then be grown in Matrigel containing
           complete medium with growth factors (CMGF+) (Wnt 3 and Rspo-1 conditioned media, Noggin,
           A83, B27, EGF, N2, n-acetylcysteine, gastrin, nicotinamide, and SB202190). Budding
           crypts will then be incubated in differentiation medium (CMGF+, excluding Wnt 3
           conditioned medium, SB202190 and nicotinamide as well as having reduced amount of Rspo-1
           conditioned medium and Noggin). Formation of three-dimensional gut-like enteroids will
           be monitored daily.
    
  