
    
      Purpose:

      To perform a pragmatic randomized controlled trial of the use of low molecular weight heparin
      (LMWH, enoxaparin, lovenox) versus Aspirin (ASA) for VTE prophylaxis in patients with
      high-risk extremity fractures.

      Specific Aims:

        1. To compare the bleeding complication outcomes associated with LMWH versus ASA in
           patients receiving VTE prophylaxis following high-risk lower extremity fractures.

        2. To compare the incidence of clinically important VTE events associated with LMWH versus
           ASA for VTE prophylaxis in patients receiving VTE prophylaxis following high-risk lower
           extremity fractures.

        3. To compare the 6-month treatment costs associated with VTE prophylaxis using either LMWH
           or ASA for high-risk lower extremity fracture patients

      Hypothesis:

        1. Among patients with high risk lower extremity fractures receiving VTE prophylaxis, the
           rate of bleeding complications will be lower for patients receiving ASA compared to
           those receiving LMWH.

        2. Among patients with high risk lower extremity fractures receiving VTE prophylaxis, the
           rate of VTE for patients receiving ASA will be no greater than those receiving LMWH.

        3. Among patients with high risk lower extremity fractures receiving VTE prophylaxis, the
           6-month treatment costs will be lower for patients receiving ASA compared to those
           receiving LMWH.

      Methods/Outcomes:

      A randomized controlled trial will be conducted to assess the use of LMWH versus ASA for VTE
      prophylaxis in patients with high-risk extremity fractures.

      The aim-specific outcomes to be collected are as follows:

        1. A composite of the following major bleeding related complications:

             1. Fatal bleeding into a critical organ (retroperitoneal, intracranial, intraocular,
                intraspinal)

             2. Clinically overt bleed with a > 2g/dL drop in Hb or requiring > 2U transfusion

             3. Wound drainage or hematoma requiring reoperation

             4. Diagnosis of deep surgical site infection

        2. VTE Events defined as a composite of any symptomatic proximal DVT (in the femoral or
           popliteal vessels), or PE (central, segmental or subsegmental). All VTE events will be
           confirmed using multiplanar CT scan or formal venous duplex exam.

        3. Cost of VTE prophylaxis treatment, VTE events and bleeding related complications.

      Data Collection:

      Patients meeting inclusion/exclusion criteria will be prospectively randomized to one of two
      treatment arms. Block randomization will be used. Patients will receive VTE prophylaxis as
      allocated, and followed for their index hospitalization and a 3month period post discharge
      for VTE events and bleeding complications. Outcome data will be prospectively collected
      during index hospitalization, and at 2 weeks and 3 months post discharge, and blind analysis
      and interpretation of results will be performed at 50% and 100% recruitment.

      Data Analysis:

      All data will be reported as mean and standard deviations for continuous variables and
      proportions and percentages for categorical data. Kaplan-Meier survival and Cox proportional
      hazard analysis will be completed for time to VTE and bleeding complication outcomes.
      Sub-group analysis will include Injury Severity Score and fracture location. An independent
      Data Safety and Monitoring Committee will complete interim analysis at 50% recruitment. A
      cost analysis will be conducted using a 6month and lifetime time horizon with a societal
      perspective. Component costs will consist of: VTE prophylaxis costs, unscheduled follow-ups,
      emergency room visit, hospital admission or unscheduled repeat surgical intervention for VTE
      or bleeding complications.

      Study Treatment Arms:

        1. VTE prophylaxis with Enoxaparin 30mg SC BID

        2. VTE prophylaxis with ASA 81mg PO BID
    
  