
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare the percentage one year survival rate in hormone refractory prostate
      cancer patients treated with leflunomide (SU101), mitoxantrone, and prednisone versus
      mitoxantrone and prednisone alone. II. Compare the palliative pain response, time to
      treatment failure, time to progression, median survival, investigator global response
      assessment, objective response, time to palliative pain response, duration of palliation, and
      effect on PSA between these two regimens. III. Assess the safety and tolerability of
      mitoxantrone in combination with SU101 in these patients. IV. Assess the health related
      quality of life of these patients on these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified by
      performance status (70-80% vs 90-100%), baseline present pain intensity score (2.0 vs greater
      than 2.0), and hemoglobin level (less than 12.0 g/dL vs at least 12.0 g/dL). Patients enter
      one of two treatment arms: Arm I: Patients are premedicated with an IV 5-HT3 reuptake
      inhibitor (i.e., odansetron) then receive mitoxantrone IV on day 1. Twice daily oral
      prednisone therapy begins on day 1 and continues throughout study treatment. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for 4 courses. Arm II: Patients are premedicated with an IV 5-HT3
      reuptake inhibitor as in arm I. Patients receive mitoxantrone and prednisone therapy as in
      arm I. Additionally, beginning on day 1 patients receive leflunomide (SU101) IV over 4-5
      hours weekly for 12 weeks. The SU101 infusions shall precede mitoxantrone infusions. Patients
      receive a maximum of one year therapy with SU101; mitoxantrone therapy may be administered up
      to a maximum dose of 140/m2. Quality of life is assessed at baseline, day 8, day 21, and then
      every 3 weeks thereafter until study completion. Patients are followed at least every 2
      months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Up to 370 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  