
    
      Health problem More than 25% of patients referred for diagnostic coronary angiography and
      percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) due to acute coronary syndrome (ACS) suffer from
      non-valvular atrial fibrillation (AF). In this particular setting, balancing between the
      prevention of thrombosis and the risk of bleeding remains challenging. Oral anticoagulation
      (OAC) prevents stroke and systemic embolism but does not prevent stent thrombosis. Dual
      antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) reduces the incidence of recurrent ischemic events and stent
      thrombosis but is less effective in reducing the incidence of cardioembolic stroke associated
      with AF. A common guideline-supported practice is to combine all three drugs (OAC, aspirin,
      and clopidogrel) in triple therapy, but this approach remains an expert opinion. Moreover,
      triple therapy is associated with a high annual risk (up to 25%) of major bleeding. Thus, new
      therapeutic strategies are urgently needed to maintain efficacy while improving treatment
      safety in patients with AF and ACS undergoing PCI. The investigators hypothesize that dual
      antithrombotic therapy, including reduced dose ticagrelor (study group, n=1115), is
      non-inferior regarding bleeding risk and ischaemic protection to the standard triple therapy
      (control group, n=1115) in patients with AF and treated with PCI due to ACS.

      Study population The study's target population is male and female patients aged ≥18 years
      with non-valvular AF that underwent a successful PCI due to an ACS. AF may be paroxysmal,
      persistent or permanent but must not be secondary to a reversible disorder such as myocardial
      infarction, pulmonary embolism, recent surgery, pericarditis, or thyrotoxicosis. ACS may be
      ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), non-STEMI (NSTEMI), or unstable angina (UA).

      Study design This is a multicentre, prospective, randomized, open-label, blinded endpoint,
      non-inferiority trial. Within 72 hours post PCI, patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio
      to receive one of the two treatments: dual therapy with ticagrelor (90 mg twice daily for one
      month, followed by 60 mg twice daily up to 12 months) plus dabigatran (150 mg twice daily or
      110 mg twice daily; standard of care) or triple therapy with clopidogrel (75 mg once daily)
      plus aspirin (75 mg once daily) plus dabigatran (150 mg twice daily or 110 mg twice daily),
      according to current guidelines. Study treatment will be continued for 12 months.

      Endpoints The primary study endpoint is the first major or clinically relevant non-major
      bleeding event, as defined by the International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis (ISTH),
      in a time-to-event analysis. The main secondary endpoint is a composite efficacy endpoint of
      thromboembolic events (myocardial infarction, stroke, or systemic embolism), death, or
      unplanned revascularization (PCI or coronary artery bypass grafting).

      Expected results The investigators expect that the off-label regimen of dual antithrombotic
      therapy, including reduced dose ticagrelor, is at least non-inferior regarding bleeding risk
      and ischaemic protection, to the standard triple therapy in patients with AF and after ACS,
      treated with PCI.

      Discussion The investigators propose a new off-label treatment regimen which is reduced dose
      ticagrelor in patients with AF and ACS. The most scientifically valuable points of the
      proposed project are the first-ever (i) attempt to administer the off-label potent P2Y12
      inhibitor (ticagrelor) as a part of dual antiplatelet therapy in patients with AF and ACS and
      (ii) evaluation of the reduced dose of ticagrelor in the setting of ACS. The three most
      innovative aspects are: (i) new treatment regimen with a reduced ticagrelor dose in ACS
      setting, (ii) possibility to introduce the polypill containing ticagrelor and dabigatran to
      the Polish market, and (iii) potential manufacture of the polypill containing various doses
      of ticagrelor and dabigatran, depending on the patient's individual ischaemic and bleeding
      risk. If successful, the proposed study will answer the burning clinical question about the
      optimal treatment strategy in patients with AF and ACS.
    
  