
    
      To assess the efficacy and safety of using 0.01% atropine eye drops in reducing the
      progression of myopia in Omani population.

      Objectives:

        -  To compare the effect of 0.01% atropine eye drops on progression of myopic refractive
           error and axial length with that in the control group.

        -  To study the effect of 0.01% atropine eye drops on pupil dilatation

        -  To study the effect of 0.01% atropine eye drops on amplitude of accommodation

        -  To study the effect of 0.01% atropine eye drops on near visual acuity

        -  To study the effect of 0.01% atropine eye drops on glare, photophobia and contrast
           senstivity

      Research Methodology

      Study design: Randomized, interventional, clinical trial.

      Study population: Omani population (6 to 15 years of age) with myopia ≥ 2.00 < 8.00 Diopters
      (D).

      Recruitment of participants: (1) Patients attending the pediatric ophthalmology out-patient
      department in Sultan Qaboos University Hospital (SQUH). (2) Children from primary schools.

      Material:

      WAM-5500 (Grand Seiko auto refractor/keratometer) Advanced binocular kerato-refractometer:
      The machine measures refraction, corneal curvature, pupil size and accommodation IOL master:
      500 (Carl Zeiss; Meditec Inc, Dublin, CA) - Anterior chamber depth, axial length Standard
      Ophthalmic examination equipment

      Study groups:

      Intervention group: Optimal myopia correction with single vision glasses and topical atropine
      0.01%, one drop at night time.

      Control group: Optimal myopia correction with single vision glasses

      Procedure:

        1. Examination at enrollment (Eligibility Assessment): All eligible and willing subjects
           will undergo standard orthoptic and ophthalmic examination by one of the study
           investigators including measurement of best corrected visual acuity (both distant and
           near), accommodation, intraocular pressure, keratometry, cycloplegic refraction
           (autorefractor), slit lamp examination, and dilated fundus examination. Axial length,
           pupil size, anterior chamber depth will be measured. Cycloplegic refraction will be done
           45min after instillation of cyclopentolate 1.0% eye drop (one drop every three times in
           5min intervals)

        2. Written informed consent will be obtained from the parents or legal guardians after
           thorough explanation of the nature and risks of the study (with use of patient
           information leaflet) before enrollment.

        3. Randomization: Subjects will be allocated to intervention or control group in a
           randomized manner. Block randomization will be done with the blocks of 6, 4 and 2 with
           30%, 40% and 30% respectively. The randomization will be done using SAS 9.1 version
           software.

        4. Allocation Concealment: The allocation of treatment based on the randomization will be
           done using opaque envelops. These envelops will be sealed. These envelopes will be
           organized in an ascending order and will be kept in a binder folder and the binder clips
           will be sealed. This folder will be handed over to the Pharmacy department at the SQUH.
           These will be prepared at the Statistics and Health Information Department at the SQUH.

        5. Phase 1: Intervention: Intervention group will receive atropine sulphate 0.01% once
           nightly for 2 years. Control group will not receive any medication. Atropine 0.01%
           minims will be made available by Pharmacy at SQUH. To aid and monitor compliance with
           the treatment regimen, each child / care-giver will be given a small calendar to tick
           off the days when the eye drop is instilled.

        6. Phase 2: 1 year follow up after cessation of atropine 0.01% eye drops

        7. Examination at follow up:

      Follow up visits will be scheduled at 2 weeks following enrollment - base line measurements.
      Phase 1: 3 monthly intervals. Phase 2: 6 monthly intervals thereafter.

      All assessments will be performed by investigators. A study coordinator will assess i)
      compliance with medication by checking the calendar, and ii) presence of any drug related
      discomfort using a questionnaire. Subsequently measurement of best corrected visual acuity,
      accommodation, pupil size, intraocular pressure, cycloplegic refraction, accommodation, axial
      length, anterior chamber depth slitlamp examination and dilated fundus examination (6 monthly
      intervals) will be carried out.

      Outcome measures:

      Efficacy. The primary outcome was progression of myopia, defined as the change in spherical
      equivalent refractive error (SER) relative to baseline. The assessment at 2 weeks after
      commencement of treatment will be considered at baseline value. This is necessary because
      atropine induces an additional cycloplegic effect that could lower further the SER. As such,
      a run-in period allows stabilization of the cycloplegic effect, thus making comparison of SER
      between the baseline and subsequent visits more meaningful. The SER is computed at each
      follow up visit. The secondary outcome is change in axial length during follow-up relative to
      baseline measured by A-scan ultrasonography.

      Safety. The primary safety outcome monitored will be the occurrence of adverse events. The
      adverse effects description from previous studies include pupil dilation, photophobia, loss
      of accommodation, near visual impairment, and allergic response. Patients / parents will be
      questioned regarding glare, photophobia, contrast sensitivity, or any other adverse effects
      (questionnaire). Response to adverse events - The relationship of the event to the study
      medication will be assessed by the investigators as none, unlikely, possible, or definite. If
      patients experience glare / photophobia due to pupillary dilatation, they will be advised
      photochromic spectacles. Near adds will be advised in case of problem with near vision.
      Atropine will be discontinued in case of allergic response to medication.

      Placebo effect:

      The control group in our study will not receive any medication. Myopia progression will be
      assessed by objective (automated) methods - i.e. use of autorefractor for measuring change in
      refractive error and use of IOL-Master for measuring axial length. Side effects from use of
      atropine will also be measured objectively by quantifying pupil size and accommodation. Since
      there is no scope for bias from either the patient or the examiner in the above assessments,
      we believe that administering placebo drops as tear substitute would add to the cost and
      study protocol without added benefit.

      Study duration: 3years

      Statistical methods:

        1. Sample size calculation:- The mean (SD) of progression myopia in the control is 0.75D
           (0.25D). In order to expect 20% reduction in the progression in the atropine arm with
           90% power and 5% alpha error with two sided test, we need to study 58 subjects in each
           arm. However, incorporating 30% drop out we need to study about 75 subjects in each arm.

        2. Data management: The data will be entered and managed in EPIDATA software enables with
           quality control checks. Double data entry will be done by the research assistant who is
           blinded. Queries will be generated and sent to the investigator and the corrections
           received will be updated in the database with the approval of the Research Officer or PI
           of the project. The data will be imported to SPSS for further analyses.

      4. Analysis of results:

        1. Pre-analysis Statistical Review Basic frequencies and distribution tables and/or plots
           will be performed for each variable. For example, histograms will be made for continuous
           variables and bar graphs will be generated for categorical variables.

        2. Analyses of the Primary Outcome:

           The primary outcome (change in myopia) will be analysed using Intention To Treat (ITT)
           principles. The mean difference of myopia progression between the two groups will be
           computed with 95% CI, if the outcome is continuous variable and follows Normal
           distribution. Otherwise, bootstrapping will be done to establish 95%CI for the
           difference between two groups in the outcome and Mann Whitney U test will be done to
           test the hypothesis.However, the primary outcome will be further evaluated using Per
           Protocol (PP) principle, by excluding the cases who have had Protocol deviations.
           Secondary outcome (change in axial length) will be analysed and reported appropriately.

        3. Safety Analysis set (As Treated Analyses set):

      A separate dataset will be established for Adverse Events (AE) . These AE will be analysed
      using non parametric tests.. The analysis for safety includes all subjects, according to the
      route of intervention that they received and with at least one safety assessment. In
      addition, we will summarize explicitly any severe reactions or serious adverse events (SAE)
      in subjects received the wrong allocation.

      Timing of Analyses and Stopping rule:

      Two interim analyses will be done. One at the end of 1 year and another at the end 2 years.
      The stopping rule will be based Pocock method for 2 interim analyses. That is p<0.01 level
      will be considered as significant during the interim analyses.
    
  