
    
      This study was carried out over a period of 26 weeks divided in two phases. The first phase
      of the study was an eight-week period (weeks 3-10), during which subjects were familiarized
      to RT. This RT period was conducted to standardize training status, and to overcome strong
      neural adaptations known to occur within the first few weeks of RT. Phase 2, supplementation
      phase, the participants was randomized in three groups and started 12 weeks dedicated to
      supplementation plus RT (weeks 13-24). At the beginning and the end of each phase of the
      experiment, two weeks were allocated for evaluations (weeks 1-2, 11-12 and 25-26) consisting
      of anthropometric, body composition, one repetition maximum tests (1RM), phase angle, body
      water, blood samples and dietary intake measurements.

      Recruitment was carried out through newspaper and radio advertising, and home delivery of
      leaflets in the central area and residential neighborhoods. All participants completed health
      history and physical activity questionnaires and met the following inclusion criteria: 60
      years old or more, physically independent, free from cardiac or orthopedic dysfunction, not
      receiving hormonal replacement and/or thyroid therapy, not using equipment that would prevent
      the accomplishment of protocols and tests, and not performing any regular physical exercise
      for 6 months preceding the beginning of the study. Participants have passed a diagnostic
      graded exercise stress test with 12-lead electrocardiogram reviewed by a cardiologist and
      were released with no restrictions for participation in this investigation. Eighty-three
      Brazilian older women (≥ 60 years old), volunteered to participate in this investigation.
      After individual interviews, thirteen volunteers were excluded because they did not meet the
      inclusion criteria. Seventy participants were submitted to a standardized resistance training
      (RT) program, for eight weeks. After the assessments, the participants were randomly divided
      into three groups according relative strength (ratio of total strength obtained on 1-RM tests
      by body mass): (1) whey protein pre- and placebo post- RT (whey protein-placebo, (2) placebo
      pre- and whey protein post- RT, and (3) placebo pre- and post- RT. A blinded researcher was
      responsible for generating random numbers for participant allocation. All groups were
      submitted to the same RT program and 66 participants completed the experiment. The reasons
      for withdrawal from the study was reported as personal reasons and transportation issues.

      Written informed consent was obtained from all participants after a detailed description of
      investigation procedures was provided. This investigation was conducted according to the
      Declaration of Helsinki and was approved by the local University Ethics Committee (nº
      1.700.756).

      The paired t-test was used to analyze the effects (pre- vs post-) of the first phase. Two-way
      analysis of variance for repeated measures was applied for intra- and inter-group
      comparisons. When the baseline was different (ANOVA one-way), two-way analysis of covariance
      (ANCOVA) for repeated measures was applied for comparisons, with baseline scores used as
      covariates. When an F-ratio was significant, Fisher's post hoc test was employed to identify
      mean differences. The statistical power was determined to verify the statistical power of the
      analysis. For all statistical analyses, significance was accepted at P<0.05.
    
  