
    
      Primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD) is a rare disease, caused by congenital dysfunction of the
      motile cilia, located in the upper and lower respiratory tract, in the reproductive system
      and in the embryonal node. Ineffective ciliary beating results in disturbed mucociliary
      clearance, which is an important defense mechanism in the respiratory tract. It causes
      recurrent and chronic upper and lower respiratory tract infections, leading to reversible
      (mucus plugging) and irreversible lung damage (bronchiectasis, atelectasis, mucus plugging).
      Just like cystic fibrosis, it is characterized by obstructive lung disease, measured by
      spirometry.

      Using Multiple Breath Washout measurements, it has been shown that peripheral airways disease
      is present in PCD. Probably, MBW parameters are already abnormal before forced expiratory
      volume in one second is abnormal.

      The therapy for patients with PCD is mainly supportive: regular oral or intravenous
      antibiotics to treat airway infections and chest physiotherapy to actively increase
      mucociliary clearance. Chest physiotherapy has the objective to clear mucus from the lungs.
      Guidelines support the treatment of patients with PCD with chest physiotherapy. It is known
      that in patients with PCD, exercise has a more bronchodilating effect than the administration
      of salbutamol. However, no objective data describe the acute effect of chest physiotherapy on
      spirometry and MBW parameters. Moreover, short term effects of intervention on spirometry and
      MBW parameters can influence the interpretation of long-term evolution of these parameters.

      In cystic fibrosis, one study has assessed the short-term influence of chest physiotherapy on
      lung function, measured by spirometry and MBW before and after chest physiotherapy. The
      authors found no significant influence of chest physiotherapy on spirometry parameters, nor
      on MBW parameters. Therefore, longitudinal interpretation can be performed irrespective of
      the timing of the lung function measurements. However, cystic fibrosis and PCD have a
      different pathophysiological mechanism with a more 'mechanical' disturbance of the
      mucociliary clearance in PCD, compared to a more 'viscous' disturbance of mucociliary
      clearance in CF. Therefore, the results in CF are not applicable to PCD. Even more, we
      hypothesize that chest physiotherapy will have a significant effect on lung function
      parameters (spirometry and MBW) in patients with PCD due to its external mechanical effect on
      mucus clearance.
    
  