
    
      Treatment Plan:

      This is a non-randomized, two stage design, open-label Phase II trial in newly diagnosed
      patients with advanced or metastatic NSCLC who have previously received and failed adjuvant
      platinum-based chemotherapy for early stage, resected NSCLC.

      Correlative Studies; Molecular correlative studies (genomic and proteomic) are included in
      this protocol. Prior to chemotherapy, all patients will undergo a biopsy of the safest and/or
      most accessible site of tumor in order to obtain tissue for mRNA measurements. Additionally,
      patients will undergo blood sampling prior to the start of chemotherapy and after 2 and 4
      cycles of therapy in order to obtain plasma for the mass spectrometry analysis.

      Patients, whose second and/or third specimen cannot be collected for any reason, will remain
      in the trial, and treatment will continue as outlined in the protocol.

      Expected Number of Patients:

      The number of patients was calculated according to the procedure described in the Sample Size
      Calculation section of the protocol. It is estimated that up to 50 patients will be enrolled
      to obtain the 43 evaluable patients needed to meet the statistical design of the study.

      Method of Treatment Allocation:

      A patient number will be assigned sequentially to each patient upon registration. The patient
      number and the patient initials are to be entered on each page of the Case Report Form.

      Duration of Study for Each Patient:

      All patients will be treated with up to 6 cycles of chemotherapy. However, at the discretion
      of the treating physician and principle investigator, patients may continue chemotherapy,
      beyond 6 cycles, until disease progression, intolerable toxicity, or the development of any
      study removal criteria. Patients will undergo an evaluation for extent of disease after every
      other treatment cycle.

      Patients will be considered to be on-study for the duration of their treatment and during the
      30 days following treatment discontinuation. Treatment discontinuation is defined as the last
      day of study treatment. All included patients will be followed up until recovery or
      stabilization of all adverse events or return to baseline condition. Patients who discontinue
      from the trial prior to experiencing disease progression will be followed monthly until
      demonstration of progressive disease.

      Study Centers:

      The H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center will conduct this trial through the Moffitt Clinical
      Research Affiliate Network. Patients will be evaluated and the biopsy will be performed at
      the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center. Since all the chemotherapeutic drugs used in the protocol
      are FDA approved, and phase I and II safety data regarding this regimen has been
      published30,31, the chemotherapy may be administered at the patients' primary (referring)
      oncologists' office. Documentation of the administration of the chemotherapy will be obtained
      for record keeping purposes.
    
  