
    
      Historically, CMMs have been excised with wide resection margins of 5-cm or more with the
      radical removal of lymph nodes. This treatment emerged from a recommendation from Handley in
      1907 based on a single pathological specimen. This "radical" surgical management resulted in
      bad cosmetic results, lymphedema, long hospital inpatient stay, frequent skin grafting and/or
      complicated skin flap reconstructions. Not until some 60-plus years later did questions arise
      in clinical practices whether the need for this extensive surgery was mandated and clinical
      practice was not substantially changed until the late 1980's. Retrospective studies published
      in the 1980s suggested that narrower excision margins may be appropriate for treatment of
      some CMMs, especially thinner lesions.

      Nowadays, the recommendations for surgical treatment are based on the Breslow thickness of
      the CMM, since it is considered the most important prognostic indicator of localized disease
      and is therefore the information upon which today's surgical strategies are founded. However,
      recommendations vary over the world, especially for thicker tumors which is clearly presented
      by Ethun et al. (2016). For CMM of ≤ 1 mm thickness most centers use a 1 cm margin, but for
      tumors 1.01 - 4 mm the margins of resection are 1-3 cm depending on the country. Most
      patients with primary CMM > 4 mm are operated on with a margin of 2-cm today. The different
      national guidelines are thus, somewhat confusing and in a report from 2004 Thomas JM et al.
      showed that a 1-cm margin for CMM with a poor prognosis (≥2 mm) is associated with a greater
      risk of regional recurrence than in a 3-cm margin, but with a similar survival rate.

      Today, according to Sladden et al. (2018), there have been published six randomized
      controlled trials (RCTs) assessing outcomes for surgical excision margins based upon Breslow
      thickness of invasive tumors. Three out of those six RCTs have included patients with CMMs
      2-4 cm thick. Still, there are controversies and this report points out gaps of knowledge,
      e.g. lack of evidence about the optimal depth of excision and the optimal and minimal
      excision margins, since 1-cm versus 2-cm resection margins of invasive CMMs have not been
      directly compared yet.

      Interestingly, out of one of the three RCTs analyzing melanomas with 2-4 mm thickness,
      long-term follow up data has recently been published by Hayes et al. 2016. They report an
      extended follow-up with a median follow-up of almost 9 years, concluding that 1-cm margin is
      not safe for high-risk CMMs compared to 3-cm margin.

      From this point, based up on those interesting results, the investigators now present
      long-term follow-up of survival in patients included in the RCT published 2011 by Gillgren et
      al.

      The original trial by Gillgren et al. 2011, is a randomized multicenter trial, launched from
      the Swedish Melanoma Study Group and the Danish Melanoma Group in 1992, included 936 patients
      from January 22 1992 to May 19 2004. Patients were recruited from Sweden (6 centers with 644
      pat), Denmark (180 pat), Estonia (80 pat) and Norway (32 pat). Randomization routines were
      set up by the steering committee and eligible patients were randomized locally by telephone
      calls to national and international cancer centers (upon a histologically proven diagnoses
      and signed patient consent form). Only patients with a CMM >2 mm and with localized disease
      (who fulfilled the in- and exclusion criteria) were eligible for study inclusion. Patients
      with CMM on the hands, feet, head-neck and ano-genital region were excluded. Final surgery
      must had been planned within 8 weeks after date of diagnosis. All analyses were conducted
      according to the intention-to-treat principle.

      Patients were followed clinically every 3 months for 2 years and thereafter every 6 months up
      to 5 years, with a median follow-up of 6.7 years. Follow-up data was thus collected from
      cancer registries, cause of death registries and medical records.

      Statistical analyses were made by Kaplan Meier life-table curves. Prognostic factors were
      assessed with the use of a uni- and multivariate Cox regression analysis.

      In the original study, the primary melanomas were removed either by an excisional biopsy
      (margin of 1-3 mm) or with a 2-cm margin before randomization. Patients were randomly
      assigned (1:1) to either a 2-cm surgical excision margin or a 4-cm surgical excision margin.
      The physician enrolled the patients after histological confirmation of melanomas >2 mm.
      Patients who had a diagnostic initial excision were randomized to the 2-cm group or to an
      additional wide local excision with a margin of up to either 2 cm or 4 cm. Patients who had a
      2 cm initial excision were allocated to either no further surgery and randomized to the 2-cm
      group. Radical surgery was to be performed within 8 weeks after the date of diagnosis. The
      method of surgery was to extend to, or include, the deep fascia. Pathological excision
      margins were not registered. The sentinel node biopsy technique was introduced in the end of
      the enrolment period and was allocated to the same follow-up as the other patients. There
      were no protocol violations since the sentinel node biopsies were all in clinical stage IIA-C
      preoperatively. The patients were followed by standard clinical routines within participating
      centers at that time every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months until 5 years. Data
      on clinical relapse were obtained at the follow-up visits. Outcome data were also assessed
      from regional cancer registries, the national cause-of-death registries, and medical records.

      In the long-term follow-up study, each country collected date of death, primary cause of
      death and underlying cause of death from central registries. The entire cohort was
      followed-up until Dec 31, 2016.
    
  