
    
      Specific Aims:

        1. To evaluate the effect of the intervention program on patient's adherence to medication
           (anticoagulant agents, antiplatelet agents and lipid-lowering agents), risk modification
           and surgical treatment outcomes

        2. To investigate the effect of the intervention program on patient reported outcomes

        3. To investigate the effect of the intervention program on patient reported experiences

        4. To investigate the long-term effect of the intervention program on mortality, cause of
           death, occurrence/recurrence of cardiovascular disease up to 10 years after the
           surgical/endovascular treatment

        5. To compare patient-reported adherence to medication and patient data registry adherence
           to medication

      Hypothesis: Participants in the Intervention Group have better adherence to prescribed
      medication and a reduced risk for 10-year predicted coronary heart disease (CHD) compared to
      participants in the Control Group.

      Study population:

      Patients with Intermittent Claudication scheduled for revascularization, through open surgery
      or endovascular method, in Stockholm will be screened for inclusion. After informed consent,
      the participants will be randomized to either Intervention Group or Control Group. Those
      participants who couldn't receive revascularization after giving consent will be withdrawn
      from the study and counted as drop outs. Power analysis has showed a required sample size of
      186 participants to detect a statistically significant increase in adherence to medication
      from 50% to 70% (power 0.80, significance value 0.05, two-sided). Expecting 10% drop-out we
      plan to recruit 210 participants.

      Data collection:

      Data on primary and secondary outcomes, serum cholesterol, smoking status, serum carbon
      monoxide, Hba1c, BMI, waist circumference, physical exercise, diet, alcohol consumption,
      graft patency, re-intervention, hospitalization during the study year, mortality and patient
      characteristics/demographics will be collected at baseline and one year after treatment. All
      data will be registered at a local research data base at Karolinska Institutet. All
      patient-reported outcomes will be collected using web-based questionnaires linked to the data
      base.

      Data analysis:

      Comparisons between the Intervention Group and the Control Group will be made using t-test
      and ANOVA for repeated-measures or Wilcoxon rank-signed test and Kruskall-Wallis according to
      the underlying distribution for continuous data, and Fischers Exact test for categorical
      data. Logistic regression analysis will also be performed to adjust for confounding factors.
      All analyses will be performed according to the Intention-to-treat principle.
    
  