
    
      Remote monitoring (RM) has been in use for over a decade and is now used in a blended system
      of in clinic visits and RM to provide CIED follow up. Prior studies have focused on this
      blended model of follow up. In this study, we propose a paradigm shift in CIED follow up care
      that is fully remote, supported by a patient-centered communication system permitting
      patients to have greater understanding of their CIED and its function. Patients would not
      have to leave their own communities to obtain state-of-the art care for their cardiac
      condition or their CIED. Given the burgeoning use of CIEDs (ICDs and PMs), the aging
      population and particularly in Canada where 19% of the inhabitants are in communities
      classified as 'rural', many have long distances to travel to reach a health care facility, it
      is of the utmost importance to take full advantage of available and developing technologies
      to improve CIED follow up beyond current recommendations. During the life of these patients,
      many issues may arise, such as atrial or ventricular arrhythmias that may result in syncope,
      stroke or sudden death, need for increased monitoring resulting from device advisories, or
      minor programming adjustments to improve device performance, or simply the need for enhanced
      surveillance as the device battery depletes and replacement is anticipated. New technology
      has become available that not only permits surveillance, but also permits communication back
      to the patient, and their respective providers regarding the status of these devices. The
      combination of technologies will result in a total care of CIEDs termed Remote Patient
      Management - CIED (RPM-CIED). The incorporation of enhanced monitoring capability, along with
      automatic recalibration of device settings, allows us to develop a new paradigm of remote
      patient management where after the patient receives their device, they would remain in the
      care of their local health team ('spokes') and no longer require travel to the specialized
      device clinics ('hubs') for follow-up. It creates capacity in the specialized centers to
      focus exclusively on the problematic cases by removing the need for routine checks.

      There are two avenues of new technology that will be used in this study:

        1. Remote View: this secure, web-based portal facilitates a virtual view of the device
           programming by the specialist in real-time while the patient is in their local clinic,
           thus avoiding patient travel to the specialized clinic (hub).

        2. VIRTUES (Virtual Integrated Reliable Transformative User-driven E-health System): this
           portal has been developed by the Cardiac Arrhythmia Network of Canada to allow the
           patient to receive reports from the remote transmissions of their device.
    
  