
    
      This study uses an experimental repeated measures design with randomized comparison of the
      HEART CAMP intervention group and the attention control group. The purpose of this
      feasibility study is to obtain pilot data, as the basis for a future, larger investigation,
      testing the impact of an innovative 24-week (6-month) training camp intervention (HEART
      CAMP). HEART CAMP is designed to teach heart failure (HF) patients how to exercise (aerobic
      and resistance) and self-manage exercise behavior over time. Patients receiving care at the
      BryanLGH Heart Institute heart failure clinic will be eligible for the study.

      The HEART CAMP intervention is a multi-component intervention derived from Bandura's
      cognitive behavioral theory and consists of specific strategies to build self-efficacy for
      exercise. The subject, under the guidance of an exercise physiologist and nurse, will be
      taught how to exercise (aerobic and resistance). A baseline cardiopulmonary exercise test
      will be completed on all subjects. The first three weeks of HEART CAMP will be held in a
      hospital based cardiac rehabilitation department where subjects will be
      electrocardiographically monitored during the five-day per week training sessions. Training
      sessions will be delivered in cohort groups of eight subjects and will focus on exercise,
      self-evaluation of response to exercise, and group debriefing sessions for problem solving
      and relapse management. Weeks 4 through 12 subjects will complete three aerobic exercise
      sessions in the cardiac rehabilitation maintenance facility and two resistive training
      sessions at home with the exercise physiologist and nurse monitoring subject response and
      delivering group debriefing sessions each week. Weeks 12 through 24 subjects exercise
      independently with the exercise physiologist and nurse monitoring subject exercise data and
      available as needed.

      The attention control group will receive weekly cohort group education sessions during the
      first 3 months similar to the intervention groups' participation in weekly group sessions.
      One week an educational topic will be presented and the subsequent week the cohort group of
      eight subjects will discuss the topic. Six topics will be presented including: Eating Fruits,
      Vegetables, and Grains; Shopping Wisely; Cooking Healthy; Time Management; Communicating
      Assertively; and Learning to Relax.

      Outcome measures will be completed at baseline, 3 weeks, 3 and 6 months (end of study) for
      both groups. Primary outcomes are estimated energy expenditure, self-efficacy to exercise,
      and adherence to exercise. Secondary outcomes are symptoms, biomarker (BNP), physical and
      psychological functioning and quality of life
    
  