
    
      Human milk has a variety of benefits for neonates, especially premature neonates, including a
      decreased risk of for necrotizing enterocolitis, sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS),
      respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) bronchiolitis, respiratory infections, and many other
      childhood conditions. There is variability in macronutrient and caloric content of breast
      milk between mothers, making it difficult to accurately quantify the nutritional content the
      breast milk is providing. The protein content varies by postnatal age, and the fat content
      varies temporally during a feed. Currently calculations use a standard value for caloric
      density and macronutrient content of breast milk, which is a reported average, but not
      necessarily specific to each individual mother. Human milk analysis has been used to address
      this variability. The Miris Human Milk Analyzer (HMA) is a mid-infrared analyzer and has been
      evaluated in many studies. It measures the macronutrient content of breast milk, providing
      values for protein, fat, carbohydrates, and calculated calories. By having this information
      available, the fortification added to breast milk can be tailored specifically to each
      mother's breast milk composition to meet each neonate's nutritional needs, and optimize
      growth.This will be a prospective randomized control study of preterm infants less than 1500
      grams [very low birth weight (VLBW)] receiving human milk (maternal or donor) will be
      included. The control group will receive adjustment of total parenteral nutrition (TPN) per
      NICU guidelines as enteral feedings are advanced followed by standard fortification of human
      milk. The intervention group will have TPN (protein and lipids) adjusted based on analysis of
      human milk as feedings are advanced to provide goal 4g/kg/day of protein and 100-130
      kcal/kg/day followed by targeted fortification of breast milk based on human milk analysis to
      continue to provide 4 g/kg/day of protein and 100-130 kcal/kg/day for once full feeds are
      achieved. The primary aim of this study is to evaluate the growth, anthropometric
      measurements, and body composition, to see if targeted fortification improves neonatal
      growth. By optimizing neonatal growth and nutrition there is potential to also have an impact
      on other morbidities and long term neurodevelopmental outcomes.
    
  