
    
      During the ADAPT project both sites will adapt the original Community Promise intervention to
      specifically address the HIV prevention needs of sero-positive, African American men who have
      sex with men (HIV+ AAMSM) in either Boston, MA or Minneapolis/St. Paul (MSP), MN. The adapted
      intervention will be referred to as Community PROMISE, Positives Leading and Utilizing
      Strategies (CP PLUS).

      In the first two months of the ADAPT project, the Boston and MSP sites will conduct formative
      evaluation activities (i.e., a comprehensive literature review, focus groups, and individual
      interviews) to assess the needs of the target population and organizational capacities to
      serve them. Results will be used to inform the adaptation of the original intervention to
      ensure that CP PLUS meet the expressed needs of the target population.

      Process data will also be collected from various sources throughout the life of the project.
      Process data will be collected through staff meetings, interviews with staff, focus groups
      with peer advocates, and an expert panel consultation. Process data will be extremely useful
      for ensuring program objectives are met, improving CP PLUS, and providing information for
      providers in other locales who may be interested in adapting this intervention to serve this
      target population.

      The Boston and MSP sites will also conduct outcome monitoring through collection of data
      concerning risk behaviors pre- and post-intervention implementation (follow-up at 6-8 months
      post and 11-13 months post [Boston only]) to determine if the adapted intervention has met
      its outcome objectives. Outcome monitoring will also be conducted for the "parent"
      intervention at both sites for HIV- or unknown status men who have sex with men.

      In addition to the project activities, the organization will be examining the utility of the
      CDC draft guidance. The Boston and MSP sites are two of five case studies throughout the
      United States that will detail the challenges, successes and lessons learned from adapting an
      intervention packaged by CDC's Replicating Effective Programs (REP) and disseminated by
      Diffusing Effective Behavioral Interventions (DEBI) to a specific population. These findings
      will help other community-based organizations and Health Departments effectively adapt and
      tailor group, individual and community-level interventions.
    
  