
    
      Sacrococcygeal Pilonidal sinus (SPS) is a common disorder with estimated incidence of 1.1% in
      the community and 9% in soldiers. Pilonidal disease is a function of hair x force x
      vulnerability of the skin, the theory purposed by Karydakis in his article in 1992, and hair
      follicle obstruction and enlargement, assertion of Bascom are the most widely accepted
      explanation for etio-pathogenesis of the disease. It is such a disease that, there is still
      no clear consensus in regard to its gold-standard treatment modality, even though a lot of
      research and publications.

      However, recently off-midline closure techniques has being popularized, by which the suture
      line is positioned off the midline to ensure minimal chance of recurrence. One of these
      techniques is the rhomboid, or Limberg, flap (LF) which is widely performed flap surgery for
      the treatment of SPS in Turkey. However, recurrences can be seen following wide excision and
      LF reconstruction; therefore, successful implementation of LF technique in the sacrococcygeal
      area requires well-known characteristics of the flap and problematic anatomy of the gluteal
      cleft.

      There are many reports that favor Limberg flap over others. Although the authors also used to
      perform LF in patients with SPS with acceptable results until 2008, then they shifted their
      routine surgical preference to another off-midline closure technique for cosmetic reasons
      after this date. But increasingly more cases have administered to our institution due to the
      complications and recurrences after LF which performed elsewhere. Therefore the authors
      decided to investigate the technical reasons and risk factors of the problem to avoid
      complications and recurrence related to the incorrect flap design.

      The authors first hypothesized that there are an association between erroneous off-midline
      closures and recurrence in patients underwent LF reconstruction for primary SPS. Then they
      designed a case-control study to test this hypothesis.
    
  