
    
      Calcific or degenerative aortic valve disease is one of the most common valvular diseases
      among the elderly and, with life expectancy continuing to increase, a major source of burden
      on current healthcare. Although patients with aortic stenosis (AS) can remain asymptomatic
      for a prolonged period, they do eventually develop symptoms, including angina, exertional
      syncope and heart failure, which is associated with a 5-year, 3-year, and 1-year,
      respectively, 50% mortality. The American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association
      guidelines place symptomatic severe AS as a class I indication for aortic valve replacement.
      Currently, surgical replacement of the aortic valve is the standard of care. However, with
      the recently approved Edwards-Sapient TAVR device and the ongoing investigations using the
      CoreValve TAVR device, patients ineligible or at high risk for open-heart surgery are now
      eligible to undergo TAVR.

      Currently, patients selected for TAVR undergo an EKG-gated cardiac Multislice CTA to evaluate
      aortic valve anatomy and aortic root dimensions for device sizing. Patients also undergo
      coronary angiography to define coronary anatomy. Both tests utilize contrast media to
      visualize anatomy, which may result in contrast-induced nephropathy in anywhere from 7.5% to
      more than 50% of patients depending on associated clinical risk factors. Contrast-induced
      nephropathy can, in turn, lead to dialysis and/or increased mortality.

      There is a need to consolidate this pre-operative testing whenever possible, and with
      real-time 3-dimensional visualization of aortic valve and root anatomy using DynaCT cardiac
      acquisition in the cath lab angiography suite during the coronary angiography, there may be a
      benefit with reduced contrast load (20 to 35cc for DynaCT, 100cc for CTA). DynaCT conducts
      fully automatic aortic root segmentation and overlays 3-dimensional structures onto
      2-dimensional fluoroscopy in a few seconds (~5 seconds, 60 frames/second rotational
      angiography). The software automatically recognizes and represents the aortic root, detects
      and indicates coronary ostia and lowest cusp points of aortic valve (nadir points), and
      reconstructs commissure lines of aortic valve. Due to cardiac motion, 3-dimensional images
      without motion correction or cardiac gating will look blurred. Therefore, DynaCT
      reconstruction motion correction software will be used. The DynaCT motion correction software
      is a new algorithm that will correct for this motion and apply it during reconstruction-
      allowing the user to spin without using rapid pacing. However, first, a comparison of aortic
      valve and root measurements using CTA and DynaCT must be made to affirm the accuracy of
      DynaCT vs the CTA gold standard.

      Study Design This is a pilot study evaluating patients undergoing TAVR at the New York
      University (NYU) Langone Medical Center. Patients will undergo the standard CTA protocol and
      invasive coronary angiography performed as part of the pre-operative assessment for TAVR.
      However, patients in this study will also undergo DynaCT during coronary angiography,
      utilizing 1 acquisition sweep and 20 to 35cc more of contrast media. Measurements of the
      major aortic annulus diameter, orthogonal minor aortic annulus diameter, aortic annulus
      perimeter, maximum ascending aorta diameter at 40mm above the annulus, sinus of Valsalva
      diameters, sinus of Valsalva heights, and aortic root angulation will be made using both the
      CTA and DynaCT protocols by a radiologist blinded to patient identity after the study has
      reached its target recruitment. Based on these measurements, a trained interventional
      cardiologist will select the appropriate TAVR size in a similarly blinded fashion after the
      study has reached its target recruitment (i.e. the data collected using DynaCT will not be
      used in the clinical decision making process). Data will be compared from both modalities
      using appropriate tests of reproducibility and correlation.

      Study Technique CTA will be performed per standard methods as part of standard pre-TAVR
      evaluation.

      Coronary angiography will be performed via femoral artery access (minimum 6Fr) as per
      standard pre-TAVR evaluation. After coronary angiography is performed, a 6Fr pigtail catheter
      will be placed in the aorta and 40cc of 50% contrast media diluted normal saline will be
      delivered using standard automated injection during dynaCT cardiac image acquisition.
      Intravenous delivery of contrast was considered as alternative.

      As per standard care, intravenous access will be obtained and participants will be hydrated
      during the CTA, coronary angiography, and dynaCT procedures.
    
  