
    
      The Premature Infants Resuscitated with Oxygen or Air (PRESOX) trial, is a prospective
      randomized clinical trial of extremely premature infants that will assess the use of a low
      and high oxygen concentration for the initial resuscitation. The hypothesis is that infants
      resuscitated with a lower oxygen concentration at birth will have a increase in survival
      without bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) or retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) during their
      initial hospitalization, and will have a increase in survival without neurodevelopmental
      impairments.

      Previous studies of mostly term newborn infants have demonstrated that initial resuscitation
      with room air compared to 100% oxygen resulted in improved outcomes and an overall decrease
      in mortality. The analysis of these studies demonstrated that the reduction in mortality was
      very significant in the preterm infants that had been included in these trials. A number of
      small clinical trials have now demonstrated that it is feasible to treat very preterm infants
      with lower versus higher concentrations of oxygen while carefully monitoring their oxygen
      saturation in the minutes following delivery. As review of the previous observations
      demonstrated that there was a reduction in death using lower oxygen concentration, it is
      imperative that a large study of preterm infants be conducted to determine if a lower
      compared to a higher oxygen concentration for the initial resuscitation will lead to improved
      short and longer term outcomes including survival without neurodevelopmental disability.

      The PRESOX trial will randomize infants from 23 weeks gestation to 28 weeks gestation who
      require resuscitation at birth to receive either room air or 60% oxygen. Oxygen saturation
      will be monitored from the first minute of life and the initial oxygen concentration will be
      titrated using a unique purpose built device which will track the oxygen saturation (SpO2)
      within the chosen target limits. The targets chosen allow the infants oxygen saturation to
      follow the increase seen in normal preterm infants who do not require resuscitation.
      Following resuscitation the infants will be transferred to the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit
      and management will follow the usual care in those units. In a subset of infants, levels of
      antioxidants from the infant's blood and urine will be measured by Dr M Vento. This portion
      of the study is already funded by the combined Spanish Ministries of Health and Science.
      Antioxidants are known to increase with exposure to oxygen. The infants will return for a
      neurodevelopmental follow up examination at the age of two years.

      This trial will provide urgently needed evidence to establish the most optimal care to these
      very fragile preterm infants.
    
  