
    
      Background: Prior research on mindfulness training (MT) in military servicemembers showed
      that MT can effectively protect against degradation in attention and working memory over
      high-demand intervals. The benefits of MT in servicemembers were also linked to greater
      engagement in mindfulness practice. These prior MT programs delivered their training via a
      direct delivery approach, which involved a mindfulness training expert (TE) providing
      training to an end-user (e.g., military servicemembers). While successful, these programs are
      poorly suited for rapid, large-scale dissemination because these programs require direct
      training from a mindfulness training expert to an end-user and a considerable amount of time
      dedicated to training. To overcome these issues, the principal investigator together with a
      mindfulness expert developed a mindfulness training program contextualized for the U.S. Army,
      known as MBAT (Mindfulness-Based Attention Training), that is amenable to the train-the-train
      delivery approach and can provide rapid, large-scale dissemination to thousands of
      individuals. Specifically, Master Resilience Trainer - Performance Expert specialists (PEs),
      who have extensive experience working with soldiers but no mindfulness experience, were
      trained to deliver the MBAT course.

      Problem: While training PEs to deliver MBAT complies with the U.S. Army time constraints, it
      remains unclear what is the best way to incorporate daily mindfulness practice into the duty
      schedule of servicemembers, which has a pivotal contribution to the protection against
      decline over high-demand intervals.

      Project Goal: The aim of the present study is to investigate the impact of proctored vs.
      non-proctored practice of MBAT delivered by a PE to servicemembers. To investigate this
      issue, a trained PE will deliver MBAT to two groups of soldiers who will differ in the amount
      of duty-day support received to complete out-of-class mindfulness exercises. One group will
      be assigned proctored practice incorporated in the daily physical training (PT) and another
      group will be assigned non-proctored practice during which participants will perform the
      exercise independently, on their own.
    
  