
    
      Disruptive behaviors and social-emotional skill deficits are common problems in early
      education settings and contribute to the high rates of preschool suspensions and expulsions.
      While teachers serve a critical role in children's behavioral health, they often lack
      evidence-based training in strategies that could improve child behavior and promote
      social-emotional skills. The goal of this project is to implement and evaluate Teacher-Child
      Interaction Training - Universal (TCIT-U), an empirically-supported classroom-based
      intervention aimed at improving child behavior and social-emotional skills through
      strengthening teacher-child relationships at a preschool that serves children from socially
      and economically disadvantaged backgrounds who are at risk for behavioral health
      difficulties.

      The main objectives are to (a) examine TCIT-U's effects on teacher behavior, teachers' sense
      of efficacy, and child behavior problems and social-emotional skills compared to usual care
      (UC) and (b) explore the feasibility and acceptability of implementing TCIT-U at a diverse
      urban preschool.

      This pilot study is a nonrandomized clinical trial comparing TCIT-U to a UC control group at
      urban preschool. Teachers in the intervention group will participate in TCIT-U. TCIT-U and UC
      teachers will complete measures at baseline, post-intervention, and end-of-the-school-year
      follow-up. All teachers will be observed for their TCIT-U skill use at baseline,
      mid-intervention, post-intervention, and follow-up. Qualitative interviews will be conducted
      with educational staff at follow-up to examine feasibility and acceptability data.

      Participants will be eight teachers and approximately 80 children from four preschool
      classrooms in Philadelphia. Educational staff will also be invited to participate in
      qualitative interviews. Staff must speak English to participate. There is no exclusion
      criteria for children.

      Four teachers from two Head Start classrooms will participate in TCIT-U. TCIT-U is an
      empirically-supported intervention aimed at strengthening teacher-child relationships and
      improving child behavior and social-emotional skills. TCIT-U includes group didactic and
      individualized coaching sessions. Four teachers from two other classrooms will serve as the
      UC control group.

      Teacher behavior will be coded during live classroom observations. Teacher-reported
      questionnaires will measure teachers' sense of efficacy and child behavior and
      social-emotional skills. Qualitative interviews and satisfaction surveys will explore the
      feasibility and acceptability of implementing TCIT-U. Fidelity checklists will be completed
      by the TCIT-U Trainer and expert consultants to document intervention fidelity.
    
  