
    
      The primary aim of this study is to test the hypothesized model that explores the moderating
      roles of neurotic personality, social support and coping style, as well as the mediating role
      of self-esteem in the relationship between cognitive deficit and NPS. This study will also
      examine the psychometric properties of the Chinese version of MBI-C.

      Specifically, the four objectives of this study are as follows:

        1. To examine the relationship between cognitive deficit (subjective and objective) and NPS

        2. To examine the moderating roles of the neurotic trait (neuroticism) and coping resources
           (coping style and social support), as well as the mediating role of self-esteem in the
           relationship between cognitive deficit and NPS

        3. To explore the life experience of PwMCI that help to determine how these factors
           moderate/ mediate the relationship between cognitive deficit and NPS

        4. To examine the psychometric properties of the Chinese version of MBI-C among PwMCI in
           Hong Kong

      This sequential mixed study will be conducted in two non-governmental organization in Hong
      Kong.

      For the first and second objective, a descriptive, cross-sectional, correlational approach
      will be adopted to test the hypothesized models with seven hypotheses of the relationship
      between cognitive deficit (subject and objective) and NPS. The moderating roles of
      personality trait (neuroticism) and coping resources (coping styles and social support), as
      well as the mediating role of self-esteem in such a relationship, will also be explored.

      For the third objective, semi-structured interviews will be adopted to explore the life
      experience of PwMCI, which help understanding how the proposed factors mediate or moderate
      the relationship between compromised abilities and NPS.

      For the fourth objective, the psychometric properties of the Chinese version of MBI-C will be
      examined and reported. Internal consistency, 2-week test-retest reliability, factorial
      validity, concurrent validity and convergent validity will be assessed.
    
  