
    
      Rationale: In the Netherlands, ≥7000 women undergo surgery for small breast cancers (T1)
      every year. In this study, the investigators will evaluate under which conditions it is
      possible to excise small breast cancers using the vacuum assisted biopsy (VAB) system under
      ultrasound (US) guidance. When successful, this can allow outpatient treatment of a selection
      of women with small breast cancers, improving the cosmetic outcome and quality of life.

      Objective: Our study aim is to assess whether it is feasible to remove small breast cancers
      completely using the VAB system under US guidance.

      Study design: This is a multi-centre, translational clinical phase II study in 170 women with
      cancers ≤15 mm based upon US and MRI measurements, and without mammographic or magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) evidence of more extensive disease (e.g. microcalcifications or
      non-mass enhancement).

      Study population: Women with non-lobular invasive carcinomas, ≤15 mm based upon US and MRI
      measurements, no mammographic evidence of more extensive disease (e.g. microcalcifications or
      extensive architectural distortion), and sufficient space (roughly ≥6 mm, present or
      creatable by injection of saline) between the tumor and the dermis, nipple or pectoral
      muscle, are eligible for this study.

      Intervention: In 170 women with cancers ≤15 mm based upon US and MRI measurements, and
      without mammographic evidence of more extensive disease (e.g. microcalcifications), after
      informed consent has been obtained, patients will be asked to fill out a questionnaire for
      assessment of breast cancer risk, using the Tyrer-Cuzick (or IBIS) model.

      First, the tumor will be removed under local anesthesia using the VAB system with US
      guidance, through a small skin incision (<0.5 cm). A localization marker will be placed in
      the biopsy cavity, to help determine the cavity location. After 3 weeks, the breast
      conserving surgery is performed, excising the VAB excision cavity and a ≥1 cm of surrounding
      tissue, as deemed appropriate by the attending breast surgeon. A sentinel node biopsy will be
      performed in the same procedure.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Main endpoint of the study is the incidence of successful
      complete tumor excision by the VAB system, where successful is defined as having no tumor
      foci beyond 1 cm from the edge of the VAB cavity in the surgical re-excision specimen.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Our approach allows testing the feasibility of an innovating approach to remove
      breast cancer, with minimal negative effects or possible complications.

      The burden from this study to the participating patients is the fact that two procedures are
      mandatory. This will result in prolonged time from initial diagnosis to end of surgical
      treatment. Positive study outcomes can pave the way to minimal invasive treatment in a
      selection of women, presenting with small breast tumors.
    
  