
    
      In osteoporosis, skeletal bone mass and strength are so reduced that fractures occur after
      only modest levels of mechanical stress that would not harm normal bone. Fractures of the
      hip, spine, and wrists are most typical, though fractures of the ribs, pelvis, and humerus
      also occur. Research has shown that hip fractures cause a 10% to 20% increase in mortality,
      and the cost of all osteoporotic fractures is estimated to be $6.14 billion in health care
      costs and lost earnings per year. The most common form of osteoporosis is postmenopausal
      osteoporosis. A reduction in bone mineral density of approximately 1% to 2% per year is
      observed for the first 3 to 5 years after the onset of menopause, then 0.5% to 1% per year
      thereafter.

      PTH was recently approved by the FDA as a daily treatment for osteoporosis. However, PTH must
      be self-injected, is very expensive, and has been associated with worrisome side effects. The
      currently approved formulation of daily PTH self-injections is practical for only a small
      proportion of people with osteoporosis. A once weekly formulation could significantly
      decrease cost, difficulty of administration, and risks and side effects associated with daily
      use of PTH. A once weekly injection by a caregiver would also make PTH accessible to
      populations for whom daily self-injection may not be practical, such as the very elderly or
      those in assisted living or nursing homes. This study will evaluate the safety and
      effectiveness of once weekly PTH dosing for women with osteoporosis.

      Women will be randomized to receive either PTH or placebo. Women will self-administer
      injections daily for 4 weeks, then once weekly for 48 weeks. All women will receive calcium
      and vitamin D supplements daily. Women will visit the clinic six times over the course of a
      year and will provide urine and blood samples at each visit. Bone mineral density will be
      measured at 6 and 12 months.
    
  