
    
      Sample size The number of subjects planned to enroll in the study is 100. It is plan to
      enroll 4 participants per month. Participants will be part of the study from the date of
      consent to the date when complete the follow-up at 90 days post-surgery.

      Selection and screening of potential participants Patients scheduled for office visit with
      staff physician who will be undergoing to colorectal surgery with new ileostomy creation at
      the Cleveland Clinic, Main Campus.

      Withdraws:

        -  Participants have the right to withdraw from the study at any time. Written request
           should be made to the Principal Investigator (PI) via mail. Emre Gorgun, MD, 9500 Euclid
           Ave. - A30. Cleveland, Oh. 44195

        -  Participants will be withdrawn from the study if become pregnant.

        -  Participants will be withdrawn from the study if any type of electronic implants is
           applied (i.e. pacemakers).

        -  Participant will be withdrawn per PI and/or sponsor request in the best interest of the
           participant (e.i. medical condition, technical problems with device or mobile app).

        -  Before withdrawn, participants will have the opportunity to contact nurse (care
           coordinator) to request information about changing Alfred SmartBag to regular ostomy bag
           at their own expense.

      Research team:

      Principal investigator, co-investigators, research coordinator, nurse (care coordinator),
      sponsor's representative must be part of the study in IRB and must be compliant with research
      policies. In addition, everyone in the team must complete CITI and HIPAA in Human Subject
      Research training courses before engaging in any research activity. No one can take active
      role in the study without previous documentation and approval by IRB.

      Participant enrollment During the preoperative period (average time within 30 days prior to
      the surgery), eligible patients will be invited to participate in the study by the clinical
      staff. First, staff physician or clinical personnel will introduce the study. If a patient is
      interested, the Research Coordinator will explain the study in detail, answer any questions,
      and provide the informed consent in a quiet clinical setting. If a patient agrees to
      participate, he/she will sign the informed consent.

      Study procedures:

        1. Before surgery/introductory session: after signing the informed consent and within 30
           days prior to surgery, a participant will meet with the Research Coordinator and
           sponsor's representative who is certified vendor at Cleveland Clinic, Main Campus.
           Together, they will provide an extensive training on the Alfred SmartBag system
           including the ostomy bag and the mobile application. Also, they will assist to set-up
           the mobile app in the participant's smart phone (e.i. iPhone, Android). This system will
           allow participant and research study personnel to monitor stoma output daily and in real
           time. At his time, participant will receive the Alfred Jr. Teddy Bear toy as a part of
           the "Patient Engagement Program."

        2. During the surgery: staff physician will apply the Alfred SmartBag on the ostomy site.

        3. Perioperative period (hospitalization/inpatient period): participant will receive
           standard of care post-operative evaluation and assessment by attending physician and
           clinical staff. Patient Coaches and certified vendor will contact participant to offer
           support and answer any question regarding the Alfred Smart Bag system (ostomy bag and
           mobile app).

        4. At discharge from hospital: at the moment of discharge, the participant will receive 30
           days-Supply Kit box (complete description of the items can be found on Appendix 2; table
           1(p. 29). Participant will be able to monitor ostomy output in real time and contact
           clinic staff personnel if alerted by the mobile app. In addition, Starbucks gift card
           $15 dollars and Amazon gift card $25 dollars will be provided.

        5. At day 30 post-surgery: second formal wound review will be performed as a part of the
           standard of care. Documentation of the 30 Day Post-Operative Report. Appendix 2; table 2
           (p. 31-34).

        6. At day 60 post-surgery: record output in the mobile application. Documentation of the 60
           Day Post-Operative Report. Appendix 2; table 2 (p. 31-34).

        7. At day 90 post-surgery and beyond: record last output in the mobile app. Documentation
           of the 90 Day Post-Operative Report. Appendix 2; table 2 (p. 31-34). This is the end of
           the participation of the study. After this event, participants will not be provided with
           any part of the Alfred Smart Bag system either ostomy bags, mobile application, or any
           other services provided as a part of this study. At this time, participants will have
           the opportunity to choose what type of ostomy bag they prefer to continue with at their
           own expense.

      At any time, complications, unanticipated problems, adverse effects, phone calls, 30-day
      post-operative report will be documented in logs according to standard practices or in
      formats included in Appendix 2; table 2 (p.30-31).
    
  