
    
      This is a multicenter, open-label, two-arm, randomized study designed to evaluate the
      efficacy and safety of surgical resection plus peri-operative atezo/bev compared with
      continuous systemic atezo/bev in HCC patients with PVTT and without EHS.

      Initially eligible patients (see inclusion criteria for study entry) will be enrolled into
      induction phase, during which they will receive 3 cycles of atezo/bev and 1 cycle of atezo
      alone as primary systemic therapy. Tumor response assessment using computed tomography (CT)
      and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) will be conducted by the Independent-Review Facility
      (IRF) according to RECIST v1.1 after cycle 2 and cycle 4.

      Only patients who are assessed as partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) and considered
      suitable for curative hepatic resection (see randomization criteria) will be randomized in a
      1:1 ratio to one of the following two arms:

        -  Arm A (experimental arm): hepatic resection with post-operative atezolizumab 1200mg and
           bevacizumab 15mg/kg, both administered by IV infusion on Day 1 of each 21-day cycle

        -  Arm B (control arm): atezolizumab 1200mg and bevacizumab 15mg/kg, both administered by
           IV infusion on Day 1 of each 21-day cycle

      Randomization will be performed after the second tumor assessment and stratified according to
      the following stratification factors:

        -  - Tumor response: target lesion reduction (maximum diameter reduction ≥10% compared with
           the entry baseline) vs non-reduction

        -  - Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status: 0 vs 1 Those patients
           who are assessed as disease progression (PD) or complete response (CR) and/or not
           suitable for curative hepatic resection will be excluded from randomization and treated
           according to local practice (Patients without PD may continue atezo/bev treatment at
           investigators' discretion).

      In Arm A, surgery is performed 0-2 weeks after the randomization (i.e., 6-8 weeks after the
      last dose of preoperative bevacizumab). The first dose of postoperative treatment is
      recommended to start within 4-8 weeks after surgery. Surgical approaches will be tailored to
      the individual patient according to local standards with the goal of achieving R0 resection.

      Treatment with atezolizumab plus bevacizumab will continue until loss of clinical benefit
      (determined by the investigator), or unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of Informed Consent
      Form (ICF), death, or the study is terminated by the Sponsor, whichever occurs first. For Arm
      A, whether to continue atezo/bev treatment will be determined by the investigator at the end
      of the 12-month treatment period (approximately 17 cycles) if none of the above occurs.

      In this protocol, "study treatment" refers to the treatments assigned to patients as part of
      this study (i.e., hepatic resection plus peri-operative atezo/bev in Arm A, or atezo/bev in
      Arm B).

      In this protocol, baseline measurements are the last available data obtained prior to the
      patient receiving the first study treatment either in the induction phase (entry baseline) or
      after randomization (randomization baseline).

      Tumor assessments will be performed in induction phase after cycle 2 and cycle 4
      (randomization baseline), and in treatment period at regular intervals (since randomization,
      every 6 weeks for the first 54 weeks and every 12 weeks thereafter for both arms). Additional
      scans will be performed as clinically indicated. Following completion or discontinuation of
      the treatment, information on recurrence or disease progression, survival and subsequent
      anti-cancer therapies will be collected until death, loss to followup, withdrawal of ICF or
      study termination by Sponsor, whichever occurs first. In the absence of disease recurrence or
      progression, tumor assessments should continue regardless of whether patients start a new
      anti-cancer therapy, until documented treatment failure events (see efficacy objective),
      withdrawal of ICF or study termination. All patients will be followed for survival unless
      consent is withdrawn.

      Patients who withdraw from the study will not be replaced. An IRF will be used to enable
      centralized, independent reviews of images and other clinical data (e.g., histopathology,
      tumor markers etc.) used for assessment of HCC response, recurrence and disease progression.
      IRF reviews will be performed prior to the pre-specified efficacy analyses. IRF membership
      and procedures will be detailed in an IRF Charter.
    
  