
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      Each cycle is 28 days.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take pacritinib by mouth
      2 times each day during Cycles 1-4. Each dose should be about 12 hours apart (1 dose in the
      morning, 1 dose in the evening).

      After Cycle 4, if the study doctor thinks it is in your best interest, you may be able to
      continue taking pacritinib in combination with either azacitidine or decitabine. The study
      doctor will tell you which drug you will receive. The study doctor will tell you which drug
      you will receive. Decitabine and azacitidine may be administered by local doctor or at MD
      Anderson. Cycle 1 of Part 2 will be administered at MD Anderson. Commercial supplies of
      decitabine and azacitidine will be used.

      You will receive either azacitidine by vein over about 1 hour on Days 1-5 of Cycles 5 and
      beyond or decitabine by vein over about 1 hour or as an injection under the skin on Days 1-7
      of Cycles 5 and beyond.

      You should return any unused study drug and/or any empty bottles to each study visit.

      Study Visits:

      One (1) time each week during Cycle 1 and then on Day 1 of each cycle after that, blood
      (about 1½ teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests. You may have this blood drawn at a
      local lab or clinic closer to your home, if the study doctor thinks this is acceptable. The
      results from the blood draw will be sent to the study doctor.

      On Day 28 (+/- 5 days) of Cycles 1 and 4, you will have a bone marrow aspiration/biopsy to
      check for genetic mutations and cytogenetic testing. If you begin receiving pacritinib in
      combination with either azacitidine or decitabine, you will also have this test repeated at
      Cycle 4 of your combination therapy.

      On Day 1 of Cycle 1, Day 28 of Cycles 1 and 4, and at any time the doctor thinks it is
      needed, you will have an EKG.

      Length of Treatment:

      You may continue taking pacritinib for up to 4 cycles. If the doctor thinks it is in your
      best interest, you may be eligible to continue taking the study drug in combination with
      either azacitidine or decitabine for as long as the doctor thinks it is in your best
      interest.

      You will no longer be able to take the study drug(s) if the disease gets worse, if
      intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the end-of-treatment visit.

      After the end of therapy and/or 30 days after your last dose of study drug, the study staff
      will follow your health status by phone call every 2 months (+/- 2 months) until you receive
      another cancer treatment.

      End-of-Treatment Visit:

      About 28 days after the last dose of study drug(s):

        -  Blood (about 1½ teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a bone marrow aspirate/biopsy to check
           the status of the disease.

      This is an investigational study. Pacritinib is not FDA approved or commercially available.
      It is currently being used for research purposes only. Azacitidine and decitabine are both
      FDA approved and commercially available for the treatment of MDS. The study doctor can
      explain how the study drugs are designed to work.

      Up to 40 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  