
    
      This study is an evaluation of the Fresh Rx: Nourishing Healthy Starts program administered
      by Operation Food Search, a St. Louis-based nonprofit organization. The goal of the program
      is to provide food and nutrition supports to food insecure pregnant women in order to improve
      health and birth outcomes for both the mother and the child. Specifically, this program
      provides:

        -  Facilitated access to food support programs like the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance
           Program (SNAP); Women, Infants, and Children (WIC); and food pantries

        -  Direct food delivery to pregnant women, nutrition education, and access to a registered
           dietitian

        -  Access to a social worker who will provide integrative care services

      Participants in this program will be recruited through a Medicaid Managed Care Organization
      (MCO). During their initial intake meeting with an MCO case manager, potential participants
      will be screened for food insecurity through the use of a two-item food insecurity screener.
      If a potential participant screens positive for food insecurity, she will be referred to
      Operation Food Search to begin the Nourishing Healthy Starts recruitment process. Consenting
      participants will be randomly assigned to one of three conditions (described in detail
      below), each of which provides the standard of care women would receive in the absence of the
      program plus additional program features.

      Control Group. The control group in this study will still receive some services above and
      beyond the usual standard of care offered to pregnant women on Medicaid. In addition to the
      case management services offered through their managed care provider, Operation Food Search
      will offer this group access to the "hunger hotline," a service provided by Operation Food
      Search to help them find food assistance around St. Louis; assistance in enrolling in public
      nutrition assistance programs like SNAP and WIC; and guidance on food pantry access in St.
      Louis.

      Treatment 1: Food Supplementation and Education Group. This treatment group will receive all
      the services offered to the control group, as well as the following services:

        1. Weekly food deliveries of fresh food meal kits with step-by-step recipes from the time
           of program enrollment through 60 days post-partum;

        2. Access to necessary cooking tools for their kitchen (e.g., spatulas, cutting boards ,
           etc.), should they need them.

        3. Access to online cooking resources to help guide them on culinary skills and recipe
           preparation.

        4. Nutrition education and counseling provided by a registered dietitian.

      Treatment 2: Food Supplementation, Education, and Integrative Case Management. This treatment
      group will receive all the services offered to Treatment Group 1, as well as the services of
      a licensed social worker who will provide trauma-informed integrative care services to
      participants. These services will focus on an array of potential needs that may emerge in
      participants' lives, such as assistance in finding stable housing, assistance navigating
      social services, connections with other community organizations, and other needs.

      This evaluation will combine longitudinal survey data from participants with health claims
      data provided by the MCOs. Study participants will consent to have their data collected and
      linked for research purposes. The research team will not have access to any personally
      identifiable information on program participants, and the team will analyze a deidentified
      dataset.

      Each intervention approach will examine a different method of providing women with access to
      affordable, nutritious food throughout their pregnancy and through the early post-partum
      period. After it is determined how best to support food insecure women and their families,
      the evidence from this study may be used to make a case for treating healthy food supports as
      part of a new standard of care for food insecure pregnant women. The results will provide
      information to public health agencies, public insurance systems, Medicaid MCOs, and other
      insurance companies in order to help them understand the potential benefits of these food
      supports.
    
  