
    
      Chronic Chagas cardiomyopathy (CCC) is an important cause of heart failure (HF) and sudden
      death in Latin America.1 According to recent estimates, 13 million people worldwide are
      infected with Trypanosoma cruzi, of whom 3.0 to 3.3 million are symptomatic.2 The incidence
      rate is 200000 cases per year. Among those infected, 30% have clinical features of CCC and
      15% ultimately develop overt left ventricular (LV) insufficiency-the main prognostic
      determinant of the disease. In Chagas cardiomyopathy, the hemodynamic and neurohormonal
      responses do not differ from those in other cardiomyopathies. This common pathophysiology
      suggests that treatments shown to be effective by classic HF trials should be beneficial in
      CCC. However, CCC has several specific characteristics, such as early cardiac denervation,
      frequent ventricular arrhythmias, and several forms as well as grades of conduction
      disturbances, including sinus bradycardia, complete atrioventricular block, and right
      bundle-branch block. Morphologically, hypertrophy, dilatation, and severe fibrosis are
      prominent. In 20% to 40% of cases, an apical ventricular aneurysm is present.1 These
      peculiarities in combination lead to a high incidence of sudden death (60% of all deaths),
      cardiac insufficiency, and ventricular remodeling. The responses of patients to the usual
      drugs prescribed in HF could be different, and this perception has led to the suboptimal
      dosing or lack of initiation of medical treatments that are of proven efficacy in patients
      with other etiologies of HF. The underlying problem is that therapies that are effective in
      patients with HF caused by non-chagasic cardiomyopathies, such as those with
      renin-angiotensin system inhibitors (RASis) and h-blockers, have yet to be formally tested in
      CCC. There are few clinical trials and no randomized study on this subject. Consequently, the
      investigators evaluated the effects of optimizing treatment with enalapril and spironolactone
      and then undertook a randomized trial of adding a h-blocker in the treatment of patients with
      CCC.
    
  