
    
      This research study is a Phase Ib clinical trial, which tests the safety of an
      investigational combination of drugs and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the
      investigational drugs to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the drug is
      being studied.

      FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved of the combination of the study
      drugs pembrolizumab and AMG386 as a treatment for any disease. However, the FDA has approved
      pembrolizumab by itself for melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer.

      Pembrolizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody, or specialized type of protein, produced in
      the laboratory for use in treating patients with the participant disease. Pembrolizumab is
      designed to augment the natural ability of the immune system to recognize and target cancer
      cells.

      AMG386 is a drug that may kill tumor cells and blocks blood vessels that supply the tumor
      with nutrients and oxygen. Drugs that block blood vessel formation are called
      "anti-angiogenic" therapies. AMG386 has been used and is currently being used in other
      clinical trials treating different types of cancer. Information from these other clinical
      trials suggests that this drug may help stop tumor growth.

      In this research study, the investigators are interested in looking at the combination of
      AMG386 with pembrolizumab because research done in the laboratory has suggested that the
      immunotherapy effect could be limited by the presence of tumor vessels in a process called
      angiogenesis. Adding AMG386 to pembrolizumab may help overcome this limitation and augment
      the effect of pembrolizumab.

      This combination of study drugs is being researched to:

        -  Determine the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab and AMG386 at different dose
           levels.

        -  Determine the side effects of pembrolizumab and AMG386 when they are given in
           combination

        -  Determine if pembrolizumab in combination with AMG386 is a possible treatment for cancer

        -  Determine if pembrolizumab in combination with AMG386 changes immune cells in the blood
           or tumor
    
  