
    
      SAMPLE:

      Patients must have histologically-confirmed diagnosis of stage IIIB or IV NSCLC, with prior
      treatment with Erlotinib. In the phase I study the upper expected number of patients will be
      eighteen. In the phase II thirty two eligible patients will be included in the study. The
      enrollment period will be approximately 1.5 years. All patients will be treated with
      Erlotinib and Vorinostat regimen. Participating hospitals will be those of the Spanish Lung
      Cancer Group (SLCG).

      For the phase I portion, there will be 3 sites: Dr. Noemi Reguart and Dr. Rafael Rosell,
      Institut Catala d'Oncologia, Hospital Germans Trias i Pujol, Badalona (Barcelona, Spain), Dr.
      Felip Cardenal, Institut Catalan d'Oncologia. Centre Sanitari i Universitari de Bellvitge
      (CSUB), Hospitalet de Llobregat (Barcelona, Spain) and Dr. Lola Isla, Hospital Clinico Lozano
      Blesa, (Zaragoza, Spain) For the phase II portion, 10 hospitals (adding 7 to the first 3)
      from the Spanish Lung Cancer Group (SLCG) will be involved. Hospitals will be included during
      phase I study.

      OBJECTIVES AND HYPOTHESES Primary Phase I

      (1) To determine the MTD of oral vorinostat in combination with erlotinib and to ensure that
      this treatment is sufficiently safe and tolerable to permit further study.

      Phase II (1) To determine the percentage of patients free of progression at 12 weeks.
      Hypothesis: We considered that treatment was effective if we obtained a percentage of
      patients free of progression at 12 weeks higher than 60%.

      Secondary

      (1) To determine the CBR (clinical benefit rate), response rate, time to progression, time to
      response, response duration, and progression free survival in patients treated with
      vorinostat and erlotinib in combination.

      Hypothesis: CBR should be of at least 25% and it will include stable disease for at least 3
      months and objective RECIST response for at least 4 weeks.

      Exploratory endpoints

      Molecular analysis:

      Main Objective: analysis of EGFR mutations (in exons 19, 20 and 21) in serum samples at
      baseline (before treatment), at three months of treatment and at the end of the treatment.

      Secondary Objectives: retrospective analysis of molecular markers potentially related to drug
      sensitivity such as E-catherin protein expression, thioredoxin serum levels; Hsp70;
      methylation of 14-3-3r and CHFR.
    
  