
    
      The study will be a randomized double blind prospective placebo controlled clinical study
      (Clinical Trial phase II) of 50 patients (25 in LR group, 25 in placebo group) with a
      confirmed cancer diagnosis requiring head and neck radiotherapy with a minimum dose of
      6000cGy.

      Patients will be randomly assigned to either of the treatment arms in a 1:1 ratio. The active
      agent; Lactobacillus reuteri Prodentis (Biogaia ®) will be supplied in droplet form by Pharma
      forte Singapore Pte Ltd and dosage used will be as recommended by manufacturer (5 drops/time
      twice a day which is equivalent to 4 X 108 CFU of live bacteria). The control agent will be
      identical in physical appearance and color to the study agent and will be made by the
      manufacturer.

      Patients assigned to either LR group or placebo group will start from the first day of
      radiotherapy and continued until 2-week post radiation (approximately 8-9 weeks). Patients
      will be instructed to use the LR droplets twice a day according to manufacturer's
      instructions; once in the morning after breakfast and the other just before bedtime and to
      avoid any food/drinks 30 minutes before and after usage. Compliance with treatment will be
      elicited and recorded.

      The dose selection is based on manufacturer's recommendations and is safe for use during
      pregnancy and breastfeeding. However, this is not an issue in this population as none of the
      patients should be pregnant or breastfeeding while receiving radiation and anti-neoplastic
      chemotherapy.

      The PI will serve as the auditor for data quality assurance on a quarterly basis.Data
      collected on paper will be stored in the principal investigator's locked cabinet. Data will
      be entered into Microsoft Excel™ (2007) and double entered for accuracy. Data will be kept in
      a password secured portable computer and backed up to dedicated local back-up drive every
      week. Only group statistics will be reported. The database will only be accessible to
      investigators involved in and approved for the study. All data will be kept for 6 years after
      study completion to access data for publication of the work done, after which data will be
      destroyed.
    
  