
    
      Transgender women (trans women; individuals with a feminine and/or female gender identity who
      were assigned male at birth) are disproportionately affected by HIV. One of the most
      consistently reported contexts for HIV transmission among trans women is within a primary
      partnership. In this partnership context, trans women report low condom use, difficulty
      disclosing their HIV status and negotiating HIV prevention strategies, poor communication
      about whether they permit sex outside of the relationship, and low rates of routine HIV
      testing. Likewise, research among males who have sex with trans women has found high HIV
      prevalence, inconsistent condom use with trans women, and low engagement with HIV prevention
      services.5

      For the past 10 years the investigators have conducted research to identify intervention
      targets for reducing HIV transmission in trans women and their partner using qualitative,
      survey, and intervention adaptation methodologies. Based on these conceptual and empirical
      understandings of HIV transmission in these dyads, the investigative team developed and pilot
      tested the first known couples-based HIV prevention program for trans women and primary
      partners (called "Couples HIV Intervention Program" or CHIP). CHIP was feasible, acceptable,
      and produced significant reductions in condomless sex acts with primary and casual partners
      and in number of casual partners at 3-month follow-up compared to a control group.

      The project seeks to test the efficacy of the CHIP intervention on reductions in a Composite
      Risk for HIV (CR-HIV) outcome. CR-HIV is a binary indicator of couple HIV risk using
      validated measures of sexual behavior (defined as condomless anal or vaginal sex with a
      serodiscordant or unknown HIV status primary or outside partner), as well as PrEP use among
      HIV-negative participants and viral suppression among HIV-positive partners. The study
      involves two-arm prospective RCT in which 100 trans women and their partners (200
      participants) will complete a Baseline assessment and then complete assessments every 3
      months for 12 months. Recruitment and study activities will occur in San Francisco,
      California.

      The primary specific aim is to:

      1. Evaluate the efficacy of CHIP on CR-HIV compared to an enhanced standard of care control
      condition. Hypothesis: It is hypothesize that couples in the CHIP condition will have lower
      CR-HIV at 12-month follow-up compared to couples in the control.

      The secondary aims are to:

        1. Assess the effect of CHIP on theory-based mediators (i.e., communication, joint
           problem-solving).

        2. Explore partner gender (trans woman vs. male partner and couple HIV status
           (seroconcordant negative vs. serodiscordant) as potential moderators of the effect of
           CHIP on CR-HIV.
    
  