
    
      Participants will be recruited from Urogynecology Physical Therapy Outpatient Clinic of a
      university hospital and randomly assigned using website www.randomization.com and distributed
      into five groups considering the sites of application and frequency of attendanc, listed
      above.

      Data will be collected by the investigator using interview and physical examination and will
      be safely stored in computer.

      For this study, in terms of urinary frequency, the standard deviation was estimated at 3.25
      episodes of urinary urgency (SD=3.25). With 80% power and 95% confidence, the sample size
      calculation was 25 women in each group, plus a possible sample loss of around 20%, resulting
      in a sample size of 29 women per group, for a total of 145 patients in the study.

      The chi-square test was used to assess whether there was an association between sample
      description variables and treatments. The analysis of variance F-test was used to assess
      whether there were differences in the numerical descriptive variables between treatment
      groups. The nonparametric Kruskal-Wallis test was used to compare treatments in terms of the
      difference between before and after for each quality of life and voiding diary variables. If
      there was statistical significance, the Dunn multiple comparison test was performed, with
      p-values of less than 0.05 considered significant. The analysis of variance model with
      repeated measures was used to compare data from the specific voiding diary according to the
      treatment groups and sessions. Significant comparisons were evaluated with Tukey post-hoc
      test. To approximate data to the normality, a 1/log (variable+1) transformation was done. For
      the follow up analysis, it was used the ANOVA three ways, with Holm Sidak post-hoc test for
      comparison of scores. All the statistical tests developed were based on a significance of 5%,
      i.e., the null hypothesis was rejected when the p-value was less than 0.05.
    
  