
    
      Hypertension is a common but frequently overlooked and underreported adverse effect of
      erythropoietin (EPO) therapy. Recent trials have noted substantial cardiovascular risks
      associated with normalization of hemoglobin. The risk of strokes is strongly related to
      poorly controlled hypertension. Blood pressure was not measured the way it usually is in
      hypertension trials, so the investigators cannot be completely confident that the risk of
      strokes in this large randomized trial was not related to EPO-induced hypertension. New
      therapies, such as hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) stabilizers are on the horizon but it
      remains to be seen whether these new drugs would have a lower or a higher risk for
      hypertension compared to EPO. Accordingly, understanding the mechanism of EPO-induced
      hypertension is urgent. The investigators hypothesize that compared to untreated controls,
      EPO therapy in anemic patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) will raise diastolic blood
      pressure. The magnitude of increase in diastolic BP at 12 weeks after treatment will be
      related to two factors. First, endothelial dysfunction and worsening of endothelial function
      from baseline to 4 weeks and second, the modulation of forearm blood flow in response to
      breathing oxygen and the change in this measure from baseline to 4 weeks. If the
      investigators understood the time course, the magnitude, and the mechanisms of
      exercise-induced hypertension (EIH) the investigators will better be able to design studies
      to compare the vascular effects of EPO and HIF stabilizers in the future. Thus, this study
      has the potential of improving the investigators' understanding of a common side effect of
      EPO by precisely quantifying the magnitude of BP change, its effects on endothelial function,
      and discovering the biomarkers of these adverse effects. Thus, the investigators can in the
      future robustly compare these effects of EPO with HIF stabilizers. This study is innovative
      because it will focus on the potential mechanisms by which EPO induces an increase in BP. The
      time-course and magnitude of change in BP will be assessed using the gold-standard
      measurement of 24 hour ambulatory BP recordings. The more frequent clinic BP recordings using
      validated methods will better allow us to track changes in BP over time. The investigators'
      lab is uniquely qualified to carry out these experiments due to a large experience with such
      types of studies. The investigators will examine endothelial function using a reference
      method -- that of flow-mediated dilatation -- which is established in the investigators'
      laboratory. The investigators will directly test the hypothesis whether hypoxia-sensitivity
      of the vascular tissue is responsible for the BP increase.
    
  