
    
      Bipolar type II depression (BD II) is a less severe type of bipolar disorder. BD II is
      characterized by one or more depressive episodes and at least one hypomanic episode. During
      hypomanic episodes, people experience especially energetic or anxious moods, and their
      thoughts are more sporadic than usual, but they do not experience the severity of mania.
      Symptoms of BD II are known to impair daily functioning as well as cause distress and even
      suicide. Antidepressant medication alone is not recommended for people with bipolar disorder
      because manic symptoms usually worsen. It is unknown whether the same recommendation should
      apply to people with BD II. Sertraline is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI)
      antidepressant that increases levels of serotonin, helping the brain to maintain mental
      stability. It is often used to treat depression, panic attacks, and other disorders. Lithium
      is a mood stabilizing medication that decreases abnormal brain activity and is used to treat
      and prevent recurring episodes of mania in people with bipolar disorders. This study will
      evaluate the effectiveness of lithium alone, sertraline alone, and lithium with sertraline to
      treat symptoms of BD II.

      Participation in this double-blind study will last up to 18 weeks. Participants will be
      randomly assigned to receive either lithium, sertraline, or lithium and sertraline. Both
      medications will initially be given at a low dose and then gradually increased over 2 weeks.
      For the remainder of the study, dosages will be adjusted as necessary. Study visits will
      occur every week for the first 6 weeks and then every other week for the remaining 10 weeks.
      During all study visits, participants will complete a psychiatric assessment and
      questionnaires about their current mood and any treatment side effects. Urine and blood
      collection may occur at selected times during the study.
    
  