
    
      Research Methods:

      The patient will need to complete one visit that will take about 3 hours of their time. All
      testing will be performed in the Nuclear Medicine Department located on the first floor of
      the Presbyterian Hospital.

      Screening:

        1. For women who could possibly be pregnant, a small amount of urine will be used for
           pregnancy testing to be performed on the study day prior to any drug delivery. Pregnant
           women, or women who are currently breast-feeding an infant, will not be allowed to take
           part in this study.

        2. Patients will be asked a few questions that will not take more than five minutes by one
           of the investigators or study coordinator. These questions include information about
           past medical history, surgical dates, medications, etc. The patient's medical record
           will be reviewed for demographic information (age, sex, and race), lab results (standard
           post transplant care), medication information, as well as any testing/procedures that
           they have undergone.

      Experimental Procedures:

        1. Fifteen minutes prior to the administration of radiolabeled Abelcet® by nebulizer, we
           will measure and assess blood pressure and heart rate, assess lung sounds, perform
           pulmonary function testing, and re-verify that the subject has no known allergies or
           previous adverse experiences with radiopharmaceuticals. Female subjects will receive a
           urine pregnancy test on the day of testing, prior to drug administration.

        2. Subjects will be seated between the heads of a dual-head gamma camera so that the region
           from the top of the head to the stomach is viewable by this device which depicts
           radioactivity inside of the body. Subjects will then inhale the test aerosol. The
           aerosol will be delivered using an Aeroeclipse breath actuated Nebulizer driven by a
           DeVilbiss 8650D compressor set to 40psig. The anterior head of the gamma camera will be
           moved away from the subject during aerosol administration, but imaging will be performed
           through the posterior head throughout the drug delivery. Drug delivery will take
           approximately 25 minutes.

        3. When the nebulized dose has been completely delivered the nebulizer and associated
           equipment will be removed from the room, and the anterior head of the gamma camera will
           be brought back into close proximity to the subject. A series of 30s images will be
           taken depicting the drug deposited in the subjects. The first 4 images will be taken
           manually at high-pixel resolution. The camera will then be set to automatically acquire
           images for the next 20 minutes at lower resolution.

        4. Radioactivity will be used as an analog for drug dose. The starting dose of
           radioactivity added to the nebulizer will be compared to the dose found in the nebulizer
           and exhalation filters after dose delivery, in order to determine the total dose
           deposited. The regional breakdown of the deposited dose will be determined using the
           gamma camera images.

        5. While the camera heads are still in close proximity to the subject, a small amount of
           Xenon [Xe-133] gas will be administered to the subjects via mask so that the shape of
           the lungs can be depicted and imaged. This gas will then be washed out through an
           absorbent filter. The gas inhalation will take approximately 6 minutes.

        6. After the completion of imaging (approximately 30 minutes after drug administration)
           subjects will be moved to a small exam room where again blood pressure, heart rate, and
           lung sounds will be reassessed. Pulmonary function tests will be re-performed and the
           change in forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1] (if any) caused by the drug will
           be determined. Subjects will be treated with bronchodilators if exam reveals any signs
           of bronchoconstriction resulting from the aerosol. In addition, adverse events will be
           monitored and recorded.

      Monitoring/Follow Up:

      Each participant will undergo the following monitoring procedures to evaluate the
      effectiveness and safety of the experimental procedures that are not part of standard medical
      care.

        1. The monitoring/follow-up procedures include a follow-up phone call from the study
           coordinator to check for any side effects of the experimental procedure. This call will
           take place the day after the participant has completed the experimental procedure. This
           call will take no longer than 5-10 minutes to complete.

        2. Thirty days after participants have completed the experimental procedure, the study
           coordinator will call the participant to check for any side effects associated with the
           experimental procedure. This call will take no longer than 5-10 minutes to complete.

      After this phone call the patient will have completed the study.

      Rationale for Follow-Up:

      The half-life of the radiopharmaceutical [Technetium (Tc-99m)] used for labeling of the drug
      is 6.02 hours. The serum half-life for amphotericin after intravenous (IV) Abelcet
      administration is of the order of 170 hours (Abelcet label). Detectable concentrations of
      Amphotericin have been found in the BAL fluid of the lungs after 192 hours post
      administration of inhaled Abelcet in our previous studies. The longer half-life associated
      with the active medication necessitates the longer follow up period.
    
  