
    
      Medication reconciliation, a process by which a provider obtains and documents a thorough
      medication history with specific attention to comparing current and previous medication use,
      can prevent medication-related errors and harm. The most important barrier to effective
      medication reconciliation is the unreliability of patients' own reports about their
      medication use and incomplete provider history-taking. The James J. Peters VA (JJP VA)
      participates in the Bronx RHIO, a New York State-funded health information exchange
      organization that in October 2008 implemented clinical data information exchange among the
      largest healthcare providers in the Bronx. JJP VA providers can now access clinical data,
      including medication use, from non-VA facilities with patients' consent. The aims of this
      study are: 1) To adapt a medication reconciliation process to include information from a
      regional health information exchange (RHIO), 2) To conduct a controlled trial of a medication
      reconciliation process at the time of hospital admission either enhanced or not enhanced with
      data from a regional health information exchange, and examine effects on transition drug
      risk, adverse drug events, and total inpatient costs, and 3) To identify system and provider
      factors that impede and facilitate adoption of the information exchange tool for routine use
      by VA providers. The investigators plan to conduct qualitative and quantitative studies.
      First the investigators will perform cognitive task analysis (CTA) to examine providers'
      decision-making and to map RHIO tool functions while providers interface with the tool, with
      interview questions to identify factors that facilitate or hinder use. Second, the
      investigators will enroll patients admitted to 2 inpatient units at the JJP VA, and assign
      them to receive usual medication reconciliation or RHIO-enhanced medication reconciliation
      with a notification to physicians about the patient's non-VA services that can be viewed in
      the RHIO. The investigators will measure transition drug risk and ADEs by medical record
      review and patient interview, and measure inpatient costs with administrative cost data from
      national VA datasets. Third, the investigators will conduct CTA with pharmacists and
      physicians at the end of the quantitative study who are expert in use of the tool to
      characterize differences in cognitive processes from prior to the quantitative study. This
      will supply information on system and provider factors that impede and facilitate adoption of
      the tool for routine use, and on potential improvements in the tool. Findings from this
      project will provide an understanding of the effect of real-time review of Veteran's non-VA
      medication use -- enabled by a Regional Health Information Organization (RHIO) tool -- on
      reducing duplicative VA and non-VA medication use and adverse drug events in Veterans. It
      will also provide information on the feasibility and effectiveness of incorporating RHIO tool
      access and use into every day work flow for VA pharmacist and physician providers.
    
  