
    
      The Study Drug:

      Cidofovir is an anti-viral drug that is designed to treat or prevent infections caused by
      certain kinds of viruses.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups and you will have an equal chance of being in
      either group:

        -  If you are in Group 1, you will receive standard of care drugs and cidofovir. The doctor
           will tell you more about the standard of care drugs that you will take and the risks for
           them.

        -  If you are in Group 2, you will only receive standard of care drugs.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are in Group 1, you will receive cidofovir by vein over about 1 hour 3 times per week.
      You will also receive standard of care, which may include oral pain drugs taken every 4 to 6
      hours as needed, oral drugs for urinary urgency taken 2 times daily, and fluids given by vein
      to increase your urination rate.

      If you are in Group 2, you will only receive the standard of care, as described above.

      Study Visits:

      Each week:

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

      Every 2 weeks, you will complete the questionnaire about urinary problems.

      Length of Study:

      If you are in Group 1, you may continue taking the study drug for up to 4 weeks. Group 2 will
      take the standard of care for 4 weeks. If the doctor thinks it is needed Groups 1 and 2 can
      continue to receive standard of care after this study is over. If your symptoms get worse
      during the study and you are not receiving cidofovir, you may be eligible for further
      treatments, which may include cidofovir, after the study ends. You will no longer be able to
      take the study drug if the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      Your participation on the study will be over once you have completed the end-of-treatment
      visit and the follow-up visit.

      End-of-Treatment Visit:

      After you finish treatment:

        -  Urine will be collected to test the level of BK virus.

        -  You will complete the questionnaire about urinary problems.

      Follow-up Visit:

      Four (4) weeks after treatment ends:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  Urine will be collected to test the level of BK virus.

      This is an investigational study. Cidofovir is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of several viral infections. Its use in patients with the BK virus after a stem
      cell transplant is investigational.

      Up to 40 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  