
    
      For the first time a platelet abnormality in IBD was reported in 1968, with a description of
      an increased platelet count in patients having an exacerbation of clinical activity 1. Since
      then it has been established that thrombocytosis and platelet activation are common features
      in IBD2. Both features are strongly connected to thromboembolic events, which are a major
      cause of patient morbidity and mortality 3. In vitro studies have so far shown that
      spontaneous platelet aggregation is present in more than 30% of IBD patients compared to none
      of the controls and besides independent of disease severity 4.

      Unfortunately the mechanisms behind the abnormal megakaryopoiesis are not completely
      understood. Nevertheless platelets can store and produce a large amount of inflammatory
      mediators and are activated by multiple proinflammatory substances. Therefore, platelets are
      regarded as a major target in the therapy of inflammatory bowel diseases 5. An increase in
      systemic cytokine levels such as IL-6 or IL-11 may contribute to enhanced platelet
      production. Also intestinal bleeding and iron deficiency, which are major symptoms of IBD,
      may have stimulatory effects on megakaryopoiesis 6.

      Previously, we observed a normalization of elevated platelet counts in IBD patients with iron
      deficiency anemia (IDA) upon treatment with intravenous iron sucrose 7. We therefore believe
      that iron deficiency is causatively involved in the pathogenesis of thrombocytosis in IBD and
      intend to investigate the effect of intravenous iron therapy on platelet levels and platelet
      activation markers in patients with IBD and iron deficiency.

      Vifor (International) Inc. has developed a new formulation of parenteral iron, FERINJECT® (5%
      w/v iron carboxymaltose in a solution of water for injection). Based on preclinical toxicity
      data and clinical experience, FERINJECT® does not cause anaphylactic reactions or liver
      toxicity. Based on human pharmacokinetic data, the estimated terminal half-life of FERINJECT®
      is 16 hours. The analysis of a FERINJECT® positron emission tomography (PET) study in six
      patients each receiving a single dose of 100mg iron as FERINJECT® demonstrated that, during
      the initial distribution phase, a major proportion of the dose was distributed to the bone
      marrow . Red cell utilization of iron was found to be high. After 24 days, patients with IDA
      showed a red cell utilization of 91% to 99%. Various studies demonstrated that FERINJECT®
      could be safely administered at doses of up to 1000mg, which is a significant advantage of
      FERINJECT® over iron sucrose.

      A multiple-dose phase I/II study in patients with IBD investigating the safety, efficacy, and
      kinetics of repeated doses of FERINJECT® has been completed. Patients who were treated at our
      unit (Medical University of Vienna) were also analyzed regarding the effect of VIT45 on
      platelet counts. Similar to our experience with iron sucrose, we observed a significant drop
      in thrombocytosis within 8 weeks pointing again to the direct effect of iron on regulating
      megakaryopoiesis in vivo8.

      This study tries to show the benefits for patients, with a high platelet count, iron
      deficiency and IBD, receiving intravenous iron therapy.

      As with all iron preparations, overdosing with respect to the total amount should be avoided.
      The maximum infused weekly dose of FERINJECT® will be 500 mg. Based on animal toxicity data
      and patient experience, FERINJECT® does not cause anaphylactic reactions or liver toxicity at
      the doses intended for use in this study. However, due to the relatively large doses of iron
      being administered, patients will be monitored carefully throughout the study for symptoms of
      iron overload.

      Potential benefits to the patients include a decrease of the platelet counts, besides a
      increase in hemoglobin levels and normalization of iron stores.

      Primary Objective:

      To evaluate the efficacy of FERINJECT® in reducing elevated platelet counts

      Secondary Objectives:

      To evaluate the effect of FERINJECT® on coagulation and platelet activation parameters To
      evaluate the efficacy of FERINJECT® in normalizing iron deficiency To evaluate the change of
      quality in life and disease activity To evaluate the safety of FERINJECT®
    
  