
    
      Chagas disease (CD) is an endemic zoonotic disease caused by the protozoan parasite, T.
      cruzi. It affects 8-10 million people in Latin America and is a worldwide public health issue
      due to migratory flows. CD has a significant economic impact. Recently, a study showed that
      the global costs for CD are US$7-19 billion per year, similar or even higher to those of
      other important diseases such as rotavirus infection or cervical cancer. Treatment of chronic
      CD (CCD) has been hampered, unlike other illnesses, by the paramount importance given to the
      autoimmune theory of the disease that prevailed for many years. As a result, several
      generations of health professionals were trained in the belief that CCD had no treatment. As
      a consequence, currently, most (>99%) chronically infected people are still not treated with
      specific antiparasitic drugs, and the research and development for new, more effective drugs
      was overlooked for many years, until very recently. Nowadays, the key role of the parasite
      persistence in the pathophysiology of CD is recognized, as well as the need for specific
      treatment.

      Current approved specific treatments for CD include nifurtimox (NFX) and benznidazole (BZN)
      and the recommended dosing regimens are 5 mg/Kg/day divided into two doses (2.5 mg/Kg b.i.d)
      given for 60 days for BZN, and 8 mg/Kg divided into three equal daily doses (2.7 mg/Kg
      t.i.d.) given for 90 days for NFX. The efficacy of both drugs in patients with T. cruzi
      infection is highly variable and depends on the disease stage, the drug dose, the age of
      patients, and the infecting T. cruzi strain or genotype. Moreover, the high rate of adverse
      events hampers their standard use in the field. Recent studies show that at the current doses
      of both drugs, more than 70% of patients suffer mild/moderate reactions and around 10-27%
      experience serious ones, forcing patients to stop the treatment and take appropriate
      medications for the adverse events. Data on the pharmacokinetics (PK) of BZN and NFX are
      limited and there are no recent data on PK of NFX in adults with chronic CD. Moreover, due to
      a lack of early BMKs of therapeutic efficacy, the true efficacy of these drugs remains
      unknown. Seroconversion using conventional serology (CS) is often long-term (~10-20 years) or
      incomplete, and a reduction in T. cruzi-specific antibody titers often takes many years,
      rendering the evaluation of response to treatment insensitive and lengthy, and therefore
      impractical in clinical settings. The need for new, safer, and more efficacious drugs against
      T. cruzi as well as early BMKS of therapeutic efficacy are the major challenges in the
      treatment of CD, particularly in chronic adults.

      With this project, the investigators aim to achieve specific knowledge about the safety and
      efficacy of new dosing regimens for BZN and NFX. The proposed new regimens for these drugs
      are based on recent data that suggest that with half of the dosing frequency the levels of
      BZN can be maintained in the therapeutic range of this drug, which could conceivably reduce
      the appearance of adverse events while maintaining antiparasitic efficacy. At the same time,
      the investigators plan to evaluate whether the drug efficacy will be maintained if the
      investigators reduce the length of treatment with BZN or NFX to 30 days. Furthermore, the
      investigators also plan to evaluate whether the efficacy of the treatment with BZN or NFX is
      improved by increasing its duration to 90 days and to evaluate novel potential BMKs of
      response to specific treatment and eventual parasitological cure in CCD patients. The
      information obtained in this study would also allow for better-designed clinical trials with
      drug combinations, in which NFX and BZN will have a central role.
    
  