
    
      A high quality of end of life care and a "good death" as part of an improved patient centered
      care at the end of life have become important goals of palliative care. To achieve these
      goals, patient's preferences for end of life (EOL) care need to be known.

      This study (randomized controlled trial) will evaluate effectiveness of a new type of advance
      care planning (ACP) intervention in different palliative care settings in Germany. The study
      addresses a new concept of ACP called collaborative advance care planning (cACP). This new
      concept is focusing on psychosocial barriers of patients and caregivers in addition to a
      standardized ACP process in order to reduce distress of patients and care-givers and enhance
      the chance of successful ACP-implementation. The main research questions are: a) Can cACP
      improve quality of life in palliative patients and caregivers?, b) Does cACP reduce distress
      in patients and caregivers and enhance consistency of end-of-life care? and c) Does cACP
      improve quality of end of life care and reduce utilization of health care resources? The
      investigators will try to answer theses research questions through a so called "randomized
      controlled trial" methodology. Admissible palliative cancer patients who are willing to
      participate in the trial will be randomly assigned to three groups. The first group will
      receive treatment as usual for palliative care patients. The second group will receive
      treatment as usual and an unspecific psychological intervention (sham-intervention). The
      third group will receive treatment as usual and the intervention designed for this trial.
      Both interventions will be equally long in duration and will be delivered by the same
      psychologists.

      The primary outcome is the quality of life at 16 weeks measured by the internationally
      recognized "Functional Assessment of Cancer - General Version (FACT-G)" questionnaire.
      Secondary endpoints include measurements of the development of QoL over time, distress,
      depression, and the quantity of advance directives in the different groups.

      Patients will be recruited in four different recruiting sites: a palliative care ward in an
      university hospital, an oncologists office, a rehabilitation clinic, and an outpatient
      palliative care network.

      The study will recruit 90 patients in every group, 270 patients in total.
    
  