
    
      The study protocol was approved by the Local Ethics Committee. Written informed consent was
      obtained from each patient. The study was carried out in accordance with The Code of Ethics
      of the Declaration of Helsinki. The study was conducted between April 2017 - July 2017 with a
      prospective, randomized, double-blind design on 62 patients who had undergone total abdominal
      hysterectomy with Pfannenstiel incision. American Society of Anesthesiologist (ASA) II-III,
      patients between the ages of 18-75 were included in the study. The participants with bleeding
      diathesis, those who could not communicate (mental disorder, language problem, etc.), those
      with allergies to the drugs used, those who did not wish to participate in the study, and
      those who had an infection in the block area were excluded from the study. The participants
      were divided into 2 groups with the sealed envelope technique preoperatively Transversus
      Abdominis Plane Block Procedure Before the surgical procedure, the muscles were screened at
      the umbilicus plain/mid-axillary line with the ultrasound using a linear probe while the
      participants in the supine position. The skin, subcutaneous adipose tissue, external oblique
      muscle, internal oblique muscle, transversus abdominis muscle, and peritoneum were
      visualized. The block needle was advanced in the posterolateral direction with the in-plain
      approach. 0.3 ml/kg of 0.25% bupivacaine was administered bilaterally into the space between
      the internal oblique muscle and the transversus abdominis muscle.

      Transmuscular Quadratus Lumborum Block Procedure Quadratus lumborum muscle could be
      recognized with ultrasound via the convex probe was transversally attached above iliac crest
      at the midaxillary line while the patients were in the lateral decubitus position. The point
      of injection with a block needle in transmuscular Quadratus Lumborum Block is between the
      anterior border of Quadratus lumborum muscle and psoas major muscles. A transmuscular
      Quadratus Lumborum Block was performed bilaterally with 0,3 ml/kg 0.25% bupivacaine solution
      injection on each side.
    
  