
    
      This single-arm clinical trial aims, in a period of 12 months, to pilot and evaluate an
      online delivery of Melodies for Mums with the ambition:

        1. To develop a remote intervention that can become a mainstream therapeutic tool not only
           at times of social isolation and distancing, but also for mothers who cannot leave their
           houses (e.g. because of mental health difficulties or medical comorbidities) or who live
           in areas where the intervention is unavailable;

        2. To create a separate control group to the original face-to-face intervention, as the
           investigators are still aiming to deliver the original SHAPER-PND when the investigators
           will be able to start again; and

        3. To make the best use of the expertise/experience available within the researchers and
           artists community brought together by the Wellcome Trust funding for the SHAPER-PND
           study.

      In light of the limitations imposed by the current pandemic, the investigators aim to deliver
      M4M using a virtual platform to replace the in-person singing sessions. To achieve this, the
      investigators will deliver a more advanced version of a 'virtual choir' but keeping to the
      framework of the existing M4M programme; the investigators take the learnings by Breathe Arts
      Health Research from their Breathe Sing group for individuals with respiratory conditions.
      Prior to lockdown, this group met fortnightly in-person to use singing to benefit physical
      and mental health. During the COVID-19 pandemic, this group has moved online and is
      continuing to have excellent uptake with weekly attendance numbers higher than when the group
      was delivered in-person. M4M online will take a similar format, consisting of weekly sessions
      of one hour each, where women connect via Zoom and sing from their home while following the
      leader. To avoid the inevitable problems with Wi-Fi delays and instability, all participants
      are muted at certain times in the session but can all hear the singing leader throughout. The
      singing leader will also use a backing track that will be recorded specifically to support
      delivery, and has other voices and harmonies included to amplify the experience of singing
      with others. An additional Breathe member of staff will support participants to set up the
      online connection before the sessions and help them troubleshoot during the session. All
      participants are also connected via a WhatsApp group (monitored by Breathe), and there will
      be a space at the beginning and end of the sessions where all participants are unmuted and
      can chat with the artist or their peers, in an unstructured way.

      M4M online will be delivered as a single-arm clinical trial, without a control group.
      Participants will be recruited in the community, mostly via social media and other
      signposting methods according to the usual procedures carried out by Breathe for recruiting
      into the face-to-face M4M programme but with enhanced advertisement and social media reach
      nationally. Before entering the study, mothers will be assessed by the research team, and if
      eligible, will be allocated to a singing group for 6 weekly sessions. Participants will
      remain in the same group to allow greater sense of community and familiarity with the artist,
      facilitator, and the other participants. Participants will be regularly assessed by the
      researchers and if they give consent, will provide biological samples. Follow up will be
      carried out 10 and 26 weeks after completion of the trial.

      Setting: This is a single-centre trial that will be run online across the UK via the platform
      Zoom. In order to enrol a sufficiently large sample of women, there will be 4 blocks of the
      6-week singing sessions in total. Women will be followed up at weeks 16 and 32.

      Recruitment will be primarily done through:

        -  Posters and flyers in baby weigh clinics and other community and clinical centres for
           postnatal mothers and their babies, if lockdown rules allow that;

        -  Signposting via other health and social care professionals and in the community via
           email contacts;

        -  Social media/online forums

        -  Self-referral following general advertisement Community services will be made aware of
           the study through a poster/flyer/e-mail campaign sent directly to them. Breathe has a
           database of contacts used to recruit for Breathe's Melodies for Mums in-person programme
           that will be used for this purpose.

      In terms of social media recruitment, the following will be used: various Facebook targeted
      groups, Instagram & Twitter hashtags to find groups and forums to promote to, plus more
      traditional routes e.g. to get local authorities to advertise as part of their various tiers
      of information of available local services.

      The first contact will be done by Breathe Arts staff over the phone, following social
      media/online self-referral/direct self-referral through posters/flyers in community and
      clinical centres. The research team will only become involved once the potential participants
      have made contact with the Breathe Arts team, completed an online screening form and given
      consent for the basic information collected onto the online screening (personal information,
      EPDS score) to be shared with the research team.

      All potential participants will initially be directed to a pre-screening online form on
      Breathe's website. This will capture basic information including the mother's name, date of
      birth (DOB), baby's DOB, address, telephone number, and once this has been submitted, they
      will be sent EPDS scale to complete. Women will be asked to read an online participant
      information sheet (PIS) and to electronically confirm consent after reading the informed
      consent form (ICF) to their personal data being collected. The PIS will explain that their
      details will be used for further contact related to the trial in case their EPDS score is
      equal or higher than 10.

      If a woman's EPDS score is lower than 10, she will receive a notification that she is not
      currently eligible to participate and will receive information on other support services in
      the meantime. In the consent form, it will be asked if she would like to be re-contacted at a
      future date when the next series of workshops is scheduled, and if she agrees, she will be
      contacted in the same way as other women who express interest for the first time and screened
      again. Researchers will wait at least 1 month before inviting re-screening.

      If a woman's score is 10 or higher, she will be notified that she is potentially eligible and
      when a new round of 6 singing sessions becomes available, the research team will arrange a
      call to undertake the full screening interview against the inclusion/exclusion criteria. This
      full screening will take place in the 2 full weeks prior to the online classes starting
      (referred to as 'Baseline'). If the participant is found to be non-eligible, they will be
      given information for other support services. If the participant is found to be eligible the
      researcher will carry out the baseline measures. A contact point will be made available for
      participants in case they wish to ask further questions regarding the trial. If more women
      are found to be eligible for each 6-week programme than the sessions have capacity for, then
      priority will be given to those with the highest EPDS scores. The others will be invited to
      rescreen for the next group.

      A copy of the ICF will be sent electronically to the participant once the baseline Zoom call
      has been arranged. The ICF will include a section detailing the samples to be collected
      (saliva) and others measures to be analysed, as well as the consent to obtain babies' data
      (in video and other formats) and babies' saliva samples throughout the study (see full table
      for more information on measures in section 9.7). A participant can opt out of the sample
      collections or babies' data collection and enter the trial for all other measures. The
      Informed consent will also include a point stating that the participants might be contacted
      for further studies. This will allow for the sample of the population enrolled on the trial
      to be approached for future follow-up research questions.

      Recruitment of deliverers:

      During the course of the study, deliverers will be recruited by the research team from the
      pool of 1-3 artists trained by Breathe that deliver the M4M sessions. Researchers will
      approach deliverers to ascertain their interest level in participating in our study.
      Deliverers will be recruited for the purpose of assessing the ways in which this 6-week
      online singing programme can ameliorate mothers' postnatal depression.

      If deliverers express interest, researchers will provide them with the Deliverer participant
      information sheet, which will explain to them why the researchers are interested in
      incorporating deliverer feedback on the programme into our study, and will explain what kind
      of information the researchers are looking to collect from them. The researchers will then
      electronically provide deliverers who are interested with the deliverer informed consent form
      to consent to their personal data being collected.

      The ICF will explain that data will be collected and stored confidentially, and will have the
      option to opt-in to each consent point.

      If deliverers consent, the UCL researcher will arrange a Zoom call with them, during which
      the researchers will interview them and collect feedback on how they felt the programme
      helped women's postnatal depression, with the aim to use their views/experiences to help
      inform upon the development of the programme.

      Safeguarding

      The research teams will have three safeguarding check points:

        1. The UCL research team will check the EPDS scores of all participants as they come
           through online (baseline, 3, 6, 16 and 32 weeks) at least once a week, and they will
           alert the clinical leads of the study if (a) EPDS scores are more than 25 out of 30 or,
           (b) EPDS includes a score of 2 or more on the self-harm question.

        2. Breathe will report to the KCL research team on any concerns during intervention
           sessions within 24 hours of noting the concern, especially if the behaviour is felt to
           be indicative that they are at immediate risk of harming themselves or their babies.

        3. If the research team thinks that the behaviour (or any responses to the questionnaires
           collected) of any participant during the online assessments or during any other contact
           (e.g. phone contact), is felt to be indicative that they are at immediate risk of
           harming themselves or their babies or others, the same process will be taken.

      The clinical leads (the perinatal psychiatrists) on the research team will assess each report
      and decide whether there is a need to contact a participant, alert a participant's GP or
      contact any other healthcare services. This decision will be made within 72 hours of
      receiving the report. Participants will be informed of this process in the PIS. If contact
      with a health professional is being made on behalf of a participant, the participant will be
      informed that this is taking place.

      Assessments Participants will be assessed via Zoom for baseline, week 6 and week 32
      assessments. Week 3 and 16 assessments will be completed online by the mothers only, due to
      the self-reporting nature of the measures. It is expected that all mothers will have access
      to an internet-enabled device, as this is an essential inclusion criterion. For baseline
      online measures, participants will be encouraged to complete these a day either side of the
      first session. For week 3 measures, participants will be encouraged to complete these within
      3 days of the session. However, in order to allow flexibility in the schedule, a +/-1 week
      variation in the date of collection of the measures will be accepted (apart from week 6, when
      the window will be weeks 6-8).

      Individual qualitative interviews with a sub sample of women will take place after the final
      session of the intervention either by telephone or video call. Interviews will also be
      conducted with the intervention deliverers/singing group leaders, the deliverers. The
      interviews will explore the experiences, mechanisms of effect, barriers and facilitators to
      taking part and delivering online singing groups.

      Sample collection and transportation Participants can opt out of sample collection at any
      stage of the study. Samples will be labelled according to participant ID allocated at
      randomisation so that the samples will not be directly linked to any personal data.

      All saliva samples will be collected by Salivette absorbent swabs for adults and SalivaBio
      Children's Swabs for babies and used to measure cortisol levels. Mothers will be asked to
      collect samples to measure diurnal cortisol rhythm and cortisol reactivity to the sessions.

      For diurnal samples, mothers will be asked to collect six saliva samples from themselves
      (awakening, +15, +30+ and +60 min after awakening, at 12 noon and 8 pm), and two samples from
      their baby (awakening and 8pm). Mothers will be asked to collect these samples up to 3 days
      prior to their session (baseline, week 3 and week 6), however, in order to allow flexibility
      in the schedule, a +/-5 day variation will be accepted in the date of collection. The
      investigators have extensively experience with this methodology and successfully collected
      such data before.

      Mothers will also be asked to collect saliva samples from themselves and their baby
      immediately before and after their session (week 1, week 3 and week 6).

      Mothers will be provided with pre-paid envelopes in which to return both diurnal and session
      samples together for each time point. All samples should be kept in the mother's fridge until
      ready to return by post.

      Follow-up data collection Upon termination of the 6 weekly sessions, participants will be
      contacted to complete follow-up questionnaires around weeks 16 and 32. An additional virtual
      assessment will be carried out around week 32. A sub sample of women will be invited to take
      part in a qualitative interview about their experiences of receiving the online intervention
      up to two weeks after their final intervention session.
    
  