
    
      Yaws is a re-emerging endemic treponemal infection caused by Treponema pallidum subp
      pertenue. This bacterium causes a chronic relapsing disease, characterized by highly
      contagious primary and secondary cutaneous lesions and non-contagious tertiary late
      destructive lesions. The Pacific Islands are believed to be a major focus of yaws worldwide,
      though population-based data on prevalence are lacking for many countries.

      Azithromycin (30mg/kg) has recently been shown to be effective in the treatment of yaws and
      is now central to WHO's yaws eradication strategy. Substituting a single dose of an oral
      antibiotic for a painful penicillin injection is a significant advantage because infection
      control measures required for injection of penicillin will no longer be required and
      treatment will be more acceptable to communities who need it.

      Previous attempts to eradicate yaws by mass treatment of active cases with injectable drugs
      yielded unsuccessful results. A major campaign to eradicate yaws in the 1950s and 1960s with
      longacting, injectable penicillin greatly reduced the number of cases of the disease
      worldwide but incubating and latent cases that were not treated developed relapses with
      infectious yaws lesions, thereby becoming a source of reinfection.

      While the earlier strategy in the 1950s, targeted just those people who were visibly
      infected, the new WHO-plan calls for blanket coverage of at least 90% of the population. The
      ratio of clinically apparent to latent cases with no symptoms is estimated as high as 1:6 and
      mass drug administration (MDA) of the entire population is the best approach to ensure that
      incubating and latent infections are adequately dealt with.

      The currently recommended treatment for eradication is one dose of oral azithromycin (30
      mg/Kg; maximum 2g) to be given to entire populations in areas known to harbor yaws. For the
      MDA to be effective, it is required to have substantial coverage in the first round. The
      initial mass treatment should be followed by resurveys every 6 months to detect and treat
      remaining cases.

      Because of the potential bacterial resistance appearance treatment failure needs to be
      monitored. Macrolide resistance is associated with point mutations at positions A2058 and
      A2059 of the 23S ribosomal RNA gene and molecular analysis need to be done in clinical
      specimens from patients who do not respond to treatment.
    
  