
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory disease with synovial tropism,
      characterized by joint pain and swelling, secondary to inflammation of the synovial membrane
      and which can lead to joint destruction, with the risk of a major functional disability.
      Biological treatments have revolutionized its management over the past 15 years. However,
      they are not effective in all patients, they are expensive, and are not without side effects
      sometimes severe.

      Currently, there is no predictive factor for response to biotherapy beyond the severity
      criteria of rheumatoid arthritis (presence of erosions, presence of anti-Citrullinated
      Protein Antibody (ACPA), importance of biological and clinical inflammation ).

      The role of T lymphocytes and B lymphocytes has been widely studied in rheumatoid arthritis.
      The activity of rheumatoid arthritis is associated with a Th1 and Th17 type CD4 + T
      polarization, with pro-inflammatory cytokine production and decreased Treg activity.

      In recent years, a population of CD4 + T lymphocytes, Tfh (T follicular helper cells) has
      been demonstrated and seems likely to play an important role in the pathogenesis of
      rheumatoid arthritis. Physiologically these cells were initially described in the secondary
      lymphoid organs where they are essential for the survival and differentiation of B
      lymphocytes into antibody-secreting cells. More recently, they have been described in the
      blood (c Tfh for circulating T follicular helper cells) and appear to be a reflection of Tfh
      activity in tissues.

      Several studies have focused on c Tfh in rheumatoid arthritis. A significantly higher level
      of c Tfh was observed in rheumatoid arthritis than in healthy controls. A significant
      positive correlation was also observed between the level of c Tfh and the titre of ACPA and
      between the rate of c Tfh and the activity of the rheumatoid arthritis, measured by the
      Disease Activity Score (DAS). However, each research group characterized the c Tfh t with
      different markers, which limits the comparison of the different results obtained.

      The rate of c Tfh also appears to be influenced by treatments. In a Chinese rheumatoid
      arthritis study, the level of c Tfh was analyzed before and after one month of treatment with
      Methotrexate and phytotherapy with Tripterygium wilfordii. The rate of cTfh had significantly
      decreased in the responders whereas it had not decreased in the non responders. All of these
      first results, observed in a limited number of patients, are in favor of a relationship
      between the level of c Tfh and the activity and / or severity of rheumatoid arthritis, and on
      the other hand, suggest that variations in c Tfh might be related to response to treatment.

      The analysis of peripheral blood lymphocyte cells has the advantage of ease of access, by
      simple venipuncture. However, these cells do not always accurately reflect the populations
      present within the synovial membrane. The analysis of the cells of the synovial membrane
      requires the realization of a biopsy, invasive gesture and incompatible with the practice in
      routine care. The analysis of the cells of the articular fluid would make it possible to
      better apprehend the resident populations of the synovial membrane without generating an
      over-risk for the patient. Indeed the gesture of joint puncture is justified in case of
      effusion by the diagnosis (to eliminate an infection) and therapeutic (to carry out if
      necessary an injection of corticosteroids). Rheumatoid arthritis joint fluids are
      inflammatory, defined by a number of nucleated elements greater than 2000 / mm3. The flow
      cytometry study, using the same phenotypic markers as those used for peripheral blood
      analysis, in patients in thrust will allow comparison of lymphocyte blood subpopulations and
      joint fluid.

      The existence of a predictive serum biomarker of response or nonresponse to anti-TNFα therapy
      would improve the management of patients by avoiding delaying the use of potentially more
      effective treatment in patients Priori non-responders to an anti-TNF α biotherapy. If
      approximately 25% of the patients are not responding to a first biotherapy, it would be
      interesting to be able to identify them upstream, using a predictive marker, in order to
      orient them early to another therapy.

      Remote infrared infrared spectroscopy, using a chalcogenide glass optical fiber, allows the
      study of the functional groups of the molecules present in a biological sample. It showed its
      ability, through the demonstration of changes in spectroscopic profiles, to discriminate
      samples representing physiological and pathological situations. This method has shown an
      interest in the early diagnosis of septic arthritis from joint puncture fluid, for the
      diagnosis of RA from serum and for staging of hepatic steatosis from serum.

      The objective of this work is to investigate whether the quantitative and / or qualitative
      variations of different lymphocyte subpopulations (especially Tfh) in a rheumatoid arthritis
      population treated with the same anti-TNF alpha (Tumor Necrosis Factor ), Adalimumab, are
      likely to influence the response or non-response to treatment at 6 months.
    
  