
    
      The investigators will begin by conducting interviews with patients who have uncontrolled
      hypertension, defined as SBP>130 or DBP>80 mmHg despite treatment with > 2 antihypertensive
      drugs, from the Primary Care internal Medicine (PCiM) clinic and the cardiology clinic in the
      Parkland Health and Hospital System (Parkland). after obtaining informed consent for
      participation, we will explain therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) as one method for accurately
      assessing the amount of prescribed antihypertensive medication in a patient's system and how
      that can be helpful to their physicians to effectively treat them. in these interviews, the
      investigators will assess reasons why patients may be nonadherent, why they may be reluctant
      to acknowledge this to their provider, explore how TDM could contradict patient self-report
      about adherence, how this contradiction could affect the patient-provider relationship, and
      how TDM could be used in a way that is acceptable to patients that enhances both the
      patient-provider relationship and improves patient health outcomes. The investigators
      anticipate conducting 10 interviews, after completing the patient interviews, the
      investigators will use what we have learned to guide the cognitive interviews with the
      hypertension clinicians. Provider participants will be recruited among physicians and nurses
      working in the PCiM and cardiology clinics at Parkland. The investigators will explore their
      responses to patient concerns, explore concerns about discussing and using TDM, especially
      how they might communicate the results of TDM testing that contradict patient self-reported
      medication adherence. After completing both patient and provider interviews, the
      investigators will create a TDM intervention discussion tool for providers to use and pilot
      this tool with a small group of TDM intervention pilot participants. This is an outline of
      the steps but the investigators will submit the surveys and discussion tools to the IRB for
      evaluation once they are developed. This will be done by a separate modification after the
      initial approval of the study once we have conducted the initial interviews. This group of
      participants will not be the same as the ones who were interviewed earlier. The discussion
      tool will include guidance to providers about explaining TDM and how it's useful for
      measuring adherence as well as prompts for addressing concerns patients identified in our
      interviews with them. The investigators will conduct this pilot intervention with 20 patients
      recruited from the PCiM and cardiology clinics who are being seen for their first follow-up
      visit post hospitalization, usually one month after discharge. Patients will be consented to
      participate in this TDM intervention, which will include measuring blood pressure, obtaining
      blood specimens for TDM, and eliciting patient self-report about medication adherence.
      Patients will be given their test results when they return for their next visit, usually 1-2
      months later. although the blood assays for drug levels are not certified by CLIA nor
      approved by the FDA, the investigators are not using drug level information to change dosing
      or titrate the medications the patient are taking. During this second visit, the provider
      will then review the patient's TDM results and use the TDM discussion tool to guide
      conversation about discrepancies and potential barriers to adherence. The investigators will
      assess patients' reactions to and satisfaction with the discussion about TDM and its
      implications, and measure their blood pressure. Participants' reactions will be assessed by a
      survey tool.

      The investigators will also assess perspectives about the patient's response to TDM and the
      effectiveness of using the TDM intervention discussion tool for facilitating the conversation
      with the patient. There are commercial assays that are FDA approved for used already.
      although the investigators do not use those assays, the Vanderbilt assays have been validated
      and published (though not approved by FDA).
    
  