
    
      Whereas first designs of toric intraocular lenses (toric IOLs) in the early 1990's showed an
      IOL rotation of more than 30° in one fifth of the patients, modern toric IOLs typically show
      a mean absolute rotation of 3° to 5°, which would result in a loss of about 10% to 15% of the
      astigmatism reducing effect of the toric IOL.

      Rotational stability of a toric IOL depends on the interaction between the toric IOL and the
      posterior capsule, whereas misalignment of the toric IOL (defined in this study as the
      difference between the 3 months postoperatively measured axis of the toric IOL and the
      intended axis) depends on several factors additionally to rotational stability.
      Intraoperatively, misalignment may happen due to cyclotorsion of the eye in the lying
      position or due to peribulbar anaesthesia, and due to imprecision of the surgeon when
      positioning of the IOL relative to the intended meridian. Both these imprecisions can be
      dealt with by pre-operative marking of the eye in the sitting position and diligence by the
      surgeon. Postoperatively, the IOL may rotate because it is undersized for the capsule bag or
      due to the capsule shrinkage that takes place during fibrotic contraction of the bag in the
      postoperative period. Since most current IOLs are slightly oversized for the capsule bag, the
      former is observed rarely and would be more likely in long eyes which tend to have a larger
      capsule bag diameter. However, capsule bag shrinkage is thought to induce rotation in IOLs
      with open-loop haptics due to the asymmetry of the haptic design. Typical IOL haptic designs
      that improve rotational stability are either plate haptic IOLs or special Z-haptic shaped
      open-loop haptics that attempt to counteract the rotational effect of compression of the
      shrinking bag. However, both of these IOL designs are thought to have downsides. The former
      seems to have an increased risk of posterior capsule opacification due to a less effective
      lens epithelial barrier effect of the optic edge and may also show more rotation in the bag
      immediately after surgery due to the shorter haptic overall length. The latter IOL design,
      such as the Z-haptic IOL, is cumbersome to implant and may be prone to damage during
      implantation.

      Aim of this study was to evaluate the rotational stability of a novel single-piece
      hydrophobic acrylic toric IOL with a C-haptic design.
    
  