
    
      INTRODUCTION The rising concern for aesthetics has led to a change in the way dentistry is
      practised. Modern dentistry, no longer is aimed at only restoration of form and function, but
      restoration of aesthetics as well. Loss of interdental papilla gives rise to numerous
      problems such as retention of food, phonetic problems and an unaesthetic look. Reconstruction
      of this lost interdental papilla is one of the most challenging task as the lack of blood
      supply is a major obstacle in achieving the desired outcome of any attempts at regeneration.

      Subepithelial connective tissue graft has been used for root coverage predictably. Studies in
      the form of case reports and case series have been done utilizing the connective tissue graft
      harvested from tuberosity, palate etc with encouraging results in the form of complete or
      partial interdental papilla fill.

      Studies have been done to evaluate the usefulness of platelet rich fibrin(PRF) in
      regeneration of the interdental papilla. Use of PRF for augmentation of interdental papilla
      prevents the need for a second surgical site and thereby, the related complications
      associated with creation of a second surgical site.

      On comprehensive search of literature, no study has been evident comparing the effect of
      subepithelial connective tissue graft and PRF for papilla augmentation. Therefore, the
      purpose of this study is to compare platelet rich fibrin and subepithelial connective tissue
      graft in interproximal papilla regeneration. The null hypothesis is that there is no
      significant difference in the clinical outcome for interdental papilla regeneration by
      platelet rich fibrin and subepithelial connective tissue graft.

      Comparative evaluation of the clinical parameters in interdental papilla reconstruction by
      using platelet rich fibrin (Test group) and subepithelial connective tissue graft (Control
      group) MATERIALS AND METHODS The present prospective, analytical, randomized clinical trial
      will be conducted in the Department of Periodontics and Oral Implantology, Post Graduate
      Institute of Dental Sciences, Rohtak This interventional study includes 36 systemically
      healthy patients, with class I and class II papillary recession according to Nordland and
      Tarnow's classification. These will be divided into two groups equally (n = 18) Test group
      -Papilla reconstruction would be done with platelet rich fibrin Control group -Papilla
      reconstruction would be done with subepithelial connective tissue graft Patients will be
      recruited from the outpatient department of Post Graduate Institute of Dental Sciences,
      Rohtak Single blinding will be adopted where the investigator analysing the results will be
      unaware to which group the patient belongs.

      All the participants will undergo full mouth supragingival and subgingival scaling and root
      planing with a combination of hand scalers and curettes (Hu Friedy) and ultrasonic scaler
      (EMS Piezon,250, Switzerland). Oral hygiene instructions will be imparted and will be
      reinforced at each appointment.

      Local anaesthesia in the form of xylocaine HCl (2%) will be administered. 2mm coronal to the
      mucogingival junction of the involved papilla, a 3-5 mm semilunar incision will be given with
      an ophthalmic tunnel blade. Crevicular incisions will be given on the necks of the
      neighbouring teeth on the surfaces adjacent to the papilla defects. Through the semilunar
      incision given above, free the flap along with papilla from the underlying bone. The tissues
      will be completely freed from the bone and root, so that coronal displacement of the flap
      will be possible.

      TEST GROUP Platelet rich fibrin (PRF) will be prepared according to the Choukron's protocol.

      Trimming of the PRF according to the required size will be done. .PRF will be placed on the
      recipient site and suturing will be done with a 5-0 vicryl suture.

      Periodontal dressing will be given over the surgical area. CONTROL GROUP Subepithelial
      connective tissue graft will be harvested from the maxillary premolars/first molar region.
      The graft will be then placed at the recipient site and suturing will be done with 5-0 vicryl
      suture. Periodontal dressing will be given over the surgical area.

      In both the groups post operative instructions will be imparted. Antibiotics and analgesics
      will be prescribed for 5 days. All patients will be asked to rinse with 0.2% chlorhexidine
      gluconate twice a day for 2 weeks.

      DATA COLLECTION METHODS PPD will be measured using UNC 15 periodontal probe at six sites
      (mesiobuccal, distobuccal, mesiolingual , distolingual , and median points at buccal and
      lingual aspect).

      GI, PI will be measured using UNC 15 periodontal probe at four sites (distolabial,
      mesiolabial, labial, lingual gingival margin) Papillary height will be measured from apical
      aspect of contact point to tip of papilla with UNC 15 probe.

      Width of Keratinized Gingiva will be measured with the help of UNC 15 probe from the
      mucogingival junction to the free gingival margin.

      Clinical parameters will be recorded at different time intervals. Healing Index will be
      measured at 1 week, 2 weeks and 3 weeks. All the other clinical parameters will be measured
      at baseline, 3 months and 6 months and 1 year. The patients will be reinforced with oral
      hygiene instructions at every visit.

      SAMPLE SIZE CALCULATION Based on data from the previously published study, a difference of
      1mm between both test groups (standard deviation: 1.0 mm; significance level alpha: 0.05,
      power: 0.8) resulted in a sample size of 16 patients . To compensate for possible dropout, 18
      patients per group will be recruited.
    
  