
    
      Background: The current global widespread incidence of obesity and early cardiovascular
      deterioration are two of the most important future health care challenges. Physical
      inactivity and its associated unhealthy dietary intake among adolescents are of great
      concern, especially in a South African setting in which no current monitoring occurs to
      describe the impact of this sedentary and unhealthy lifestyle on cardiovascular health. With
      the estimated global prevalence of elevated blood pressure among children between 12-25%,
      there is a definite need to contribute to the lack of population level data in South Africa
      and how lifestyle behaviours impact on the burden of non-communicable disease.

      Main aim: Our current study aims to build on previous findings to identify potential
      contributing factors that may adversely affect health outcomes in South African children.
      Additionally, we will cross-compare data with international centres on these health outcomes,
      and finally develop predictive models on target organ damage at 4-years follow-up from
      baseline data.

      Design/Methods: We phenotyped a cohort of 1065 primary school children (all sexes, all ethnic
      groups and ages 5-9 years) according to their physical fitness and coordination, their
      dietary behaviours, psychosocial behaviour and current cardiovascular state. Parents of
      participating children provided information on socio-demographics including data on
      education, employment, types of dwelling, household amenities and parents' marital status,
      health habits, and lifestyle. The children will underwent the following measurements:
      anthropometric measurements of height, weight, waist circumference, triceps and subscapular
      skinfolds; stable isotope and bioelectric impedance analysis to measure body composition;
      blood pressure along with pulse wave analysis and aortic pulse wave velocity, static retinal
      vessel analysis (without mydriasis); accelerometry and a standardised physical activity
      questionnaire to measure physical activity. Physical fitness measures included motor skills,
      coordination, flexibility and cardio-respiratory fitness. Urinalysis will include creatinine,
      albumin, electrolytes, nitrates, nitrites, dimethylarginines, malondialdehyde, glucose,
      cardiovascular and kidney multiplex panels, and targeted metabolomics. Salivary analyses will
      include sex hormones and cortisol.

      Outcomes: The primary outcomes for the baseline analysis include blood pressure, pulse wave
      velocity and retinal vascular calibres to address micro- and macrovascular compromise in
      relation to behavioural risk factors. In the follow-up phase of the study we will include
      carotid intima media thickness and left ventricular mass as outcomes of baseline predictors.

      Timetable: The project was approved and is endorsed by the District Director of the
      Department of Education, and was approved by the Health Research Ethics Committee of the
      North-West University on 10 may 2017 (NWU-00091-16-A1). Data collection started in September
      2017 and baseline measurements were concluded on 30 April 2019. Follow-up assessments will
      commence immediately in subsequent years for the 4-year follow-up phase of the study.
    
  