
    
      Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) is the most commonly observed inflammatory and autoimmune
      disease of the thyroid gland. HT is the main cause of spontaneous hypothyroidism in adults.
      Symptoms of hypothyroidism may develop within a few years in patients with initial
      euthyroidism. Many genetic and environmental factors play a role in the pathogenesis of the
      disease, including iodine exposure, drugs, chemicals, toxins, infections and smoking. In
      recent years, the relationship between oxidative stress level and thyroid autoantibodies in
      HT has attracted increasing attention of researchers. In the studies, it has been reported
      that oxidative stress levels may increase due to chronic inflammation, insufficient thyroid
      hormone levels, excessive autoimmune response and excessive iodine intake. OS occurs as a
      result of an imbalance between free radical production and antioxidant defense mechanisms.
      Data from clinical studies clearly show that the balance between oxidants and antioxidants
      shifts towards the oxidative side in patients with autoimmune thyroiditis, suggesting that
      oxidative stress may be a key event in the pathophysiology of the disease, independent of
      thyroid function. Gerenova et al. divided patients with a diagnosis of HT into three
      subgroups according to thyroid function (group 1-euthyroid, group 2-hypothyroid, and group
      3-Levothyroxin treated patients) and pointed out cellular antioxidative deficiency in all
      stages of the disease. Standard treatment in patients with HT is lifelong levothyroxine (LT4)
      treatment, which adjusts the dose to reach normal circulating thyrotropin (TSH) levels.
      Studies have found persistent fatigue, psychological and general well-being, and impairments
      in cognitive function in patients with HT despite LT4 replacement therapy. Gomez et al.
      compared 152 hypothyroid women treated with levothyroxine and 238 women without
      hypothyroidism disorder. Female patients with hypothyroidism, despite being euthyroid, showed
      worse quality of life than the control group. It was emphasized that the quality of life of
      women with hypothyroidism should be evaluated and further research should be conducted.
      Recent evidence has suggested that low-dose laser therapy (DDLT) can improve thyroid function
      and reduce levels of thyroid peroxidase antibodies (TPOAb) in patients with hypothyroidism
      caused by chronic autoimmune thyroiditis. DDLT is a non-invasive, painless, low-risk and
      low-cost method that uses the interaction of light with molecular structures to support
      anti-inflammatory effects and regeneration of biological tissues. In the literature, data
      examining the effects of DDLT on oxidative stress level and quality of life in patients with
      HT is limited. As far as we know, it will be the first study examining the effect of DDLT on
      oxidative stress, fatigue and quality of life in cases diagnosed with HT. The planned
      research is trying to improve and expand the existing literature on DDLT in cases with HT and
      to contribute to the treatment protocol in order to reduce the negative consequences that may
      be experienced in this group of patients now and in the future. These statements show the
      originality of the study. Purpose: The aim of the study is to examine the effects of LT4
      treatment combined with DDLT on thyroid autoimmunity, oxidative stress, fatigue and quality
      of life in patients with Hashimoto's diagnosis.
    
  