
    
      The study will take place in three stages; an initial survey, an eight week study period and
      a follow-up period for an additional eight weeks.

      Stage One: Perceptions of Sleep Problems and Their Treatment in Psychosis:

      Clinicians and service users will receive an online link to a short 18-question survey
      (primarily multiple choice) that should take approximately 5 min to complete. Although they
      can complete this online, a paper copy can be provided if they prefer to handwrite their
      answers.

      Stage Two: Randomised 8 Week Study:

      At our initial phone or NHS approved video platform meeting participants will be invited to
      ask any questions they have. If they choose to participate in our study, they will be asked
      to read and sign a consent form virtually or through the post. They will also be asked their
      preferred method of contact during the study so that the primary researcher can arrange
      appointments and check in once or twice per week. This will allow them to ask any questions
      which may arise and offer assistance if they are having any challenges with logging in or
      participation. They will also be informed that they have the right to withdraw from the study
      at any point and this will have no affect on their ongoing treatment through CAMEO.

      Following consent to take part in the research study participants will answer some screening
      questions and complete a short 8-question assessment (about 5-10 min). Participants will be
      asked general questions about themselves and with their consent some diagnostic information
      will be obtained from clinical records. Following this they will be randomly assigned to one
      of two groups. The first will utilise the Sleepio intervention during the 8-week study
      period, along with their usual treatment from the CAMEO team and the second group will just
      continue their usual treatment for this 8-week period.

      Prior to starting the study period, we will ask participants to monitor their sleep for one
      week using a nightly sleep diary (2-3 minutes) and by asking them to wear an actigraphy
      watch, a small device that records movement, light and near body temperature. At the end of
      this week we will complete baseline assessments with all participants and provide them with
      access logins for Sleepio. Most of these can be completed online and should only take about
      35 minutes. The Guided Web-Based CANTAB cognitive tests will take approximately 25 min, be
      done online with video support from the researcher, and will include breaks for participant
      comfort. They will also have the option of completing some or all of the self assessments
      over the phone, video call or by post if they prefer.

      The researcher administered assessments will be done with Camice Revier, the lead researcher,
      and should take around 15 min.

      During the 8-week intervention period participants will complete weekly online 20-30 minute
      interventions via Sleepio (6 interventions in total, as occasional delays are accommodated
      for and expected) and complete nightly sleep diaries online via Sleepio (2-3 minutes).

      After 4-weeks of the study participants will be asked to do a second round of assessments.
      This round has fewer measures and should only take about 20 minutes for the online
      assessments, 25 minutes for the Guided CANTAB cognitive tests and around 10 minutes for those
      done over the phone or video meeting.

      During week 7 of the study we'll ask participants to again wear the actigraphy watch for
      another week.

      The third round of assessments will take place at the end of the 8-week study period and will
      be the same duration as the original assessments: online about 35 min, CANTAB cognitive tests
      about 25 min and over the phone or video meeting about 10 min.

      Stage Three: Follow-up and Anonymous Feedback Questionnaire:

      During the follow-up period we will invite those who were not randomised into the treatment
      group to utilise the Sleepio intervention at this time.

      All of the assessments will take place in the same order and duration as they did during the
      initial study period.

      During week 7 of the follow-up period we'll ask participants, one final time, to complete the
      sleep diaries and wear the actigraphy watch for a final week.

      Following the study participants will be invited to complete an anonymous feedback
      questionnaire. This is intended to provide a way for them to communicate any input or
      suggestions based on their experience and to help us improve the way we do things.

      They will be offered the option of researchers contacting them for additional follow-up or to
      be invited to participate in related studies. There is no obligation for them to do so and
      they can indicate on their consent form whether they are willing to be contacted at a later
      date (within 5 years).
    
  