
    
      In 2016, the US Congress directed the Department of Defense to initiate a program to improve
      the health and well-being of all military Veterans, challenging the research and scientific
      communities to find original ideas that "foster new directions in research and clinical
      care". One of the areas identified as a priority under this initiative was 'Respiratory
      Health'.

      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a major cause of disability, hospital
      admission and premature death. Current management strategies have not been successful in
      altering the loss of lung function typically seen as the disease progresses. Results from
      recent pilot trials suggest the novel combination of chiropractic manual therapy (CMT) and
      pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) has the potential to alter the typical pattern of decline in
      lung function.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the feasibility of administering this combination of
      interventions (CMT plus PR) to Veterans with moderate COPD within the context of a
      hospital-based outpatient pulmonary rehabilitation program.

      Twenty Veterans between the ages of 50 and 70 years with moderate COPD, will be randomly
      allocated to two equal groups. Group 1: 'sham' manual therapy plus pulmonary rehabilitation
      program; Group 2: Chiropractic manual therapy group plus the same pulmonary rehabilitation
      program (CMT+PR). Participants in both groups will undergo 8 treatment sessions over a 4 week
      period plus an additional assessment session at week 8. All sham manual therapy and CMT will
      be delivered just prior to pulmonary rehabilitation.

      The primary purpose of the study is to assess the feasibility of conducting a larger
      randomized controlled trial by assessing the ability to recruit, enroll, deliver
      interventions and collect outcome measures on Veterans with moderate COPD. Secondary outcomes
      include lung function (Forced expiratory volume in the 1st second: FEV1 and Forced vital
      capacity: FVC), exercise capacity (six-minute walking test: 6MWT), quality of life (St
      Georges Respiratory Questionnaire: SGRQ), anxiety and depression levels (Hospital Anxiety and
      Depression scale: HAD) and frequency of exacerbations. All outcome measurements will be taken
      by blinded assessors.

      Collecting outcome measurements at 8 weeks (4 weeks after intervention has ceased) will
      assess the feasibility of getting Veterans to return for follow-up assessments.
    
  