
    
      According to the National Cervical Spinal Cord Injury Statistical Center, 12,000 patients
      experience acute spinal cord injury (SCI) in the United States annually. It is reported that
      16% to 55% of patients with a cervical spinal cord injury (SCI) present with dysphagia which
      compromises their ability to eat and drink safely as well as their quality of life. Based on
      previous research, Dysphagia can also result in respiratory complications, particularly
      pneumonia, which is the most common cause of death in cervical SCI patients. The contribution
      of swallowing impairment, and associated aspiration risks, to respiratory illnesses and
      mortality in patients with SCI are unknown. As a first step, the investigators will identify
      the nature (type of swallowing impairment such as swallow delay, pharyngeal residue,
      penetration or aspiration) and frequency of occurrence of swallowing impairments in elderly
      patients with injury to the cervical spinal region. Further, the investigators will determine
      the effects of standard medical care, specifically, surgical bracing, on swallow function in
      patients post-cervical SCI.

      Patients with SCI present with a range of impairments in the oral and pharyngeal phases of
      the swallow. These result both from the effects of trauma and medical/surgical management of
      injury on anatomy and physiology of the swallow mechanism. Earlier studies postulate that
      Acute SCI can result in reduced base of tongue movement, delayed pharyngeal swallow response,
      decreased hyolaryngeal excursion with subsequent decrease in cricopharyngeal opening, and
      pharyngeal wall dysfunction. These swallowing impairments are particularly devastating in
      older patients who lack the functional reserve to overcome these neuroanatomical insults.
      Consequently, there is an increased prevalence of dysphagia in the elderly patients with SCI.

      Medical and surgical management of SCI can also negatively impact swallow function. Many
      patients will require neck immobilization following injury. Neck extension, chin or head
      retraction secondary to cervical bracing may increase the risk or severity of dysphagia by
      changing the mechanics of swallowing. In addition, fixation at a ninety-degree angle limits
      the natural flexion or range of movement a patient employs during deglutition. Studies have
      found that cervical orthoses impacts swallowing physiology in healthy adults. An earlier
      study reported changes in point of initiation of the swallow, laryngeal penetration,
      pharyngeal residue and hyoid bone movement. One would expect changes to be more significant
      in patients with dysphagia, and likely more remarkable in the elderly population who
      unfortunately, have the highest incidence of cervical SCI. Given the risk factors for
      dysphagia and pulmonary complications in this population, it is imperative that thorough
      evaluation of oral-pharyngeal swallow function be completed. However, there is little
      research addressing the impact of cervical bracing on patients with dysphagia at any age. The
      study team here aims to determine if cervical bracing contributes to severity of dysphagia.
    
  