
    
      The most common treatment for solid cancer tumours is surgery, often in combination with
      chemo- and/or radiotherapy. To minimise the postoperative complications is important in
      today's health care. Early mobilisation at the ward and physical activity at home after
      discharge, have been shown to be important parts to reduce complications. Common
      complications after abdominal surgery are postoperative pulmonary complications and venous
      thrombosis. One of the conditions that suffers the most from different kinds of postoperative
      complications is radical cystectomy due to urinary bladder cancer. Complications after
      radical cystectomy could be direct related to the patients' high age and also high degree of
      comorbidity.

      There is today strong evidence that physical activity has a positive impact on health,
      survival and quality of life. Patients who have been treated for urinary bladder cancer are
      not sufficiently physical active and suffer from readmissions to hospital due to
      complications. Therefore, there is a need for developing and testing a physical
      rehabilitation programme to support patients who have a radical cystectomy, in the early
      postoperative period.

      The CanMoRe study is a randomized controlled trial with a single-blinded design evaluating an
      exercise intervention in Primary Health Care as part of the CanMoRe programme. In addition, a
      qualitative study (interviews) on patient's experience of the programme will be conducted as
      well as data gathered on factors that might influence the implementation of the programme.

      Then CanMoRe programme consists of preoperative information, the Activity Board used for
      enhanced mobilization during hospital stay, a 12-week, (1 h, 2 times/week) standardized and
      individually adapted exercise intervention in Primary Health Care and behavioral support for
      daily physical activity. The CanMoRe programme is evaluated in two steps, i.e. the
      in-hospital intervention using the Activity Board (published) and the exercise intervention
      in Primary Health Care reported herein.
    
  