
    
      Hearing loss can render a soldier less able to detect and identify the enemy, less able to
      understand commands, particularly in background noise typical on the battlefield, and may
      permanently reduce quality of life. In some cases, hearing loss may preclude redeployment or
      result in less optimal job assignment. Currently, no FDA approved pharmacological prevention
      exists for noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL). We have documented in animal studies that
      administration of D-methionine (D-met) can reduce or prevent NIHL. We now need to determine
      if it has similar efficacy in humans. Although we have not yet tested D-met on protection
      from noise-induced tinnitus in animals, this clinical trial would provide us the opportunity
      to also test for protection from noise induced tinnitus simultaneously.

      Objective Hypotheses:

      Primary Hypothesis: Administration of oral D-methionine prior to, during and 4 days
      post-weapons training will reduce or prevent permanent noise-induced hearing loss.

      Secondary Hypothesis: Administration of oral D-methionine prior to, during and 4 days
      post-weapons training will reduce or prevent noise-induced tinnitus.

      Specific Aims:

      To determine whether administering oral D-met can prevent permanent NIHL after weapons
      training. This aim will be addressed by comparing the results of D-met versus placebo
      administration starting 3 days prior to, during the 11 day period of weapons training
      (Monday-Friday for first week, Monday-Thursday for second week), and 4 days after for a total
      of 18 days. Pure tone hearing thresholds will be assessed before and 22 days after completion
      of weapons training (ie; 18 days after the last day of study drug/placebo administration).

      To determine whether administering oral D-met can prevent tinnitus after weapons training.
      This aim will be addressed by comparing the results of D-met versus placebo administration
      starting 3 days prior to, during the 11 day period of weapons training (Monday-Friday for
      first week, Monday-Thursday for second week), and 4 days after for a total of 18 days.
      Tinnitus questionnaires will be assessed before and 22 days after completion of weapons
      training (ie; 18 days after the last day of study drug/placebo administration).

      To monitor for any potential side effects of D-met in human subjects. This aim will be
      accomplished by subject query on each day study drug is dispensed (twice daily) and at final
      study visit, routing of any adverse event reports to study medical personnel, statisticians
      and to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
    
  