
    
      The long-term goal of this study is to reduce the incidence of HNSCC which may impact as well
      other smoking-related cancers. It may be interesting to foster excellent translational
      research towards the target of reducing the incidence of HNSCC by developing a global and
      personalized approach for prevention and treatment of HNSCC. The only way to reach this goal
      is to develop an ambitious program that coordinates the efforts of experts from various
      fields (surgeons, medical oncologists and addictologists, scientists, sociologists and
      economists) that will work together toward the same goal.

      This study intends to gather a large scale clinical, sociological, psychological data
      gathering combined to a unique set of biospecimens collected prospectively including oral
      preneoplastic disease and resectable HNSCC. This represents a unique setting to develop
      multidisciplinary studies including a translational research component (validation and
      discovery of biomarkers, high throughput molecular studies to understand the dynamics of
      molecular changes and identify new strategies for prevention), a sociopsychological component
      and an addiction component that aim to increase the percentage of patients entering a process
      of weaning, as well as a medico-economics component that intend to evaluate the impact of new
      approaches that may emerge from our work.

      In summary, this study proposes to prospectively collect clinical, sociopsychological,
      medico-economics data and biospecimens in patients included in 3 different cohorts. Cohort A
      will include patients with OPML, either from smokers/drinkers (S/D) or
      non-smokers/non-drinkers (NS/ND), while cohort B and C will include patients with HNSCC
      eligible to upfront surgical resection. Patients in cohort B will be included in an
      interventional randomized clinical trial evaluating an intensive and sustained smoking
      cessation program.

      In patients with OPML, no standard workup and treatment plan is recommended. OPMLs biopsy is
      important to identify patients with high grade dysplasia and in situ carcinoma who should
      undergo surgical resection of the OMPLs if possible. Although LOH status in OPML biopsies or
      buccal brushes has been evaluated in this population as a biomarker of risk to develop oral
      cancer, it is not routinely performed. More studies are required to validate their value as a
      biomarker of risk in a prospective setting and to identify the best set of biomarkers. In
      smokers and/or excessive alcohol drinkers, it is critical to counsel and help patients quit
      and it should be part of the standard of care. Unfortunately, this is not always the case.
      Studies of chemopreventive agents have not resulted in the development of an intervention
      that can be considered as standard of care.

      Despite the accumulated knowledge, no comprehensive molecular characterization of OPML is
      available. Identification of new targets for prevention and therapy, mainly with genomic,
      epigenomic and immune characterization of OPML is critical. Cohort A will allow to
      prospectively collect clinical information and biospecimens (biopsies, buccal brushes and
      saliva). These unique resources will allow to confirm the value of LOH as a biomarker of risk
      and develop standardized procedures for sample processing that can be transferred in the
      routine setting, validate or identify other biomarkers and improve risk assessments beyond
      LOH, to understand the spatial and temporal dynamics of molecular changes that may help
      predicting oral cancer risk, identify relevant targets and suggest new chemoprevention
      strategies including immunoprevention interventions. Furthermore, patients included in this
      cohort will benefit from standardized care plans and state of the art smoking and alcohol
      cessation programs according to current recommendations, and will be given the opportunity to
      participate in future chemoprevention studies that may be embedded in the near future in the
      umbrella protocol.

      In patients with resectable HNSCC (cohorts B and C), smoking and alcohol cessation is one
      important step in the management. They allow reducing treatment-related morbidity and
      improving radiation and chemoradiation efficacy. It is tempting to believe that they may also
      improve patients' quality of life as in the general population, and reduce the risk of second
      primary tumor (SPT). Available data focusing on patients with HNSCC and smoking cessation is
      scarce. Although the diagnosis and treatment of patients with HNSCC favors smoking cessation,
      a significant proportion of former smokers are actively smoking during follow-up despite
      having completed treatments associated with substantial morbidity. The literature review
      shows that the range of patients that continue to smoke at one year is in the range of
      21-41%. Of note, those smoking quit rates at one year are based on patient self-reporting
      without biological confirmation in the majority of the cases, which clearly overestimates
      quit rates. Smoking cessation programs currently available lead to disappointing results.
      HNSCC patients with smoking addiction harbor the highest risk of SPTs. In this vulnerable
      population, beyond early management of nicotine dependence, new strategies / innovative
      interventional approaches are warranted. Preliminary results from a monocentric study
      indicate that an active intervention in this challenging population may lead to encouraging
      results in motivated patients. Furthermore, an intensive smoking cessation program
      implemented during radiation therapy is feasible in this population of patients. In cohort B,
      the efficacy of an intensive and sustained smoking cessation program in a randomized cohort
      of these patients at highest risk with potentially curable HNSCC (cohort B) will be
      evaluated, with the hypothesis that an intensive and sustained smoking cessation program led
      by an addictologist or a tobacco treatment specialist (TTS) during radiation therapy may
      improve the 6- and 12-month quite-rate compared with a minimal tobacco cessation
      intervention. Among secondary objectives of this trial, medico-economics information will be
      gathered to provide an initial assessment of the cost-effectiveness of the experimental
      versus standard arms.

      Cohort C will allow prospective collection of clinical information and biospecimens
      (biopsies, buccal brushes and saliva) only. Patients will benefit from state of the art
      smoking and alcohol cessation programs according to current recommendations.

      Well-annotated cohorts of patients with HNSCC are scarce. Information and biospecimens
      collected in cohorts B and C will provide unique resources to identify biomarkers of risk of
      recurrence and SPT.

      Having access to large scale information and to biospecimens in patients with preneoplastic
      disease (cohort A) who may or may not develop smoking/alcohol related cancers, and with HNSCC
      (cohorts B and C) who may develop disease recurrence or SPT, represent a unique opportunity
      to understand the dynamics of molecular changes and their interaction with smoking cessation
      and/or alcohol withdrawal.
    
  