
    
      Perinatal antiretroviral therapy dramatically reduces the risk of transmission of HIV to the
      1.4 million infants born annually to HIV-infected mothers. Single-dose and single-drug
      strategies lead to important reductions in mother-to-child transmission (MTCT). However, more
      intense strategies using maternal highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) to suppress
      viral replication, lead to 10-fold greater reductions in the risk of MTCT. Wider access to
      maternal HAART could nearly eliminate the estimated 430,000 annual HIV- infections acquired
      by infants worldwide. Additionally, prompt initiation of HAART in pregnant women with low
      CD4+ cell counts could improve maternal mortality and prevent the development of resistant
      maternal and infant HIV infections.

      However, studies from southern Africa, including Botswana, indicate that less than one-third
      of treatment-eligible women are able to access antenatal HAART. Programmatic inefficiencies
      in these settings lead to substantial delays in CD4 testing and subsequent treatment
      initiation. Novel implementation strategies are urgently needed to improve access to the
      established benefits of antenatal HAART. In collaboration with colleagues in the Botswana
      Ministry of Health, we have completed an analysis of root causes of the failure to antenatal
      HAART, identifying delayed CD4 testing and result reporting, and loss-to-follow-up as the
      principal barriers.

      To assess the hypothesis that a low-cost intervention can improve antenatal access to CD4
      testing and HAART initiation, the Tokafatso project is a staged-wedge, cluster-randomized
      study of a combination programmatic intervention. The intervention includes- improved access
      to CD4 phlebotomy, rapid CD4 result return via SMS messaging, and active follow-up of
      treatment eligible women. All enrolled clinics will receive the intervention, but the order
      of implementation will be randomized (10 stages of 2 clinics). Endpoints will be assessed
      between clinics receiving and not receiving the intervention while adjusting for temporal
      factors. While clinics will be enrolled and receive the intervention, endpoints will be
      assessed through anonymous maternity record abstraction of women who subsequently deliver at
      the catchment inpatient maternity ward.

      While tailored to the situation in Botswana, findings are expected to generalizable to
      implementation of comprehensive prevention of MTCT services throughout the region.
    
  