
    
      This is an open-label (individuals will know the identity of study treatments),
      dose-escalation study to evaluate the clinical efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetics (PK;
      study of what the body does to a drug) of JNJ-40346527. Up to 38 subjects could be enrolled
      in the Phase 1 portion of the study and up to 30 subjects could be enrolled in the Phase 2
      portion of the study (although planned, the study did not move forward to the Phase 2
      portion). During the Phase 1 portion of the study, dose escalation of JNJ-40346527 will start
      at 150 mg (Cohort 1) once daily up to the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or the highest planned
      dose (600 mg once daily); twice daily dosing may also be performed if deemed necessary. A
      Study Evaluation Team (SET) will review all available data after 1 cycle (21 days) of
      treatment for each cohort before any additional dose escalation occurs and will also
      determine the recommended Phase 2 dose for the expansion cohort. This study will consist of 3
      periods: a screening period (from signing of informed consent until immediately before
      dosing), an open-label treatment period (from the first dose of study drug until the
      end-of-treatment visit), and a follow-up period (after the end-of-treatment visit). All
      patients will participate in the screening and treatment period. Patients will be
      administered JNJ-40346527 continuously until disease progression, or unacceptable toxicity
      (based on investigator assessment). The National Cancer Institute-Common Terminology Criteria
      for Adverse Events will be used to grade toxicity throughout the study. Disease response will
      be assessed according to the Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma. Treatment will
      continue until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity (based on investigator
      assessment) occurs. Only patients who discontinue study drug before disease progression or
      discontinue due to treatment-related Grade 3 or higher toxicity will continue in the
      follow-up period. Serial PK samples will be collected in Cycle 1 as detailed in the protocol.
      Safety will be monitored throughout the study.
    
  