
    
      Hypotheses/Research questions:

      H1: Health employees and public service providers working directly with COVID-19 will have
      higher PTSD-symptoms, anxiety, depression and health anxiety, compared to health workers and
      public service providers working indirectly with the virus.

      H2: Presence of a psychological disorder, anxiety and depression will predict PTSD symptoms.
      Those reporting having a diagnosis will reveal higher PTSD-symptoms. Higher levels of anxiety
      and depression will be associated with higher PTSD-symptoms.

      H3: Emotional support, burnout, health-anxiety, worry about job and economy, interpersonal
      problems and metacognition will predict PTSD-symptoms controlling for direct vs. indirect
      exposure to trauma, psychological diagnosis, demographic variables (age and gender, living
      with a partner, living with children, anxiety and depression. Higher level of burnout,
      health-anxiety, worry about job and economy, interpersonal problems and metacognition will be
      associated with higher PTSD-symptoms. Higher emotional support will be associated with lower
      PTSD-symptoms.

      Participants were asked to fill out a set of validated questionnaires including demographic
      variables, psychological symptoms and PTSD-symptoms. Some questionnaires are given as a
      whole, whereas other questions includes theoretically-driven selections of items from
      validated questionnaires. This study is part of a 'The Norwegian COVID-19, Mental Health and
      Adherence project". The study involves a Cross-sectional survey design. Health personnel and
      public service providers where systematically targeted through various channels: e.g.,
      primarily through systematically reaching out to all hospitals in Norway and inviting health
      personnel to participants, through contacting the Associations of all major health-worker
      groups (i.e., Norwegian Medical Doctors Association; Norwegian Nurses Association, Norwegian
      Psychologists Association; and other associations related to health-workers) through national
      TV, national, regional and local radio stations, and national, regional and local newspapers
      in the different regions of the country, as well as Facebook groups in the different regions
      of the country. Additionally, a random selection of those qualifying as health-care workers
      were randomly targeted on Facebook by a Facebook Business algorithm. Public service providers
      were recruited trough Facebook. Politicians where also systematically contacted, with all
      political parties being contacted and subsequently sending an e-mail with the survey to their
      members.

      Data collection started during the time-period with the strictest and equal number of
      government-initiated non-pharmacological interventions (NPI's) in Norway, and data collection
      was stopped once these NPI's were modified or new information about NPI's were added. The
      data include one directly identifiable variable (contact information) for participants in
      accordance to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) law in EU, which is to give the
      participants the opportunity to have their data deleted upon request. Data are thus kept on a
      safe server belonging to the University of Oslo and is accessed first following
      de-identification. The project outline and study plan was also registered upon application to
      the Norwegian "Regional Ethical Committee" 10 days before data collection, a committee which
      evaluate the rational for data collection and hypotheses as well as evaluate the ethical
      aspects of the study before allowing the data to be collected.

      Measures

      PCL-5, PHQ-9; GAD-7; demographic variables (gender; age; relationship/marital status; living
      with children and number of children; employment status; education level); situational
      variables related to Covid-19, worry about own health and worry about economy/work, emotional
      support, interpersonal problems, burnout, metacognitions and whether one has a psychological
      diagnosis or not. The outcome variable is PCL-5. Predictors are specified in the
      hypothesis-section.

      Indices:

      Given Acceptable Cronbach's alpha (above 0.7) the investigators combined four items that
      measure health anxiety and fear of death related to COVID-19. Furthermore two items will be
      combined to represent worry about work and economy. Two items on emotional support were
      combined. On the CAS1 four items were combined into the subscale "positive metacognition" and
      four items were combined into the subscale "negative metacognition". Interpersonal problems
      consisted of 13 items selected from the IIP-64. Burnout was measured with a single item

      Inference:

      Given the large sample size in this study, the investigators pre-defined our significance
      level:

      p < 0.01 to determine significance

      Sample size 'Norwegian COVID-19 and Mental Health and Adherence Project' involves multiple
      studies, where some involve a Complex Systems (Network analysis approach). These multivariate
      analyses require large samples and power analysis was conducted accordingly. Following power
      analysis guidelines by Fried & Cramer (2017), it is recommended that the number of
      participants be at the very least three times larger than the number of estimated parameters.
      However, more conservative recommendations by Roscoe (1975) for multivariate research,
      recommends sample size that is ten times larger than the number of estimated parameters.
      Thus, with the more conservative estimates by Roscoe, an optimal sample size included 1900.

      Statistical models:

      Descriptive statistics with frequency tables including N, mean and SDs or median and
      interquartile range depending on the data will be presented. A cut-off of 31 on the PCL-5
      will be used together with the DSM-5 diagnostic guidelines applied to the PCL-5 to categorize
      participants as fulfilling the PTSD symptom criteria or not. Participants indicating scores
      of 2 or above on at least one of five re-experiencing symptoms, one of two avoidance
      symptoms, two of seven symptoms of negative alterations in cognition and mood and two of six
      arousal symptoms were classified as fulfilling the PTSD symptom criteria. Subclinical PTSD
      will be assessed by specifying how large part of the sample which fulfil parts of the
      PTSD-criterias. The results will be benchmarked against national and international studies.

      Independent sample t-tests or Mann-Whitney U tests, depending on level of skewness, will be
      used to compare the PCl-5 scores of those working direct vs. indirect with COVID-19 patients.
      A One-way ANOVA or Kruskal-Wallis test, depending on level of skewness, will be conducted to
      exploratory investigate differences between the different types of health-workers (e.g.
      medical doctor and clinical psychologists) and public service providers (e.g., politicians,
      social security). If there is significant differences between the groups the investigators
      will either use a post hoc test, Tukey (HSD) or Dunn-Bonferroni, depending on wether a
      parametric or non-parametric test has been used.

      Two multiple regression analyses will be conducted with PCL-5 as the dependent variable.
      Specific predictors of the different regression are listed in the hypothesis section.
      Multicollinearity and other assumptions will be checked; if the multicollinearity assumption
      is violated (if VIF > 5 and Tolerance < 0.2.

      Exploratory analyses:

      Exploratory: Examine the differences in levels of trauma, anxiety, depression and health
      anxiety among different health workers, public service providers and demographic subgroups.

      The investigators may also do other exploratory analysis that not yet thought of at the time
      of pre-registration. Such analysis will be explicitly stated as exploratory.

      Note that this project outline, study plan and analysis was registered upon application to
      the Regional Committees for Medical and Health Research Ethics (REC) and Norwegian Centre for
      Research Data.
    
  