
    
      Impact of Pharmacists Directed Medication Reconciliation on Reducing Medication Discrepancies
      in a Surgery Ward in an Educational Hospital in Jordan

        1. Introduction Medication reconciliation is a technique used by healthcare providers at
           different care settings in order to prevent medication errors. According to the
           Institute for Safe Medication Practices Canada, medication reconciliation is defined as
           "a formal process in which healthcare providers work together with patients, families
           and care providers to ensure accurate and comprehensive medication information is
           communicated consistently across transitions of care". ISMP Canada has described the
           process of medication reconciliation as " a systematic and comprehensive review of
           patient's Best Possible Medication History (BPMH) to identify any possible medication
           discrepancies and to inform and enable prescribers to make the most appropriate
           prescribing decisions for the patient to solve identified discrepancies".

           Pharmacists are the healthcare providers responsible for providing optimal
           pharmaceutical care services. Regular medication review and medication reconciliation,
           beside the development of patient care plan, are considered as important pharmaceutical
           care tools.The Institute of Medicine reports acknowledged pharmacists as an essential
           resource of information on medication safe use, and their vital participation during
           hospital rounds as it improves medication safety.

           Currently, all hospitals have a pharmacy department to ensure that all patients receive
           their medications in the correct way by implementing the eight rights of medication
           administration (right patient, right medication, right dose, right route, right time,
           right documentation, right reason and right response). Clinical pharmacists can ideally
           influence physicians on their prescribing of medicines because they have the appropriate
           knowledge regarding therapeutics and are in continuous contact with them.Pharmacists
           have an important role in reducing discharge medical errors and patients'
           re-hospitalization.[6] Clinical pharmacists were found aware of the importance of their
           role in providing medication reconciliation.

           Several previous studies have investigated the impact of a pharmacists-provided
           medication reconciliation service on medication discrepancies in the hospital settings
           Results showed that pharmacists were able to identify a range of 1.5-2.3 unintentional
           discrepancies per patient, leading to a significant reduction of 40-75% of the total
           identified medication discrepancies. No previous study has investigated the outcomes of
           involving the clinical pharmacist in a medication reconciliation service in in Jordan.

           Acknowledging the importance of evaluating the value of medication reconciliation
           services in the different healthcare settings, this study is designed with the aim to
           evaluate the effect of pharmacists directed services (reconciliation plus counseling) on
           reducing medication discrepancies and improving patient's outcomes at discharge.

        2. Methods 2.1. Study Design, participants and clinical setting This randomized controlled
           study will be conducted over three months at the Jordan University Hospital (JUH), a 550
           beds tertiary teaching hospital located in Amman, the capital of Jordan.

      Methods:

      During the study period, 128 patients who fulfilled the inclusion criteria will be approached
      and asked to participate in the study. Inclusion criteria are: age ≥18 years; using at least
      4 regular pre-admission medications; with more than 48 hours expected length of stay in the
      hospital; speaks Arabic; has no cognitive deficiency, and not involved in any other clinical
      trial. Patients will be excluded if they were in isolation; discharged within 24 hours of
      admission; discharged against medical advice; unable or unwilling to provide written informed
      consent; unable to provide a personal phone number; also patients who were enrolled were
      ineligible for re-inclusion in the study if they were admitted to JUH a second time during
      the study period.

      Ethical approval from the Institutional Review Board (IRB) at the Jordan University Hospital
      (JUH) was obtained (Reference number: 65/2017).

      2.2 Sample Size Calculation Setting alpha at 0.05, power of 80%, and using effect size of 0.5
      (medium value), the minimum Required sample size to obtain a significant difference was
      calculated as 64 subjects per group.

      Taking into account the possibility for dropout during the study period, a sample size of 128
      patients is selected in this study.

      2.3 Data collection and identification of medication discrepancies Patients will be recruited
      from all internal medicine department subdivisions at JUH. For each recruited patient, a
      pre-prepared validated data collection form will be used for data collection.Patients'
      specific data including demographic data, administrative data, medical related data, and
      BPMH. BPMH including pre-admission medications will be collected from the patients' medical
      records, followed by interviewing the patient (or their caregivers), and finally by
      interviewing the responsible clinicians (details about data collection are presented in a
      previously published study. For each patient, comorbidity will be calculated using Charlson
      Comorbidity Index (CCI). This index represents a tool that will be used to predict the ten
      year mortality rate in individuals with comorbid conditions.

      Following data collection, a comparison between patients' current admission medications and
      patient's pre-admission medications will be done to identify any discrepancies between the
      two medication lists. Discrepancies will be categorized into dose discrepancies, frequency
      discrepancies, addition of a new drug, duplication of drugs, omission of drugs, or using
      wrong drugs.

      Identified discrepancies will then be classified into documented or undocumented
      discrepancies. Documented discrepancies are defined as any change in medications that was
      justified in the patient's medical file. If the discrepancy is undocumented, the pharmacist
      will review the differences with the clinician in order to verify if the changes are
      intentional or made by error. In case of intentional discrepancies, the problem will be
      recorded as a 'documentation error'. Otherwise, unintentional discrepancies will be
      considered as 'medication errors'.

      Unintentional discrepancies (medication errors) are classified into three classes based on
      the level of their seriousness as described by Cornish and others: "class 1 discrepancies are
      those unlikely to cause patient discomfort or clinical deterioration. Class 2 discrepancies
      are those with the potential to cause moderate discomfort or clinical deterioration, and
      class 3 discrepancies are those with the potential to cause severe discomfort or clinical
      deterioration". Discrepancies are classified by the two researchers of the study, and in the
      case of disagreement on classification, the discrepancy will be discussed until consensus is
      reached.

      2.4 Pharmacist delivered intervention Following medication discrepancy identification,
      patients will be divided randomly into two groups, intervention and control. Patients will be
      assigned to their groups based on Statistical Package for Social Science (SPSS) version 22
      generated random table for assignment (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA) (Figure 1).

      For patients in the intervention group, upon identification of drug discrepancies, pharmacist
      responsible for enrollment will be intervened by contacting the responsible clinician using a
      structured written consult form. The number of accepted recommendations by the clinicians
      will be documented and recorded. When the researcher suggests resolving an identified
      discrepancy and the responsible clinicians accept the suggestion will be called an accepted
      recommendation (just an acceptance without any correction), if the accepted suggestion is
      implemented then this will be called implemented recommendation.

      At discharge, the number of medication discrepancies will be assessed again for both groups.
      Also, the pharmacist provided intervention group patients with education about their
      medications, including: information about efficacy/side effects of medications, proper use
      and storage of medications, the importance of adherence, medication changes will be made
      while in hospital (i.e. reviewing pre-admission medications vs. medications at discharge).

      The evaluation of carry-over effect of pharmacists' intervention on the number of
      discrepancies over months will be also assessed.

      2.5 Statistical analysis Data will be entered and analyzed using Statistical Package for
      Social Science (SPSS) version 22 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA). Descriptive analysis will be
      done using mean and standard deviation (SD) for continuous variables, and percentage for
      categorical variables. Checking for normality will be carried out using Shapiro-Wilk test,
      with P-value ≥ 0.05, indicating normally distributed continuous variables.

      Group differences between control and intervention groups will be conducted using independent
      sample t-test/Mann Whitney U test (depending on data normality) or by using Chi-Square/Fisher
      exact test when appropriate. A paired t-test/Wilcoxon sign rank test will be performed to
      ascertain whether pharmacist's recommendations are effective in reducing the number of
      medication discrepancies An analysis of trend will be carried out using One-Way ANOVA to
      evaluate the trend in change of the number of discrepancies over the study period (to
      evaluate the carry-over study effect).

      A P-value of less than 0.05 is considered statistically significant and all tests are two
      tailed.

      6. Conflict of interest None of the authors have any conflict of interest.
    
  