
    
      Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) is the most prevalent psychiatric disorder in persons with
      traumatic brain injury (TBI) and is most common during the first several years after injury.
      MDD following TBI is associated with poor behavioral, health, and functional outcomes. While
      neurological factors contribute somewhat to the development of MDD in this population, there
      is evidence that numerous psychological, social and vocational factors also contribute.

      There are also multiple barriers to effective treatment of MDD in persons with TBI,
      including:

        -  under-diagnosis and under-treatment 20lack of access to care due to mobility,
           transportation and health care benefit limitations

        -  TBI neurocognitive impairments

        -  comorbid medical and psychiatric problems, including substance abuse

        -  stressors such as lack of social support and work instability

        -  inaccurate beliefs about depression and its treatment among TBI survivors.

      The investigators are conducting a three arm trial of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) to
      treat Major Depression Disorder (MDD) that emerges within the first 10 years after
      complicated mild to severe traumatic brain injury (TBI). The overall objective of the study
      is to develop a 12-session telephone-based and in-person CBT program for people with TBI
      (CBT-TBI), and to evaluate its feasibility, acceptability, and effectiveness.

      The investigators project aims are to

        1. develop CBT for for Major Depression Disorder (MDD) in persons with TBI that can be
           delivered in-person or via the telephone

        2. conduct a trial of CBT-TBI delivered either in-person or via telephone versus care as
           usual

        3. refine the intervention and plan a definitive RCT of CBT-TBI if response rate is
           sufficient.

      Participants are randomized to one of three groups: (1) 12 semi-weekly sessions of
      telephone-based CBT for depression provided by a study therapist, (2) 12 semi-weekly sessions
      of in-person CBT for depression provided by a study therapist, or (3) Usual Care (control).
      Randomization is stratified by injury severity to ensure equal proportions in each treatment
      group. Participants choose one of three randomization options that includes the groups to
      which he/she would like to be randomized:

        -  Option 1: Telephone counseling verses usual care

        -  Option 2: In-person counseling verses usual care

        -  Option 3: In-person counseling verses Telephone counseling verses usual care

      Outcomes are assessed by a blinded research assistant at 8, 16, and 24 weeks after baseline.
    
  