
    
      HYPOTHESIS Sleep Disorder Breathing (SDB) increase the appearance of High Blood Pressure
      (HBP) in pediatric patients. This HBP is reversible after treatment.

      OBJECTIVES

      Main goal:

      1. Demonstrate how the presence of SDB is associated with an increased risk of HBP in
      pediatric patients. Confirm that it is reversible with the treatment.

      Secondary objectives:

        1. Establish the relationship between the presence of hypertension and the severity of SDB
           (apnea-hypopnea index-AHI, desaturation index-DI).

        2. To evaluate the variability along the circadian rhythm of the HBP patterns produced in
           pediatric patients with SDB.

        3. Establish the correlation between the diagnosis of HBP measured in the clinic and
           ambulatory blood pressure measurement (ABPM).

        4. Assess the organic damage produced:

             1. Assess the manifestation of subclinical organic damage by means of other markers
                such as: blood (creatinine / glomerular filtration), urine (albuminuria /
                proteinuria) and echocardiography (left ventricle hypertrophy).

             2. Establish the physiopathological mechanisms involved in the HBP / SDB relationship.

        5. Validate the pulse transit time (PTT) measurement as arterial pressure monitoring.

      Multicentre, longitudinal, prospective study with control group.

        1. POPULATION TO STUDY: Children between 4 and 18 years old prospectively derived for sleep
           study for suspected SDB.

        2. Inclusion Criteria: 1) Approval of the Ethics and Clinical Trials Committee 2) Informed
           consent signed by the parents and / or guardians 3) Children from 4 to 18 years old
           assessed consecutively due to Sleep Disorders Breathing (SDB) suspicion. Exclusion
           criteria: 1) Associated comorbidities: Cardiovascular (including cardiac malformation),
           cerebrovascular or severe unstable respiratory disease that makes it impossible to
           complete the studies 2) Genetic diseases 3) Children with chronic insomnia and / or
           depressive syndrome. 4) Children with malformation syndromes (including craniofacial
           malformations), Down syndrome, and neuromuscular diseases 5) previous
           otorhinolaryngologic surgery and / or continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP)
           treatment 6) Contraindication for the realization of the ABPM / PTT (arrhythmias, latex
           allergy or coagulation disease).

        3. METHODOLOGY: All children evaluated for suspected SDB will be offered to participate in
           the proposed research study, once the inclusion and exclusion criteria have been
           reviewed. Previous informed consent of their parents, a sleep study will be carried out
           (complete polysomnography-PSG) with pulse transit time measurement (PTT). The night of
           the sleep study will be provided to parents the Chervin questionnaire for the collection
           of clinical data and anthropometric measurements (weight, height; body mass index;
           percentiles; hip perimeter; waist circumference; neck perimeter) (V1). From the results
           of the sleep study four groups will be created according to the severity of the SDB
           measured by the apnea-hypopnea index (AHI): group I: AHI 0-3 / h; Group II: AHI 3-5 / h;
           group III AHI> 5 / h; Group IV: AHI> 10 / h. For the study of HBP, arterial pressure
           will be measured in clinic and 24h ambulatory blood pressure measurement (ABPM) and PTT
           in a maximum time of 15 days around the completion of the sleep study (V2) (BP measures
           according to the regulations European 2016 collected in the study manual of procedure).
           All patients will be offered voluntary participation in the determination of organic
           subclinical damage related to HBP and pathophysiological mechanisms involved, which will
           include the following determinations: blood sample extraction, urine analysis,
           electrocardiogram and thoracic echocardiography. All organic damage tests will be
           carried out within a maximum period of one month around the completion of each sleep
           study. Once the sleep study is done, the therapeutic decision will be made in the
           pediatric office according to the criteria established in the regulation of sleep
           respiratory disorders in children SEPAR (V3) (Alonso ML et al. Arch Bronchoneumol 2011,
           Consensus document of the apnea-hypopnea syndrome during sleep in children). In order to
           evaluate the impact of treatment of SDB on HBP, measurements will be repeated after
           treatment (V4). In the case of patients who do not require treatment or who are referred
           for medical treatment tests will be repeated 6 months after the therapeutic decision
           making (ABPM, PTT, PSG and tests of organic damage if applicable). In the case of
           patients referred for adenotonsillar surgery, the procedures will be repeated just
           before the intervention (ABPM and PTT) and six months after the intervention (ABPM, PTT,
           PSG and proof of organic damage if applicable). In this way, a control group will be
           available without denying treatment to any of the patients and without allowing delays
           in the application of the same linked with the study.
    
  