
    
      Bipolar (BP) disorder is a chronic illness of profound shifts in mood ranging from mania to
      depression. BP is successfully treated by combining medication with psychosocial therapy, but
      care can prove inadequate in practice. With gaps in coverage and medication, along with
      imprecise guidelines on when, where, and how to intervene, promising psychosocial therapies
      require adaptive strategies to better address the specific needs of individuals in a timely
      manner. However, To accomplish this, evidence based practices are needed. This project aims
      to address this knowledge gap by establishing a mobile health platform for translating a
      psychosocial therapy in BP into an effective adaptive intervention.

      The research to be conducted under this protocol falls under the general heading of a
      micro-randomized trial. It investigates feasibility of a study on how to tailor an
      intervention based on acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT) when delivered via a smartphone
      app. Long-term objective of this study is to develop a mobile health platform for the
      translation of a psychosocial intervention for bipolar disorder (BP) into an effective
      adaptive intervention. In this particular part of the study, the investigator will assess the
      feasibility of a mobile health and wearable device platform for the translation of a BP
      psychosocial therapy into an evidenced-based adaptive intervention. To answer this question,
      investigator will study how individuals with BP respond to a microintervention delivered via
      a mobile app. Primary outcome of this study is to evaluate the feasibility of a
      micro-randomized trial in ACT in terms of completion of assessments (interview and
      self-report), wearing of Fitbit, and completion of microintervention questions. Secondary
      outcome of the study is to detect a linear effect in time of the microintervention on symptom
      levels of mania and depression in individuals with bipolar disorder. The estimated linear
      effect would be used to power a larger study.Enrollment is by invitation only; participants
      in the study will be recruited from the Prechter Longitudinal Study of Bipolar Disorder
      (HUM606).
    
  