
    
      This is a prospective, observational study. The investigators aim to conduct this pilot study
      to assess if there is a change in MPV (∆ MPV) after routine clopidogrel in patients with
      stable angina undergoing PCI.

      Reduced responsiveness to clopidogrel (otherwise known as clopidogrel resistance) is well
      documented. Clopidogrel resistance can result in adverse long term effects including stent
      thrombosis and mortality. Diagnosis of clopidogrel resistance requires special analyzers and
      reagents . There are potential cost factors involved with the analyzers and reagents used for
      testing resistance. There are no known clinical or biochemical markers of clopidogrel
      resistance.

      If our pilot study results demonstrate that MPV does change (∆MPV) after clopidogrel, then a
      prospective trial can be conducted in future to correlate ∆MPV with clopidogrel resistance
      measured by analyzer tests. This could establish ∆MPV as a potential cheap, effective
      biochemical marker for clopidogrel resistance.

      If the investigators are successful in demonstrating a change in MPV with clopidogrel, our
      pilot study will facilitate conducting future larger studies to demonstrate correlation
      between ∆MPV and clopidogrel resistance. This could establish ∆MPV as a potential cheap,
      effective biochemical marker for clopidogrel resistance with resultant benefit to subjects
      and the institution.

      All clopidogrel naive patients with stable angina symptoms who are electively listed for
      coronary angiography and PCI at Peter Munk Cardiac Centre (PMCC), Toronto General Hospital
      (TGH), will be included in this pilot study. This pilot study will be conducted in compliance
      with the protocol, Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and University Health Network (UHN) policy

      Study hypothesis. The investigators hypothesize that MPV values remain the same after
      clopidogrel in patients with stable angina undergoing PCI and aim to disprove the hypothesis

      Study Design This prospective pilot study will include consecutive clopidogrel naïve patients
      with stable angina symptoms, who are electively listed for coronary angiography and PCI at
      Peter Munk Cardiac Centre (PMCC), Toronto General Hospital (TGH), will be prospectively
      included in this pilot study. These patients are given a routine loading dose of clopidogrel
      600milligrams (mg) followed by a daily dose of clopidogrel 75mg daily after they undergo PCI
      (as per protocol for all patients who undergo PCI). Complete Blood Count (CBC) is performed
      routinely in patients prior to the loading dose of clopidogrel (day 0) and on one occasion
      post PCI as per UHN standard of care. MPV and platelet count are automatically generated
      during analysis of CBC.

      Ten milliliters (mls) of blood will be drawn from eligible, consented patients at the time of
      the admission, collected in ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA) tubes, and tested for
      CBC. Platelets have an average life span that can vary from 8-10 days or 10-36 days12. To
      minimize this bias, three additional MPV samples will be collected on day 1, day 7 and day 30
      post PCI.

      The samples will be analyzed within 2 hours of venipuncture to minimize artefactual increase
      in MPV with prolonged exposure to EDTA in the collection tubes .

      Change in MPV (∆MPV) and change in platelet count (∆Platelet count) will be calculated as
      follows:

        -  MPV = MPV on admission - Mean MPV after clopidogrel

        -  Platelet count = Platelet count on admission - Mean Platelet count after clopidogrel
           These results will be correlated with adverse events (readmission and MI) at 30 days by
           collecting data regarding readmission and cardiac blood tests (for MI) from the
           electronic patient record (EPR) system online. The universal definition of MI will be
           adhered to .

      Platelet inhibition occurs within 2 hours of a loading dose but reaches a steady state from 3
      to 7 days. Repeated samples will ensure the effect of a steady level of clopidogrel on MPV
      and reduce bias.No change in intervention or medication will occur-all patients will receive
      treatment according to the UHN standard of care. No randomization or blinding is involved in
      this pilot study.

      The expected duration of participation will be up to 1 month after the index procedure as
      repeat blood tests are required at day 7 and day 30 after the procedure and adverse events
      are assessed at day 30.

      Patients discharged on the day of the procedure need to return for blood tests the following
      day, on day 7 and day 30 after the PCI (3 visits). Patients discharged on the day after the
      procedure will need to return for blood tests on day 7 and day 30 after the PCI (2 visits).

      This will involve travel time (approximately 1 hour each way) and time to give the blood
      sample (30 minutes inclusive of waiting time) equal to a total of 2.5 hours for each visit.
      Patients will have an overall time commitment of 7.5 hours for 3 visits or 5 hours for 2
      visits.

      Statistics MPV is automatically analyzed (on a CBC sample) by the Abbott CELL-DYN Sapphire@
      analyzer at the TGH laboratory.

      The sample size was estimated using the formula:

      Z = 1.96 for 95% Confidence Interval (CI) σ = standard deviation (SD) of the outcome variable
      = 0.219 fl for MPV (Hematology Laboratory Quality Control (QC) for MPV analyzed by Abbott
      CELL-DYN Sapphire@ (8.46 fl). E (5%) = desired margin of error

      In order to ensure that the 95% confidence interval estimate of the MPV in adults with stable
      angina undergoing PCI is within 0.219 femtolitre (fl) of the true mean MPV, a sample size of
      74 patients is required for this pilot project.

      Assuming an attrition rate of 30%, a sample size of 100 patients would be required. The
      formula has taken into account the QC mean obtained for the Abbott CELL-DYN Sapphire@. An
      attrition rate of 30% was taken into account for patients who may not be able to return for
      the repeat blood tests.

      In addition to determining if MPV changes after clopidogrel or not, ∆MPV will be correlated
      with the presence of clopidogrel using Receiver Operating Curves (ROC) as will ∆Platelet
      count. The study will be terminated on completion of collection of 4 blood samples at
      pre-specified time points in 74 patients (actual calculated sample size) with stable angina
      undergoing angiography and PCI.

      All eligible patients (as per the inclusion criteria) will be included in the trial.

      Only persons involved in this pilot study (i.e. PI, Co-PI, research fellows and research
      nurse) will have access to the source data and documents which will be maintained in a secure
      location at the PMCC site. Any electronic data will be on specific UHN designated on-site
      computers, password protected and only accessible to the designated research team.

      Review and Assessment of adverse events Adverse effects are not expected at the time of blood
      collection. A designated contact telephone number for the research nurse will be made
      available to the participating patients in the event of rare adverse effects such as fainting
      at the time of blood collection, bruising or infection at the access site.

      Consent process Patients will be consented prior to the procedure - the background of the
      proposed study and the relative benefits and risks of the study will be clearly explained to
      the patient prior to the procedure on the day. If the patient's native language is not
      English or the patient does not speak/understand English, then a UHN designated native
      language translator will be involved for purposes of consent. Patients must sign the consent
      form prior to enrollment. A UHN prototype consent form prototype will be used for this
      purpose.

      Co-ordinated Approval Process for Clinical Research (CAPCR) form has been submitted for and
      approved by the Research Ethics Board (REB)

      Financing: Funding will be obtained (internally) from the Cardiology Division, PMCC, TGH.
    
  