
    
      Modern combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) leads to well-controlled HIV infection with
      a potentially normal life expectancy. Nucleosidic reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)
      play a major role as "ART backbone" and are essential antiretroviral agents according to
      current European and WHO HIV treatment guidelines. However, NRTI use can be associated with
      substantial side effects, e.g. bone and kidney toxicity, lipotoxicity and mitochondrial
      toxicity and can put patients at serious risk. Especially long-term NRTI-exposure is a risk
      factor for these often cumulative side effects, since the standard of care (SOC) therapy with
      the different NRTIs consists of the combination of multiple substances. Furthermore NRTI
      resistances may emerge over time and limit treatment options for pre-treated HIV patients.

      As a consequence, alternative NRTI free (so called "nuke sparing") therapy options have been
      evaluated in different studies but were associated with less virologic therapeutic success
      and higher rates of therapy induced resistance compared to standard regimens in ART naïve
      patients. This is particularly true for patients with a high baseline viral load.

      As an alternative to NRTI-based therapy options, Ritonavir-boosted protease inhibitor
      (PI/r)-based nuke-sparing dual therapies have been studied widely, mostly in combination with
      the integrase inhibitor (INI) Raltegravir (RAL). In this setting, the PI was not fully
      capable to prevent the development of INI resistant viruses.

      The HIV protease inhibitor Darunavir (DRV) and the novel INI Dolutegravir (DTG) are both very
      potent anchor drugs with a high barrier to resistance. Due to a favourable side-effect
      profile, a once-daily (QD) formulation and its virological potency, DRV is currently one of
      the most frequently used PIs in Europe and the USA. In addition, the new, once-daily
      administrable integrase inhibitor DTG showed an excellent tolerability profile as well as a
      high resistance barrier.

      The nuke-free combination of DTG (50 mg) with the Ritonavir (/r)- or Cobicistat-boosted
      protease inhibitor DRV (800 mg) may offer a favorable safety and efficacy profile with the
      advantage of QD-dosing.
    
  