
    
      Topical microbicides are products designed to prevent the sexual transmission of HIV and
      other disease pathogens. Studies have shown that nonoxynol-9, a detergent microbicide, can
      cause mucosal erosion and ulceration and increased risk of HIV infection. Attention has been
      given to developing non-detergent topical microbicides, such as BufferGel and PRO 2000/5 Gel.
      Studies have shown these products to be safe and acceptable for vaginal use [AS PER AMENDMENT
      08/20/01: "however, none of the clinical studies to date have investigated the effects on the
      penile epithelium and urethral mucosa" has been replaced with: Phase I trials also have been
      conducted to assess the safety of BufferGel and PRO 2000/5 Gel (P) on the penile epithelium
      and urethral mucosa. In 1 trial, HIV-uninfected men applied either PRO 2000/5 or a gel
      containing the inactive ingredients of PRO 2000/5 for 7 days. A few patients reported mild
      symptoms of genital itching, tingling, irritation, dryness, discoloration, or flaking of the
      dried gel. In a similar trial comparing BufferGel and K-Y Jelly, a few patients reported
      similar symptoms.] It is important to determine whether the frequency and severity of adverse
      events experienced by men is comparable to that observed among women. It is also important to
      determine whether these adverse events are similar between circumcised and uncircumcised men.

      Patients are assigned randomly to 1 of 6 possible sequences of product use. Patients complete
      3 weeks of nightly product application (7 consecutive nights each of BufferGel, PRO 2000/5
      Gel, and placebo gel) separated by a one-week washout between product-use periods. Patients
      apply the gel to the shaft and glans of the penis at bedtime, leave on for a minimum of 6
      hours, and wash off the next morning. Patients maintain a diary of product application and
      removal, side effects, and use of other medications. Follow-up evaluations, including a
      genital exam and urine testing, are performed after each product-use and washout period. [AS
      PER AMENDMENT 08/20/01: Digital photographs will be taken of any observed abnormality or
      normal area that is needed for clinical decision making and/or documentation purposes.] In
      addition, adherence is assessed, the patient diary is reviewed, and product acceptability
      questionnaires are administered after each product-use period. Patients receive monetary
      compensation for participation.
    
  