
    
      Pressure sore is a common problem for patient with bed-ridden. The care of pressure sore cost
      many social and medical resource, and also effect the quality of life of patients. Current
      principles of treatment of pressure sore include adequate pain control, optimizing
      nutritional status, pressure relief, wound cleaning and dressing, infection control and
      surgical intervention if needed. Wound dressings should be based on wound characteristics.
      However, for improving wound healing, different dressing materials were developed.

      There are increased evidences implicate nitric oxide (NO) synthesis plays an important role
      in the process of wound healing. Nitric oxide involve in angiogenesis, mediating inflammatory
      process, cell proliferation and collagen disposition, then improving wound healing. One study
      used topic NO-gel to mice with second degree burn wound, and found that the NO gel had the
      potential to enhance burn wound healing by regulation of many cellular processes in the skin.
      Based on the findings, the investigators hypothesize that NO gel could be used as an
      alternative method for pressure sore dressing to enhance wound healing.

      This is a 12-week study. The investigators plan to enroll 40 subjects. The run-in period is
      set for screening based on inclusion and exclusion criteria. Baseline data including
      demographic profiles, medical history and current medications will be obtained, followed by
      an intact pressure sore inspection. Pressure ulcer stage (developed by NPAUP) , Pressure
      Ulcer Scale for Healing(PUSH) and Pressure Sore Status Tool(PSST) will be recorded before
      randomization. Baseline photograph of pressure sore will be taken .

      During the treatment phase, a NO gel or placebo gel will be administered on the pressure sore
      wound by caregiver once or twice daily (decided by doctor according to clinical condition)
      after standard wound cleaning with normal saline. During the treatment period, the study
      subjects will be followed- up every 2 weeks to record the wound condition and any side
      effect. The investigators will use stage, PUSH and PSST, and take serial photograph to
      monitor wound condition.
    
  