
    
      Defining the mechanisms that limit tissue injury during acute inflammation may provide the
      basis for preventing secondary organ dysfunction during serious infections. We plan to use
      the human endotoxin lung challenge model to study mechanisms associated with the initiation
      and resolution of lung inflammation.

      Endotoxin (LPS), an outer membrane component of Gram-negative bacteria, is a major microbial
      factor that mediates inflammation associated with serious infections. For over fifty years,
      endotoxin has been administered to humans as a challenge agent in order to understand basic
      mechanisms of inflammation, to provide a proof of principle for pharmacologic interventions
      (e.g., anti-cytokines, corticosteroids), or as an adjuvant for immunotherapy of malignancies.

      We previously developed a human model to study the initiation and resolution of inflammation
      in a lung segment following endotoxin bronchial instillation. The inflammatory response was
      limited to the challenged segment and had minimal associated systemic responses. After direct
      instillation into a lung segment, endotoxin elicits an inflammatory response characterized by
      the local production of inflammatory mediators, proteins and increases in cellularity. The
      predominate cell species found in the bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) of the challenged segment
      changes from a neutrophil influx at 2 - 6 hours to an influx of monocytes and lymphocytes at
      24 and 48 hours following endotoxin challenge. At 6 hours, BAL pro-inflammatory activity
      (i.e., tumor necrosis factor bioactivity and induction of intercellular adhesion molecule-1
      on reporter cells) is present and absent at 24 and 48 hours post endotoxin. In addition,
      unique subsets of lymphocytes are present in the lung during this inflammatory response.

      We have recently shown that non-cellular microRNAs (miRNAs) are present in archived BAL from
      normal healthy volunteer airways and are differentially expressed 6 hours after
      endotoxin-induced acute lung inflammation. miRNA are single stranded non-coding RNA that
      mediate posttranscriptional regulation of gene expression. Some extracellular miRNA species
      may modulate local and distant cell processes. miRNA can activate Toll-like receptors (TLRs)
      and have been described as blood biomarkers of different disease states. However, the
      specific role of extracellular or secreted miRNAs in the lung is poorly defined. Our research
      plan is designed to study the roles of miRNA in acute lung inflammation by investigating the
      changes in miRNA signatures found in BAL and lung cells from healthy volunteers at baseline
      and at 6, 24, or 48 hours after endotoxin segmental lung challenge. A panel of flow cytometry
      cell surface markers will be performed on blood and BAL cells and intracellular and secreted
      miRNA will be isolated from specific cell species (i.e., neutrophils, monocytes, macrophages,
      and lymphocytes). We hypothesize that miRNA will have a role in modulating the initiation and
      resolution of inflammation.
    
  