
    
      In the present study, the incidence and time course of treatment-related changes in
      cardio-pulmonary physiology will be assessed using standard diagnostic tools such as
      echocardiography, cardiac MRI (CMR) and serum biomarkers and relate them to the radiation
      dose distribution. Such insight in the characteristics of this possible radiation-induced PH
      and contributing risk factors is essential to develop primary (radiation dose optimization)
      prevention strategies.

      The general objective of this study is to test the hypothesis that pulmonary hypertension
      (PH) is a clinically relevant radiation-induced side effect of thoracic irradiation. If
      confirmed this allows us to take appropriate measures in patient care to improve quality of
      life in thoracic cancer patients.

      To investigate this hypothesis, the following specific aims have been defined:

        -  To assess the incidence and time course of PH in a prospective cohort study in patients
           treated with radiotherapy for lung or oesophageal cancer.

        -  To characterize other changes in myocardial function and pulmonary arteries, and their
           function using cardiac MR.

        -  To determine treatment-related risk factors, in particular radiation dose factors to the
           lungs and heart that could be used for future optimization strategies to minimize the
           risk of inducing PH in these patients.

        -  To determine the clinical impact by correlating PH to patient-rated outcome measure
           (PROMs) and survival. Taken together this study will determine if radiation-induced
           pulmonary hypertension is a clinically relevant toxicity and will provide information
           required for future studies on its prevention and treatment. In addition, more insight
           will be obtained on other forms of cardiovascular damage and complications that may
           occur in these patients.
    
  