
    
      Alzheimer disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative condition and the most common cause of dementia
      or a functional impairment in memory and other cognitive abilities. Prior to developing the
      functional impairment of dementia, patients develop mild cognitive impairment (MCI), which
      increases the risk for developing the functional impairment of dementia. Deep brain
      stimulation (DBS) is of interest as a potential therapeutic option for MCI and AD because it
      can directly target and modulate the activity of brain structures implicated in memory
      functioning.

      Recently there have been multiple reports that DBS of different locations within the brain
      may be effective in improving symptoms characteristic of dementia (e.g., Heschman et al.,
      2013). For example, Laxton et al. (2010) performed DBS in the fornix/hypothalamus of six
      persons with AD in a phase I clinical trial. The investigators hypothesized that stimulation
      of the fornix would alter the activity of the medial temporal memory circuits, and thus delay
      and/or reverse memory loss. After 6-12 months, the investigators noted improvement or slowing
      in the progression of AD in some of the research participants, as measured by two
      commonly-used assessments of global cognitive function. In a recent literature review, Laxton
      et al. (2013) also described several additional studies demonstrating that DBS of the fornix
      or nucleus of Meynert or subthalamic nucleus influences the pathologic neurological circuits
      involved in AD.

      Four separate groups recently have published reports concluding that ultrasound improves
      amyloid-β clearance in mouse models and restores memory (e.g., Leinenga & Götz, 2015). This
      finding raises the question of whether one method of DBS, Low Intensity Focused Ultrasound
      Pulse (LIFUP), could improve cognition in patients with AD, which is characterized by
      abnormal deposition of amyloid plaques in brain regions controlling memory and thinking. The
      use of LIFUP in animal models is well described (Bystritsky et al., 2014). LIFUP is able to
      penetrate the human skull and reach deep structures within the temporal therapeutic window.
      The structures that are reachable by LIFUP include the temporal cortices, hippocampus,
      thalamus, and subthalamic nuclei, all of which are implicated in the pathophysiology of AD.
      The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recently approved an investigational device exemption
      (IDE) to begin a feasibility and safety trial of LIFUP for persons with refractory seizures.

      Although symptomatic treatments are available for AD, their modest effects are temporary and
      there is a need for more effective interventions. In the current project, the investigators
      propose to use the FDA-approved protocol to:

        1. Determine the feasibility of a brief LIFUP intervention (four stimulations of 30 seconds
           each, with 2-minute intervals between each treatment) for persons with MCI or mild
           (early-stage) AD.

        2. As a secondary aim, the investigators will explore whether this brief LIFUP intervention
           is associated with improvements on neuropsychological measures of cognitive functioning
           immediately following the intervention.

      To investigate these aims, subjects with MCI or mild AD will be enrolled. Subjects will be
      randomized using a single-blind design, to one of two LIFUP pulsing paradigms in which
      activity of neurons in a certain part of the brain are either increased. Subjects will then
      be administered four successive LIFUP treatments while the subjects are in a functional
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Neuropsychological assessments will be performed at
      baseline, immediately after LIFUP is administered, and one week following the conclusion of
      the visit.
    
  