
    
      Together with obesity, diabetes is epidemic in the US (20) and worldwide (21). Increased body
      weight is both a risk factor for diabetes (22) and a consequence of initiation and
      intensification of insulin therapy, as illustrated in landmark diabetes control trials (1-3).
      Weight gain can worsen insulin resistance leading to higher insulin requirements, and, thus
      perpetuates a vicious cycle (36), the ultimate effect of which may be to further enhance
      metabolic risk (15, 35). For example, an analysis of the diabetes control and complications
      trial (DCCT) revealed that the highest quartile of weight gain in the intensive treatment led
      to hyperlipidemia and increased blood pressure; i.e. metabolic syndrome (35). Thus, while
      glycemic control is clearly a critical metabolic target in diabetes outcomes, additional
      considerations, including body weight (adiposity) and weight gain, are of fundamental
      importance in the clinical management of a complex disease such as diabetes. Of course,
      overweight and obesity are clearly a critical risk factor for the development of type II
      diabetes in the first place (10), and further weight gain generates significant negative
      "biofeedback" to the patient and physician struggling to achieve control(33).

      Mechanisms involved in weight gain on insulin therapy are incompletely understood:
      hypoglycemia is potent stimulus to feed (11), improving glycemic control reverses the
      negative energy balance associated with glycosuria (loss of energy as glucose through the
      urine), and insulin is clearly a potent anabolic hormone in peripheral tissues (37). In
      contrast to ample evidence associating insulin therapy with weight gain, a distinct body of
      evidence indicates that insulin functions as an adiposity negative feedback signal to the
      brain (23) and limits food intake and weight gain. It is now generally accepted that insulin
      plays an important role in the neural control of energy homeostasis (matching of caloric
      intake to energy expenditure to maintain body weight) as well as glucose homeostasis via such
      neural effects (23). Of course, as will be further discussed, insulin has numerous effects in
      the CNS ranging from modulation of reward (12), cognition (31), and mood (32). Indeed, the
      overarching hypothesis of this study is that insulin modulates brain function in a manner
      that is beneficial.

      Food reward can loosely be described as the processes involved in liking, wanting, and
      learning to acquire food and each of these aspects represent separate but overlapping
      neuropsychological substrates. To put it even more simply, reward is the sense of
      satisfaction or pleasure derived from eating. Food reward has sensory, integrative, and motor
      components, all of which contribute to consummatory behaviors (38). Relevant to the focus of
      this particular study, is the monoamine neurotransmitter dopamine, which is heavily involved
      in the generation of food reward. Insulin, a signal generated in response to food intake,
      functions to decrease, or control food reward(12).

      Reward, defined as the sense of satisfaction, or indeed, pleasure that results from feeding
      is an increasingly recognized and potentially potent influence over food intake that shares
      neuoranatomical and neurochemical correlates with substance abuse (although with clear
      differences as well). Although other neurotransmitters (in particular opioids and
      endocannabinoids) are involved in reward, the monoamine neurotransmitter, dopamine (DA) has
      been strongly implicated in mediating reward from food (and other stimuli). The midbrain is
      particularly rich in dopamine neurons, originating in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) that
      project to both ventral (nucleus accumbens, NAc) and dorsal (caudate and putamen) striatum,
      brain areas that integrate and subserve reward and food seeking behaviors. While the
      circuitry involved in feeding and reward is complex, these discreet brain areas (dorsal and
      ventral striatum) are heavily dopaminergic, implicated in reward, and are brain areas that
      our group has a great deal of expertise in studying.

      Dopamine is secreted into the synapse from pre-synaptic nerve terminals and either binds to
      and activates dopamine receptor signaling, or is cleared from the synaptic cleft by a
      specific transporter molecule. The dopamine receptor of interest for this study is the D2
      receptor, as it has been well studied and is the isoform involved in feeding. Similarly, the
      dopamine transporter has been well studied, plays a critical role in dopamine
      neurotransmission, and is regulated by insulin. In this study we will utilize PET
      radioligands to quantify expression of D2 receptors. We will additionally utilize functional
      brain imaging (functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI)) to quantify changes in dopamine
      circuits in response to food cues (visual images of obesogenic food) and in response to a
      probe of dopamine transporter function.

      Although weight-gain on insulin initiation or intensification is common, numerous reports in
      randomized, controlled human clinical trials describe attenuation of this effect with the
      basal insulin analogue, detemir ((17), reviewed in (18)). Intriguingly, the observed weight
      sparing effects of detemir appear to be amplified in the most obese (18), i.e. the effects of
      detemir are evident and even amplified in a situation in which insulin resistance is most
      severe. This scenario is entirely consistent with our overarching hypotheses described
      throughout. The current study will utilize insulin detemir as a tool to understand weight
      effects of insulin mediated by CNS effects and to identify the mechanisms involved in the
      observed weight sparing effect.

      Insulin detemir was approved by the FDA for the treatment of diabetes in 2005. Detemir is a
      long-acting, basal insulin analogue with unique pharmacological properties that we believe
      confers the capacity to regulate brain insulin sensitive processes. Compared to regular human
      insulin, detemir has one amino acid deleted, and a medium chain fatty acid conjugated to
      amino acid B29. Conjugation of this fatty acid confers prolonged absorption from the
      subcutaneous depot as it mediates polymerization and slow release. Additionally the fatty
      acid confers albumin binding in the plasma, further increasing the half-life, and providing a
      second buffering mechanism for prolongation of duration of action. We hypothesize that this
      fatty acid additionally confers enhanced transport into the CNS and/or, enhanced signaling
      through the insulin receptor in the context where insulin resistance is established. In the
      clinical development program, insulin detemir was noted to cause significantly less weight
      gain, and from a safety perspective is also associated with less hypoglycemia.

      Rationale for this study. Firstly, dopamine neurotransmission underlies reward. Several high
      visibility studies in humans provide proof-of-principle data supporting the hypothesis that
      defects in dopamine homeostasis contribute to the pathophysiology of obesity (40, 41). By PET
      imaging, dopamine D2 receptor availability (radioligand binding potential) was reduced in a
      BMI dependent fashion; i.e. with increased body mass, less dopamine D2 receptor is available
      in the brain for dopamine signaling (leading to reduced dopamine signaling;
      hypodopaminergia). Similarly, brain activation, as measured by functional MR imaging (using
      techniques similar to those utilized herein), was reduced in obese individual who possess
      polymorphisms in genes regulating dopamine signaling. This work, together with an ever
      expanding body of preclinical work indicates that obesity is a chronic state of reduced
      dopamine signaling, or hypodopaminergia; indeed this condition has been termed
      "hypodopaminergic reward deficiency syndrome." As our preliminary data supports dopamine
      neurotransmission is under regulatory influence by insulin; insulin regulates intracellular
      trafficking of the transporter (analogous to insulin regulation of glucose transporter
      trafficking), and this trafficking is required to maintain the fidelity of dopamine signaling
      via the D2 receptor
    
  