
    
      Injection drug use is driving HIV epidemics in low/middle-income countries in Eastern Europe,
      Central Asia and Southeast Asia. "Combined prevention and care", including needle/syringe
      programs (NSP), medication-assisted treatment for opiate dependence, and antiretroviral
      treatment, has greatly reduced HIV incidence among persons who inject drugs (PWID) in many
      high-income areas, to where the "HIV epidemics" among PWID have "ended." There is now the
      need for a convincing demonstration that an HIV epidemic can be ended in a low/middle income
      setting. The overarching purpose of the proposed research is to demonstrate that high
      coverage implementation of combined prevention and care using an innovative approach will end
      the HIV epidemic among PWID in Haiphong, Viet Nam. The researchers define "ending the
      epidemic" as reducing HIV incidence to 0.5/100 person-years at risk.

      Data collection will include recruitment using repeated community based respondent driven
      sampling (RDS) surveys, once per year among PWID in Hai Phong. Participants will be given a
      quantitative questionnaire and tested for HIV and Hepatitis C (HCV). Peer support groups will
      be mobilized to help recruit PWID and assist in educations on the benefits of early ART,
      access to methadone, antiretroviral treatment and psychiatric services, and ways to prevent
      HIV and HCV transmission through safe injection practices and safe sex. Additionally, the
      investigators will develop large cohorts of HIV positive and HIV negative PWID to closely
      document behaviors trends, HIV incidence, and the obstacles of the access and retention in
      HIV care and methadone. It has been shown that it is possible to end HIV epidemics among PWID
      in several high income countries. This study will build upon the knowledge and results gained
      in high income settings to achieve viral suppression among HIV positive PWID and reduce
      HIV/HCV incidence in order to "end the HIV epidemic" among persons who inject drugs in
      Haiphong.
    
  