
    
      PET/CT cooling protocol Participants recruited through an advertisement in local newspapers
      or by word of mouth. An initial appointment was made to inform participants about the study
      and determine eligibility. A health pre-screening was done by interview through a suitable
      medical history questionnaire. The investigators obtained written consent from 20 healthy (no
      chronic disease and/or being under medication treatment) and non-smoking adult men [age:
      36.30±5.33 (years); Body Mass Index: 28.46±5.49 (kg/m2)].

      On the day of the measurements the participants advised to transport themselves by car to the
      PET/CT Laboratory at 07:30 am, following at least a 12-hour fasting. At 8 am the participants
      consumed a meal consisted of 50% carbohydrates, 20% proteins and 30% fat to avoid a thermic
      effect of food on white adipose tissue (WAT) activity. Also, to avoid a thermic effect of
      food on the Resting Energy Expenditure (REE) measurement, the caloric value of the meal was
      15% of the total energy requirements of each participant. The total energy requirements was
      calculated following previous methodology. At 14:00 pm participants underwent measurements
      for body height using a Seca (Hamburg, Germany) stadiometer, body weight using a precision
      scale (KERN & Sohn GmbH, Version 5.3, Germany) and Waist Hip Ratio using a tape measure. The
      investigators also measured blood pressure using a Standard Aneroid sphygmomanometer
      (Medisave, UK) according to standard guidelines. Blood glucose levels were determined via a
      Contour NEXT/ASCENSIA monitor. Participants who displayed blood glucose >140 mg/dl and blood
      pressure >140 mm/Hg were excluded from the study.

      Immediately after the aforementioned measurements participants wore specific clothes
      (long-sleeve sweatshirt and sweatpants) that offered 0.49 clo insulation. Participants then
      undertook a REE assessment. Following the REE measurement participants remained in a sitting
      position in a cold room at 16-17ºC (humidity ~30-40%) for two hours. The room temperature and
      humidity were continuously monitored, while an investigator checked every 15 minutes
      participants muscle shivering status, according to previous methodology. The muscle shivering
      was tested using a scale, none (no tension of muscles reported), mild (slight muscle tonus in
      masseter muscle), moderate (real shivering in proximal muscles), severe (uncontrolled
      shivering in whole body). In case of moderate or severe shivering, participants were covered
      with a blanket for the next 15 minutes. After the first hour of cold exposure an appropriate
      dose - according to participants body weight - of F18 fludeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) was injected
      to the participants.

      Following the 2-hour cooling protocol participants undertook the PET/CT examination. A
      Siemens Biograph 6 high resolution Erlangen Germany (2006) PET/CT was used to obtain images
      from the top of the skull to the upper third of the thigh. Six to eight bed positions (five
      minutes per bed position) were required.

      White adipose tissue activity analysis WAT activity analysis (dorsolumbar region near
      vertebrae L3 and abdominal region) was performed by two independent trained physicians.

      REE assessments for PET/CT cooling protocol REE assessments were conducted between 14:00 to
      15:00 pm to comply with guidelines regarding the thermic effect of food on REE. The
      investigators have also instructed the participants to refrain from exercise, alcohol, and
      passive smoking in 72-hour prior to the measurements. REE was measured using an automated
      portable gas analyser (Oxycon Mobile, CareFusion, San Diego, USA) and the procedure was
      identical to the REE assessment for our UCP1 studies described above.

      Environmental temperature (Tenv) recording Environmental data (ambient temperature) were
      obtained from Weather Underground (www.wunderground.com). Tenv was recording between January
      2017 and March 2019. For the latter periods, the investigators obtained daily mean air
      temperature from the closest weather station operated near the area participants lived; the
      weather station Eleftherios Venizelos international station, Athens, Greece (37.93 °N, 23.93
      °E) at an elevation of 94m.
    
  