
    
      Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) and Alzheimer's Disease (AD) are two of the most common
      diseases of aging.The presence of T2DM almost doubles the risk of developing AD and is
      associated with a faster rate of cognitive decline in those with mild cognitive impairment
      (MCI). Blood glucose levels are directly associated with accelerated cognitive decline also
      in subjects with impaired fasting glucose and in individuals without clinical DM. Impaired
      insulin signaling is critically involved in the natural history of both T2DM and AD and it
      may represent a common mechanistic link ("common soil") between dysglycemic/prediabetic
      states and AD development and progression.

      The overall objective of the study is to assess the potential effects of the long-acting
      GLP-1 analogue exenatide in preventing/slowing the progression of cognitive dysfunction and
      related biomarkers in dysglycemic/prediabetic patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI).

      All eligible patients at V0 will undergo baseline assessments (V1) and will be allocated
      according to the procedure of randomization to one of the study arms. Follow-up (FU) visits
      for all subjects will be at 16 (V2) and at 32 weeks (V3) after randomization. Additionally,
      subjects on active treatment will be admitted weekly to the Outpatient Diabetes Unit of the
      AOUPR for GLP-1 subcutaneous injections and to check for possible side effects. Subjects in
      the control arm will be seen at the Center for Dementia (AOUPR) according to their usual
      schedule.

      Laboratory and diagnostic:

      At each study visits patients will undergo:

        -  anthropometric and hemodynamic assessment: weight and height for Body Mass Index (BMI)
           calculation, waist circumference, ambulatory blood pressure, heart rate;

        -  blood test collection of metabolic profile: blood collection for metabolic/hormonal
           profile: fasting plasma glucose, HbA1c, insulin, C-peptide, glucagon, active GLP-1,
           total gastric inhibitory polypeptide (GIP), total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol,
           triglycerides, AST, ALT, pancreatic amylase, lipase, creatinine, eGFR.

        -  cognitive function tests: ADAS-cog and the quality score of MMSE, Phonemic verbal
           fluency test; Semantic verbal fluency test; Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS) ; Clinical
           Dementia Rating Scale (CDR); Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI); Activities of Daily
           Living (ADL); Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL).

      ADAS-cog was designed to measure the severity of the most important symptoms of Alzheimer's
      disease. It consists of 11 7 tasks measuring the disturbances of memory, language, praxis,
      attention and other cognitive abilities which are often referred to as the core symptoms of
      AD.

      - Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)(only at V1 and V3).
    
  