
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Premature cardiovascular disease is a major cause of mortality in rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
      The mechanisms underlying accelerated atherosclerosis and its relationship to inflammation in
      RA are poorly understood. Recent studies indicate that inflammation through the effects of
      inflammatory cytokines, and oxidative stress, through lipid peroxidation, are important in
      the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. The study's hypothesis is that accelerated,
      inflammation-promoted atherosclerosis occurs in RA.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study tests the hypotheses: 1) that structural and functional vascular damage is more
      frequent and more severe in patients with established RA than matched controls and is related
      to cumulative disease severity; 2) that this impairment of vascular integrity is associated
      with clinical and laboratory markers of inflammation, plasma homocysteine concentrations, and
      oxidative stress. To address these two hypotheses the relationship between longstanding
      inflammation and vascular integrity will be determined in a cross-sectional study of 75
      patients with established RA in whom prospectively obtained clinical data are available for
      15 years, and 75 matched non-RA controls. Endothelium-dependent, flow-mediated dilation of
      the brachial artery measured by ultrasound, and coronary calcium volume measured by electron
      beam computed tomography (EBCT) will provide functional and structural measures of vascular
      integrity, respectively. F2-isoprostane excretion, a reliable index of lipid peroxidation in
      vivo, homocysteine and lipid concentrations will be measured. Vascular integrity, oxidative
      stress, lipids and homocysteine will be compared in controls and RA patients. In the RA
      patients the relationship between RA activity and damage indices obtained over 15 years and
      vascular function and damage measures will be determined. Using the same techniques we will
      address hypothesis 3) that the rate of progression of vascular disease in patients with early
      RA can be altered by control of inflammation. In a prospective cohort of 100 patients with
      early RA receiving usual clinical care and 100 matched non-RA controls followed over 24
      months the relationship between clinical and biochemical measures of inflammation and
      vascular integrity will be determined by comparing "responders" and "non-responders". These
      studies will provide a basic understanding of the interrelationship between inflammation,
      lipids, oxidative stress and vascular damage, and will suggest strategies for reversing or
      preventing such damage in RA and, potentially, other diseases.
    
  