
    
      Registry Investigated Device:

      The OrbusNeich Combo Bio-engineered Sirolimus Eluting Stent (Combo Stent) consists of a 316L
      stainless steel alloy abluminally coated with a biocompatible, biodegradable polymer
      containing sirolimus. Covalently attached to this matrix is a layer of murine, monoclonal,
      anti-human CD34 antibody. The antibody specifically targets CD34+ cells in circulation.
      Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) are CD34+. The stent is supplied premounted on a 0.014"
      guide wire compatible low profile rapid exchange balloon catheter delivery system. The Combo
      Stent is Conformitée Européenne (CE) marked.

      Registry Objectives:

      The REMEDEE REGISTRY evaluates the long term safety and performance of the Abluminal
      Sirolimus Coated Bio-Engineered Stent (Combo Bio-Engineered Sirolimus Eluting Stent) in
      routine clinical practice. The primary objective of the registry is to evaluate the one year
      incidence of target lesion failure in consecutive patients undergoing percutaneous coronary
      intervention with (attempted) Combo stent placement.

      Registry Design:

      The REMEDEE REGISTRY is an international, prospective, multicenter, cohort post market
      registry with five years follow-up to evaluate outcomes in patients undergoing percutaneous
      coronary intervention with (attempted) Combo stent placement. The registry population
      consists of consecutive patients in whom a treatment with a Combo stent in the setting of
      routine clinical care is attempted.

      This registry involves the collection of baseline demographic, clinical, and angiographic
      data, as well as follow-up data in consecutive patients in whom the Combo stent is used to
      treat (a) coronary lesion(s) in the setting of routine clinical care. Patients are registered
      in up to 10 European high volume PCI centers. A follow-up is scheduled at 30 days, 180 days,1
      year, 2 years, 3 years, 4 years and 5 years post procedure. Follow-up is obtained at a
      planned regular visit to the out-patient clinic, or by telephone contact with the patient.

      Quality control:

      All data will be entered on-site in an electronic case report (eCRF) form according to Good
      Clinical Practice guidelines.

      All sites will monitored regularly during the time of the registry. The monitor plan involves
      a hundred percent procedural information and event monitoring. During data monitoring, all
      source data will be assessed for accuracy, completeness, and representativeness of registry
      data by comparing the data to external data sources. Data checks to compare data entered into
      the registry against predefined rules for range or consistency with other data fields in the
      registry are implemented in the (eCRF). A data dictionary that contains detailed descriptions
      of each variable used by the registry, including the source of the variable, coding
      information if used, and normal ranges if relevant is part of the database and eCRF design.
      Standard Operating Procedures to address registry operations and analysis activities, such as
      patient recruitment, data collection, data management, data analysis, reporting for adverse
      events, and change management are in place. A detailed statistical analysis plan describing
      the analytical principles and statistical techniques to be employed in order to address the
      primary and secondary objectives, as specified in the study protocol is available. Missing
      data is accounted for in the design of the eCRF template, and will be handled according to
      the statistical plan.
    
  