
    
      . Type of Study : Prospective double blind randomized placebo controlled clinical trial.

        -  Study Setting : This study will be conducted in Ain Shams University Maternity hospital.

        -  Study Period : 6 months

        -  Study Population : Patients will be recruited in this study those attending gynecology
           ward at Ain Shams University Maternity hospital who are 25-50 years old with symptomatic
           uterine myoma

      Methodology

      All women will be subjected to:

      History taking:

      It includes name, age, occupation, marriage and special habits,last menstrual period,
      menstrual history, history of present illness ( symptoms related to myoma ), any medical
      disorders and any previous surgeries.

      Examination

      General examination:

      It includes blood pressure, heart rate and body temperature, body mass index, head& neck
      examination Bilateral lower limb examination.

      Abdominal examination:

      It includes:

        1. Inspection : pelvi-abdominal swelling

        2. Palpation : smooth or irregular surface - mobility - consistency - size - tenderness

        3. Auscultation : soufflé ( increased vascularity )

        4. Percussion : dullness

      Local examination:

      Vaginal examnation will be done to detect uterine swelling with transmitted movement to the
      cervix . if movement not transmitted to cervix , it revealed extra-uterine swelling , also
      examination of adnexa Investigations Ultrasonography ( abdominal / vaginal ), (hysteroscopy ,
      MRI , D&C if indicated ) Pre-operative investigation ( Complete blood picture, blood group ,
      RH, hematocrite , Kidney Function Test , Liver Function Test , random Blood Sugar , urine
      analysis Intervention

      All women will be randomly assigned to either:

      Group A ( study group ) ( 25 patient): who will receive placebo . two rectal placebo tablet
      of the same size and shape as the misoprostol.

      Group B (control group ) ( 25 patient): who will receive 400 microgram (tablet 200mcg X 2)
      misoprostol rectally one hour before operation

      In all operations, the abdomen is entered by a Pfannenstiel incision. The operations are
      performed by the same team to avoid any bias related to surgical skills. The total volume of
      intra-operative blood loss is estimated by measuring the amount of blood accumulated in the
      suction container and the amount of blood on the surgical gauze by gauze weighting, the
      surgical gauzes are weighted before and after surgery using a scale accurate to 1 gram and
      the weight difference was calculated. The weight of 1 gram is taken as 1 ml blood.

      Vital data during operation and the duration of the operation are recorded (time from opening
      of the peritoneum until its closure). The postoperative haemoglobin level is measured for
      each participant 24 h after the operation. Records are kept for any intra-operative or
      postoperative blood transfusion. Any postoperative adverse events, including any febrile
      episode (increase to or over 38.5°C in body temperature within 24 h following surgery) are
      documented. Also post operative vital data will be recorded
    
  