
    
      Rates of antimicrobial resistance are increasing worldwide. There is increasing evidence that
      physiological gut microbiota is a large reservoir of antibiotic-resistance genes. Healthy gut
      microbiota is known to prevent the colonization of the gastrointestinal tract by pathogens,
      the so-called mechanism of colonization resistance, but this protective mechanism can be
      altered by therapies that impair gut microbiota, including antibiotics or chemotherapeutics,
      with consequent colonisation of gut pathogens, including multi-drug resistant bacteria
      (MDRB). MDRB carriers represent an epidemiological threat to other hospitalized patients and
      to the whole community, but are also at risk of developing clinical consequences of this
      colonization, including bloodstream infections from these pathogens. Fecal microbiota
      transplantation (FMT) has shown high efficacy in the eradication of recurrent C. difficile
      infection, and initial evidence suggests that this procedure could be useful in eradicating
      also MDRB, mainly carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae.

      However, current evidence is mostly limited to case reports and case series, and to a single
      randomised trial, which was stopped early and did not draw clear conclusion. In a systematic
      review of 21 studies and 192 patients, eradication rates ranged from 0% to 100%, and authors
      concluded that larger, well designed randomised controlled trials are needed to further
      explore this therapy.

      The extended aims of this study are:

        -  To compare the efficacy of donor FMT and placebo FMT in eradicating gut colonisation
           from CRE

        -  To compare the efficacy of donor FMT and placebo FMT in preventing clinical
           manifestations of gut colonisation from CRE

        -  To investigate changes in gut microbiome after treatments

      The investigators will carry out a single-centre placebo-controlled, double blind randomised
      clinical trial of donor FMT vs placebo FMT in carriers of CRE Patients will be recruited
      among those referred to the infectious disease outpatient clinic of the Fondazione
      Policlinico Universitario "A. Gemelli". Patients with all inclusion criteria and none of the
      exclusion criteria (detailed in the specific section of this website) will be considered for
      this study.

      Before randomisation, demographic data will be collected by the infectious disease staff.
      Moreover, patients will repeat rectal swab and stool culture.

      Additionally, patients will be requested to give stool samples to be collected in a sterile,
      sealed container and stored at -80°C for metagenomic assessment of gut microbiome and
      meta-transcriptome assessment by the microbiology staff.

      After baseline assessments, patients will be randomly assigned to one of the following
      treatment arms:

        -  Donor FMT (D-FMT)

        -  Placebo FMT (P-FMT)

      Patients in both groups will undergo a single FMT procedure by colonoscopy. Each patient in
      the donor FMT group will receive faeces from one single donor. Placebo FMT will be made of
      250 mL water. The selection of stool donors will be performed by the gastroenterology staff
      following protocols previously recommended by international guidelines and according the new
      recommendation imposed by the reorganisation of faecal microbiota transplant during the
      COVID-19 pandemic (Ianiro et al. - Gut 2020) The assignment of faecal infusates from healthy
      donors to patients will be done randomly, without any specific recipient-donor match, as this
      is not recommended by international guidelines All faecal infusates will be manufactured in
      the microbiology unit of our hospital. Only frozen faeces will be used. Preparation of frozen
      faeces will follow protocols from international guidelines.

      Follow-up visits will be performed by physicians from the gastroenterology and the infectious
      disease unit. All patients will be followed up for 3 months after the end of treatments.
      Follow-up visits will be scheduled at week 1, week 2, week 4, and week 12, after the end of
      treatments, respectively. At each visit the following assessments will be performed: 1)
      rectal swab for MDRB; 2) collection of stool samples for stool culture ; 3) collection of
      stool samples for microbiome analysis; 4) record of adverse events. Unscheduled follow-up
      visits will be offered if requested by the patients.

      Study Outcomes are detailed in the specific section of this website.

      The statistical analysis will be performed both on an intention-to-treat and per-protocol
      basis. Differences among groups will be assessed with a two-tailed Wilcoxon-rank sum test for
      continuous data and with Fisher's exact probability test (using two-tailed P-values) for
      categorical data. Differences in cure percentages will be determined with Fisher's exact test
      (with two-tailed P values). For microbiome analysis, statistical differences between group
      means will be calculated using a two-tailed Wilcoxon-Rank Sum Test, through the R statistical
      software package (R Core Team, Vienna, Austria).
    
  