
    
      Drunk driving is a major public health problem. The National Highway Traffic Safety
      Administration reported nearly 10,000 people died in alcohol-related crashes in the U.S. in
      2014. The problem is further magnified when one considers that each year over 1.3 million
      drivers in the U.S. are arrested for alcohol-impaired driving. As alarming as these
      statistics are they pale by comparison to estimates indicating that they only represent 1% of
      the 121 million self-reported episodes of alcohol-impaired driving among U.S. drivers each
      year. The proposed research will attempt to curb these alarming trends and move the field
      forward by conducting a randomized controlled trial testing a brief parent intervention's
      ability to change adolescents' drinking, impaired driving, and riding with impaired driver
      behaviors. Prior brief parent-based interventions fro this lab have provided sufficient
      preliminary evidence of participation, communication, and efficacy for changing under-age
      drinking to warrant a large-scale comprehensive study. The study will use an extremely
      rigorous design that meets the Society for Prevention Research Criteria for Efficacy as
      described in Flay et al., a nationally representative sample assessed at 3-waves (baseline, 6
      mo. and 12 mo.) to examine generalizability and sustained effects, and an oversampled
      Hispanic/Latino subgroup to examine the parent-intervention's potential to reduce a health
      disparity in an underserved population. The aims are as follows: Aim 1: Evaluate the efficacy
      of the parent intervention (short and long term); Aim 2: Examine mediators of the PBI that
      directly influence drinking, impaired driving, and riding with impaired driver behaviors; and
      Aim 3: Identify moderators to help inform future tailoring and improvement in intervention
      effectiveness. To the extent that the research is successful, it will provide an easy to
      implement and low cost alternative that can be widely disseminated to address this important
      public health problem.
    
  