
    
      PREVENTOMICs project (Empowering consumers to PREVENT diet-related diseases through OMICS
      sciences), coordinated by Eurecat (Spain), has developed a personalized nutrition platform
      with a Decision Support System (DSS) tool that integrates different disease-inducing
      metabolic signatures with genotype and other informative information such as the
      characteristics of individual's behavioural traits, to correlate health status and provide
      personalized nutritional plan.

      To demonstrate the potential for personalization of such platform, PREVENTOMICS will be
      validated in three different scenarios through three different organizations carrying out
      intervention studies with both healthy volunteers and volunteers with abdominal obesity.

      The current study in Denmark will be a 10-week double-blinded randomized (1:1 randomization),
      placebo-controlled trial carried out with overweight/obese subjects having elevated waist
      circumference living in Greater Copenhagen. After the confirmation of the inclusion criteria,
      100 individuals will be randomly assigned to one of the two intervention groups. Both groups
      will receive meals from Simple Feast. The control group (n=50) will receive meals based on
      general dietary recommendations of macronutrient composition, whereas the meals of the second
      group (n=50) are personalized based on metabolic biomarkers that will help reduce excess body
      fat. (PP group). In addition, participants of both groups will receive electronic push
      notifications of behavioral change messages for the purpose of general behavioral change and
      improving adherence to the nutritional intervention, which will be sent during the 10-week
      trial by ONMI. However, subjects in the PP group will receive personally tailored and
      actionable behavior change prompts from the predefined ONMI's program while subjects in the
      control group will receive it in a non-personalized fashion with standard messages.

      Our hypothesis is that personalized meal/plan delivery through the PREVENTOMICS platform
      integrated in e-commerce digital tool, will promote a greater reduction in fat mass and
      weight, as well as producing favorable changes in blood metabolic and inflammatory biomarkers
      compared to the control group.
    
  