
    
      Fingerprick autologous blood (FAB) has been demonstrated to be effective in treating dry eye
      disease by inducing healing of the epithelial surface of the eye (Than et al., 2017). The
      epithelial layers of both the mouth and the eye require a non-vascular source of lubrication
      and nutrients (tears and saliva respectively). These nutrients include growth factors -
      naturally occurring substances capable of stimulating cellular growth. Saliva provides
      transforming growth factor alpha (TGF - α) (Mogi et al., 1995), epidermal growth factor (EGF)
      (Herbst, 2004; Marti et al., 1989), and Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) (Amano et al., 1994)
      whilst tears provide EGF (Ohashi et al., 1989) amongst others (including TGF -β 1 and 2
      (Gupta et al., 1996) integral to the proliferation, survival and differentiation of the oral
      epithelial cells (Klenkler et al., 2007). Therefore, as severe dry mouth disease (and a
      subsequent lack of saliva and growth factors) causes damage to the epithelial surface lining
      the mouth, a growth factor rich saliva substitute like FAB, should be an effective treatment
      for dry mouth. There is currently no study which details FAB for use in dry mouth.

      Whole or parts of the three major salivary glands have been surgically transplanted or
      redirected to provide a replacement tear film in patients with severe dry eyes. This has been
      shown to be successful in both lubricating and improving eye comfort in afflicted patients
      (Geerling & Sieg, 2008). Since both blood and saliva have been shown to be effective as tear
      substitutes, it stands to reason that both tears and blood may be effective as a saliva
      substitute. Both tears and saliva are extraordinarily complex blood derived biological
      products which provide nourishment to an epithelial surface, and as such, blood should serve
      as a sufficiently close mimic of saliva.

      Sjögren's syndrome, a chronic systemic autoimmune disease, occurs due to infiltration of
      secretory (exocrine) glands including the eye and mouth, resulting in dry eye and mouth
      respectively. FAB has been shown to be effective in treating Sjögren's induced dry eye and
      logically should also be an efficacious treatment for Sjögren's induced dry mouth.

      Currently no curative measures for dry mouth exist. Oral dryness is managed conservatively by
      providing lubrication through a temporary solution such as lifestyle changes, artificial
      sprays, dry mouth mouthwash solutions or sialagogues (Shirlaw & Khan, 2017). There is no
      treatment that addresses the complexity of salivary constituents. Oral pilocarpine can be
      used to stimulate salivary glands at least as effectively as artificial saliva, however side
      effects were high including sweating, urinary frequency and vasodilation (Davies & Thompson,
      2015).

      Thus, FAB offers a potentially novel and better way than currently prescribed methods to
      treat dry mouth disease.
    
  