
    
      A total of 410 patients with COVID 19 who fulfill inclusion criteria will be invited to
      receive:

      Human convalescent plasma from recovered patients in two infusions of 200 ml separated with
      24 to 72 hours or Normal saline solution in a similar plasma bag. Both products will be
      covered in an identical material to avoid identification of the infused product.

      Primary endpoint:

      Improvement on the 8 point WHO scale over 28 days.

      Secondary endpoints.

      Mortality at day 28

        -  Presence of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 in serum on days 0, 3, 7, 14, 21 y 28 after
           plasma administration, as long as the patient remains in the hospital.

        -  Disease progression to a worse stage compared to the baseline on admission to the study
           according to SOFA scale.

        -  Disease progression to a worse stage defined as worsening in at least two categories in
           the OMS disease scale on different timelines in comparison to baseline on admission to
           the study

        -  Number of hours on mechanical ventilation in those who enter the study on mechanical
           ventilation.

        -  Number of days with fever defined as temperature >38°C on at least one occasion during
           the day

      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Adults older than 18 years.

        2. Confirmed SARS-CoV2 infection

        3. Patient hospitalized for COVID 19

        4. Severe disease or risk for severe disease

        5. Informed consent from patient or responsible person.

      Exclusion criteria

        1. History of allergic reactions to blood products

        2. SOFA scale >12 points

        3. Absolute contraindication for administration of plasma

        4. Participation in other blinded clinical trial

        5. Projected life expectancy less than 3 months

        6. Any condition perceived by the investigator as not appropriate for participation of the
           patient in the trial.
    
  