
    
      Project description In the new area of reperfusion therapy for acute ischemic stroke (AIS) a
      major question has emerged: Should the Emergency Medical Service take the patient to the
      nearest primary stroke center (for fast thrombolysis) or should they bypass the primary
      stroke center and take the patient directly to a comprehensive stroke center with
      endovascular capabilities? We propose a randomized controlled single-blind trial to explore
      this worldwide clinical dilemma.

      Objective To determine if direct transport to a comprehensive stroke center improves outcome
      for patients with suspected large vessel occlusion (LVO) that occur in the catchment area of
      a primary stroke center without potentially harming patients who only need thrombolysis.

      Hypothesis

      The guidelines tell us to admit a stroke patient to the nearest stroke hospital. The
      investigators wish to perform the study because we believe that in case of LVO, direct
      transport to a comprehensive stroke center is a better strategy. The investigators
      hypothesize that:

        -  A symptom based triage strategy in the catchment area of the primary stroke center
           results in net benefit for patients with AIS.

        -  AIS patients with a LVO occurring in a primary stroke center catchment area will have
           better clinical outcome at 90 days if they are transported directly to a comprehensive
           stroke center.

        -  AIS patients without LVO at admission might be subjected to a longer transport to a
           comprehensive stroke center and a longer delay to IV thrombolysis, but this will not
           translate into a poorer prognosis for patients with AIS.

        -  Patients suspected to have LVO who turn out to have ICH or stroke mimics after imaging
           on admission will not be harmed from being randomized to alternative pre-hospital
           transport strategies.

      The investigators formulate the null hypothesis:

      The transport strategy of an ischemic stroke patients does not influence outcome.

      Review of existing knowledge in the field The possibility of effective reperfusion therapy
      marks a new era within treatment of stroke and has been driving major changes in the
      organization of care within the last decade. Timely IV-thrombolysis and/or endovascular
      therapy (EVT) in acute ischemic stroke is a key factor for improved outcome. Major stroke
      occur in 25% of all cases and is caused by large vessel occlusion (LVO). Major strokes have
      approximately 60% risk of severe disability or death at three months if not treated. EVT is
      superior to IV-thrombolysis in strokes caused by a LVO (1), but not every IV-thrombolysis
      center can perform endovascular therapy due to the complexity of the treatment and need for
      skilled neurointerventionalists.

      Methods and materials A national investigator-driven, multi-center, randomized,
      single-blinded, clinical trial to investigate which logistic strategy is best in acute stroke
      with suspected LVO: direct transport to a comprehensive stroke center for early EVT or to a
      primary stroke center for early IV-thrombolysis followed by a secondary transport to a
      comprehensive stroke center for EVT if needed (TRIAGE-STROKE).

      Prehospital identification of LVO The patient with a suspected LVO is the focus of our study.
      At the same time, the investigators do not wish to "harm" the patients without a LVO by
      giving them a longer time to treatment.

      The patient or a bystander will have called for help and the Emergency Medical Service will
      be send to the patient. To identify LVO the investigators will use the PASS scale in the
      prehospital examination: The patient is asked the month and age, gaze palsy and/or deviation
      is registered and arm drift is examined. A score of 2 or 3 points at PASS predict a LVO. PASS
      is implemented i a new score system called Prehospital Stroke Score (PreSS) as PreSS part 2
      in the central region of Denmark.

      If the "pick up" place is near a comprehensive stroke center, the patient will be admitted
      there regardless of the score. If the "pick up" place is nearer a primary stroke center, the
      patient will enter STROKE-TRIAGE. In both cases admission is agreed after telephone contact
      between ambulance and the senior "EVT/thrombolysis doctor" on call. At admission whether at
      the primary or the comprehensive stroke center indication for IV thrombolysis and EVT
      treatment will be evaluated according to national clinical guidelines for IV thrombolysis/EVT
      treatment.

      Randomization and consent The investigators will conduct the study as an acute study and
      randomize between the two transport strategies without consent, as it is not possible to
      obtain consent from patient or relative prior to randomization. The patients and their
      relatives will be informed afterwards that the patient was enrolled in a study, but that the
      study only involved the transport strategy and that they otherwise received standard
      treatment We will ask for his acceptance to be in the study to collect his or her medical
      information for research purposes. The patient can withdraw consent anytime.

      The patient will be randomized for primary transport to either the primary stroke center or
      the comprehensive stroke center. The randomization will be 1:1.

      Data collection and statistics Follow-up of all patients with suspected stroke is possible by
      unambiguous individual level record linkage between high quality nationwide population-based
      registries using the unique individual civil registration number (CPR), which is provided to
      all Danish citizens upon birth or immigration. For patients with a confirmed stroke diagnosis
      after in-hospital diagnostic work-up the investigators will collect all pre-hospital time
      registrations, all demographic and stroke related data from the Danish Stroke Register and
      electronic prehospital patient records located at the regional Emergency Medical
      Communication Centers.

      Baseline characteristics will be summarized by means of simple descriptive statistics. The
      primary analysis consists of a comparison of the primary outcome after 90 days between the
      trial treatment groups. In all analyses, statistical precision will be expressed by means of
      95% CI. A detailed statistical analysis plan will be prepared prior to the start of analyses.

      Risks and Safety It sounds reasonable that patients with LVO might benefit from faster
      transport to a comprehensive stroke center, but by subjecting a group of stroke patients to a
      longer transport, patients who at admission only need IV-thrombolysis or have intracerebral
      hemorrhage (ICH), will risk a longer time to their treatment. This may happen in a small
      number of AIS patients with spontaneous clot resolution during transport or the clot may be
      too distal to be reached by catheter. The balance of risk versus benefit of the two logistic
      approaches is unknown. For patients where imaging at admission show an ICH a longer transport
      time is not known to expose the patient to any harm.

      If the local investigator or other member of the team at a center have a concern about the
      outcome of their trial procedures, they should inform the trial coordinator, which will
      organize a blinded assessment of the relevant outcome events

      Ethical considerations Since the majority of the patients are incompetent at admission and
      since the treatment is severely time dependent, the investigators find that the conditions
      for an acute study are fulfilled. Eventually some patients randomized in the ambulance have
      an ICH or stroke mimic i.e. tumor. These patients will not be exposed to any harm from a
      potential longer transport time, since treatment is not severely time dependent. Furthermore,
      ICH patients may profit if transported directly to a comprehensive stroke center easy access
      to neurosurgery service.

      Lastly, there is equipoise as to what transport strategy is best, so the patients will not
      risk getting a lower-than standard treatment.

      The clinical study will be conducted, and essential documentation archived, in compliance
      with UCR SOPs and standards, which incorporate the requirements of the ICH Guideline for Good
      Clinical Practice and EN ISO 14155:2011(E).

      Cost-effectiveness analysis A full cost-effectiveness analysis will be conducted according to
      international guidelines for the economic evaluation alongside clinical trials. Patient
      specific data for resource usage will be retrieved from Danish registries (covering the
      period from one year prior to one year after enrolment), and a micro costing study will be
      conducted to estimate the extra time and resources at the clinics needed to bypass the PSC
      for patients with symptoms of large- vessel occlusion compared to usual practice. A full
      health economic evaluation including a budget impact analysis will be conducted to illustrate
      the incremental costs and gained QALYs as well as the total national costs and consequences
      of bypassing the PSC for same patient group nationwide in Denmark.

      Sample size Based upon previous trials the investigators have estimated that a good outcome
      can be measured by including a little less than 300 patients in each arm. We aim at including
      600 patients. Samplesize is reestimated as soon as 200 patients have been followed up
    
  