
    
      Participants (N = 300 couples) will be randomized equally into one of the three study
      conditions and assessed via surveys at baseline and at 3-, 6- and 9-months after completion
      of the intervention sessions. All participants will complete a baseline survey, administered
      a fluid (swab) OraQuick HIV test, administered a viral load (VL) or PrEP adherence dry blood
      spot test using the HemaSpot collection device they will be randomized to one of three
      intervention arms, and then follow-up surveys will measure short and long term impact of the
      intervention at 3, 6, and 9 months.

      They will first be provided with a brief overview of the study focusing on the goals of the
      study, randomization, participation details and timeline, and if they wish to proceed, will
      then be screened for eligibility. Our goal will be to screen and baseline cohorts of 30
      couples (10 couples for each arm of the intervention) within a 6-week window (recruitment
      will be on-going).

      Eligible couples will be scheduled to come into the study offices to complete a baseline
      survey. On arrival, couples will be informed in detail about the study and what their
      participation entails. Study staff will answer any outstanding questions, informed consent
      will be obtained, the participants will be given a fluid (swab) OraQuick rapid HIV test in a
      private CREGS office with HIV counseling-certified staff, then will give a DBS specimen for
      testing either viral load for HIV-positive participants or PrEP levels for HIV-negative
      participants. For consented and eligible participants, the baseline survey will then be
      administered and the baseline online survey will be administered on study computers.

      On completion of the baseline survey and testing, couples will be randomized to one of the
      three arms of the study (PRIDE, ePRIDE, or Men's Health). Couples will be randomized in
      blocks with the block size randomly permuted via a SAS computer program based on a
      pseudo-random number generator. Each arm of the intervention will begin on the same date and
      run for two weeks. Couples randomized to ePRIDE will be sent a link on the same day that
      PRIDE and Men's Health sessions are scheduled and will have two weeks to complete the
      program. Access to ePRIDE will be deactivated at the end of two weeks.

      Participants who have a positive test result for HIV during the baseline visit will be given
      their results by HIV counseling-certified staff and referred for free confirmatory testing at
      our nearby partner, Alliance Health Project clinic, where they will also receive clinical
      care and support services. If the newly HIV-positive person is in a relationship with a
      confirmed HIV-positive partner, they will be considered ineligible. If the partner is
      HIV-negative, they will be eligible to participate in the study.

      Short and long term impact of the intervention will be measured at 3-, 6- and 9-months post
      completion of the intervention. Follow-up surveys for all three arms will be administered
      online in-person at the downtown CREGS offices. Couples will be sent a link to the survey
      with a unique identification number and password and will have 7 days to complete each
      survey; reminders will be sent every two days contacted and scheduled to come in together to
      complete follow-up surveys on provided computers. Couples who take fail to come in and
      complete follow-ups longer than 7 days will be flagged so differential outcomes can be
      assessed as needed and their link to the survey will be disabled after 14 days.
    
  