
    
      1. Objective

           The dysregulation of synaptic transmission in certain brain areas may be responsible for
           some neurological disorders. It was demonstrated that synaptic transmission may be
           modulated through repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), and this may be a
           component of the therapeutic effects of rTMS. However, rTMS utility is limited due to an
           inability to focus the stimulation. Cooling was shown to reduce the neuronal activity in
           targeted brain areas. The goal of this protocol is to examine the ability of cooling to
           affect rTMS.

        2. Study population

           We intend to study 18 adult healthy volunteers on an outpatient basis. The accrual
           ceiling requested is 23 subjects to allow for dropouts and screening failures. This
           portion of the study has been completed and recruitment will not continue for the
           cooling-related portion of the study.

           We intend to perform a sub-study to develop a new method of plasticity induction -
           phase-triggered paired associative stimulation. This sub-study requires an additional
           intended study population of 24 subjects completing the 3 study arms who may be a
           sub-set of the initially requested 18 subjects from the main study. The additional
           accrual ceiling is 40 subjects to allow for dropouts and screening failures. The total
           ceiling for the entire protocol is 63.

        3. Design

           Analysis of the data collected during the main study demonstrates the control condition
           of rPAS/sham cooling did not result in increased MEPs as expected. This null effect of
           the control condition made it difficult to ascertain any effects due to the cooling
           condition. Therefore, we propose a new sub-study investigating a better form of
           plasticity induction using EEG phase-triggered TMS.

           For the completed, cooling-related portion of the study, we propose using rapid-rate
           paired associative stimulation (rPAS), modulated by applying cooling to the scalp, to
           examine the effect of cooling on rTMS. Our hypothesis is that cooling the brain will
           prevent the potentiation normally induced by rPAS. We will reduce brain temperature by
           up to 1.5 degrees Celsius by applying a cooling helmet to the scalp and then test the
           effect on potentiation by applying rPAS. One of our stopping criterion will be reduction
           in measured temperature reduction by 2 degrees Celsius.

           This study consists of one experiment with18 subjects and accrual has been completed.
           The experiment is divided into three session visits, each to be carried out at least 1
           day apart.

           The control potentiation in response to rPAS without cooling will be measured during
           session visit 1 by using the TMS-evoked motor evoked potential (MEP). In session visit
           2, after applying a commercially available liquid cooling helmet for 45 minutes to
           reduce the temperature of the underlying cerebral cortex by up to 1.5 degrees Celsius,
           we will then assess the response to rPAS. In session 3, the MEP will be measured after
           applying the cooling helmet but with the rPAS procedure substituted with a sham rPAS.
           Session visit 3 is necessary to determine if there are any changes to the MEP in
           response to cooling alone. Thus, in the three session visits, we will evaluate cooling
           alone, rPAS alone, and the two together.

           The proposed sub-study is to develop a method to improve the reliability of the primary
           endpoint. The new method will utilize EEG phase-triggered paired associative
           stimulation. Similarly to the rapid-rate paired associative stimulation (rPAS) used in
           the main study, EEG phase-triggered paired associative stimulation also uses paired
           median nerve stimulation with TMS to motor cortex. However, the stimuli are triggered
           when the EEG is at a prespecified phase of the alpha-band (8-12 Hz) oscillation.

           The sub-study to develop the optimal parameters of phase-triggered paired associative
           stimulation will consist of 3 arms. Two active arms will trigger the paired median nerve
           and motor cortex TMS according to the phase of the ongoing EEG. The first arm will
           trigger the stimuli at the trough of the ongoing EEG (phase -90 if the EEG is modeled as
           a sine wave). The second arm will trigger the stimul at the peak of the ongoing EEG
           (phase +90). The third control arm will trigger the paired stimuli at a random delay
           from the through of the ongoing EEG. This control arm serves to deliver paired stimuli
           at a rate matched to the ongoing EEG, but stimulates at a random phase of each alpha
           oscillation cycle. Our hypothesis is that stimulating at the through of the ongoing EEG
           will result in increased plastic changes to the brain as measured through our TMS
           outcome measures of single pulse MEPs, as compared to the control condition of random
           phase stimulation. We also hypothesize that stimulating at the peak of the ongoing EEG
           will result in a decrease in TMS outcome measures as compared to the control arm. This
           will be a withinsubject design of 3 visits for each of the 12 sub-study subjects.

        4. Outcome measures

      The primary outcome measure will be the amplitude of MEPs induced by single TMS pulses
    
  