
    
      Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is a burdensome condition that affects 10% of the
      population and increases to 15-20% among those ≥70 years. In PAD, the underlying
      pathophysiologic process, atherosclerosis, presents itself as blockages in patients' leg
      arteries that prevent adequate blood flow and can result in burning calf (or buttock) pain
      while walking and that is relieved upon rest ('intermittent claudication'). In extreme cases,
      PAD can progress to critical limb ischemia, characterized by ulceration, gangrene, and
      threatened limb viability. Patients with PAD have significant atherosclerotic risk factors
      and impaired health status - thus creating 2 therapeutic goals, prevention of cardiovascular
      events and improved symptom control and quality of life. While the onset of PAD tends not to
      be as abrupt as for other cardiovascular conditions, such as stroke or myocardial infarction,
      leg symptoms can severely affect patients' health status (their symptoms, functional status,
      and quality of life). In addition, patients' risk of having a cardiovascular event is
      disproportionately high, as compared with other cardiovascular diseases. One-year
      cardiovascular event rates - including cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, or
      stroke, or other hospitalizations for atherothrombotic events - are estimated to be over 21%
      in patients with PAD, as compared with 15% for coronary artery disease and stroke.9 Mortality
      rates are 15-30% 5 years after diagnosis. Part of these disproportionate event rates may be
      explained by under recognition and under treatment of PAD and its underlying atherosclerotic
      process. Finally, PAD not only impacts patients' individual lives and their families; it also
      has a tremendous impact on society at large. It is estimated that annual costs associated
      with vascular-related hospitalizations in PAD patients in the US exceeds $21 billion.

      The primary treatment goals for PAD are symptom relief, quality of life improvement, and
      cardiovascular risk reduction. Several treatment options are available for PAD, ranging from
      invasive revascularization procedures, including peripheral percutaneous intervention (PPI)
      and surgical revascularization to non-invasive options, including supervised and home-based
      exercise therapy, PAD-specific medications, and cardiovascular risk management. While there
      is no "gold-standard" treatment for PAD, less invasive options are recommended as a
      first-choice treatment. Despite these recommendations, invasive procedures are often first
      offered to patients, with no alternative options being discussed. In treatment scenarios with
      a lot of clinical equipoise (i.e. uncertainty about what treatment would be best) and a
      rapidly growing market for newly-introduced technologies, including medical devices for
      invasive PAD procedures (e.g. stents for endovascular treatment), with limited performance
      measurement and accountability criteria, there is a high risk of unwanted variation in
      treatment practices, misallocation of treatments, and unnecessary costs.

      Given this context, some of the current challenges in current PAD care include: 1) limited
      access to the evidence-base in routine clinical care for patients and providers; 2) the
      potential mismatch of PAD treatments to patient preferences and profiles; and 3) patients not
      being informed or engaged in medical decision making. These challenges may leave patients
      uninformed about treatment risks and benefits, increase the risk of misallocating treatments
      to patients, and may unnecessarily increase costs. A very promising strategy to overcome
      these challenges is the use of evidence-based, decision support tools. Importantly, it is
      currently unknown whether patient-centered PAD decision-tools can be designed to improve the
      alignment of patients' values with respect to their treatment choice and whether these tools
      can improve patients' knowledge and access to the evidence-base related to PAD treatment and
      outcomes. The critical next step, therefore, is to create such tools and pilot their
      implementation as a foundation for broader integration of precision medicine and shared
      decision-making in clinical care.

      Shared decision-making takes into account the latest evidence about all available treatment
      options and their outcomes, as well as patients' values and preferences with regards to
      treatment and potential outcomes that matter to them. Shared decision-making is extremely
      useful in treatment situations where there is clinical equipoise and where the choice of
      treatment should be greatly influenced by patients' preferences. Decision aids that
      facilitate this process of shared decision-making, have been consistently associated with
      better knowledge about the disease and treatments, less decisional conflict, and potential
      cost savings due to less invasive options being preferred by patients.
    
  