
    
      Objective

      Rhythmic movements, such as finger tapping, are relatively simple. However, many brain areas
      including motor, somatosensory, premotor and prefrontal cortex, supplementary motor area,
      basal ganglia, cerebellum, etc. have been reported to be activated during rhythmic movements.
      Patients with lesions located in the extrapyramidal or cerebellar system, such as patients
      with Parkinson's disease, cerebellar ataxia or stroke with a lesion in these systems, have
      difficulties in performing rhythmic movements. Timing deficits after basal ganglia or
      cerebellar damage could also be due to abnormalities in interconnecting cortical systems
      commonly associated with these processes. Few studies have examined involvement of cerebral
      cortex in time perception.

      The purpose of this study is to detect the brain areas associated with three hypothesized
      processes associated with rhythm perception and generation: (1) perception of external
      rhythmic stimulation, (2) internal rhythm generation and (3) execution of rhythmic movement.
      To investigate whether the process of rhythm perception is common across sensory modalities,
      we will use auditory and visual stimulation.

      Study population

      This research will be conducted using normal adult volunteers.

      Design

      Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we will examine the brain activity of subjects
      while they will hear or watch rhythmic stimulation and press buttons rhythmically with their
      fingers. A series of experiments will be designed to demonstrate the hypothesized three
      processes separately.

      Outcome measures

      The brain activity correlated with experimental conditions and behavioral data (the timing
      error of button press to the corresponding rhythmic stimulation) will be collected and
      analyzed by using statistical parametric mapping (SPM).

      The findings we expect to obtain with this experiment will contribute to basic knowledge for
      better understanding of the pathophysiology of the disturbance of perception and generation
      of rhythm in patients with neurological disorders, and give theoretical background for
      repetitive, rhythmically patterned movement training in neurorehabilitation.
    
  