
    
      Migraine headache can be a debilitating condition. A small but significant proportion of
      sufferers seek treatment in emergency departments [ED], accounting for 2-5% of ED
      visits.Available data suggests that up to 66% of these patients may experience rebound
      headache after discharge that affects their ability to function normally [eg work, social,
      etc].It appears that inflammation plays a key role in recurrences. A number of small studies
      suggest that a single dose of corticosteroids at the time of discharge might prevent rebound
      headache. To date these studies have used intravenous dexamethasone. The aim of this project
      is to determine if a single dose of oral dexamethasone at the time of discharge from the ED
      [after successful treatment] prevents rebound headache.

      Hypothesis: That single dose oral dexamethasone 8mg reduces the proportion of patients who
      suffer rebound headache after treatment for migraine in the ED.

      Aims: The primary aim is to compare the proportion of patients who experience rebound
      headache within 48 hours after ED treatment of migraine between a group treated with single
      dose oral dexamethasone 8mg and a group treated with placebo. Secondary aims are to compare
      headache severity, analgesia/ health service use, adverse events and return to normal
      functioning between the groups.

      Methods:

      Study design: Double blind, randomised placebo controlled clinical trial. Setting: Emergency
      Department, Western Hospital. Participants: Adult patients [age >17 years] with
      physician-diagnosed migraine treated in the ED.

      Inclusion criteria: Consenting adult patients [age >17 years] with physician-diagnosed
      migraine treated in the ED who are willing and able to be contacted between 48-72 hours after
      discharge for follow-up.

      Sample size: 76 patients. Note: The study was stopped early for operational reasons. 63
      patients were analysed.
    
  