
    
      Patients are randomly allocated to one of three groups: receiving intercostal nerve block
      under direct vision (DV-ICNB group) or receiving intercostal nerve block under ultrasound
      guidance (UG-ICNB group) or receiving thoracic paravertebral block (PV group) with a block of
      6 and 1:1 allocation ratio. . Enrolment and data collection are performed by trained research
      staff who are not involved in the care of the patients. The treating clinicians are not
      blinded to the assignment group, but all other staff involved in both the collection and
      assessment of data are blinded to group allocation.

      The primary outcomes is the pain severity,intraoperative fentanyl consumption
      ,patient-controlled intravenous analgesia(PCIA) requirement and severity of nausea and
      vomiting during the period of postoperative 48 hours. The secondary outcomes are blood loss
      during harvesting rib cartilage,fentanyl consumption in post-anaesthesia care unit
      (PACU),time from PACU arrival to first obtainable pain score,first time of urination,duration
      of PACU stay and postoperative adverse events such as respiratory depression(defined as
      respiratory rate <8bpm, requirement of naloxone, and/or peripheral oxygen saturation
      <90%),pneumothorax and pruritus.

      Based on our previous clinical observation, 2.7(SD 0.5)μg/kg of fentanyl is required in
      DV-ICNB group.We suppose that the requirement could be reduce by 0.3μg/kg in UG-ICNB and PV
      group .Thus,42 patients are required to detect a significant difference among the groups at a
      significance level of 95% and a power of 80%. 20 patients were finally enrolled in the study
      due to possible dropouts (20%).

      The continuous variables were expressed as means ± standard deviation (SD) whereas
      categorical variables were expressed as frequency and percentage for data description.
      Continous data with a normal distribution is manifested as mean±SD and assessed by Unpaired
      sample t-test ;continous data with skewed distribution is presented as median(interquartile
      range,IQR) and assessed by Man-Whitney U test ;categorical data are presented as number and
      assessed by Chi-square/Fisher exact test. The VAS scores,PCIA consumption and severity of
      nausea and vomiting of the three groups at multiple time points were analyzed via two-way
      repeated-measures Anova .
    
  