
    
      Background: Exercise training has been essential component of the cardiac rehabilitation.
      However, it is not known if interval training based on ventilatory anaerobic threshold could
      be effective for improving aerobic functional capacity and metabolic profile.

      Objective:To investigate the effects of interval training, based-intensity on 70% at 110% of
      oxygen consumption and workload attained on ventilatory anaerobic threshold, on aerobic
      functional capacity, autonomic modulation of heart rate, metabolic profile in patients with
      and without coronary artery disease.

      Design: Prospective randomized controlled trial. Subjects: 68 men between 40 and 65 years
      old.

      All subjects will be submitted:

        1. - Clinical assessment: personal data, lifestyle and food, family history, current and
           previous history of disease.

        2. - Physical examination: cardiac and lung auscultation,measurement of heart rate, blood
           pressure, body weight and height.

        3. - Heart rate will be recorded at rest, in the supine position for 15 min, standing
           position for 10 min and respiratory sinus arrhythmia maneuver.

        4. - Submaximal or symptom-limited cardiopulmonary exercise test on cycle ergometer will be
           performed to determined the ventilatory anaerobic threshold.

        5. - Two cardiopulmonary exercise testing on treadmill at constant workload (moderate and
           high intensity). Expiratory flow limitation will be evaluated by flow-volume loops at
           the end of each exercise workload.

        6. - Blood samples will be collected to analyze glycemic and lipid profiles.

        7. - After these procedures, the subjects will be randomly assigned to one of two groups,
           trained group or control group.

        8. - Interval training program will consist 30-40 minutes each exercise session, three
           times a week for 16 weeks, with a workload determined on the basis of ventilatory
           anaerobic threshold.

        9. - At 48 hours after the last day of training, the subjects will repeat all experimental
           procedures as in baseline testing. Controls will be retested 16 weeks after the
           completion of baseline testing.

       10. - All subjects will be instructed to maintain their habitual diet without a standardized
           caloric restriction.

      Thus, it is expected that interval training will promote beneficial physiological adaptations
      in patients with and without coronary artery disease.
    
  