
    
      Total knee replacement (TKR) is an established treatment for 'wear and tear' arthritis and
      leads to a satisfactory outcome in over 75% of patients. However, this means that up to 25%
      of patients are not entirely satisfied with their TKR. The longevity and stability of a TKR
      is greatly dependent on the accuracy of the initial surgery. Deviation of more than 3 degrees
      from the normal axis can lead to abnormal stresses causing the implants to fail. 'Patient
      specific' technology involves preoperative computer assessment of the patients' knee and
      allows for a 'patient specific' cutting block to be manufactured. This will allow for
      individual bony cuts specific to the patients own anatomy.

      'Patient specific' implants and cutting blocks may allow a more optimal implant positioning
      and are implanted without the need for instrumentation of the femoral medullary canal
      (thigh), so lower blood loss may result. This could result in improved early range of
      movement and decreased pain following surgery. The total knee replacement used in this study
      will be the GMKSphere (Medacta International) TKR. It has a specific design which more
      closely resembles a natural unreplaced knee than any other knee replacement. It may help
      address the phenomenon of 'mid flexion instability', which is where the patient perceives
      their replaced knee to be unsteady on stairs and slopes.

      Patient specific technology may also result in a cost saving, as it potentially reduces the
      number of sterilised trays required during the surgery.

      This study will allow for comparison in knee function and patient outcomes between patients
      who have undergone their TKR with patient specific cutting blocks compared to conventional
      cutting blocks. The scans obtained following the surgery could lead to world leading
      methodology for the assessment of knee replacements and would set a blue print for the
      evaluation of other knee implants in the future.
    
  