
    
      The 8-week prospective, randomized controlled study design is depicted in Figure 1. The
      subjects will be randomly divided into two groups: group A (n=30) or group B (n=30). The
      patients will be randomly assigned to the study groups , using a block sampling method. The
      gait pattern, symmetry, and balance of each subject will be evaluated according to the tests
      described below. After the initial evaluation, group A will be fitted with the Genu Neurexa
      orthosis for the first four weeks of the study. Group B will not receive treatment for the
      first four weeks of the study. The subjects will be retested after 4 weeks. Then, group A
      will ambulate without the Genu Neurexa orthosis for the last 4 weeks. Group B will receive
      the Genu Neurexa orthosis for the last 4 weeks of the study. Both groups will be retested
      after 8 weeks for the time of enrollment. This design will provide intra-subject and
      inter-subject comparison.

      The evaluation protocol:

      The evaluation tools include subjective patient's satisfactory questionnaire, complete
      physical and functional evaluation and gait analysis (spatio-temporal parameters and paretic
      knee angle in the sagittal plane), as well as dynamic electromyography (EMG) muscle
      activation patterns. The evaluation tools are detailed below.

      Gait analysis will be performed while subjects walk on a 6m-long walking path. First,
      video-recorded observational analysis through the coronal and sagittal planes will be
      performed in order to register the overall walking pattern and compensation mechanisms.

      The main outcome measures will be spatiotemporal parameters (stride time, step time, stance
      duration, swing duration, double support duration, stride length, step length, base width,
      toe out angle, cadence and velocity) acquired using 4 markers.

      Two-dimensional kinematics examination will be conducted using three markers, located on the
      paretic limb, in order to measure exact knee angle in the sagittal plane.

      The subjects will be instructed to walk several times at their chosen speed on the path,
      while 4 cameras record the location of the markers. Post analyses, composed of marker
      identification and tracking (using commercial software by Simi Reality Motion Systems,
      Germany) and calculations of spatiotemporal parameters, will not be performed in the presence
      of the subject.

      Finally, surface EMG electrodes will be attached to 3 muscles on each leg for dynamic
      evaluation of dynamic muscle activation pattern during gait. Specifically, we will monitor
      the gastrocnemius, soleus, and rectus femoris in each leg.

      Complete physical evaluation will be conducted to assess range of motion of the joints and
      muscle tonus.

      Functional evaluation of each subject will be accomplished using the Six-Minute Walk Test
      (6MWT), 10-meter walk test, timed-up-and-go test (TUG) and Berg balance scale (BBS). The BBS
      is a 14-item scale, designed to measure balance in the clinical setting.
    
  