
    
      Coronary heart disease is the leading cause of death worldwide, contributing to over 7.2
      million deaths annually. The main measures of secondary prevention of coronary heart disease
      are optimizing drug therapy and changing lifestyle. optimizing drug therapy, including
      aspirin, beta receptor blockers, lipid regulating drugs (mostly statins, a small part
      fibrates) and vascular angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. However, the situation for
      secondary prevention of coronary heart disease is not satisfying. EuroASPIRE III survey found
      that despite effective drug used in the primary or secondary prevention of coronary heart
      disease, coronary heart disease risk factors, such as high blood glucose,hypertension, high
      cholesterol and obesity, are still poorly controlled. At the same time sympathetic activation
      plays an extremely important role in the development of coronary heart disease, and high
      sympathetic activity after acute myocardial infarction is closely related to malignant
      arrhythmia and heart failure. Recently, many clinical researches have verified that
      catheter-based renal sympathetic denervation(RSD) can safely be used to substantially reduce
      blood pressure, reduce left ventricular hypertrophy, improve glucose tolerance and sleep
      apnea severity. Simultaneously, a marked reduction in muscle and whole-body sympathetic-nerve
      activity(MSNA) is apparent, with a decrease in renal and whole-body norepinephrine spillover.
      Hypertension, diabetes, high norepinephrine level and obstructive sleep apnea are all
      recognized as risk factors for the development and recurrence of coronary heart disease. So,
      we design this randomized parallel control clinical study to demonstrate whether RSD can
      reduce the mortality and the recurrence rate of a composite of cardiovascular event in
      patients after PCI, besides whether RSD can reduce the risk factors for coronary heart
      disease.
    
  