
    
      Ovarian cancer continues to be a leading cause of cancer-related deaths in women and is the
      leading cause of deaths attributed to gynecologic malignancies. Because ovarian cancer is
      usually asymptomatic in its early stages, the disease often has spread outside of the pelvic
      region at the time of diagnosis and requires debulking surgery followed by systemic
      chemotherapy. First-line chemotherapy involves platinum-based treatments, including the
      widely adopted regimens of cisplatin/paclitaxel, carboplatin/paclitaxel, and single-agent
      carboplatin. Although these regimens yield relatively satisfactory tumor response rates, the
      majority of patients experience disease recurrence and receive additional treatments. For
      such patients, a number of antitumor agents with novel mechanisms of action (topotecan,
      gemcitabine, pegylated liposomal doxorubicin, docetaxel, etoposide) have been applied, in
      addition to retreatment with platinum, with the goal of re-establishing remission or disease
      control, minimizing disease-related symptoms, improving quality of life, and extending
      patient survival. Of these agents, topotecan (Hycamtin®; GlaxoSmithKline) is one of the
      best-characterized agents in the recurrent setting.

      Topotecan is an S-phase 1-dependent cytotoxic agent that targets the topoisomerase I enzyme
      and exhibits broad activity in solid tumors and is approved for the treatment of recurrent
      ovarian cancer in US and in most western countries.

      Data from preclinical and clinical studies reported in the last 2 years demonstrate the
      importance of several proangiogenic factors in the tumorigenesis and prognosis of ovarian
      cancer, suggesting possible new targets for antiangiogenic therapy. Once-daily oral treatment
      with Sorafenib produces broad spectrum antitumor efficacy in preclinical tumor models
      including also xenograft models of ovarian carcinoma. Preliminary antitumor activity has been
      reported in single ovarian cancer patients in several phase I and phase II studies.

      Most promising strategy in the therapy of advanced and recurrent ovarian cancer seems to be
      the combination of cytotoxic agents and targeted therapies. Furthermore an oral therapy to
      achieve and maintain long term tumor control seems to be very attractive.

      Therefore Sorafenib and Topotecan would make a rational therapeutic strategy for combination
      in recurrent ovarian cancer.
    
  