
    
      Bone marrow stromal cells (BMSC) derived from bone marrow aspiration/biopsy have important
      anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive properties that make them suitable candidates for
      cellular therapy of inflammatory and degenerative disorders. BMSC suppress lymphocyte immune
      responsiveness and can hone in to sites of inflammation and promote healing. BMSC were first
      used in man to successfully treat refractory acute graft versus host disease (aGVHD). A
      recent multicenter study treating refractory aGVHD reported a 66% response rate and a
      sustained survival in responding patients. BMSC are currently being evaluated in acute GVHD
      in several ongoing studies worldwide. BMSC have also been used to treat post-transplant
      conditions not directly due to GVHD. Responses have been reported in hemorrhagic cystitis,
      and pneumoperitoneum. BMSC are also under evaluation in the treatment of inflammatory and
      autoimmune disorders.

      The Cell Processing Section of the Department of Transfusion Medicine at the Clinical Center
      NIH has developed a procedure for collecting, expanding and cryopreserving clinical grade
      BMSC under an FDA Drug Master File (DMF). Marrow will be aspirated from volunteer donors
      participating on protocol 10-CC-0053 who have passed the standard screening for blood and
      marrow donors and BMSC will be expanded in vitro. Since it is not necessary to HLA-match BMSC
      donors with their recipient for this study, a BMSC repository will be used as the source of
      BMSC for this study.

      This will be the first trial of the safety of the NIH BMSC cellular product in stem cell
      transplant recipients. In this phase I study, open to adult NIH allogeneic stem cell
      transplantation (SCT) recipients, we will evaluate the safety of a fixed dose of BMSC
      infusions (target dose of 2 x 106 BMSCs /kg (+/- 10%)) in patients with acute GVHD, marrow
      failure or tissue injury following allogeneic SCT. Up to three BMSC infusions will be given
      every 7 3 days apart. Safety will be monitored continuously with a stopping rule for toxicity
      based on the treatment-related serious adverse event rate. Organ-specific clinical responses
      will be measured. Where possible we will also attempt to identify transfused BMSC in sites of
      damage in biopsy material. It is planned to accrue up to 10 subjects over a 6-month period.
    
  