
    
      Most symptomatic pathologies of the ankle and hindfoot are determined by biomechanical
      alterations of this anatomical region. Surgical treatment of these pathologies is therefore
      aimed at improving the inferior biomechanical condition, and it can be expected that an
      improvement of the biomechanical parameters grossly parallels the targeted clinical
      improvement.

      Unfortunately, in the past, biomechanical examination of the lower limb and foot consisted of
      two distinct study protocols: gaitlab and plantar pressure measurements.

      First, these two study protocols were acquired completely independently. Therefore, it proved
      to be very hard to compare the results and get insight in the way altered biomechanics caused
      or continued to cause abnormal plantar pressure distributions. However, recently it was
      possible to integrate these two modalities, especially concerning the timing of the events,
      what makes it possible to reliably link the observed findings.

      Second, virtually all gaitlab models considered the foot & ankle region as one single
      segment, making it impossible to evaluate any biomechanical parameter within the targeted
      region. 3D Multisegment Foot Models have been developed and validated since the beginning of
      this century. Such a validated 3D Multisegment Foot Model is now standard available in the
      gaitlab of UZ Leuven making it possible to study a huge amount of biomechanical parameters
      within the foot & ankle region itself.

      Furthermore, only a paucity of information is available if the observed clinical changes are
      indeed paralleled by an equally directed biomechanical change.

      Historically, all patients at the Foot & Ankle unit of UZ Leuven performed a pre- and 1 year
      post-operative plantar pressure measurement to get better insight in their clinical
      condition. As stated before, the usefulness of this single testing method was limited.
      Recently the Advanced Clinical Examination Platform that integrates both plantar pressure
      measurement and full 3D MFM-gaitlab has been implemented in the Movement Analysis Laboratory
      of our institution. Currently a transition to routinely perform such an examination is
      finished. Therefore a completely new era of research concerning the biomechanical evaluation
      itself and clinical results of the reconstructive procedures of ankle and hindfoot has
      started.
    
  