
    
      Study 1 Visit 1: Sign consent form, age, height, weight, and completion of questionnaires
      (e.g. food record). Consent will allow the investigators to gain access to medical record to
      record pregnancy-related health information on the mother (e.g., prenatal care including but
      not limited to maternal vital signs, clinical documents and fetal well-being - such as #
      pregnancies; reason for scheduled C-section; starting body weight and weight gain during
      pregnancy; BP throughout pregnancy; glucose challenge test (GCT) and glucose tolerance test
      (GTT) results; disease history; medications; pregnancy complications). The investigators will
      also access any fetal monitoring (e.g., including any cardiac ultrasounds that may have been
      performed.) Screening fasting bloods - glucose, insulin, HbA1c, blood lipids, CRP,
      inflammatory cytokine panel (TNFa, IL-6, IL-4, IL-13), adipokines (adiponectin, leptin), and
      sex hormones (e.g., estradiol, testosterone, progesterone). The investigators will also
      perform a limited ultrasound to assess fetal cardiac function and adiposity at this time.
      Subjects will be given a physical activity monitor to wear for 7 days.

      Visit 2: C-section: At this visit during the C-section, a sample (~1000 mg/depot) of omental
      and subcutaneous fat samples will be taken for assessment of inflammatory genes/proteins.
      Cord blood (~15 ml) for assessment of inflammatory genes/proteins.

      Visit 3: 1 month post-partum Mother: Resting blood pressure, fasting blood sample (glucose,
      insulin, HbA1c, blood lipids, CRP, inflammatory cytokine panel (TNFa, IL-6, IL-4, IL-13),
      adipokines (adiponectin, leptin)), sex hormones (estradiol, progesterone, testosterone), and
      body composition measurement. Completion of questionnaires. Subjects will be given a physical
      activity monitor to wear for 7 days.

      Study 2 Women will only be recruited to complete the C-section as described above They will
      have the option to have the baby measured in the pea pod and to wear a physical activity
      monitor for a week in the month before delivery.
    
  