
    
      The scientific purpose of this study is to obtain data on the use of sVDRA(Selective Vitamin
      D Receptor Activator) in real-life clinical practice. This study will allow us to observe
      drug effectiveness in a distinct geography. Treatment effects, as well as maintenance of the
      results will be recorded for a 18 months period in order to obtain experience in the long
      term use of sVDRA(Selective Vitamin D Receptor Activator). Furthermore in the centers,
      additional blood parameter, hsCRP (high sensitivity C-reactive protein), will be examined as
      part of the clinical routine.

      The primary aim of the study is:

        -  To assess percentage change in iPTH (intact parathyroid hormone) level monthly among
           hemodialysis patients with sHPT (secondary hyperparathyroidism) receiving sVDRA
           (Selective Vitamin D Receptor Activator) therapy.

      Secondary aims are:

        -  To observe changes in commonly assessed biochemical parameters for bone and mineral
           metabolism (Ca (Calcium), P (Phosphorus), ALP (Alkaline phosphatase) and additionally
           hsCRP (high sensitivity C-reactive protein) as cardiovascular inflammatory marker.

        -  To evaluate routinely checked parameters like albumin, hemoglobin and dialysis adequacy
           (KT/V).

        -  To collect and evaluate data from all adverse events in order to establish the safety
           profile of sVDRA(Selective Vitamin D Receptor Activator) in daily clinical practice.

        -  To collect mortality data 6 months after 12 months of observational period or 6 months
           after drop out.

      Patients will be followed for 12 months within the post-marketing observational study and
      will be checked for mortality data 6 months after this follow up period. The enrollment
      period should not exceed 6 months.

      All demographic information will be summarized by using descriptive statistics and graphs.
      Laboratory levels will be assessed by using mean, median, minimum, maximum, standard
      deviation and percentages on visit basis. The mean differences on laboratory levels between
      visits will also be summarized by graphics and assessed by using percentages.

      Alkaline phosphatase and hsCRP (high sensitivity C-reactive protein) levels will also be
      summarized by using descriptive statistics and graphs per visit.

      sVDRA (Selective Vitamin D Receptor Activator) dose changes per visits will be summarized by
      descriptive statistics and graphs.

      Mortality will be analyzed with life tables. By taking into account the primary and secondary
      aims of the study, to be able to achieve the therapeutic success on iPTH (intact parathyroid
      hormone) level changes with sVDRA (Selective Vitamin D Receptor Activator) treatment and
      perform mortality assessment in following 6 months and collect data regarding safety and
      efficacy of sVDRAs (Selective Vitamin D Receptor Activators) in long term use, it has been
      determined to enroll totally 510 patients from 30 sites.
    
  