
    
      Tuberculosis (TB) is a disease that affects the population worldwide, with 9 million people
      being infected every year. It is associated with high rates of mortality and morbidity.
      Reports show that a person dies from tuberculosis every 20 seconds worldwide. Current
      diagnostic techniques are either inadequate at detecting TB cases with precision, or they are
      time consuming, expensive, and require laboratory equipment not available in developing
      countries, where the disease is endemic. Furthermore, rates of multi-drug-resistant (MDR) TB
      are estimated to be over 5 percent of the incident cases globally and extremely
      drug-resistant (XDR) TB rates are on the rise. These statistics highlight the need for new
      and improved diagnostic tools for TB, as well as biomarkers that can quickly detect drug
      resistant organisms or treatment failures to first-line antimicrobials.

      Urea breath test (UBT) has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the
      detection of Helicobacter pylori. It is known that H. pylori possesses a urease enzyme that
      degrades urea in the stomach, producing carbon dioxide (CO (2)), which is then exhaled and
      can be detected in the lungs. Mycobacterium tuberculosis like H. pylori possesses a urease
      enzyme, which converts urea to carbon dioxide and ammonia. In a preclinical study, Jassal and
      colleagues demonstrated that TB-infected rabbits convert [(13)C]-labeled urea into
      [(13)C]-carbon dioxide ((13)CO(2)) in a matter of minutes. The (13)CO(2) in exhaled breath
      could be rapidly detected with an isotopic ratio mass spectrometer or a small ultraviolet
      (UV) absorbance spectrometer.

      The primary objective of the current study is to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of
      UBT in the diagnosis and treatment response of pulmonary TB. Secondary objectives are to
      assess the specificity of UBT for M. tuberculosis (UBT-TB) diagnosis in volunteers with and
      without H. pylori infection, examine the benefit of bismuth to make UBT-TB more specific for
      M. tuberculosis, and evaluate the correlation of the labeled (13)CO(2) signal with sputum
      colony forming unit (CFU) counts and the lower limit of signal detection versus CFU counts.
    
  