
    
      The chronic subdural hematoma (HSDC) is a common disease in the population over 60 years. The
      incidence is 7 / 100000 in patients over 70 years. This condition occurs readily after a
      minor head injury. Bleeding secondary to cerebral concussion and vascular fragility from a
      cortico-dural vein. It is favored in most cases by taking anti-platelet or other blood
      thinners. The hematoma formed and causes a local inflammatory reaction. This reaction tends
      to partition the collection by the formation of a membrane whose pathological vessels
      weakened by inflammation, causing bleeding iterative low abundance. A vicious circle is
      established by a combination of these phenomena and causes a progressive worsening clinical
      and radiological.Because of the importance of recurrence (15 to 25% at 6 months) and the high
      rate of mortality at one year (10 to 15%), but also supposed pathophysiological mechanisms
      (inflammation, formation of membrane self-sustaining blood collection ), a postoperative
      treatment with corticosteroids was introduced in secondary prevention by some teams (about
      20% in France). However, this practice has never been a prospective study on clinical and
      radiological interest.The aim of this prospective multicenter randomized, double blind, is to
      evaluate in patients with chronic subdural hematoma, compared with placebo, the efficacy of
      postoperative corticosteroid treatment orally for approximately 2 months on the rate of
      clinical recurrence and / or radiological subdural hematoma 6 months after surgery (primary
      endpoint).The secondary endpoints are the rate of mortality at one year, and the 6 month
      follow-up of clinical and radiological evolution, neurological status (Markwalder scale),
      quality of life (health scale perceptual Nottingham), autonomy (Karnofsky scale), the state
      of consciousness (Glasgow scale), and size of the hematoma on CT scan without injection.340
      adult patients of the 2 sexes who received surgical treatment for a chronic subdural hematoma
      unilateral or bilateral primary diagnosis (hematoma hypodense or isodense with a blade of at
      least 3 mm thick axial CT scan on brain) will be included in the study on 5 centers (services
      of Neurosurgery Hospital of Montpellier, Marseille, Nice, Perpignan and Lyon).Patients
      enrolled will be assigned to one of two treatment groups (active treatment or placebo) by
      lot. Active treatment is prednisone establishment within 72 hours after the end of surgery at
      the dose of 1 mg / kg (rounded to the nearest 10 mg) once daily orally for one week . The
      daily dose then decreases in increments of 10 mg weekly, by the second week. Once the level
      of 10 mg / day reached the daily dose by one level lower than 5 mg weekly. Treatment is
      stopped after this week to 5 mg / day .. The placebo was similar in all respects to active
      treatment and is administered in the same way that the active treatment. Additional treatment
      will be administered to all patients throughout the duration of the experimental treatment.
      It is a vitamin and calcium supplementation in preventing the risk of osteoporosis.Medical
      monitoring of patients will be over a period of six months with visits scheduled in the
      various departments of Neurosurgery at 1 month, 3 months and 6 months after surgery. Each
      visit is a consultation with a neurosurgical team physician including a review of clinical
      research with the recurrence of subdural hematoma and the collection of adverse events. This
      physician, independent of the investigative team, will also collect scores Markwalder,
      Nottingham, Karnofsky and Glasgow. Analysis of the CT scan will be centralized. A blood
      sample will be performed at the visit at 1 month, to establish a biological monitoring in
      relation to the potential electrolyte disturbances related to steroids.The mortality survey
      will take place 1 year after surgery by telephone interview between an investigator and the
      patient or his entourage.The overall duration of the study is about 6 years including 4 years
      of clinical phase.Given the extensive use of corticosteroids in the treatment of chronic
      subdural hematomas and absence of solid data on the subject, our research should clarify the
      role of corticosteroids in secondary prevention and improve the overall management of
      patients.
    
  