
    
      The goal of "SPRING", Sustainable Programme Incorporating Nutrition and Games, is to develop
      an innovative, feasible, affordable and sustainable community based approach that can achieve
      delivery at scale of known effective interventions that will maximise child development,
      growth and survival. The vision is to do this by working in close collaboration with
      government programmes in India and Pakistan, and modifying the approach, content and
      supervision of existing community based programmes to develop an innovative intervention
      package that

        -  Is designed from the outset to be feasible, affordable and appropriate for delivery at
           scale.

        -  Is delivered by low cost community based agents through home visits from pregnancy
           through the first 2 years of life, which

             -  promote evidence based newborn and child survival interventions

             -  use a problem solving and counselling approach, rather than the standard didactic
                approach, using techniques informed by evidence from the cognitive behaviour and
                interpersonal psychotherapy fields.

             -  teach care giving skills, such as early recognition of infant signals and capacity,
                enhancing mother baby interactions, providing stimulation for cognitive growth and
                development.

             -  support optimal infant and young child feeding practices.

             -  encourage participation of other family members, e.g. fathers and grandmothers.

             -  is informed by the Care for Development Package developed by the World Health
                Organization (WHO) and the United Nations International Emergency Children's Fund.

        -  Includes regular supervision, monitoring and evaluation to support the community based
           agents and ensure the quality of the intervention activities carried out.

        -  Includes a range of supporting activities developed to provide an enabling environment
           for mothers and families to carry out the interventions and skills promoted. These might
           include, for example, community group meetings, and sensitisation sessions with health
           staff.

      The specific objectives of "SPRING" are

        1. To test this intervention package through cluster randomised controlled trials in two
           settings, one in India and one in Pakistan, both with high rates of undernutrition and
           well established but somewhat different community based agent programmes.

        2. To evaluate the impact of the intervention on Infant mortality, child development and
           growth Maternal psychosocial distress. Coverage of key promoted interventions.

        3. To evaluate and monitor all aspects of the intervention process and implementation

        4. To cost the delivery of the intervention, and assess its cost effectiveness.

        5. To assess the effectiveness of the intervention in reducing inequities in trial
           outcomes.
    
  