
    
      Deaths from liver disease have soared by 40 per cent in a decade and continue to rise. Liver
      transplantation is a highly successful treatment of end stage liver disease, fulminant
      hepatic failure and early stage primary liver cancer. The demand for donor livers for
      transplantation greatly exceeds supply and approximately 20% of patients die whilst awaiting
      transplantation. Normothermic machine liver perfusion (NMLP) is a novel technique developed
      for the purposes of organ preservation, which we have also found allows monitoring of liver
      graft function ex-vivo by measuring bile production, whilst permitting objective assessment
      of liver biochemistry and blood flow. The OrganOx metra, the NMLP device we are using, is CE
      marked but is not currently licensed for this particular use and the livers will not be
      transported using this device (which the CE mark currently covers). The device will be used
      at a particular site (in this case University Hospitals Birmingham) and after a period of
      static cold storage during which the liver will be transported to the hospital for testing on
      the device. The study population will be extended criteria donor livers, rejected for
      transplantation by all UK centres, which are then found to be functioning during perfusion
      and transplanted into "medium to low-risk" liver transplant recipients. VITTAL is an open
      label, non-randomised, prospective, single arm, 2-part trial the objectives of which are to:

        -  Further validate liver viability assessment criteria

        -  Perform the phase 2 study transplanting successfully resuscitated "rejected" livers

        -  Establish the feasibility of NMLP as a means to increase the number of transplantable
           livers.

        -  Identify novel biomarkers that are indicative of liver quality and function In terms of
           intervention, the procurement and transplantation of the organs will follow the current
           standard of care. The only deviation from the current standard will be the normothermic
           perfusion of organs following static cold storage in order to test their ability to
           function. This study is based on results from a 5-case pilot series which transplanted
           low-risk recipients with organs that had been rejected for transplantation but had been
           shown to function on the normothermic machine perfusion device. This work is currently
           in the process of being published. The main risk would be the transplantation of a
           non-functioning graft (resulting in a case of primary non-function that could result in
           re-transplantation or patient death.) Based on our pre-clinical research and clinical
           pilot series we believe the criteria we have identified that indicate organ function are
           stringent and significantly reduce this risk.
    
  