
    
      1. Aim

             1. Objectives

                Primary objective:

                The aim of the project is to study the pharmacokinetics of therapeutic doses of
                paracetamol with specific emphasis on the contributions of the metabolites
                (glucuronide, sulphate, cysteine and mercapturate), in patients with spinal
                muscular atrophy(SMA), patients with cerebral palsy(CP), and patients with SMA or
                CP admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU), in comparison with healthy controls.

                Secondary objective:

                The secondary aim is to compare the safety of paracetamol in patients with SMA, CP
                and patients with SMA or CP admitted to the ICU, with healthy controls. The
                investigators would like to assess the influence of age and physiologic covariates
                (body weight and inflammation markers) on paracetamol pharmacokinetics.

             2. Background Today there are approximately 15.000 patients with neuromuscular
                disorders in Denmark. This includes the group of patients with muscular wasting.
                SMA is an example of a neuromuscular disease, where the patients have low skeletal
                muscle mass. The disease is located in the anterior cells in the spinal cord. This
                affects the cells that are supposed to send signals about muscle contraction
                through the nerve pathways, and causes muscle wasting. Spinal muscular atrophy is a
                hereditary disease caused by a mutation in the Survival Motor Neuron (SMN) 1-gene.
                SMN is necessary for normal nerve function in the muscles. The patients with SMA
                have a back-up gene called Survival Motor Neuron (SMN) 2-gene. However, most of the
                SMN 2-gene cannot be used, because of a missing part in the gene called exon 7.
                Spinal muscular atrophy is divided into three different types, based on the child's
                motor skills and when the first symptoms appear. Children with SMA type I
                experience symptoms within the first six months of life. The children will never
                experience to sit by themselves without help. They seldom get older than two years;
                even though it depends on how much intensive respiratory care they receive. The
                onset of symptoms for children with SMA type II is between 5 and 12 months of age.
                They usually get diagnosed before they reach the age of 1-2 years. The children
                will be able to sit by themselves, but will not be able to walk and stand without
                help. Children with SMA II can get a normal life span. SMA type III is the mildest
                form. The onset of the symptoms appears after the child is 18 months of age, and
                the child will be able to walk independently. (1) Cerebral palsy (CP) is another
                example of a patient group with low muscle weight. CP is caused by a brain damage
                which occurs either during foetal life, during birth or in the neonatal period. The
                brain damage occurs in connection to premature birth, oxygen deficiency, infections
                or blood clots. However, often the specific cause cannot be detected. Every year
                180 children with CP are born in Denmark. The disease will not worsen with time,
                but the symptoms will change gradually as the child grows up. Incorrect positions
                of joints and bones may occur with time.(2) The investigators have experienced that
                two patients with SMA II developed acute liver failure, most likely due to
                paracetamol toxicity. In line with this a case study from 2011 reported that
                patients with myopathies and muscular atrophies might be at increased risk of
                toxicity, resulting in acute liver failure, while receiving the recommended dose of
                paracetamol.(3) Another two cases with similar stories has been described in boys
                with Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy.(4) Children and young adults with low muscle mass
                have several risk factors that may increase the susceptibility to paracetamol.
                First of all, they have a reduced skeletal muscle mass compared to bodyweight.(5)
                Glutathione (GSH) is a low-molecular-weight thiol, consisting of the amino acids
                glutamate, cysteine and glycine. Most of the glutathione synthesis occurs in the
                liver and it is stored in the majority of cells in the body. It has been suggested
                that skeletal muscle has a remarkable GSH synthesizing ability and high activity of
                GSH-dependent enzymes. This suggest that skeletal muscle is a major player for the
                whole body GSH metabolism.(6) We hypothesize that the patients with spinal muscular
                atrophy, has a lower concentration of glutathione compared to healthy subjects, due
                to the fact that they have a low skeletal muscle mass. This is relevant because
                glutathione detoxifies the oxidative metabolite in the paracetamol metabolism.
                Furthermore, there is a tendency that children and young adults with low muscle
                mass are malnourished and have a tendency to become critically ill. Several studies
                have shown that there may be a correlation between malnutrition, fasting, critical
                illness and glutathione deficiency.(7-9) Lastly, paracetamol is relatively
                hydrophilic, and the volume of distribution of paracetamol would be further reduced
                in patients with low muscle mass, thus increasing plasma levels.(10) Paracetamol is
                commonly used to treat mild-to-moderate pain or to reduce opioid exposure, as part
                of multimodal analgesia treatment in patients with SMA and CP. In therapeutic
                doses, about 90% of paracetamol is conjugated in the liver to nontoxic metabolites
                (glucuronides and sulphates). A small portion (approximately 5 -10 %) is conjugated
                by cytochrome P450 CYP2E1 to a toxic metabolite, N-acetyl-p-benzo-quinone imin
                (NAPQI). This metabolite is further conjugated by glutathione to a neutral
                metabolite and excreted in the urine as cysteine and mercapturate metabolites.(11)
                In toxic doses, the usual metabolic pathways are overwhelmed; paracetamol is
                shunted to the cytochrome P450 pathway, and glutathione stores are depleted.
                Cellular injury and hepatic necrosis occur as NAPQI accumulates.(8) The paracetamol
                metabolism pathways are slightly different in young children compared to adults. In
                young children up to 12 years of age, the glucunoride pathway is deficient. The
                sulphate pathway is the dominant conjugation pathway, and the half-time is
                prolonged.(12) Patients with low muscle mass may need a lower loading and
                maintenance doses of paracetamol. However, since only one of the three metabolic
                pathways of paracetamol (i.e the CYP2E1- mediated pathway) is involved in
                hepatotoxicity, it is important to explore the separate contributions of the
                different metabolic pathways.(13) Elevations of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) in
                the bloodstream are measured as a biomarker, regarding to hepatic events and
                toxicity. ALT is an enzyme usually found inside the liver cells, however if the
                liver is damaged or inflamed, it could be released in to the bloodstream. A
                prospective study of ALT elevations in healthy adults receiving therapeutic doses
                of paracetamol exists.(14) However, paracetamol kinetics and liver affection has to
                our knowledge never been studied in patients with low muscle mass before.

           The investigators would like to conduct a prospective study of the safety and toxicity
           related to paracetamol treatment in children and young adults with respectively SMA and
           CP.

           This study will provide new and important knowledge about the potential risk involved
           with paracetamol treatment in therapeutic doses in patients with low muscle mass. If the
           investigators find that paracetamol in therapeutic doses are toxic in patients with SMA
           and CP, the results will be implemented in new national and international guidelines for
           treatment of pain in patients with SMA and CP, to prevent acute liver failure and
           potential death, thus improving prophylactic care for these patients.

        2. Study design

           A prospective, non-randomised, open label, single site clinical trial. Data from the
           adult patients will be compared to a group of healthy controls for comparison of the
           primary and secondary outcome measures.

           Data from the children will be compared with data from the literature on healthy
           children.

        3. Study Treatment

      The subjects will be treated with paracetamol in therapeutic doses, 15mg/kg/dose every six
      hour, with a maximum dosage of 1 g x 4 per day, for three consecutive days. Blood samples
      will be collected before treatment, during the uptake of the first dose, and after the uptake
      of the first dose of paracetamol. The same procedure will be performed after three days of
      paracetamol treatment.
    
  