
    
      Main objectives / Secondary:

      To evaluate the effect of the application of Kinésiotape® in patients undergoing a total hip
      replacement on pain and changes in the immediate postoperative edema.

      Methodology :

        -  STUDY This will be a prospective randomized study in routine care, against placebo
           performed in the hospital group Paris Saint Joseph, 75014.

        -  Randomization:

      Given the weakness of the literature on this subject Investigators opted for a trial
      randomization into 2 groups that will be made by the patient. The patient list will be
      balanced by randomly alternating blocks. the orthopedic ward staff and physiotherapists will
      not be informed of the first schedule to avoid a bias in the care of patients. An array of
      randomization will be created by an independent person in the study. This then randomly
      assign patients in both groups using Microsoft Excel.

      - Time study The projected duration of patient recruitment will be adjusted to the rhythm of
      inclusions to reach 30 patients per group (to follow the normal distribution) or about 6
      months of recruitment in the event of observing a strong effect of the tape on the pain.

      Acquisition of data:

      - Data collected Clinical data for categorization of patients will be identified (age, height
      (m) Weight (kg), sex).

      Investigators will evaluate the postoperative edema by measuring the perimeter of thigh. [6]
      The perimeter will be measured in millimeters at 1/3 and 2/3 of the distance lateral condyle
      of the femur - the greater trochanter. The landmarks will be found by palpation and marked
      for replication, the data measured using a 150 cm graduated Bohin® tape in mm will be
      performed at the bedside by a student intern in physiotherapy.

      To quantify postoperative pain, Investigators use a numerical scale presented in a
      questionnaire to the patient.

      Investigators will note on the last day of patient hospitalization of the amount of analgesic
      received daily, hang postoperative hospitalization.

      - Supports: data collection form.
    
  