
    
      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works
      in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being
      studied.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved IL-2 for the treatment of
      chronic GVHD but it has been approved for metastatic renal cell carcinoma (MCC) and
      metastatic melanoma. ECP is a standard of care treatment for chronic GVHD that has not
      responded to steroids.

      Chronic GVHD is a medical condition that may occur after receiving bone marrow, stem cell or
      cord blood transplant from a donor. The donor's immune system may recognize (the host) as
      foreign and attempt to 'reject' it. This process is known as graft-versus-host disease.

      Traditional standard therapy to treat chronic GVHD is prednisone (steroids). Participants on
      this trial have not responded to steroid therapy. The investigstors are looking to assess
      whether the combination of IL-2 and ECP therapy helps control chronic GVHD by stopping the
      donor's immune system from 'rejecting' the participant's body.

      Participants will receive standard-of-care ECP treatment two times a week for 16 weeks. Each
      treatment will last approximately 2-3 hours. Starting after Week 8 of the ECP treatments,
      participants will give themselves or be given IL-2 through an injection under their skin.
      Participants will do this once every day for 8 weeks until the end of the 16-week ECP
      treatment. If a participant's GVHD worsens during the initial 8 weeks of ECP treatment, he or
      she has the option of starting IL-2 early.

      If a participant's chronic GVHD improves at the end of the 16-week study duration, he or she
      may have the option of continuing the combination therapy of ECP and IL-2. Extended duration
      therapy is twice weekly ECP treatments plus daily IL-2 starting at the end of week 16.
      Participants may also have the option of continuing ECP treatments without IL-2 after the end
      of Week 16. If this is the case, participants will only be followed for one year from the
      start of therapy and will not have required study visits or tests.
    
  