
    
      1. Background: Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) affects up to 5% of Canadians and is associated
           with significant morbidity. It is characterized by inflammation of the mucosa of the
           nose and paranasal sinuses of at least 12 consecutive weeks' duration. Patients
           suffering from CRS are bothered on a daily basis by nasal obstruction, nasal discharge,
           facial pain, and an impaired sense of smell among other symptoms. Although not typically
           a life-threatening condition, CRS can drastically reduce a patient's quality of life as
           well as their workplace productivity. In fact, this has been demonstrated in the
           literature, with one study estimating the annual productivity cost of refractory CRS at
           about $10,000 per patient.

           Fortunately, effective management strategies are available. Mild to moderate disease can
           often be managed safely with long term use of topical glucocorticoids and nasal saline
           lavage. For more severe CRS unresponsive to appropriate medical therapy, oral
           glucocorticoids can be effective in the short term, but surgical treatment can help
           achieve long-term control of symptoms when initial medical therapy has failed. This is
           typically done via endoscopic sinus surgery (ESS), and its goal is to re-establish
           physiological patterns of ventilation and mucociliary clearance in patients with CRS, as
           well as establish access for topical therapy delivery. ESS is considered the gold
           standard of management for CRS and has proven to be highly effective in reducing the
           burden of inflammatory tissue and minimizing patient morbidity.

           Although developed as a minimally invasive technique to avoid the morbidity of open
           sinus surgery, ESS still entails some degree of surgical trauma, postoperative pain, and
           inflammation. Intraoperative local anesthetic infiltration is routinely performed but is
           insufficient to control pain in the immediate postoperative period. Patients often
           require some form of systemic analgesia and this usually consists of some combination of
           acetaminophen, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen, and
           opioids. However, there is currently no consensus in the literature regarding the
           optimal analgesic regimen after ESS.

           Interestingly, in patients with aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease (AERD) a triad
           of asthma, CRS, and aspirin (ASA/NSAID sensitivity), NSAIDs are classically associated
           with worsening of CRS symptoms. However, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors, a
           selective type of NSAID, have recently been studied as post-ESS analgesics and suggested
           as possible alternatives to opioids, which have many known potential adverse effects.
           These agents have also been studied for their anti-inflammatory properties in patients
           undergoing ESS and have been shown to decrease the levels of circulating prostaglandins
           in this population. Thus, AERD patients are a particularly important population in which
           to assess the effect of COX-2 inhibitors on post-operative pain and inflammation. This
           randomized, prospective study will evaluate both the anti-inflammatory and analgesic
           effects of a COX-2 inhibitor, celecoxib, in patients with AERD and CRS following
           endoscopic sinus surgery. The investigators hypothesize that supplementation with
           celecoxib can potentially improve surgical outcomes and reduce the postoperative usage
           of opioid analgesics without an increased risk of bleeding or asthma exacerbation.

        2. The objectives of this study are: 1) to determine whether the addition of celecoxib to
           the FESS post-operative analgesia regimen can alter subjective and objective recovery
           from CRS signs and symptoms, and 2) to determine whether the addition of the COX-2
           inhibitor, celecoxib, to the endoscopic sinus surgery post-operative analgesia regimen
           can reduce the amount of opioid narcotic used by patients for breakthrough pain.

        3. Trial Design: The study is a prospective, double-blinded, randomized controlled study
           and will be conducted at St. Joseph's Hospital in London, ON (CAN). There will be two
           study arms with 1:1 allocation, one arm will receive the study treatment and the other
           will receive a placebo;

        4. Sample Size Calculation: The initial pre-study sample size was calculated with 80% power
           at a significance level of 0.05. For the primary objective, previous studies have
           established that a 40% difference on the Lund-Kennedy Endoscopic Score would be
           clinically relevant. The statistical power was assumed to be 80%, and the needed
           significance level (2-tailed alpha error) was assumed to be 5%. Based on the literature,
           a mean difference of 3.4 and an SD of 2.6 for the Lund-Kennedy endoscopic reporting
           system was used for calculation, giving a sample size of 22. For the secondary
           objective, the sample size was calculated as follows. Assuming a difference of 2 of mean
           pain score (with a standard deviation of 2) on the Numeric Rating scale as significant,
           a sample size of 16 in each group is required. It has been reported elsewhere a total of
           4.5 (+/-4.4) milligram morphine equivalent for patients undergoing a sinus surgery. To
           reduce this requirement to zero a sample size of 12 in each group would be required. As
           such, the aim is to enrol 44 patients to account for potential loss of follow-up and
           ensure the study is appropriately powered.

        5. Interventions: Patients in the treatment arm of the study will receive celecoxib 200 mg
           PO BID for 7 days and patients in the control arm will receive placebo PO BID for 7
           days. Both medications are to be started on the evening of the day of surgery. Both
           groups will also be given a prescription for tramadol, an opioid medication, to be used
           as needed for breakthrough pain. Specifically, tramadol 50 mg PO Q6H PRN x 10 tablets
           will be prescribed. Patients will also be permitted to take acetaminophen for
           breakthrough pain as needed and will be encouraged to use acetaminophen prior to
           narcotic usage. Finally, all patients will be prescribed a nasal saline rinse which is
           to be started on postoperative day one.

        6. Randomization: Randomization will be via sequential random number generation from 1 to
           40. Medications will be prepared by the hospital pharmacy and will be randomized in
           their preparation by the pharmacy. A master list will be kept in a sealed envelope by
           the PI in order to break blinding if an emergency occurs. Both study team members and
           patients will remain blinded to the group until after the study is completed.
    
  