
    
      Investigators will utilize a parallel intervention of lentil versus macronutrient-matched
      (not including fiber) control treatment for 12 weeks in OW/OB adults with demonstrated risk
      for T2D and CVD. Experimental diets will be provided to participants in the form of pre-made
      midday meals to exploit the second meal effect and lower caloric intake at the evening meal.
      Pre- and post-intervention assessments will be made for the following variables: makeup of
      the gut microbiome (microbial species and relative abundance), gut metabolome, postprandial
      response of TG, inflammatory cytokines, and serum metabolome to a high-fat meal challenge
      (established inflammation stimulus), fasting serum glucose, lipid, insulin, inflammation
      markers and metabolome, blood pressure, and anthropometric measures including weight, body
      composition, waist circumference, and quantity of visceral adipose tissue. Physical activity,
      sedentary behavior, and habitual diet will be measured so that these variables can be used to
      aid in our characterization of participants and aid in analysis and interpretation of data.

      Procedures:

      Postprandial lipidemic and inflammation responses: High-fat meal challenges with 40 to 100 g
      of dietary fat are an established laboratory test to measure both postprandial
      triglyceridemic and inflammation responses. Investigators have used a 50 g dose of fat
      delivered in the form of butter on toast on > 50 individuals because this particular dose is
      effective at discriminating between low versus high TG and inflammation responders. In brief,
      participants will report to the laboratory after an overnight fast, an indwelling venous
      catheter will be placed in an antecubital vein, and blood samples will be collected before,
      and 1, 2, 4, and 6 hours following ingestion of the high-fat meal. Samples will be analyzed
      in real time for TG (and full lipid panel plus glucose) using a clinical chemistry analyzer
      (Piccolo xpress), while serum samples will be aliquoted and stored at -80 C until analysis
      for inflammatory cytokines, metabolomics, and insulin. Investigators will measure
      inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6 IL-17, IL-23, and granulocyte
      macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF)) using high-sensitivity Luminex multiplexing
      technology (Bio-Rad Bio-Plex® 200 HTS) prepared by Millipore.

      Dietary intervention: Using methods established for an ongoing CRT with lentils,
      investigators will prepare 7 meals per participant per week to deliver a dose of 4.6 or 0
      cups of lentils per week for the experimental and control groups. Meals are matched for
      macronutrient content (except for fiber), and ground turkey replaces lentils in the control
      meals. Similar meals will be developed for black beans. Participants will be instructed to
      consume food provided for their midday meal, and then to proactively reduce portion sizes and
      to not eat beyond fullness at the evening meal. This strategy exploits the satiety effect of
      pulses at the midday meal and the 'second meal effect' in which volitional consumption is
      reduced at the next meal, the evening meal. Each participant will be surveyed once weekly to
      determine whether they consumed the experimental meal that day, their perceptions of hunger,
      fullness, satiety, and satisfaction with that day's meal (at 4:00 pm), and their
      gastrointestinal comfort (level of bloating, flatulence, cramping, and comfort) throughout
      the day (at 8:00 pm). This methodology has been successfully implemented in our ongoing study
      to demonstrate that lentil meals are equally pleasing, produce greater satiety, and are
      well-tolerated.

      Gut microbiome analysis: Bulk DNA will be extracted from fecal samples using the Powersoil®
      DNA Isolation Kit (Mo Bio Laboratories Inc.). DNA will be shipped overnight to the University
      of Michigan, Center for Microbial Systems, for Illumina MiSeq amplicon sequencing of the 16S
      V4 variable region. Raw sequencing reads will be processed and curated using the mothur
      (v.1.39.5) software package, following the mothur MiSeq standard operating procedure,
      potentially chimeric sequences will be identified and removed using the Uchime (v4.2.40)
      algorithm, and taxonomic classifications will be assigned using the Bayesian classifier of
      the Ribosomal Database Project, and operational taxonomic units (OTUs) will be assigned in
      mothur using the VSEARCH distance-based clustering algorithm at the 97% sequence similarity
      threshold.

      Metabolomic analysis: Samples will be analyzed by high resolution liquid chromatography mass
      spectrometry (LCMS). Hydrophilic interaction chromatography (HILIC) and reverse-phase (RP)
      columns will be used for deep coverage. Metabolite identification will use fragmentation
      pattern matching, authentic standards and database matching with METLIN and the Human
      Metabome Database (HDB). Novel features of significant interest will be characterized with
      liquid chromatography mass spectrometry solid phase extraction nuclear magnetic resonance
      (LCMS-SPE-NMR). Pathway analysis will use XCMS and mummichog.

      Dietary analysis. Long-term dietary habits may create adaptations that influence the response
      to the short-term supplementation of Aronia and lentil. This study will use the most recent
      version (2018) of the web-based Diet History Questionnaire (DHQ III), a food frequency
      questionnaire designed for adults 19 and older, developed by staff at the Risk Factor
      Monitoring and Methods Branch (RFMMB) of the NIH National Cancer Institute. The outputs of
      the DHQ III include carbohydrate constituents, carotenoids and tocopherols, dietary
      constituents from supplements, fats, fatty acids and cholesterol, macronutrients and energy,
      minerals, protein constituents, and vitamins are dietary constituents and food groups
      available in the DHQ III output files.

      Physical activity and sedentary behavior monitoring: Participants will wear an Actical
      omni-directional accelerometer during weeks 1 and 12 of the intervention to measure total
      physical activity, time in low intensity activity, moderate to vigorous activity, and
      vigorous activity, and sedentary activity in minutes.

      Statistical analysis: H1 will be tested using two-sample t-tests to compare the difference
      between pre- and post-intervention assessments. Using preliminary data for TG responses and
      50% effect sizes consistent with published findings in animal models, it was estimated that
      18-24 participants will be required per group to achieve power of 0.76 to 0.86 at alpha =
      0.05. To test H2, investigators will identify changes in the gut microbiome using the methods
      utilized in our preliminary research to identify characteristics of the gut microbiome that
      differentiate low versus high TG responders, and then use regression analysis to determine
      the level of variability in changes to the pulse and control treatments explained by changes
      in relative abundance of gut microbial species. To test H3, investigators will identify
      changes in the gut and serum metabolomes, and then determine the metabolic pathways
      associated with the metabolomic changes to identify potential mechanisms underlying health
      impacts of pulses.
    
  