
    
      Nearly half of pregnancies among American women are unintended, and about 4 in 10 of these
      are terminated by abortion. Unmet need for family planning is the cause for induced abortion,
      and those women seeking induced abortion are a high risk for repeat abortion. Family planning
      services are of paramount importance to this population, and evidence shows that high-quality
      family planning counseling and provision of methods prior to discharge from a care facility
      improve uptake and continuation of methods. In a recent study, oral contraceptive pills, a
      transdermal patch, or a vaginal ring had a risk of contraceptive failure that was 20 times as
      high as the risk among those using long-acting reversible contraception (IUD or implant).

      We plan to randomize preoperative clinic days to either provider counseling aided by
      Bedsider.org or routine provider counseling, and compare the types of contraceptive methods
      that are chosen in each group, with the primary outcome being uptake of long-acting
      reversible contraception (intrauterine device or implant). The secondary outcome is
      satisfaction with contraceptive counseling in both groups.

      We also plan to conduct a qualitative focus group study of provider perspectives of this
      counseling tool after completion of the randomized trial. Materials related to the
      qualitative portion of the study will be submitted in a separate amendment. No Follow-up is
      needed.

      EXPECTED OUTCOMES AND DISSEMINATION OF FINDINGS The goal of the study is to assess the
      feasibility and effectiveness of using a web-based contraception tool in a unique family
      planning clinic serving high-risk patients with expert family planning providers. After
      assessing feasibility, utility, and effectiveness in our practice setting, we hope to spread
      the use of bedsider.org to the entirety of the outpatient clinic, which includes general
      obstetrics and gynecology patients and providers.

      After completion of the study, we plan to submit our findings for presentation at a national
      meeting, and submit a manuscript for publication in a peer-reviewed journal.
    
  