
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To provide preliminary data on the effect of ibuprofen on alleviating chemotherapy-related
      cognitive impairment (CRCI) in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy or who have received
      chemotherapy within the last 6 months compared to a placebo control, as assessed by the
      Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Cognitive Function (FACT-Cog).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To provide preliminary data on the effect of ibuprofen on alleviating CRCI in cancer
      patients receiving chemotherapy or who have received chemotherapy within the last 6 months
      compared to a placebo control by objective assessments of cognitive function.

      II. To provide preliminary data on the effect of ibuprofen on alleviating CRCI in cancer
      patients receiving chemotherapy or who have received chemotherapy within the last 6 months
      compared to a placebo control on phone-based cognitive function measures (digit span, word
      recall, digits backward, CALVT, category fluency; all from Brief Test of Adult Cognition by
      Telephone [BTACT]).

      III. To provide preliminary data on the effect of ibuprofen on alleviating CRCI in cancer
      patients receiving chemotherapy or who have received chemotherapy within the last 6 months
      compared to a placebo control on serum pro-inflammatory (MCP-1, IL-6, IL-8, TNF-alpha,
      sTNFR2, sTNFR1, IL-1beta) and anti-inflammatory (sIL-1Ra, IL-10) cytokines/receptors in
      cancer patients receiving chemotherapy or who have received chemotherapy within the last 6
      months.

      IV. To provide preliminary data on the mediating effects of cytokine/receptor concentrations
      on the CRCI changes due to ibuprofen in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy or who have
      received chemotherapy within the last 6 months compared to placebo control.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized into 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive ibuprofen orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for 6 weeks.

      ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO BID for 6 weeks.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  