
    
      This is a single-site substudy, "Investigation of the Effect of Cenicriviroc (CVC) plus
      Emtricitabine/Tenofovir (FTC/TDF) on Atherosclerosis Risk Factors", open to all patients
      enrolled in the primary study, "A Phase 2b Randomized, Double-Blind, Double-Dummy Trial of
      100 or 200 mg Once-Daily Doses of Cenicriviroc (CVC, TBR-652) or Once-Daily EFV, Each With
      Open-Label FTC/TDF, in HIV-1-Infected, Antiretroviral Treatment-Naïve, Adult Patients With
      Only CCR5-Tropic Virus", in the San Francisco Bay area to evaluate changes in brachial flow
      mediated dilation in patients in one of three treatment groups: 1. Cenicriviroc (CVC) at
      100mg (2 tablets, 50mg each) QD + CVC matching placebo (2 tablets) QD + Efavirenz (EFV)
      matching placebo (1 capsule) QHS + emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (FTC/TDF) (1
      tablet) QD; 2. CVC at 200mg (4 tablets, 50mg each) QD + EFV matching placebo (1 capsule) QHS
      + FTC/TDF (1 tablet) QD; 3. CVC matching placebo (4 tablets) QD + EFV 600 mg (1 capsule) QHS
      + FTC/TDF (1 tablet) QD. The substudy will run for the duration of the primary study. 50
      patients of the 150 total enrolled in the primary study will be referred to and enrolled in
      the cardiovascular substudy.

      Patients enrolled in the substudy and substudy protocol staff will be blinded to study
      treatment. Data obtained on this substudy will be analyzed in conjunction with laboratory
      data for cardiovascular disease risk factors and HIV-1 RNA levels obtained on the primary
      study.

      The primary study is a randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, 48-week, comparative study in
      approximately 150 HIV-1-infected, treatment-naïve patients with CCR5-tropic virus. Patients
      will be stratified by Screening HIV-1 RNA level (≥100,000 copies/mL versus <100,000
      copies/mL) and randomized 2:2:1 to one of the three treatment groups. Patients will receive
      all medications from the primary study, and thus the primary study site will be responsible
      for any adverse outcomes with the drug.

      Primary Objective:

      · To assess changes from Baseline in brachial artery vascular patency after 24 weeks of
      treatment with a CVC containing regimen.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To compare changes from Baseline in vascular patency and after 48 weeks of treatment
           with CVC versus EFV.

        -  To assess changes from Baseline to Weeks 4, 12, 24, and final follow-up in vascular
           patency.

        -  To assess changes from Baseline to Week 48 in flow-mediated dilation (FMD) in relation
           to immunologic and metabolic covariates.
    
  