
    
      Participants will be randomly allocated to one of four parallel experimental arms, within a
      2X2 factorial design in which two interventions (tDCS and CBT-UP) will be delivered, and
      assessed according to two levels (e.g., intervention vs. no intervention).

      Each study participant will assigned to one factor level. Four intervention groups are
      defined

        1. active tDCS + CBT-UP

        2. sham tDCS + CBT-UP

        3. active tDCS + Psychoeducation

        4. sham tDCS + Psychoeducation

      The four arms allow to experimentally control the two active therapeutic interventions:
      active tDCS and CBT-UP. Sham tDCS is the control for active tDCS and psychoeducation is the
      control condition for CBT-UP.

      The intervention will last for 15 weeks, and all groups will comply with the same
      intervention structure according to the examination plan established in the protocol:

        -  week 1-2: 1 CBT-UP session/week

        -  week 3-4: 5 tDCS sessions and 1 CBT-UP session/week

        -  week 5-8: 2 tDCS sessions and 1 CBT-UP session/week

        -  week 9-14: 1 tDCS session and 1 CBT-UP session/week

        -  week 15: 1 CBT-UP session

      The treatment will consist of 26 transcranial direct current stimulation sessions, each
      lasting 20 minutes, with a current intensity of 2 mA, the cathode placed over the right
      dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and the anode placed over the left deltoid muscle. tDCS will
      be combined with cognitive-behavioral therapy, in particular following the unified protocol
      for transdiagnostic treatment of emotional disorders (Barlow et al. 2018).

      Safety:

      No serious adverse effects are expected with conventional tDCS protocols in humans (≤40 min,
      ≤4 mA; conclusions from a meta-analysis observing >33200 sessions, >1000 subjects with
      repeated sessions; Bikson et al., 2016).

      Plans for treatment or care after the subject has ended his/her participation in the trial:

      Patients will be recommended and offered the best treatment as evidenced by the trial
      results. For patients that already completed that intervention further standard
      psychological/psychiatric treatment will be recommended according to patients' status.
    
  