
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the clinical efficacy (event-free survival) of an intensive short-term
      chemotherapy regimen (Hyper- cyclophosphamide, vincristine, doxorubicin, dexamethasone [CVAD]
      program) given in combination with the tyrosine kinase inhibitor dasatinib for Philadelphia
      (Ph)-positive and/or B-cell receptor BCR-ABL-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).

      II. To evaluate other clinical efficacy (overall response rate and survival) and safety of an
      intensive short-term chemotherapy regimen (Hyper-CVAD program) given in combination with the
      tyrosine kinase inhibitor dasatinib for Philadelphia (Ph)-positive and/or BCR-ABL-positive
      acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).

      OUTLINE:

      HYPER-CVAD THERAPY: Participants receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) twice daily
      (BID) over 3 hours on days 1-3, vincristine IV over 30 minutes on days 4 and 11, and
      doxorubicin IV over 24-48 hours on day 4. Participants also receive dexamethasone orally (PO)
      or IV over 30 minutes on days 1-4 and 11-14, and dasatinib PO once daily (QD) on days 1-14 of
      course 1 and on days 1-21 for subsequent courses. Courses repeat every 21 days for up to 4
      odd courses (1, 3, 5, and 7) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      METHOTREXATE PLUS CYTARABINE: Participants receive methotrexate IV over 24 hours on day 1,
      dasatinib PO on days 1-21, and cytarabine IV BID over 2 hours on days 2 and 3. Courses repeat
      every 21 days for up to 4 even courses (2, 4, 6, and 8) in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Participants receive vincristine IV over 30 minutes on day 1, prednisone
      PO on days 1-5, and dasatinib PO BID. Courses repeat every 28 days for up to 2 years in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. During courses 6 and 13,
      participants may receive an additional course of hyper-CVAD therapy.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed for up to 12 months.
    
  