
    
      SMA is an autosomal-recessive disorder, characterized by progressive muscle weakness and
      atrophy with an incidence of 1/10,000. The condition is caused by a homozygous deletion or
      mutation in the survival motor neuron 1 (SMN1), resulting in reduced expression of the
      survival motor neuron (SMN) protein. This leads to the degeneration of motor neurons in the
      spinal cord and brain stem. A nearby related gene, survival motor neuron 2 (SMN2), could
      partially compensate the loss of SMN1. Individuals with a higher copy number of SMN2 do in
      general have a milder phenotype. New therapeutic approaches, e.g. nusinersen (spinraza©), an
      antisense oligonucleotide medication that modulates pre-messenger RNA splicing of the
      survival motor neuron 2 (SMN2) gene, are promising to help the formerly incurable children.
      However, most clinical trials lack primary outcomes other than clinical testing. At the
      moment there are no prospective, quantitative biomarkers available to detect muscle atrophy
      at an early age, and to follow up disease progression. As a new imaging modality,
      optoacoustic imaging (OAI) combines benefits of optical (high contrast) and acoustic (high
      resolution) imaging. Multispectral optoacoustic tomography (MSOT) is therefore capable of
      visualizing the distribution of endogenous absorbers by initiating laser-induced
      thermoelastic expansion and detection of resulting pressure waves. This imaging technique
      enables the label-free detection and quantification of different endogenous chromophores,
      such as melanin, hemoglobin, deoxyhemoglobin and lipids. Previously, it was demonstrated that
      MSOT is capable to monitor disease severity in Crohn's disease by detecting different signal
      levels of hemoglobin as markers of intestinal inflammatory activity. In this study we want to
      refine the capability of MSOT to characterize muscle tissue and to determine a non-invasive,
      quantitative biomarker for the disease assessment in SMA patients from birth using MSOT.
    
  