
    
      Following informed consent, a detailed history and physical examination will be performed
      including supine blood pressure taken twice after a 20 minute period of rest, height (using
      Harpenden stadiometer) to the nearest 0.1 cm and weight will be measured to the nearest 0.1
      kg with a balance scale, pubertal staging using the method of Marshall and Tanner, waist
      measurement obtained at the minimal circumference of the abdomen, hip measurements with a
      plastic tape while the subject is standing and recorded at the widest diameter over the
      greater trochanters. BMI (kg/m2) and waist to hip ratio will be calculated. Screening labs in
      all recruited subjects: A fasting laboratory evaluation will include chemistry panel (basic
      metabolic, liver function tests), Complete Blood Count (CBC), lipid profile, urinalysis and
      HbA1c. All obese recruited subjects after a 12 hour fast will undergo an OGTT using a glucose
      load of 1.75 g/kg body weight with a maximum of 75 g. Blood samples will be collected for
      insulin, glucose, leptin, adiponectin, High sensitive C-reactive protein (hsCRP) and Free
      Fatty Acids (FFA). Serum and urine will be stored at -70 (degree Centigrade)C for measuring
      markers of oxidative stress and adipocytokines (including Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF)-α,
      Plasminogen Acivator Inhibitor (PAI)-1) for future studies depending on the funding
      availability.

      Subjects who fulfill the study criteria would be admitted to Clinical Research Center to
      evaluate endothelial function by RH-PAT.

      RH-PAT for endothelial function Reactive hyperemia peripheral arterial tonometry (RH-PAT) is
      a noninvasive technique used to assess peripheral microvascular endothelial function by
      measuring changes in digital pulse volume during reactive hyperemia (Bonetti, Kuvin). Pulse
      volume is measured by a finger plethysmographic device that allows isolated detection of
      pulsatile arterial volume changes, which are sensed by a pressure transducer and transferred
      to a computer where the signal is amplified, displayed and stored (EndoPAT, Itamar Medical).
      Studies are performed with the patient at rest, in a comfortable, thermo neutral environment.
      Fingertip probes are placed on the index finger of both hands and 5 minutes of baseline
      recording are obtained. Blood flow is then occluded in one arm for 5 minutes, using a
      standard blood pressure cuff. Recording continues in both fingers during occlusion and for 5
      minutes after release of the cuff. The RH-PAT index is calculated as the ratio of the average
      pulse amplitude in the post-hyperemic phase divided by the average baseline amplitude, with
      normalization to the signal in the control arm to compensate for any systemic changes.
    
  