
    
      Aim 1: To test whether non-malarial infections increase hepcidin levels and for how long in
      sick children (note that the investigator exclude malaria because the investigator and others
      have previously examined the effect of malaria).

      Hypothesis 1: On day 0, 3 and 7 of acute illness, hepcidin will be higher when compared to
      levels in well children. On Day 14 iron absorption and hepcidin levels will have returned to
      baseline.

      Research Question 1: What affect do non-malarial infections (upper respiratory tract
      infections, lower respiratory tract infections, urinary tract infections and gastroenteritis)
      have on hepcidin levels and how long does this effect last?

      Aim 2: To retest our existing hepcidin threshold for discriminating iron absorbers from
      non-absorbers by repeating our prior ROC analysis based on a much larger sample.

      Hypothesis: On day 0, 3 and 7 of acute illness, iron absorption will be lower. On Day 14,
      iron absorption will be equivalent to iron absorption in well children. Note that the
      Hepcidin levels and iron absorption data obtained in this study will be compared with the
      results obtained from similarly aged children in IDeA Study 1 (SCC 1664). Also note that The
      investigator anticipate that most of the children enrolled in this study will have a
      base-line level of anaemia (eg Hgb<11g/dL).

      Research Question: What is the relationship between hepcidin and oral iron absorption in
      acute illness and convalescence and how does this differ from the relationship in well
      children?

      Aim 3: To examine EPO synthesis and EPO resistance in children with acute non-malarial
      infections?

      Hypotheses:

        1. Children with acute non-malaria infections will have both acute and chronic anaemia of
           inflammation.

        2. EPO is increased during acute infection.

      Research Question: Is there decreased EPO synthesis and/or increased EPO resistance in
      children with acute non-malarial infections living in rural Gambia?

      Aim 4: To examine erythroferrone in children with acute non-malarial infections leaving in
      rural Gambia.

      Hypothesis: First The investigator will conduct a hypothesis-free exploratory analysis to
      assess whether erythroferrone behaves as predicted based upon mouse models (ie up-regulated
      by stress erythropoiesis and inversely related to hepcidin). The investigator additionally
      hypothesize that there may be a vicious cycle initiated by inflammation and then perpetuated
      by the consequent low levels of (iron-restricted) erythropoiesis, leading to low
      erythroferrone and loss of hepcidin suppression.

      Research Question: What is the relationship between erythroferrone, iron status,
      inflammation, hepcidin, EPO and CRP in anaemic and non-anaemic children living in rural
      Gambia? This is an observational study of 200 sick children who will be recruited at the
      Keneba clinic. Each child will be seen four times (at day 0, 3, 7 14).

      200 subjects aged 6 -36m brought to Keneba clinic with an acute illness. 50 patients from
      each category: Upper respiratory tract infections (including ear, nose and throat
      infections), Lower respiratory tract infections, urinary tract infections and
      gastroenteritis.
    
  