
    
      BACKGROUND: Rising rates of obesity in preschool children are alarming and emphasise the need
      for evidence-based approaches to prevent obesity, which can be successfully implemented in
      communities. Although robust, theory-based prevention programmes exist, it is often a
      challenge to get parents to attend them and adopt positive behaviour changes in their
      families.

      AIM: To evaluate the effectiveness of a recently developed 'Optimisation intervention' to
      optimise parent engagement in a community based obesity prevention programme 'HENRY', using
      routinely collected process data from existing sites commissioned to deliver HENRY in the UK

      DESIGN: Multi-centre, cluster randomised controlled trial. As research will judge the ability
      of local authorities and their Centres to optimise implementation of HENRY, a cluster
      randomised design, has been chosen with local authority as the unit of randomisation. Local
      authorities will be randomised in a 1:1 allocation ratio (HENRY+ Optimisation Intervention;
      HENRY alone control) by a statistician at Leeds CTRU, using minimisation algorithm with
      random element, stratifying on baseline level of implementation (proportion of Centres
      meeting none of the 2 primary outcome implementation criteria/ meeting 1 or 2 of the
      criteria)) size of local authorities (number of Children's Centres (< 10/ ≥10)) and area
      deprivation (≤10% />10% ranking within Index of Multiple Deprivation at the Lower Layer Super
      Output Area).

      Consent to participate will be sought at the cluster level (local authorities) and from the
      Centres within each local authority using an opt-out approach.

      CONTROL ARM: HENRY delivered as standard. HENRY (Health, Exercise, Nutrition for the Really
      Young) is an 8-week programme delivered in Children's Centres (CCs), aiming to provide
      parents with skills and knowledge to support healthy lifestyles in preschool children and
      their families. It was set up in 2006 with Department of Health support aimed at reversing
      rising trends in school entry age obesity. HENRY is currently delivered in 32 local areas
      across England and Wales by trained health and community practitioners.

      ACTIVE ARM: HENRY as standard plus an optimisation intervention to enhance parent engagement
      (recruitment and attendance) in the 8 week programme. A tailored 'Optimisation' intervention
      has been developed with a NIHR funds (CDF 2014-07-052) to support local authorities and
      Children's Centres to promote HENRY implementation, based on observations of positive
      deviants, interviews with Children Centre staff and other stakeholders, and input from
      parents. The resulting optimisation package is a multi-component intervention implemented at
      multi-levels (local authorities, Centres, parents). Precise details can not currently be
      disclosed to do risk of contamination.

      ANALYSIS: Primary outcome analysis will be on the intention-to treat Population using a
      3-level hierarchical model, with courses (or participants) nested within CCs within LA,
      adjusting for randomization minimisation variables. Differences in parent engagement,
      corresponding 95% CI, p-values and ICCs will be reported.
    
  