
    
      Persistent post-surgical pain (PPSP) is a common and debilitating problem following surgery.1
      Orthopedic surgeries, such as Total Knee Arthoplasty (TKA), are consistently associated with
      high postoperative pain, putting patients at risk for PPSP.2, 3 In fact, TKA has the highest
      rate of PPSP at 6 months (49%) when compared to a variety of surgeries.4 Pain that persists
      beyond the expected period of healing serves little or no useful purpose and can be
      devastating to one's sense of well-being. Notably, pain severity is highly correlated with
      adverse effects on physical functioning, recovery and quality of life, including negative
      impacts on sleep, mood, daily activities, cognitive functions and social life.2, 5-13 PPSP is
      also highly correlated with prolonged opioid use following surgery. When pain and addiction
      are present, the patient's level of desperation rises, medical and psychiatric illness
      severity increases, and there is greater utilization of health care services.

      Strong and consistent evidence indicates that patients with high levels of pain, anxiety
      and/or depressive symptoms (distress) prior to surgery are at risk for PPSP.5, 14-23 Notably,
      Veterans are at a particularly high risk for post-surgical problems because 80% experience
      some level of psychological distress prior to surgery and 50% report experiencing pain on a
      regular basis.9, 24 Furthermore, surgery presents a unique set of circumstances in which the
      precise timing of the physical insult and ensuing pain are known in advance. 25 It is,
      therefore, possible and critical that these risk factors be attended to in order to improve
      postoperative pain management and disrupt processes responsible for the transition from acute
      to chronic pain.

      As proof of concept, co-PIs Rakel and Dindo completed an R34-funded study evaluating the
      feasibility and potential efficacy of an intensive 1-day Acceptance and Commitment Therapy
      (ACT) workshop for preventing PPSP and prolonged opioid use following orthopedic surgery in
      at-risk Veterans. ACT is trans-diagnostic, with effectiveness across a range of conditions,
      including chronic pain, depression, and anxiety.16-18 The brief, 1-day format was used to
      optimize treatment adherence and chances for dissemination into clinical settings. Results
      were promising. 100% of the Veterans attending, completed the 1-day intervention. Compared to
      controls, Veterans randomly assigned to ACT reported a larger decrease in pain intensity 3
      months post-TKA and reached pain and opioid cessation criteria sooner. Importantly, Veterans
      reporting larger changes in behavioral engagement (targeted mediator of ACT) exhibited
      significantly larger decreases in pain and opioid use. This application builds on these
      promising preliminary findings using a rigorous design to establish the unique effects of ACT
      beyond attention and explore mediators of treatment response.

      In the context of the current opioid epidemic, it is also important for us to better
      understand how changes in opioid prescribing patterns are influencing postoperative pain
      management strategies. It is likely that complaints of pain will increase, putting patients
      at higher risk for PPSP and impaired functioning. Early reports suggests that patients are
      looking for substitute sources of pain relief, such as rogue Fentanyl powder and
      Gabapentin.26, 27 Using a multi-site, double-blind, two-arm, parallel, randomized controlled
      trial with Veterans at-risk for PPSP post-TKA, the following aims will be addressed:

      Primary Aim: To examine the superior efficacy of ACT versus Attention Control (AC) on
      postoperative pain intensity and functioning in at-risk Veterans undergoing TKA. Changes in
      pain intensity and functioning from baseline to 6 weeks, 3 months and 6 months post-TKA will
      be compared. Level of pain intensity will be measured using the BPI Pain Severity Subscale
      and level of functioning will be measured using the KOOS Activities of Daily Living and
      Quality Of Life Subscales.

      Secondary Aims: A) To examine the superior efficacy of ACT versus AC on the severity of
      anxiety and depressive symptoms and improvements in coping skills. Changes from baseline to 6
      weeks, 3 months and 6 months post-TKA will be compared. Anxiety and depressive symptoms will
      be measured with the Hamilton Rating Scales (Ham-A and Ham-D, respectively). Coping skills
      (i.e. Pain Acceptance and Engagement in Values-Based Behavior) will be measured with the
      Chronic Pain Acceptance Questionnaire and the Chronic Pain Values Inventory. B) To evaluate
      whether decreases in distress-based symptoms and increases in coping skills mediate changes
      in pain and functioning at 6 months in Veterans receiving ACT. Changes in anxiety symptoms,
      depressive symptoms, pain acceptance and engagement in values-based behavior from baseline to
      6 weeks and 3 months will be used as potential mediators for changes in pain and functioning
      at 6 months.

      Exploratory Aim: Describe the pharmacological and non-pharmacological strategies Veterans are
      using to manage pain and their perceived helpfulness. This will provide insights into the
      effects of the current opioid restrictions on pain management strategies. These strategies &
      their perceived helpfulness will be assessed using the Pain Management Strategies Survey at
      baseline, 6 weeks, 3, and 6 months.

      This project builds on promising preliminary data and has the potential to translate what is
      known about effective treatments of chronic pain to prevent poor surgical outcomes. It
      incorporates an interdisciplinary approach to the care of Veterans that attends to major risk
      factors of postoperative sequelae that significantly impact Veterans' quality of life and
      healthcare utilization. Using an effective, highly accepted and deployable intervention
      increases the clinical usefulness of these results which may be extended in the future to the
      many other conditions leading to chronic pain in both Veterans and Civilians.
    
  