
    
      Abstract

      Concerns about middle and external ear infections and discomfort are frequent chief
      complaints that bring children to pediatric providers. On top of this, there are numerous
      non-ear complaints (e.g. head trauma) that warrant a complete evaluation of the middle and
      external ear structures. At present, the middle and external ear is examined with standard
      direct otoscopy, commonly using a handheld otoscope. Otoscopy is defined as the visualization
      of the external and middle ear structures, including the tympanic membrane, ossicles, middle
      ear fluid, ear canal, etc. The skill of otoscopy is taught early in the medical trainees'
      career, most often in the first or second year of medical school. This skill is further honed
      during the pediatric medical student clerkship and pediatric residency, however there is not
      an efficient and patient-centered mechanism for direct visualization and teaching of
      trainees. Because of this, it is nearly impossible for trainees to receive feedback on
      trainees' visualization and interpretation skills. Based on the investigators' experience,
      trainee exams are often not repeated by clinical supervisors as the trainees progress in
      training. When supervisors do repeat ear exams (i.e., trainee is uncertain of findings), it
      is challenging to determine if the trainee fully appreciates exam findings. Ear exam findings
      directly inform the clinical decision-making (e.g., prescribing antibiotics for acute otitis
      media (AOM)) and uncertainty often results in unnecessary prescribing.

      Objectives

      Aim 1: To establish whether a smartphone otoscope improves diagnostic accuracy of tympanic
      membrane (TM) pathology for trainees, compared to supervisor.

      Aim 2: To determine whether smartphone otoscope improves diagnostic confidence of trainees,
      thereby reducing frequency of antibiotic prescriptions for AOM.

      Aim 3: To determine whether there is a change in repeat exam rates by supervisors, comparing
      with/without Cellscope.

      Aim 4: To determine whether trainees convert to traditional otoscope use during the weeks
      that Cellscope is available.
    
  