
    
      Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a model of leukemogenesis because the malignant
      transformation of a hematopoietic stem cell is considered as the consequence of a unique
      major event: the translocation t(9;22) which is able to produce the BCR-ABL chimeric protein.
      The treatment of CML has made considerable progress with the development of tyrosine kinase
      inhibitors (TKI) targeting the BCR-ABL protein activity. Despite the efficacy of these drugs,
      several studies showed the existence of intra-clonal heterogeneity and the in vivo survival
      of a leukemic stem cell (LSC) subset by:

        -  A detectable residual disease in the majority of cases, and after treatment for several
           years.

        -  The relapse of about half of patients after stopping TKI; these relapses are the proof
           of the in vivo persistence of LSC, even when CML clone is particularly sensitive to TKI.

        -  Cases of unexplained TKI resistance (no BCR-ABL mutation etc…)

      The mechanisms involved in in vivo survival of LSC remain largely unknown. Mechanisms
      independent of BCR-ABL TK activity could be responsible of LSC survival. However, the fact
      that CML is the consequence of t(9; 22) if it appears in a HSC, suggests that a stem cell
      specific biological status should play a role in the emergence of the disease and probably
      the special feature of this cell subset. Several studies showed the essential role of
      epigenetic factors in stem cell behavior (quiescence, self-renewal, or differentiation
      process). Epigenetic dysregulation of some gene expression was observed in CML cells and
      changes in DNA methylation are involved in CML progression towards accelerated or blast
      phase, more resistant to TKIs. These observations led to clinical trial combining TKI with
      epigenetic drugs which results confirmed the in vivo involvement of epigenetic mechanisms
      during CML progression. However, the role of epigenetics in the early resistance of a chronic
      phase CML cell subset remains unknown.

      The hypothesis is that epigenetic features could participate in TKI resistance of CML LSC and
      their survival in bone marrow.

      In order to identify new mechanisms and/or new targets involved in LSC resistance,
      investigator choose a global approach of DNA methylation profile with an HM450K microarray.
      Investigator analyzed the sorted CML CD34+ CD15- cell subset (n=6) in comparison with: 1)
      CD34+ CD15- cells from healthy donors (hematopoietic grafts), in order to eliminate
      specificities of normal hematopoietic hierarchy, 2) the CD34-CD15+ sub-clone from the CML
      clone before any treatment in order to eliminate characteristic of CML mature compartment.
      The CD34+CD15- cells showed a specific DNA methylation profile, from diagnosis and from this
      level of cell hierarchy ((Bourgne et al., oral communication, SFH meeting 2017, manuscript
      submitted). In order to identify biomarkers specific to CML cells, investigator removed
      abnormally methylated regions that are differently methylated during hematopoietic
      differentiation. After this step, 825, 2210 and 1461 probes identified regions specifically
      dysmethylated in CD34-CD15+, CD34+ CD15- CML cells and both respectively. Investigator also
      observed changes in expression of epigenetic actors. These results validate our hypothesis.
      With the recent data published in literature, they strongly argue in favor of the involvement
      of epigenetic dysregulation in native intra-clonal heterogeneity, and justify this original
      translational research project.
    
  