
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To conduct a phase 2 clinical trial to evaluate whether combination treatment with
      belinostat and SGI-110 (guadecitabine) shows preliminary evidence of clinical activity in
      unresectable or metastatic conventional chondrosarcoma (CS) using an objective response rate
      endpoint.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the toxicity profile associated with the combination treatment. II. To
      evaluate the progression free survival (PFS) associated with the combination treatment.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the IDH1/2 mutational status of subject's tumors and to evaluate for a
      relationship between presence of IDH1/2 mutation and clinical benefit from study treatment.

      II. To conduct ribonucleic acid sequencing (RNAseq) analysis using baseline and on-treatment
      tissue biopsies to study the effects of study treatment on CS gene expression patterns and
      identify candidate genes which may underlie treatment efficacy.

      III. To evaluate for changes in global deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation levels using
      baseline and on-treatment biopsies and correlate changes in global methylation with clinical
      benefit from study treatment.

      IV. To use multiplex immunohistochemistry to interrogate the immune microenvironment in
      baseline and on-treatment tissue biopsies to define changes in infiltrating immune cell
      subsets and PD-L1/major histocompatibility complex (MHC) expression by immune and tumor cells
      associated with study treatment.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive guadecitabine subcutaneously (SC) and belinostat intravenously (IV) over 30
      minutes on days 1-5. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo a tumor biopsy at baseline (within 21 days of
      the first cycle) and during cycle 2 (on day 3, 4, or 5). In addition, patients undergo
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computed tomography (CT) scans every 2 cycles (8 weeks)
      while receiving guadecitabine and belinostat.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 24 months.
    
  