
    
      Hemophagocytic Syndrome (HPS) is a disorder characterized by pathological activation of the
      immune system resulting in a systemic disorder characterized by excessive cytokine production
      and macrophage activation, culminating in cytopenias and evidence of hemophagocytosis on
      tissue specimens. The disorder can be sporadic or familial due to one of several mutations
      and is primarily seen in the pediatric population, with a reported incidence of 1 case per
      3000 admissions. The actual incidence in adults is unknown and can be rarely sporadic, or
      secondary to viral infections, malignancy, or autoimmune disease.

      HPS is a universally fatal disease if untreated. In adults, the median survival has been
      reported to be less than 2 months if diagnosis and treatment is delayed. Adult patients are
      treated with pediatric protocols with early institution of etoposide and steroids and
      consolidation with allogeneic stem cell transplant in appropriately selected patients if a
      familial form is identified. Other treatment strategies have been attempted, including
      rituximab, infliximab, entaracept, tocilizumab, and alemtuzumab. These anecdotal reports
      highlight the therapeutic potential of cytokine-targeted therapies in this disorder.

      This is a pilot study to determine the efficacy of Ruxolitinib in secondary hemophagocytic
      syndrome. The primary objective is to assess the efficacy of ruxolitinib 15 mg PO twice daily
      in patients with HPS. The primary endpoint is overall survival at two months.

      Patients will receive Ruxolitinib at 15 mg twice daily orally either on an empty stomach or
      with food for 4 weeks (28 days) in a 4 week (28 day) cycle. Ruxolitinib will be administered
      in continuous 28-day cycles.

      In the absence of treatment delays or cessation due to adverse events, treatment may continue
      indefinitely or until one of the following criteria applies:

        -  Disease progression.

        -  Intercurrent illness that prevents further administration of treatment.

        -  The investigator considers it, for safety reasons, to be in the best interest of the
           patient.

        -  Unacceptable adverse events such as any toxicity or other issue that causes a delay of
           study drug administration by more than 4 weeks.

        -  General or specific changes in the patient's condition render the patient unacceptable
           for further treatment in the judgment of the investigator.

        -  Patient decision to withdraw from treatment (partial consent) or from the study (full
           consent.

        -  Death.

      Patients will be followed for toxicity for 30 days after treatment has been discontinued or
      until death, whichever occurs first.
    
  