
    
      If you choose to take part in this study, blood (about 10 teaspoons) will be drawn for
      genetic testing. The blood may be drawn more than 1 time, depending on how much blood is
      drawn at the first visit, and if you are available for more blood draws. If this is the case,
      your doctor will discuss any extra blood draws with you.

      For small children (less than 5 years old), about 2 teaspoons will be drawn. Children who are
      5 years old or older will not have more than 3 teaspoons drawn.

      You will complete a questionnaire about your medical history and family medical history. The
      questionnaire should take about 1 hour to complete. The study staff will also review your
      medical records.

      You will be asked to allow the study staff to collect any of your tissue (whether healthy or
      cancerous) that is leftover from surgeries performed as part of your standard care. This may
      be from any past or future surgeries or any tissue being stored at MD Anderson or elsewhere.
      No new surgeries or biopsies will be performed for this study.

      Before your information, tissue samples, and/or bodily fluids can be used for research, the
      people doing the research must get specific approval from the Institutional Review Board
      (IRB) of MD Anderson. The IRB is a committee made up of doctors, researchers, and members of
      the community. The IRB is responsible for protecting the participants involved in research
      studies and making sure all research is done in a safe and ethical manner. All research done
      at MD Anderson, including research involving your information, tissue samples, and/or bodily
      fluids, must first be approved by the IRB.

      You may be contacted either by phone or mail 1 time a year, so that the study staff can
      update your medical history and information. If contacted by phone, this call should last
      about 30 minutes.
    
  