
    
      X-ray catheterization is used to guide minimally invasive procedures including percutaneous
      coronary interventions (PCIs), involving diffuse and multiple vessel disease and total
      chronic occlusion as well as electrophysiology (EP) procedures. While the medical benefit to
      patients outweighs the procedural risk, long fluoroscopy times associated with complex
      interventions have resulted in acute radiation injuries to patients. Radiation induced
      cancers have also become a concern in younger patient populations. With the increased number,
      diversity and complexity of the interventions performed, there has been a growing interest in
      reducing the long-term exposure risk to medical personnel (interventionists).

      Conventional methods to reduce in radiation exposure, however, impact and often degrade
      diagnostic image quality. Catheterization procedures focus on a small portion of the anatomy
      forming the central region of the image with the periphery providing contextual information.
      Thus, decreasing the image quality in periphery can provide an overall exposure reduction to
      patients and interventionists without impacting on diagnosis. This can be achieved by
      introducing a pre-patient region-of-interest (ROI) attenuator that collimates the primary
      x-ray beam, reducing exposure to peripheral regions and decreasing integral radiation to the
      patient and scatter radiation to the interventionist.

      The goal of this study is to investigate the exposure dose reduction provided by ROI imaging
      to patients and interventionists undergoing catheterization and to examine the feasibility of
      using the ROI attenuator in routine clinical practice for future integration into commercial
      x-ray imaging systems. The aim is to obtain exposure dose data and cardiac angiography images
      from subjects undergoing routine interventional procedures performed with and without ROI
      attenuation (experimental and control groups, respectively). For the experimental group, the
      interventionists performing the procedure will determine the appropriate application of the
      ROI attenuator and the duration of its use on specific patient lesions. An internal pilot
      study will be initially conducted on approximately 30 patients (15 per group) to obtain
      estimates on patient and operator dose reduction and variability. The on-going clinical trial
      will then be performed on an additional 40 patients (where the final protocol procedures and
      recruitment will be refined based on results from the pilot study).
    
  