
    
      Objective To determine the effectiveness of a Proficiency Based Progression Training
      programme, together with evidence based individual feedback for any residual errors, which
      has been specifically developed for healthcare professionals performing phlebotomy at Cork
      University Hospital at reducing blood sampling errors including Wrong Blood in Tube (WBIT)
      .The investigators will use the research data generated to recommend an evidence based
      training and competency assessment approach to health care providers in Ireland,. This will
      allow us to internationally address the universal problem of sample mislabeling and WBIT.

      METHODS Subjects All SHO (128) and intern (46) trainees working at participating sites during
      an 18-month timeframe will be asked to participate. For interns the investigators will expect
      their participation in the two weeks before they commence work in June/July 2018/9. For SHO's
      the investigators will ensure training is integrated as part of their normal work routine and
      hospital practices. Participation will be expected and the investigators have secured the
      backing of the hospital executive management group, clinical directors and university
      teachers for implementation of this study.

      Proficiency based progression training The phlebotomy metric which was developed at CUH in
      2017 is the provides the key tool in the development of the PBP training programme. All
      interns and SHOs in institutions participating in the study will receive PBP training. All
      trainees will be required to engage with an online didactic education package and a
      simulation skill training module. Both of these education and training platforms will be
      derived from the procedure characterisation and benchmarked on experienced practitioner's
      performance. Trainees will be required to engage with the education and training platforms in
      a process of deliberate practice learning until they demonstrate the requisite performance
      benchmark. Only at that point will they be allowed to take samples in a clinical setting.
      Proficiency demonstration will be mandatory before progressing to ward proctored skill
      supervision on real patients. In addition, the doctors in training will receive ongoing and
      proximate feedback on their sampling mislabeling (including wrong blood in tube) performance
      as soon as it is discovered. Furthermore, they would be responsible for taking the new sample
      and explain to the patient the accurate reason why the blood sample had to be re-taken, as
      per open disclosure policy in the HSE.

      Comparison Groups The control groups will be derived from extensive baseline data from CUH
      hospitals from trainees

      Control group A: 1 -year historical data (2016/2017) The blood sampling error rate in the
      interns receiving PBP training in 2018 will be compared to historical data on doctors who
      would have received whatever training they would normally undergo as a part of their existing
      training program. It will not differ from what they would normally receive at that
      institution.

      Control group B (2017/2018) In a pilot project in July 2017, 46 interns received the
      phlebotomy PBP training at CUH. The error rates in the interns in 2017 will be compared to
      the newly trained interns in 2018 to determine the effectiveness of the training over time.

      Data collection at Cork University Hospital The Medically qualified clinical researcher Dr
      Noirin O'Herlihy, will set up and co-ordinate training for the two medical groups. She will
      inform the Interns and SHO in formal and informal sessions. She will be present at session to
      ensure accurate simulation of real life ward environments. She will obtain written informed
      consent from the medics in simulation and collect baseline demographic data on all doctors in
      training participating in the study.

      Once competency has been demonstrated in simulation, she will be responsible for setting up
      real life clinical, monitored competency assessment in the real ward setting. Data collection
      will take place using an agreed standard operating procedure which is closely adhered to by
      all data collection sites.
    
  