
    
      The objective of this study is to examine the risk factors and natural course of JCV
      infection and progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). PML is a devastating,
      demyelinating neurological disease affecting the brain of patients with a compromised immune
      system. It is caused by reactivation of JC virus (JCV), a small DNA virus that infects the
      majority of the population without clinical significance. There are currently no treatments
      available for PML.

      We plan to study patients with suspected or confirmed PML with different underlying
      conditions including patients on immune-modulatory therapies for multiple sclerosis (MS),
      rheumatologic diseases or other autoimmune diseases, as well as patients with HIV infection
      or other conditions leading to a compromised immune system. Patients will be seen at defined
      time points during their disease course and detailed assessments will be performed to collect
      clinical and imaging data. Blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) will also be collected at
      these time points to evaluate the behavior and biology of the JCV and the patients immune
      responses to the infection. These tests will lead to a better understanding of the
      pathophysiology of PML and the course of this disease in different patient groups.
      Additionally, we will recruit a patient control cohort represented by patients with impaired
      immune function for any cause and considered at risk for development of PML, and a healthy
      volunteer cohort. The purpose of these additional cohorts is to explore and validate
      biomarkers for risk of development of PML and early diagnosis.

      Specifically, this detailed characterization will be used to help identify:

        1. Clinical imaging and/or laboratory features pathognomonic of JCV infection and disease
           course that may aid in earlier diagnosis and intervention

        2. Clinical imaging and/or laboratory features of the disease course that is predictive of
           clinical outcomes

      This information will be integrated to develop a clinically relevant, disease-specific
      assessment scale of PML, which is currently not available. Such a scale would be a useful
      tool for the clinical management of patients (i.e., for development of standards of care), as
      well as for clinical trial design and interpretation.

      The long-term objectives of this study are to improve the understanding of the disease course
      and underlying pathophysiology, to identify subgroups with different prognosis and/or
      susceptibility to interventions, and to help identify therapeutic targets and/or intervention
      strategies. Equally important, these efforts will allow development of a repository of
      cryopreserved biological samples that will be used for validation of candidate biomarkers in
      future studies; this data and biological bank will be made available to outside laboratories.
    
  