
    
      This study is an open-label, single-arm, phase II clinical study on the efficacy and safety
      of Sintilimab combined with metformin in the treatment of locally advanced, recurrent or
      metastatic NSCLC patients who fail to receive first-line platinum-containing chemotherapy in
      patients with locally advanced, recurrent or metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer in China.
      Simon two stages optimal design criteria are used in the test, and 18 subjects are enrolled
      in the first stage, and if two or more patients reach the PR/CR evaluation criteria, the
      sample size will be increased to 43. If 7 or more of the 43 subjects meets the PR/CR
      evaluation criteria, it indicates that the test achieves the expected results. After the
      subject signs the informed consent, the subject will receive the treatment of 200 mg IV Q3W
      (3 weeks using a) of Sintilimab combine with 500mg of metformin for oral bid until disease
      progression, death, toxicity intolerance, withdrawal of the informed consent, initiation of
      new anti-tumor treatment or termination of treatment for other reasons specified in the
      program. The longest duration of treatment for Sintilimab is 24 months. The main endpoint of
      the study is ORR evaluated by the researchers based on RECIST v1.1.

      RECIST v1.1 is used for clinical tumor imaging evaluation. Based on the clinical conditions
      of the patients, it is used every 2 cycles (±7 days) until disease progression, initiation of
      new anti-tumor therapy, withdrawal of Inform Consent Form (ICF) or death of the subjects. For
      the first time, if the clinical status of the subjects with disease progression is stable,
      those who meet the criteria determined by the investigator can continue to receive treatment
      of Sintilimab combined with metformin, and must undergo imaging evaluation after 4 weeks (± 7
      days) to confirm the disease progression. Patients with disease progression will enter the
      survival follow-up stage (every 60 ± 7 days); Patients who stop treatment due to other causes
      other than disease progression will continue to receive the tumor assessment every 6 weeks (±
      7 days) until the next event (initiation of new anti-tumor treatment, disease progression,
      withdrawal of ICF or death), and then enter the survival follow-up stage (every 60 ± 7 days).

      The investigator will evaluate and manage the adverse reactions during the treatment period
      and within 30 ± 7 days after the last use of the study drug in accordance with the NCI Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.0 and immune-related adverse reactions
      standard Immune-Related Response Criteria (irRC), evaluation and management of severe adverse
      reactions during the treatment period and 90 ± 7 days after the last use of the study drug
      (unless patients start new anti-tumor treatment 31 to 90 days after the last use of the study
      drug).
    
  