
    
      Anemia is one of the most worrisome complications of Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD). Numerous
      prospective studies have repeatedly documented an increase risk of morbidity and mortality
      associated with lower levels of hemoglobin (Hb). Hence the international guidelines on
      patient care suggest the use of Erythropoietin Stimulating Agents (ESA), iron, folates
      supplementation for anemia correction.

      However, recent randomized controlled trials (RCT) have demonstrated that hemoglobin
      correction to normal levels increases the risk of major cardiovascular (CV) events. Though,
      the reasons are still unclear, the cumulative ESA dose may at least partly explain these
      findings suggesting limiting ESA to the minimal dose allowed to achieve the suggested Hb
      targets in ESRD patients.

      Among other factors, CKD-MBD has been repeatedly associated with poor more severe anemia and
      higher dose of ESA. However, the latest Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO)
      guidelines on CKD-MBD management suggest a higher reference target for intact parathyroid
      hormone (iPTH) (2-9 fold the upper level of the normal range) when compared to the National
      Kidney Foundation (NKF) guidelines published in 2003 (150-300 pg/ml).

      A few observational studies suggest a linear inverse association between intact iPTH and ESA
      dose even for iPTH value within the iPTH target level proposed by the KDIGO working group.
      Similarly, a large body of evidence supports the notion that the higher the iPTH the faster
      the CV system deterioration in ESRD.

      Aim of the study is to test whether a tighter iPTH control to achieve a iPTH level lower than
      300 pg/ml vs iPTH levels between 300-540 pg/ml is associated with a ESA dose reduction and a
      slower CV system deterioration in ESRD patients receiving dialysis.

      STUDY DESIGN Pilot, single center, open label with blinded end point (PROBE-Prospective
      Randomized Open Blinded End-Point) aimed at improving patient care.

      Eligible patients will be randomized (1:1) to either:

      (A) Control group: standard care. The iPTH target in this group is 300-540 pg/ml (B) Optimal
      CKD-MBD control: in this group the iPTH target is150-300 pg/ml to be achieved with a
      therapeutic algorithm.

      TREATMENTS

      All patients will be randomized (1:1) to either:

      (A) Control group: standard care. The iPTH target in this group is 300-540 pg/ml.

      (B) Optimal CKD-MBD control:: in this group the iPTH target is 150-300 pg/ml to be achieved
      with a therapeutic algorithm:

      I. iPTH control: in order to achieve the iPTH target (150-300 pg/ml), all patients will
      receive 400 IU/day of vitamin-25-OH-D (25OHD) and a flexible dose of any active vitamin D
      available in Italy (calcitriol and paricalcitol-"Zemplar®") at the maximum dose of 6 mcg/week
      of paricalcitol("Zemplar®")of equivalent (see existing conversion table). Patients will also
      receive a flexible dose of cinacalcet("Mimpara®") to a maximum dose of 90 mg/day.

      II. Phosphorous control: all patients need to achieve a serum phosphorous level lower than
      5.5 mg/dl. All available phosphate binders are allowed [sevelamer("Renvela®"), calcium
      carbonate, calcium acetate("Phoslo®"), calcium acetate/magnesium carbonate ("Osvaren®"),
      lanthanum carbonate "Foznol®"). A rescue therapy with aluminum("Maalox®") is allowed for no
      more than 30 days.

      III. Serum calcium control: the suggested target is less than 9.5 mg/dl. In case of serum
      calcium greater than 9.5 mg/dl the calcium and vitamin D dose should be lowered in order to
      lower the risk of vascular calcification deposition and progression
    
  