
    
      Background:

      Coronary catheterization is a commonly performed diagnostic and therapeutic procedure. The
      procedure is most commonly performed via the transfemoral approach (via the femoral artery).
      Recently the transradial approach (via the radial artery) has been gaining popularity since
      it is associated with decreased risk of bleeding and facilitates patient mobilization
      following the procedure (1-3). During the catheterization procedure a sheath (tube) is
      inserted into the access artery so as to enable insertion of catheters and devices into the
      body. Vascular sheaths may have different internal diameters, which are measured in French
      (F) units. Commonly used sheath sizes for coronary catheterization are 5F and 6F, however use
      of larger 7F sheaths is beneficial when more complex procedures are performed such as
      insertion of two coronary stents. Use of a 7F sheath creates a slightly larger orifice within
      the blood vessel wall and may potentially increase the risk of damage to the vessel wall and
      hemorrhage.

      The palm of the hand normally receives dual blood supply via the radial and ulnar arteries.
      Prior to performing transradial catheterization the ability of the ulnar artery to supply
      blood to the whole palm is confirmed by performing an Allen Test, in order to avoid palmar
      ischemia if the radial artery becomes occluded following the procedure. Radial artery
      occlusion in the presence of a normal pre-procedural Allen Test is almost universally
      asymptomatic, however it may preclude future use of the radial artery for vascular access or
      as a coronary graft if bypass surgery is performed. The frequency of radial artery occlusion
      following transradial catheterization ranges from 5% to 15% in different reports (4),
      depending on many factors such patient selection, degree of anticoagulation during the
      procedure and the time interval between performance of the procedure and studying the radial
      artery patency. Use of larger sheaths has also been reported as a risk factor for radial
      artery occlusion (5), however the true incidence of this complication is unclear. It is
      desirable to discover the true rate of radial artery occlusion following catheterization with
      a 7F sheath, since such knowledge may assist physicians in planning the optimal
      catheterization strategy.

      Aims:

      The aim of the study will be to examine the occurrence of radial artery occlusion following
      transradial catheterization with a 7F sheath.

      Hypothesis:

      Radial artery occlusion following 7F catheterization is rare and occurs in < 5% of the cases.

      Methods:

      The study will be performed as part of Mr. Dan Levin's required Medical School Thesis
      research at the Faculty of Medicine, Technion IIT, Haifa, Israel. Two-hundred subjects who
      have previously undergone transradial catheterization between the years 1999 and 2012 with a
      7F sheath will be identified in the Lady Davis Carmel Medical Center Catheterization
      laboratory computerized database. The subjects will be contacted by the study investigators
      and will be invited to a meeting with the investigators at Carmel Medical Center. The study
      protocol consists of a single meeting between the investigators and the study subjects.
      During this meeting the subjects will be given explanation of the study protocol. If they
      consent to participate in the study they will sign an informed consent form, undergo physical
      examination of the reverse Allen test and ultrasound examination of the patency of the radial
      artery. Radial artery patency will be studied with the reverse Allen test. This test is
      performed by simultaneously occluding both the radial and ulnar arteries until no pulse
      signal is detected with a pulse oximeter placed on the index finger. The pressure on the
      radial artery is then released and reappearance of the pulse signal on the oximeter is
      documented-signifying antegrade flow in the radial artery. This test is not associated with
      any reported complications or morbidity. Radial artery flow will be studied with Doppler
      ultrasound. The ultrasound test will be performed by Dr Salim Adawi at no cost. The
      ultrasound test is a routine non-invasive study which is not associated with any reported
      complications or morbidity. Clinical and procedural data will be collected in the CRF form in
      order to characterize risk factors for radial artery occlusion.

      Endpoints:

        1. Normal reverse Allen test.

        2. Antegrade flow in the radial artery by ultrasound.

      Number of participants:

      The Lady Davis Carmel Medical Center catheterization laboratory database will be scanned in
      order to identify all patients who have undergone transradial catheterization with a 7F
      sheath. Two-hundred patients, both men and women, will be recruited to the study.

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria:

      Two-hundred Hebrew-speaking subjects (male and female) who have previously undergone 7F
      transradial cardiac catheterization at the Lady Davis Carmel Medical Center between 1999 and
      2012 will be contacted. Upon giving informed consent they will be recruited to the study.

      Statistical analysis Univariate and multivariate analysis will be performed in order to
      identify demographic, clinical and procedural characteristics that are associated with radial
      artery occlusion.

      References

        1. Amoroso et al. Transradial access for primary percutaneous coronary intervention: the
           next standard of care? Heart 2010;96:1341-1344.

        2. Freestone et al. Transradial cardiac procedures: The state of the art. Heart
           2010;96:883-891.

        3. Bertrand et al. Transradial Approach for Coronary Angiography and Interventions: Results
           of the First International Transradial Practice Survey. JACC Intv. 2010;3;1022-1031.

        4. Pancholy et al. Effect of Duration of Hemostatic Compression on Radial Artery Occlusion
           After Transradial Access. CCI 2012;79:78-81.

        5. Uhlemann et al. The Leipzig Prospective Vascular Ultrasound Registry in Radial Artery
           Catheterization. JACC Intv 2012;5:36-43.
    
  