
    
      The study will establish factors fundamental to the improvement in communication and quality
      of life for people with dementia known as primary progressive aphasia (PPA). PPA is a type of
      dementia in which language declines but other cognitive skills (including memory) are
      preserved in the first several years after the onset (see Mesulam 1982). This makes those in
      the initial stages of PPA excellent candidates for treatment and creates a window of time
      (2-7 years) whereby PPA individuals can lead independent lives with minimal support. However,
      currently, no communication therapy is available to people with PPA due to the progressive
      nature of the disorder and lack of awareness of available options for professionals willing
      to treat it.

      Naming impairments are omnipresent in PPA. For this reason, anomia will be the focus of our
      intervention. Participants with PPA in our study will receive two kinds of therapy for the
      words they cannot recall spontaneously, and will be trained to maintain them through social
      interaction. The type of training will be based on the most successful interventions the
      investigators provided to people with PPA in our previous work (active encoding and errorless
      lerning). The investigators expect that successful re-learning of forgotten words and
      practicing them in a group setting will facilitate retention of communication skills leading
      to greater personal independence and increased/maintained quality of life for people with
      PPA. half of the cohort (randomly determined) will then participate in a communication group
      where conversations are encouraged and half will attend "non-verbal" group meetings when they
      will paint, watch movies and engage in other activities not requiring talking. To evaluate
      the benefits of practicing the re-learned words in a social setting naming skills will be
      tested for each participant before and after individual and group interventions.
    
  