
    
      Select three sites to conduct this study in Henan, china. In the principle of informed
      consent and voluntary participation, adopt randomized and control design and include 6000
      healthy subjects, among them, trial group 3000 persons, blank control group 3000 persons
      respectively and randomized dividing into 4 age groups.

      The evaluation of safety: For all the vaccinated subjects, monitor general reaction and
      post-vaccination AEFI by mean of active soliciting and passive report. The evaluation of
      safety data mainly includes summary of clinical reaction endpoint, local and systemic adverse
      events of all subjects during the observation period and incidence rate of relevant ADR/AE.

      The evaluation of immunogenicity: Respectively and randomly sample 600 persons from
      vaccination group and blank control group. Collect venous blood on the first day or 28 day of
      vaccination. Adopt international universal HI testing method(SRID) to carry out serology
      test.

      The criteria for HI antibody test result:

        -  Take 1:10 serum as the lowest dilutability. For subjects whose HI antibody <1:10 before
           immunization, calculate as 1:5 and their post-vaccination HI antibody titer≥1:40 will be
           as the seroconversion. For subjects HI antibody ≥1:10 before the vaccination, take
           post-vaccination HI antibody titer increases 4 times as seroconversion;

        -  Take HI antibody titer≥1:40 as threshold of positive protection;

        -  Take statistics of subject number whose serum HI antibody titer reach protective level
           (HI antibody titer≥1:40). Calculate protection rate of vaccine and 95% CI;

        -  GMT titer and 95% CI. Evaluation of immune protective effect: Monitor Influenza Like
           Illness(ILI) to all subjects in monitoring place and conduct epidemiological survey to
           ILI. Collect nasopharyngeal swab and blood specimen during acute and recovery period for
           the laboratory test.

      ILI refers to fever (body temperature≥38℃) with cough or pharyngalgia. Test influenza virus
      nucleic acid in nasopharyngeal swab. Isolate serum of blood specimen and carry out the test
      of serum antibody.

      Evaluation indicator:

        -  Statistics of ILI incidence rate in immune population

        -  Statistics of incidence rate in monitoring place
    
  