
    
      Both Pneumocystis Jirovecii (Pneumocystic Carinii Pneumonia, PCP) and Cytomegalovirus (CMV)
      are opportunistic pathogens known to cause infection in patients with impaired immune
      systems. PCP is a frequent pathogen causing respiratory tract infections in Acquired Immune
      Deficiency (AIDS) patients, but may also cause infection in other immunecompromised hosts.
      CMV is a causative agent of pneumonia mostly in transplant recipients.

      For CMV pneumonia to be diagnosed in a patient with clinical signs of pneumonia, it is
      necessary to demonstrate the presence of the virus by its isolation, histopathologic testing,
      immunohistochemical analysis, or in situ hybridization. Detection of viral DNA in respiratory
      secretions (eg. Bronchial wash) may be too sensitive and is considered insufficient for
      diagnosis. However, the diagnostic methods are either not commonly performed or, in the case
      of histopathology, may risk severely ill patients. It is not known how often viral DNA is
      indeed detected in respiratory secretions of immunocompetent and immunocompromized hosts.

      As for PCP, it is not known whether an asymptomatic carriage state exists for this pathogen.
      It has been suggested that PCP may be found in bronchial washings of asymptomatic patients,
      mostly corticosteroid- treated , and pregnant women. This finding has not been confirmed by
      other investigators, nor is it known what the prevalence of PCP colonization is in Israel. If
      PCP colonization is common, detection of PCP DNA in bronchial wash may represent
      colonization, not infection, and may mask true infection by an unidentified pathogen. Thus,
      it is of importance to define the prevalence of PCP in respiratory secretions in our
      population.

      Bronchial washing is a procedure routinely performed during Fiberoptic Bronchoscopy, which
      includes the instillation of 10-20 ml sterile saline solution into a segmental or
      subsegmental bronchus. It is a safe procedure, which may rarely result in fever up to 38.5 up
      to a few hours after the procedure. Patients hypoxemic at room air (O2 Sat <90%) will be
      excluded from this study.

      Study Procedures:

      In order to assess the prevalence of detection of PCP and CMV DNA in respiratory secretions,
      we propose to prospectively perform polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis of PCP and of
      CMV DNA in bronchial wash obtained during bronchoscopy. In order to correlate CMV findings to
      blood antigenemia and viremia, 5 ml of blood will be drawn for analysis of CMV antibodies
      (IgG) and CMV DNA (PCR analysis). Blood will be drawn during insertion of venous access
      routinely performed for sedation during the procedure.

      Patients will be those undergoing scheduled Fiberoptic Bronchoscopy for other indications and
      not as part of the study protocol. Indication for Fiberoptic Bronchoscopy will be recorded,
      as well as any associated medical condition and chronic medication
    
  