
    
      This comparative clinical study was conducted in the department of Periodontology, Center for
      Dental Consultation and Treatment (CDCT), Rabat, Morocco.

      Prior to participation, the purpose of the investigation was fully explained to all
      participants and written informed consent was obtained from all patients. The study protocol
      was approved by the biomedical ethical committee of University Mohammed V in Rabat, Morocco,
      and conducted according to the principles outlined in the Declaration of Helsinki on
      experimentation involving human subjects.

      Patients : Twenty four subjects diagnosed with localized (LAgP) or generalized aggressive
      periodontitis (GAgP) (8 patients with LAgP and 16 with GAgP) were enrolled in the study.
      Patients were aged between 16 and 26 years and were from both genders (22 female and 2
      male).The diagnosis was based on the classification of the American Academy of Periodontology
      (AAP).

      Clinical variables were pocket depth, plaque index, gingival index

      At the end of the debridement sessions, patients were assigned doxycycline or the amoxicillin
      plus metronidazole regardless the type of AgP. So that, experimental group of patients were
      administered 200 mg of doxycycline the first day followed by 100 mg per day for 14 days, and
      the control group were administered 250 mg of metronidazole and 500 mg of amoxicillin, three
      times a day for 7 days.

      Data analysis The data were analyzed using the patient as a unit (subject based analysis).
      The statistical analysis was performed with a statistical program (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL,
      USA). The improvement of periodontal status was evaluated by calculating, for each patient,
      the difference in Plaque Index (DIP), gingival index (DIG) and probing depth (DPD) ≥ 4mm,
      between baseline and 3 months post treatment. For each patient, the quantitative variables
      (PI, GI, and MPD) were expressed as medians and quartiles and were compared before and after
      treatment using the Wilcoxon test. Improved plaque index (DIP), gingival index (DIG), and
      probing depth (DPD ≥ 4mm) was compared between the two groups (doxycycline and amoxicillin
      plus metronidazole) using the Mann-Whitney test. A level P<0,05 was accepted for statistical
      significance.
    
  