
    
      The Study Gels:

      RadiaPlexRx (requires a prescription) and Aquaphor (over-the-counter) are both gels that are
      designed to treat irradiated (received radiation) breast skin.

      These 2 gels contain different ingredients that may make one gel better than the other to
      treat irradiated breast skin. RadiaPlexRx contains hyaluronic acid (an ingredient found
      naturally in skin), aloe vera, and other ingredients that help the skin heal. Aquaphor is
      made of mostly petroleum that helps protect the skin.

      Application of Study Gels:

      If you decide to participate in this study, the following steps will be taken:

        -  You will be given detailed instructions on how to apply both of the gels. You should not
           apply other gels or lotions on the areas of skin where you will be instructed to apply
           the study gels, unless you are instructed to do so by the treating doctor.

        -  You will receive a supply of both gels (in tubes) with enough to last for the length of
           your treatment. You will know which gel is which, but each gel will be labeled with
           "outer" or "inner" so that you will know which gel to use on which side. You should not
           tell your treating doctor which side of the breast skin is being treated with which gel
           so that a fair comparison of the gels can be made.

        -  You will apply 1 gel to the outer side of the irradiated breast skin and the other gel
           to the inner side of the irradiated breast skin.

        -  If you experience any kind of allergic reaction (such as a rash) to the study gels, you
           should notify the study doctor or study staff immediately.

      Schedule for Study Gels:

      You will need to follow the schedule for applying the gels as follows:

        -  You will need to apply both gels starting 1 day before the start of radiation
           treatments.

        -  You will then need to apply both gels for 6 weeks during radiation treatment.

        -  During the study period (1 day before the start of radiation treatment, during 6 weeks
           of radiation treatment), you will need to apply both gels 3 times (in the morning,
           afternoon, and evening just before going to sleep) each day at home.

        -  During the days that you receive radiation treatment, you will be asked to apply the
           gels immediately after you receive your radiation treatment. This will count as 1 of the
           3 daily gel applications.

      Clinic Visits:

      You will have the following tests done during your clinic visits:

        -  Three (3) sets of photos of your breast skin will be taken (before radiation starts and
           during Weeks 3 and 6 of radiation therapy treatment).

        -  During Weeks 1 through 6, you will go to the clinic to have your skin checked by your
           treating physician to learn the effects of each gel on your symptoms. .

        -  You will need to return any empty tubes of study gel so that new tubes can be given if
           you will need more.

      Length of Study:

      If the treating doctor sees that the irradiated breast skin reacts poorly (does not improve
      or gets worse) or you experience any intolerable side effects, you will be taken off this
      study. Otherwise, the total time on this study is about 6 weeks.

      End-of-Study:

      -During your last week of radiation therapy treatment you will be asked to fill out a
      questionnaire about how you felt about each gel.

      This is an investigational study. RadiaPlexRx and Aquaphor are both FDA approved and
      commercially available. Up to 92 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled
      at M. D. Anderson.
    
  