
    
      The objective of this human randomized, double blind, placebo-control (RDBPC) study is to
      evaluate the efficacy of a 0.2% chlorhexidine (CHX) gel on reducing bacterial load and
      peri-implant inflammation at implant-abutment interface during the early healing stage.
      Thirty-six healthy patients (mean age 52,28 years; range 29-75 years) without a significant
      past medical anamnesis, all non-smokers, will be recruited as candidates for single implant
      placement and prosthetic rehabilitation.Patients will be randomly divided in group A
      (control) and group B (test) as indicated by the randomization chart. The randomization of
      this prospective, randomized-controlled, double blind study was obtained using computer
      generated random numbers, centralized with sequentially sealed opaque envelopes provided by
      the study adviser.The surgeon will open the sealed envelope containing the randomized group
      only after having inserted the implant.During the first evaluation, all subjects will be
      clinically examined: radiographs, plaque and bleeding scores would be carried out for
      diagnostic evaluation; then the patients would be scheduled for surgery procedures. All
      Implants (Cortex classic, Shalomi, Israel) would be inserted by two skilled operators who
      will follow a two-stage protocol and would place them according to the manufacturer's
      instructions. Before surgery all the patients would be subject to applications of
      chlorhexidine digluconate solution 0.2% for 2 minutes to obtain lower bacterial load and
      local anesthesia would be given with Articaine® (Ubistesin 4% - Espe Dental AG Seefeld,
      Germany) associated with epinephrine (1:100.000). Eventually, all patients would be
      rehabilitated with a single implant-supported crown. During all the stages either a gel
      containing 0.20% CHX (Plak ®Gel; Polifarma Wellness Srl, Rome, Italy) or a placebo gel
      (Placebo, Polifarma Wellness Srl, Rome, Italy) would be used. The two gels are perfectly
      alike in packaging, colour and smell and nobody knows the exact location of placebo or test
      gel, which would be revealed, only after data collection would be performed, by the person
      who prepared them. A or B gel would be placed on the internal connection abutments and then a
      cover screw would be inserted. Finally, the site would be sutured with non-absorbable nylon
      sutures. Cone Beam Computed Tomography evaluation (CBCT) (VatechIpax 3D PCH-6500, Fort Lee,
      NJ USA) would be performed both for pre-operative and post-surgical implant placement. All
      patients will recieve antibiotic therapy, 2g/day for 6 days (Augumentin®; Glaxo-Smithkline
      Beecham, Brentford, UK).The post-operative pain would be controlled with NSAIDs, and oral
      hygiene instructions would be given. Both gels would be given to the patients, according to
      the protocol, and applied 2 times/day until suture removal after 7 days. Soft tissue biopsies
      would be performed by means of a circular scalpel (5.5 mm in diameter) at the implant
      insertion (T0) and after two months of healing (second stage surgery)(T1) to analyze the
      peri-implant inflammatory infiltrate and the micro-vessel density (MVD) in both groups.
    
  