
    
      Restoring locomotion following spinal cord injury (SCI) has been the focus of years of
      research aimed at ameliorating several of health-related comorbidities. Spinal cord epidural
      stimulation (SCES) exhibits the rehabilitation potential of restoring locomotion in
      individuals with SCI when combined with intensive locomotion training. Despite this
      potential, such protocols are likely impractical when applied across large clinical SCI
      populations due to high monetary costs. Similar to SCES, transspinal stimulation (TS) has
      also exhibited neuromodulatory benefits by externally stimulating lumbro-sacral neural
      circuity to generate step-like activities in persons with complete SCI; however, these
      techniques also require intense gait training. Recently robotic exoskeletons have been used
      as a promising tool to circumvent limitations associated with labor-intensive locomotor
      training, and have been safely used as an effective approach in improving levels of physical
      activity in persons with complete SCI.

      Recent work has demonstrated the benefits of combining EAW and neuromodulatory techniques.
      Following 12-weeks of EAW+SCES training, improvements in locomotion led researchers to
      decrease the amount of EAW swing assistance to 35% in a person with a C7 complete SCI. This
      was accompanied by 573 unassisted steps, which represents 50% of the total number of steps
      taken during that session. Electromyographic (EMG) activity also increased during both stance
      and swing phases, reflecting the individual's ability to rhythmically fire paralyzed muscles
      during EAW+SCES. Additionally, cardio-metabolic loads were increased during exoskeletal
      stepping when combined with SCES as compared to stepping without SCES. The participant also
      showed a modest decrease in his total and regional absolute fat mass. These preliminary
      findings suggest that neuromodulation using SCES with exoskeletal ambulation may provide a
      feasible rehabilitation approach for persons with SCI. The goal of the current study is to
      examine and compare the effects of EAW combined with SCES or TS in persons with motor
      complete SCI. The data generated from this application will also enable larger clinal trials
      to explore ways to optimize exoskeletal assisted gait training through the use of different
      neuromodulation modalities with SCI.

      Following a repeated-measure design, 10 participants with chronic, motor complete (AIS A and
      B) SCI (age:18-60 years) will be randomly assigned to participate in either 6-months of
      EAW+SCES (n=5) or EAW+TS (n=5) training. The entire duration of the trial will be
      approximately 1 year for each participant. Initially, participants will undergo 3-months of
      EAW training (3 sessions/week), which will be followed by randomization into either a
      EAW+SCES group or EAW+TS group for an additional 6-months of training (both groups: 3
      sessions/week) and a 3-month follow-up period for both groups. Measurements at baseline (BL:
      prior to EAW) and 4 post-intervention timepoints will occur every 3-months (P1: following
      3-months of EAW; P2: following 3-months of EAW+TS or EAW+SCES; P3: after completing 6-months
      of EAW+TS or EAW+SCES; P4: 3-months after termination of EAW+TS or EAW+SCES).

      This pilot work will have 3 specific aims: Aim 1. The investigators will determine and
      compare improvements to locomotor control following 6 months of EAW+TS and EAW+SCES as
      measured by 10-meter walking speed, the number of unassisted EAW steps, and EMG activity.

      Aim 2. The investigators will determine and compare improvements to cardio-metabolic risk
      factors following 6 months of EAW+TS and EAW+SCES as measured by total and regional body
      composition, oxygen uptake, and fasting lipid profile.

      Aim 3. The investigators will determine and compare improvements in bladder health following
      6 months of EAW+TS and EAW+SCES as measured by bladder filling and emptying
    
  