
    
      The investigators will conduct a multicenter observational study to evaluate the safety and
      efficacy of TAF 25 mg QD in chronic hepatitis B patients with antiviral resistance who switch
      from TDF to TAF. The safety and antiviral activity will be assessed as a part of routine
      medical care. Subjects will be obtained from an existing cohort of patients treated with a
      TDF-based regimen due to antiviral resistance, which has been supported by Gilead
      (IN-US-174-1255).

      It is anticipated that approximately 300 CHB patients with antiviral resistance taking TDF
      300 mg QD will be enrolled in this study. All consecutive patients will be allocated to
      receive either TAF 25 mg QD or TDF 300 mg QD (possibly 50% vs. 50%, the proportion of
      patients enrolled in the study is an estimate based on the clinical experience.), according
      to the decision of the individual patients and their physicians, with informed consent.
      Patients are switched independently based on physicians discretion/decision prior to study
      enrollment, and the study protocol would NOT have any influence over the process.

      All consecutive patients will be prospectively monitored every 6 months during the first year
      and thereafter every 6 months up to 3 years. At each visit, a routine examination and
      determination of biochemical and virological parameters (HBV DNA level, HBeAg, anti-HBe,
      HBsAg [quantitatively, if available], and anti-HBs) will be performed. Lab tests and markers
      will be routinely monitored every 6 months.

      Recruitment method: In this study, we plan to use an existing cohort of patients treated with
      a TDF-based regimen due to antiviral resistance (IN-US-174-1255). Data on all consecutive
      patients currently receiving TDF due to antiviral resistance at enrollment will be followed
      up prospectively every 3-6 months for 2 years. The patients will be recruited consecutively.
      Patients will be recruited only after the treatment decision has been made. No aspect of this
      study will interfere with or influence routine medical practice.

      Number of study sites: At least seven representative institutes in South Korea. Target
      population: Korean adult subjects with CHB receiving TDF due to antiviral resistance.
    
  