
    
      Background:

        -  Brain tumors represent the most common solid tumor of childhood. Treatment generally
           includes surgery and radiation, but recurrences are frequent, particularly for
           high-grade lesions.

        -  Chemotherapy is often used in an adjuvant setting, to delay radiation therapy or for
           resistant disease.

        -  Children with brain tumors are generally followed by imaging studies, such as CT or MRI.

        -  Difficulty arises in trying to distinguish tumor regrowth from treatment related edema,
           necrosis or radiation injury.

        -  Proton Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopic (NMRS) Imaging is a non-invasive method
           of detecting and measuring cellular metabolites in vivo.

      Objective:

        -  To determine NMRS imaging patterns before, during and after chemotherapy in pediatric
           patients with primary or metastatic brain tumors

        -  To identify and characterize specific patterns of metabolites related to tumor regrowth,
           tumor response to therapy, edema or necrosis.

      Eligibility:

        -  Age less than or equal to 21 years.

        -  Patients entered on this trial will also be entered on one of the Branch s primary brain
           tumor treatment trials.

        -  Histologically confirmed primary or metastatic brain tumor. Patients with a brainstem
           glioma or optic pathway gliomas are not required to have a histologic diagnosis.

        -  Measurable or evaluable tumor at the time of study entry.

      Design:

        -  This is intended to be a pilot study to define metabolite patterns associated with tumor
           growth, tumor edema and tumor necrosis as seen on standard MRI; and determine the
           feasibility of using metabolite patterns to predict response to therapy in pediatric
           patients with brain tumors.

        -  Contalateral spectroscopic analysis of normal appearing brain will also be performed
           when feasible.

        -  Analysis of results will be stratified according to type of tumor, and prior history of
           radiation therapy or surgery.
    
  