
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Characterize patient factors, such as pre-existing comorbidities, cancer type and
      treatment, and demographic factors, associated with short- and long-term outcomes of
      coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19), including symptoms, severity, and fatality, in adult and
      pediatric cancer patients undergoing treatment.

      II. Describe cancer treatment modifications made in response to COVID-19 in adult and
      pediatric patients, including dose adjustments, changes in symptom management, or temporary
      or permanent cessation.

      III. Evaluate the association of COVID-19 with cancer outcomes in adult patient subgroups
      defined by clinico-pathologic characteristics and in pediatric patients.

      EXPLORATORY CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. Study the immune response to COVID-19 in patients with cancer by assessing cytokines by
      Olink profiling and the cellular compartment of the immune system using mass cytometry
      (CyTOF).

      II. Describe coagulation abnormalities in COVID-19 cancer patients. III. Describe the
      development of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) coronavirus 2 (SARS CoV-2) antibodies
      and neutralizing antibodies in cancer patients.

      IV. Investigate both common and rare genetic variants associated with differences in disease
      outcome using a case-case design to increase understanding of COVID-19 disease in cancer
      patients using large-scale genome-wide association studies and whole genome sequencing.

      V. Characterize the development and longevity of vaccine-induced immunity using serology
      (ligand-binding assays) and neutralizing antibodies.

      VI. Collect and bank research blood specimens and radiological images for future research.

      PATIENT-REPORTED HEALTH-RELATED QUALITY OF LIFE OBJECTIVES:

      I. Describe patient-reported short-and long-term physical health, defined as a composite of
      physical function, pain interference and intensity, and ability to participate in social
      roles and activities, as measured by the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information
      System (PROMIS)-29 version (v)2.0 profile in adult cancer patients diagnosed with COVID-19.
      (Primary) II. Describe patient-reported short-and long-term symptoms (anxiety, depression,
      and dyspnea) and function (cognitive function and social isolation) in adult cancer patients
      diagnosed with COVID-19. (Secondary) III. Assess how patient-reported physical health
      (primary objective) and symptoms and function (secondary objective) in adult cancer patients
      vary by COVID-19 symptom burden, cancer type, cancer treatment, comorbidities, tobacco use,
      body mass index, and demographic characteristics. (Exploratory)

      PEDIATRIC COVNET COHORT OBJECTIVE (FOR PATIENTS < 18 YEARS OLD):

      I. Investigate both common and rare variants associated with differences in disease outcome
      using a case-case design for children and adolescents, < 18 years old to increase
      understanding of COVID-19 in pediatric cancer patients.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo collection of medical information about COVID-19 symptoms, treatments/cancer
      treatments and outcomes, and results from laboratory tests and imaging scans performed as
      part of routine care for up to 2 years. Patients also undergo collection of blood samples at
      the same times they receive routine bloodwork up to 9 times for adults and up to 6 times for
      children. Patients who are hospitalized for COVID-19 undergo collection of blood samples at
      up to 6 additional times for adults and up to 3 additional times for children. Adult patients
      also complete quality of life questionnaire.
    
  