
    
      -  The Portuguese Survey on anTicoagulated pAtients RegisTer (START-Portugal-Register) is
           an open, prospective, multicenter, observational cohort study that intends to record the
           clinical history of adult patients receiving anticoagulant therapies, providing
           real-world data on the safety and effectiveness of such therapies, as well as to serve
           as the starting point of collaborative clinical studies, enabling their planning and
           execution.

        -  The START-Portugal-Register is designed solely for observational purposes; it is not
           intended to have any influence on the treatment of included patients.

        -  Objectives:

             -  To prospectively record the clinical history of adult patients receiving
                anticoagulant treatment, irrespectively of the prescribed drug and the indication
                for its use.

             -  To enhance the understanding of risks and benefits associated with the use of
                anticoagulant drugs in routine clinical practice;

             -  To prospectively record decisions and reasons guiding physicians' decisions in
                order to manage anticoagulant treatment options in routine clinical practice;

             -  To improve knowledge on the epidemiologic, diagnostic and clinical features of
                thrombotic diseases;

             -  To generate real-world evidence on the safety and effectiveness of anticoagulant
                drugs, therefore contributing to support informed clinical decisions.

        -  The START-Portugal-Register is open to the participation of clinical centers and
           individual physicians that are involved in the management of patients undergoing
           anticoagulant treatment.

        -  Patients who sign the informed consent and fulfil the inclusion/exclusion criteria will
           be enrolled in the study and considered for data analysis.

        -  Follow-up: mandatory for at least 12 months. Nevertheless, a long-term follow-up is
           recommended for patients who receive an indefinite anticoagulation treatment. The
           START-Portugal-Register sets itself an indefinite time limit.

        -  A descriptive analysis will be conducted for all study variables. A propensity score
           model will be applied to compare the safety and efficacy of the different anticoagulant
           treatments.
    
  