
    
      Stress is one of the more common reasons cited by addicts for continual drug use and relapse.
      Naltrexone treatment of opiate addicts suffers from high rates of drop-out and relapse. This
      may be a result of naltrexone's inability to reduce symptoms of stress during early recovery.
      Treatment approaches that target both drug-induced and stress-induced relapse may prove to be
      more beneficial than targeting drug-induced relapse alone. Lofexidine is a drug that reduces
      the physical symptoms of opiate withdrawal and may prove to have stress-reducing
      capabilities. The purpose of this study is to determine the maximal safe dose of lofexidine
      tolerated in naltrexone-treated opiate addicts and to find an optimal lofexidine induction
      schedule. The study will also assess any side effects that occur during a discontinuation
      phase of lofexidine.

      This pilot study will last a total of 8 weeks. Recently detoxified opiate dependent
      participants who are eligible for naltrexone treatment will enter a 4-week single-blind dose
      tolerability phase, during which participants will receive naltrexone and 1 of 3 twice-daily
      lofexidine induction schedules. All participants will be required to remain in the clinic for
      2 hours immediately following dosing in order to monitor vital signs and side effects. Study
      visits will occur three times each week, at which time naltrexone medication for
      self-administration will be handed out and participants will be evaluated in terms of
      tolerability to treatment. After the 4 weeks of treatment, a double-blind lofexidine
      detoxification phase using a 5-day taper will occur. Participants will be randomly assigned
      to one of two maintenance-taper schedules. The first group will undergo a 5-day tapering,
      followed by a placebo for three weeks, followed by a 5-day tapering during Week 4. Withdrawal
      symptoms and side effects will be evaluated.
    
  