
    
      Development of atrioventricular (AV) conduction system abnormalities requiring placement of a
      permanent pacemaker (PPM) is a known complication of transcatheter aortic valve replacement
      (TAVR). Male gender, pre-existing AV conduction system abnormalities, transient AV block
      intra-procedurally, and use of a self-expanding valve have all been associated with increased
      risk of AV block and need for permanent pacemaker placement. Persistent AV conduction
      abnormalities have been documented in approximately 15% of patients who receive an Edwards
      Sapien valve, with 4% requiring permanent pacemaker placement. 22-28% of patients who receive
      a CoreValve require permanent pacemaker placement in some studies. In one study, 78% of
      patients who underwent His bundle electrogram assessment during CoreValve placement had
      transient or persistent AV conduction system abnormalities during the procedure.

      Pacemakers placed at The Heart Hospital Baylor Plano are produced by two manufactures:
      Medtronic, Inc. and St. Jude Medical, Inc. Each of these manufacturers have pacemakers with
      algorithms designed to minimize right ventricular pacing. Medtronic's algorithm is referred
      to as "MVP" (Managed Ventricular Pacing), and St. Jude Medical's algorithm is referred to as
      "VIP" (Ventricular Intrinsic Preference). Each of these techniques purports to reduce
      unnecessary right ventricular (RV) pacing through a novel pacemaker algorithm. Both
      manufacturers' pacemaker programmers and remote monitoring systems allow for demonstration of
      the percentage of ventricular pacing performed by the device.

      The Investigators propose to assess the 90 day- ventricular pacing, atrioventricular block
      (AVB), intraventricular conduction delay (IVCD), bundle branch block (BBB), and rate
      histogram incidence in those patients who undergo pacemaker implantation due to elevated risk
      (or occurrence of) high-grade AV block after TAVR.
    
  