
    
      This project aims to establish a standardized procedure for venous ACT sampling during atrial
      fibrillation ablation in 50 adults. Analyses will examine the relationship and agreement
      between venous and arterial ACTs. It is anticipated that the standardized procedure could
      eliminate the need for an arterial line for ACT measurement which would reduce patient risks
      for bleeding, infection, and discomfort.

      Patients who are scheduled for for atrial fibrillation ablations will be invited to
      participate in this project. An information sheet will be provided about the project to
      potential participants. If the potential participant expresses interest, a study specific
      consent consent will be obtained to allow the additional paired blood samples to be drawn
      throughout the procedure. The additional blood volume to be drawn is expected to be less than
      or equal to a teaspoon of venous blood. Participation will be completely voluntary.

      Patients will undergo usual standard of care for the procedure, including usual arterial and
      venous sheath/catheter insertions. After obtaining venous and arterial access, baseline ACTs
      will be drawn using the outlined ACT sampling procedure. The ACT value for both arterial and
      venous samples will be obtained using the standard procedure for Hemochron Signature Elite
      point-of-care testing; this test uses less than 0.5 cc blood. ACT samples will be performed
      at baseline (pre-heparin administration), every 30 minutes during the procedure (per standard
      ACT monitoring protocol to obtain and maintain desired ACT), and at the end of procedure
      prior to arterial and venous sheath removal. Time of procedure ranges from 2 to 4 hours and
      may result in a minimum of 2 paired samples (pre and end) to a maximum of 9 paired samples
      (pre, end, and every 30 minutes) per patient; this equates to an additional 1 cc to 4.5 cc of
      additional blood for paired sampling per patient.

      ACT arterial and venous sampling procedure: Using a stopcock at the nearest point of
      insertion, withdraw 30 cc of blood in a syringe; turn the stopcock and remove 0.5cc of blood
      for ACT testing; turn the stopcock to return the 30 cc blood and flush the line; remove the
      syringe with the ACT sample and flush the line with saline, replace syringes for the next ACT
      sampling process.

      Patients undergoing atrial fibrillation ablations will continue to have Heparin dosed on the
      arterial ACT sample results only per the standard of care. Heparin will not be administered
      based on venous ACT levels obtained during this project. The purpose for paired sampling is
      to verify that the proposed venous sampling method is accurate and provides an evaluable
      sample to compare with the ACT sample results.
    
  