
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Modify chemotherapy courses based on initial response to therapy in children
      with newly diagnosed stage IA/IIA/IIIA1 Hodgkin's disease. II. Examine the activity of
      variable courses of doxorubicin, bleomycin, vincristine, and etoposide (DBVE) followed by
      low-dose involved-field irradiation in these patients. III. Monitor the safety and
      feasibility of the response-dependent approach and the morbidity and immediate and long-term
      toxic effects associated with this regimen. IV. Assess whether limited therapy is adequate
      for patients with an early response. V. Evaluate whether the addition of dexrazoxane can
      reduce pulmonary toxicity while not significantly reducing the response rate or event-free
      survival. VI. Evaluate whether the frequency and magnitude of myocardial injury during
      therapy, as measured by elevated serum cardiac troponin-T, is reduced by the addition of
      dexrazoxane.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified by participating institution.
      Patients are randomly assigned to receive doxorubicin, bleomycin, vincristine, etoposide, and
      filgrastim with vs. without dexrazoxane. Filgrastim SC begins on days 6-13; no filgrastim is
      given on day 14 or 15. Filgrastim will restart 2 days after completing therapy and continue
      until count recovery from expected nadir (ANC greater than 1000 cubic meter after nadir).
      Courses repeat every 28 days. Those with stable or responding disease after 2-4 courses
      receive involved-field radiotherapy 5 days per week for 3.5 weeks. Tanner stage IV/V patients
      are eligible for randomization based on a front-end institutional agreement and may receive
      standard-field radiotherapy 5 days per week for up to 11 weeks at the investigator's
      discretion. Patients are followed yearly until relapse, death, or for a minimum of 10 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 285 patients will be accrued for this study over 5 years.
    
  