
    
      Regional anesthesia has been shown to be superior to general anesthesia in end-stage renal
      disease (ESRF) patients undergoing brachiocephalic transposition by ensuring graft patency,
      reducing pharmacokinetic (pK) and pharmacodynamic (pD) unpredictability, and minimize
      hemodynamic instability. However, a supraclavicular nerve block is inadequate in BCF
      transposition where surgical incision may extend to the axillary region which requires
      intercostobrachial nerve (T2) dermatome to be blocked. Intraprocedural lignocaine
      infiltration or pectoralis minor (PEC 2) block may be required to anaesthetize this region.
      Hence, sedation is commonly indicated to allay anxiety and to blunt sympathetic stress
      response to surgery.

      ESRF patient is a challenging cohort to administer safe sedation due to multiple
      comorbidities, polypharmacy, altered pK handling of drug with a high proportion of total body
      water, the altered volume of distribution, protein binding, drug metabolism and excretion[3].
      Commonly used intravenous midazolam causes delayed recovery and apnoea due to loss of renal
      ability to clear active metabolite α1-hydroxymidazolam. Target controlled infusion (TCI)
      propofol needs a higher induction dose to achieve clinical end-point of hypnosis in ESRF
      patient and causes hemodynamic disturbances.

      Dialysis dependent ESRF patients are commonly hypertensive and adapted to a higher baseline
      blood pressure. Intraoperative hypotension is exaggerated from residual effect of
      antihypertensive, relative intravascular hypovolemia from pre-op haemodialysis and
      pre-operative fasting with no replacement fluid. Blood pressure determine perfusion, and
      existing evidence suggests intraoperative hypotension is associated with stroke, myocardial
      injury and delirium. Major hypertension guidelines have recommended target blood pressure
      level of 140/90 mm Hg for patients with renal disease.

      Volatile sedation with sevoflurane in intensive care has been widely appraised for
      significant shorten and superior awakening time and reduced incidence of delirium compared
      with conventional midazolam/ propofol intravenous sedation. Sevoflurane has rapid onset of
      action with no significant concern of tolerance and tachyphylaxis. Drug clearance is via
      pulmonary exhalation which is independent of hepatic and renal function. Volatile agent is a
      mild analgesia with opioid sparing effect via N methyl-D-aspartate receptor blockade, thus
      provide a more stable sedation profile.ESRF patients are prone to develop ischemic heart
      disease due to calcification of intima. Sevoflurane also possess ischemic preconditioning and
      end organ cytoprotective properties along with anti-inflammatory mechanism.
    
  