
    
      Treatment planning for patients with cervical cancer treated at MD Anderson is usually
      performed based on x-ray films taken while the patient is under anesthesia in the operating
      room. In this study, you will have an MRI and CT scan performed after recovering from
      anesthesia in addition to the standard x-rays. In order to allow MRI images to be taken,
      special MRI compatible applicators will be used. The CT and MRI images will be reviewed by
      the doctor in charge of radiation treatment and will also be used for research purposes.

      Study Procedures:

      If you agree to take part in this study, an applicator made of a material that can be used
      during an MRI will be used.

      You will have a CT scan and an MRI scan performed after the implant is placed in the
      operating room. The CT scan should take about 20 minutes and the MRI about 55 minutes. These
      scans will be performed after you wake up from general anesthesia. Pain medicine will be
      given if you feel any discomfort from the placement of the implant.

      The additional scans will be used to confirm appropriate placement of the applicator and may
      result in small adjustments to your radiation treatment plan.

      Length of Study:

      Your active participation on this study will be complete once you have the CT and MRI scans.

      Your medical record may be reviewed after the scans for the purposes of the study, but you
      will not be contacted in the future.

      This is an investigational study. The applicator that best fits your personal anatomy will be
      used in this study. A selection of MRI compatible applicators are available. Many of the MRI
      applicators that will be used are FDA approved. However, in some cases you may have a novel
      device with a moveable shield placed. This applicator is not FDA approved or commercially
      available.

      Up to 57 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  