
    
      Objective:

      Rod-cone dystrophy (RCD) is a term applied to a number of genetically heterogenous diseases
      presenting with night vision abnormalities, visual field defects and reduced rod
      electroretinography responses. Enhanced S-Cone syndrome (ESCS) is a rare autosomal recessive
      retinal disease with a developmental and a degenerative aspect. Macular cystic changes, often
      florid and usually resulting in a reduction of central acuity, are frequently associated with
      both diseases. The reason for this association is not well understood. Acetazolamide (Diamox)
      and Dorzolamide (Trusopt) have been reported to have variable success in reducing these
      cystic changes but the effect is frequently inadequate. The objective of this study is to
      evaluate the safety and potential efficacy of Interferon (IFN) gamma-1b administered
      topically for macular edema/retinal schisis cysts in RCD and ESCS. Possible disease-related
      pathophysiologic mechanisms will be explored using induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)
      protocols leading to iPSC-derived retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and photoreceptor
      generation.

      Study Population:

      Up to five participants with RCD with significant macular cystic changes and up to five
      participants with ESCS with significant macular cystic changes will be enrolled to receive
      IFN gamma-1b administered topically in one eye. However, up to an additional two participants
      may be enrolled in order to obtain the five participants in each disease group to be included
      in the primary analysis if any participants withdraw from the study prior to receiving five
      days of treatment.

      Design:

      This is a single-center, prospective, uncontrolled, unmasked pilot Phase I/II study of the
      safety, tolerability and possible efficacy of IFN gamma-1b in participants with RCD and ESCS
      and macular cystic changes. One eye of up to five participants with RCD with significant
      macular cystic changes and up to five participants with ESCS with significant macular cystic
      changes [evidenced by optical coherence tomography (OCT) >275 microns central macular
      thickness and/or disruption of foveal contour] will receive topical IFN gamma-1b instilled as
      drops on the cornea. The initial stage of the study will include two participants from each
      disease category. Once all four participants have completed the 8-week visit, enrollment will
      be halted. Safety Adverse Event Review Committee members unaffiliated with the study will
      review the data as a preliminary assessment of safety and efficacy and to determine whether
      enrollment should continue. If the committee determines enrollment will continue, three
      additional participants with RCD and three participants with ESCS will be enrolled. The study
      will be completed once the final participant has received one year of follow-up.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome measure related to the safety and tolerability of IFN gamma-1b
      administered topically at the prescribed dosage for macular cystic changes in participants
      with RCD and ESCS will be assessed by the number and severity of adverse events related to
      the IP and the number of withdrawals at 52 weeks (one year) post-administration. Additional
      safety of IFN gamma-1b administered topically in participants with RCD and ESCS will be
      determined from the assessment of retinal function, ocular structure and occurrence of
      adverse events at all time points. Secondary outcomes include changes in visual function
      including visual acuity and microperimetry, and retinal imaging with OCT and fluorescein
      angiography.
    
  