
    
      We designed and implemented the kneeling stool to perform CPR with the kneeling posture for a
      patient on a bed. The frame is constructed of an aluminum alloy. The size is 570 mm (width) x
      598 mm (depth) x 600 mm (height). The weight is 9.3 kg, which is easily moved as needed. For
      easy rotation between rescuers, a step plate was inserted. To prevent pain to the knees of
      the kneeling CC performer, a 40mmthick sponge cushion was placed on the top plate and fixed
      to the frame.

      A standard hospital bed frame (Transport stretcher®, 760 x2110 mm, 228 kg, Stryker Co.,
      Kalamazoo, Michigan, USA), a foam mattress (660 x 920 x 80 mm, soft foam with polyurethane
      coverage, Stryker Co., USA), a backboard (450 ×600 ×10 mm, 3 kg Lifeline Plastic, Sung Shim
      Medical Co., Bucheon, Korea), and a step stool (395 x 450 x 410 mm, Gunica Co.,
      Gyeongsangnam-do, Korea) were used in the experiment. A Resusci Annie Modular System Skill
      Reporter® manikin (Laerdal Medical, Orpington, UK) was used to perform CPR in the
      evaluations. We added weight to the manikin to equal 34 kg for simulating the upper body
      weight of an adult human as in a previous study.

      Data collection The participants were divided into two groups by random drawing. Each
      performer in the first group knelt on the kneeling stool beside the manikin on a bed and
      compressed the chest of the manikin (CCs with a kneeling posture, PK).Each performer in the
      second group stood on a step stool beside the manikin on a bed and compressed the chest of
      the manikin (CCs with a standing posture, PS). When the performer stood beside the manikin on
      a bed, the height of the manikin's back was adjusted in height to the knee level of the
      provider using the step stool and the bed height adjustment mechanism. All the participants
      performed continuous CCs for 5 minutes without audio-visual feedback. After 2 weeks, the
      posture used for the CCs by each group was changed. Each participant recorded his/her fatigue
      and pain levels on a visual analogue scale (VAS, score 0 indicates "no pain and fatigue" and
      score 10 indicates "unbearable pain and fatigue") for each minute during 5 minutes of CCs.
      After conclusion of the experiment, the participants selected a preferred CC posture in terms
      of the safety and the quality of the CCs.
    
  