
    
      Sedentariness, measured by the daily duration of time spent seated is a cardiovascular risk
      factor, chronic pathologies (cancer, musculoskeletal pain) and mortality.

      The employees who remain seated from 8 to 11 hours per day have an increase risk of death
      within 3 years (15%). This increase reaches 40% for more than 11 hours a day.

      The restoration of a daily moderate physical activity from 60 to 75 minutes could permit to
      eliminate this increased risk.

      Interventions in workplace to limit sitting are associated with a metabolic benefit, but also
      with a reduction in musculoskeletal problems and fatigue.

      The role of dispatchers is to initiate the medical record by determining the severity of the
      call and take rapid and adequate decision.

      They are seated behind their desks from 8 to 11 hours in a busy and stressful environment.

      Many dispatchers are complaining of musculoskeletal disorders and weight gain. An internal
      study conducted between between 2012 and 2016 showed an increase in long-term pain,
      irritability and sleep disorders. Overall, 65% of the respondents reported that they were
      tired at work and had less empathy.

      The use of workstations with low-speed treadmills were assessed to allow physical activity at
      work.

      A recent review concluded that their use reduced the time that the employees spent seated,
      stress and improved energy expenditure, as well as different biological and physical
      parameters (weight loss, lipid determination, glycaemia). This study did not reveal any
      alterations in performance at work.

      The investigators assume that the establishment of a position allowing slow walk during
      dispatch call would increase the number of steps made by dispatchers on a daily basis and
      reduce the number of days of leave and musculoskeletal disorders, without impairing the
      quality of call pick-up.
    
  