
    
      Antiretroviral drug therapy (ART) is a type of medication treatment for HIV that impairs the
      virus's ability to multiply. When used properly, it has been shown to be successful in
      reducing HIV-related deaths. A 95% adherence rate to ART is required to adequately suppress
      the virus and prevent transmission. High rates of mental illness, substance use, and unstable
      housing, however, make adherence to ART particularly problematic in poor urban populations.
      Directly observed therapy (DOT), in which medication intake is closely monitored, improved
      treatment adherence during the tuberculosis epidemic of the 1990s, and is now gaining
      recognition as a model for improving ART adherence. HIV DOT has been successfully delivered
      to people residing in structured living settings. The majority of HIV-infected people,
      however, live outside these facilities. Therefore, there is a need for a modified version of
      DOT to reach HIV-infected people in community settings. This study will evaluate the
      effectiveness of a MDOT program in increasing ART adherence in poor, HIV-infected residents
      of urban communities.

      Participants in this open label study will be randomly assigned to either receive standard
      care or participate in the MDOT program. Participants assigned to standard care will report
      to the study site once a month for 9 months, but will not receive any assistance with taking
      HIV medications. Information about medication adherence, housing, income, use of health
      services, drug use, sexual practices, and mental health services will be collected at each
      visit. Participants in the MDOT program will report to the study site each morning for 3
      months, Monday through Friday, to take their HIV medication and any other medications
      prescribed by their primary care doctors. If an individual does not attend a visit, study
      staff will try to locate the individual in the neighborhood to deliver the medication.
      Medication for the weekend will be prepared by study staff, but participants will take it on
      their own at home. At the end of 3 months, participants will no longer attend the study site
      for medication assistance. They will, however, participate in Action Point, a county program
      that helps participants adhere to taking medication, for an additional 3 months. Participants
      will also check in with the study staff once a month. Following this, participants may choose
      to discontinue the Action Point program for the final 3 months of the study. They will
      continue monthly check-in visits with the study staff. At each visit, interviews will be
      conducted and medication adherence will be assessed. Blood tests will be performed once every
      3 months throughout the study.
    
  