
    
      Schizophrenia is characterized by deficits in neurocognitive function, including executive
      function, attention, and spatial and verbal memory. Central nicotinic acetylcholine receptors
      (nAChR) are dysregulated in schizophrenia. It has been shown that neurocognitive deficits in
      schizophrenia improve by administration of nicotine, nicotinic agonists or cigarette smoking.
      Hence, it is believed that cigarette smoking may remedy cognitive deficits in schizophrenia
      and in fact some persons with schizophrenia may be "self-medicating" with tobacco to counter
      such cognitive problems.

      The prevalence rates of cigarette smoking in persons with schizophrenia are higher than in
      the general population (58-88% vs. 25% respectively). This population also has a nicotine
      dependence rate of around 80 % and a high relapse rate after smoking cessation. Additionally
      the leading cause of medical problems and death in people with schizophrenia is tobacco
      addiction. Research that addresses the problem of smoking in schizophrenia is of great
      importance.

      Varenicline (VAR), an α4β2 nAChR partial agonist, approved for smoking cessation, mimics the
      effect of nicotine by stimulating nAChRs, and releasing sufficient dopamine in order to
      reduce craving and withdrawal effects.

      This study will follow four groups of subjects (N=40) that will receive neuropsychological
      and psychiatric testing in three consecutive sessions (smoking satiation, abstinence and
      reinstatement) separated by at least one week over 3 weeks. The groups are:

        1. cigarette smokers with schizophrenia (N=10),

        2. non-smokers with schizophrenia (N=10),

        3. healthy cigarette smoking controls (N=10),

        4. non-smoking controls (N=10).

      All groups will be age- and sex- matched. Pre-treatment with varenicline (VAR) or placebo
      will start on Day 1 of each test session will be as follows: 1) 0.0 mg/day 2) 0.5 mg twice
      daily 3) or 1 mg twice daily for 3 days. Testing days will be separated by at least 1 week
      apart to rule out medication carry-over effects.

      If nicotinic acetylcholine receptors can be stimulated resulting in more dopamine release and
      improved neurocognitive function without inducing deleterious health effects it may be of
      benefit to persons with schizophrenia who smoke tobacco.
    
  