
    
      This study protocol provides 3 experimental designs to satisfy 3 different specific aims as
      follows.

      Experimental design aim 1:

      To assess which kind of ADL visual stimuli will be most effective inducing motor excitability
      during action observation, EEG recording will be performed. 20 Stroke patients (10 with right
      lesion and 10 left one) will be recruited and video of feeding, self care and external
      actions showed. The EEG biomarkers will be identify. A comparison on EEG rhythm and
      biomarkers between the two groups and the ADL categories observed will be investigated. The
      most effective category will be subsequently selected for the Randomized Controlled Trial
      (RCT).

      Experimental design aim 2:

      This is an RCT study aimed to deeply investigate if EEG biomarkers are predictive of
      effectiveness of AOT on 40 Chronic Stroke outpatients in order to confirm the translational
      power of the optimized treatment. The subjects accurately enrolled for hospital program, will
      be randomly assigned to the Experimental Group (EG) or to the Control one (CG). The EG will
      observe and execute ADL actions, the CG will observe landscapes and perform the same actions
      observed by the others one but after verbal instructions. For each condition the patient will
      be presented with only 1 typology of motor task per day, starting from the easiest and ending
      with the most complex action throughout 15 sessions spread on 5 weeks (3 sessions/week).
      Tasks will be based on some relevant activities of daily living belonging to at least one
      between feeding, self-care or external actions category on the affected side. Each session
      will last about 15 minutes and will be repeated twice a day, at least 60 minutes apart.
      Before, after and in the middle of the treatment sessions all patients will be clinically,
      neurophysiologically (EEG and EMG) and behaviorally (Kinematics) assessed to verify neural
      plasticity and motor recovery.

      The follow-up at 2 months later will be carried out to assess retention of effects.

      Experimental design aim 3:

      The health policy to develop appropriate home-based rehabilitation programs for chronic
      stroke patients (24,25) could induce to explore whether AOT can meet the necessary
      translational requirements also for this type of care. A New group of 20 chronic stroke
      patients will be recruited and randomly assigned to the EG OR CG to follow the optimized AOT
      rehabilitation programs.

      After appropriate training of patients and caregivers, the use of tablets will let the
      home-based treatment. The investigators will define a low-cost highly accessible system based
      on tablet consumer technology for facilitating the AOT. In particular a tablet will be
      proposed with a web-based program that will be used to train the patients and receive a
      feedback of their progress.

      The whole treatment period will last 6 weeks. The focus of this evaluation will be on the
      feasibility of the home-based treatment and the usability of the platform as well as the
      subjects satisfaction with the services. A preliminary estimate of the recovery and overall
      improvement of functional performances of participants will also be provided with respect to
      clinical outcomes.
    
  