
    
      1. Patient registration procedure

      If it is confirmed that the subject meets the inclusion criteria and correspondent none of
      the exclusion criteria, the subject is registered by using CReS Kyushu
      registration/allocation system (CK-RAS). The registration with CK-RAS is available for 24hr
      (URL: https://reg.cres-kyushu.or.jp/qmin/login/) and needs for individual ID and password.

      2. Quality management

        1. Monitoring

           A central monitoring or in-site monitoring are carried out based on the data from case
           report form (CRF) collecting at data coordinating center. In principle, an on-site
           monitoring is not carried out, but it may be carried out when the on-site monitoring is
           determined to need by Kyushu Study group of Clinical Cancer (KSCC) steering committee
           from the results of the central monitoring so on.

        2. Data Monitoring Committee

           A Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) has been established.

        3. Data entry

           All data will be entered by the double entry method. Referential data rules, valid
           values, range checks, and consistency checks against data already stored in the database
           will be supported. Checks will be applied at the time of data entry into a specific
           field. Additional errors will be detected by programs designed to detect missing data or
           specific errors in the data. The investigator who receives the inquiry will respond by
           checking the original forms for inconsistency, checking other sources to determine the
           correction, modifying the original paper form entering a response to the query.

        4. Regular monitoring report

           A regular monitoring report generated by data coordinating center is submitted to KSCC
           Steering Committee, principal investigator, the DMC etc and it is reviewed according to
           "KSCC regulation on the monitoring". The information on the status of site EC approval
           and the achievement of enrollment: number of enrollment- total/per periodical, total/per
           site, is reported monthly using e-mail.

             -  Contents of monitoring report

                  1. Study abstract: schema/purpose/subject/endpoint/definition of
                     treatment/anticipated enrollment number/progress of the study

                  2. Enrollment status: per participating site/total

                  3. Monitoring activity: contents of activity/CRF collection per site/uncollected
                     CRF, inquiry

                  4. Review of the eligible treatment case：the case of ineligible possibility/the
                     case determined as ineligible/number of eligible case/the case determined as
                     non-treatment/total number of treatment case

                  5. Review of a target population for analysis: the number of cases targeted for
                     efficacy analysis/safety analysis

                  6. Patient background

                  7. Treatment time-course: summary of on-treatment and discontinuation/summary of
                     reason for discontinuation/list of reason for discontinuation

                  8. Protocol violation/deviation

                  9. Safety evaluation: serious adverse reaction, event/the case which was notified
                     to the study group among the adverse reactions, events with an ordinary
                     report/general adverse events

                 10. Others

        5. Audit

      A site audit is carried out by the audit members of KSCC Coordinating Center, data
      coordinating center, medical staff of other site under the approval of the site director
      according to "KSCC regulation for site audit". The results of the audit are reported to the
      site director, KSCC Steering Committee, principal investigator etc. (if required, to DMC).
    
  