
    
      Background. Patients undergoing cardiac surgery are at risk for post-pericardiotomy syndrome
      and post-operative atrial fibrillation. It is unknown whether post-pericardiotomy syndrome
      predisposes patients to constrictive pericarditis, but cardiac surgery is currently the most
      common cause of constrictive pericarditis. A multicenter European study demonstrated that
      Colchicine is a promising treatment to help prevent the development of pericardial effusions,
      atrial fibrillation and post-pericardiotomy syndrome. However, Colchicine is not routinely
      given to patients after a cardiac surgery and the impact of Colchicine on post-operative
      atrial fibrillation and constrictive pericarditis have not been studied in the United States.

      Methods. This is a randomized, double-blinded placebo controlled study for patients
      undergoing cardiac surgery to determine if Colchicine in comparison to placebo is effective
      in preventing the development of post-operative atrial fibrillation, post-pericardiotomy
      syndrome and constrictive physiology. The investigators will randomize 278 adults prior to
      undergoing cardiac surgery for coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) or aortic valve disease to
      receive either placebo or Colchicine 0.6mg bid for one month starting 48-72 hours
      preoperatively. The investigators will follow participants for 3 months to determine the
      development of a post-pericardiotomy syndrome. In addition, post-operative atrial
      fibrillation will be determined based on continuous telemetry from operation up to 5 days
      prior to hospital discharge and after discharge by using remote telemetry monitoring with
      BodyGuardianTM. C-reactive protein (CRP) will be obtained prior to hospital discharge and at
      3 month follow-up. Echocardiography will be done initially in the post-operative course prior
      to hospital discharge and then again at 3 months to assess for the presence of pericardial
      effusion, diastolic dysfunction, left atrial enlargement and constrictive physiology. The
      presence of pleural effusion will be done by echocardiogram.
    
  