
    
      Sleep disorders are common in dialysis patients. Indeed, several studies have reported that
      the prevalence of these disorders is higher than that of the general population. At present,
      the management of insomnia in patients with chronic renal failure is not significantly
      different from that of the general population, which focuses on the management of co-factors,
      sleep hygiene, and cognitive-behavioral therapy.

      Light therapy is a paramedical practice that involves exposing a patient to a light intensity
      greater than 5000 Lux (usually 10,000 Lux) for 30 minutes in the morning between 7:00 and
      8:30. Its impact is partly mediated by an improvement in the nycthemeral cycle of melatonin.
      Light therapy has been studied in several pathologies. In the context of renal insufficiency,
      only one randomized study was conducted in renal transplant patients: out of 30 patients, the
      effect of light therapy regained an 11-minute increase in sleep latency, an earlier awakening
      of 24 minutes, and a gain in the DASS-21 depression score of 1.7 points while there was no
      improvement in his three parameters in the control group. Interest in light therapy has also
      been evaluated in seasonal and non-seasonal depression. In a meta-analysis of 458 patients,
      light therapy adjuvant use was as effective as the addition of a second molecule.

      Light therapy may improve sleep disorders and anxious-depressive elements as suggested in the
      literature. This technique has not yet been evaluated in dialysis patients, whereas easy to
      set up.

      We therefore wish to set up a clinical study to determine whether a light therapy technique
      in the morning during dialysis or at home improves the quality of sleep of chronic
      hemodialysis patients. The secondary objectives will be to specify the improved sleep
      parameters, to evaluate the impact on the anxious-depressive score, the arterial
      hypertension, and the nutritional state, and the residual effect of light therapy.

      The aim of this trial is to determine whether a light therapy technique in the morning during
      dialysis or at home improves the quality of sleep of chronic hemodialysis patients.
    
  