
    
      Aim To test the feasibility of a number of novel initiatives prior to their use in a
      multi-centre study. The future study will develop a way to measure cosmetic outcome for
      implant-based breast reconstruction using 3-dimensional Surface Imaging (3D-SI).

      Methods At The Royal Marsden Hospital in Sutton 125 implant-based reconstructions are
      performed per year (data from 2014). The study team would like to invite women who have had
      their treatment within the previous 1-5 years to participate in the pilot. The women can be
      identified through operation records. The study team will aim to include 50.

      A letter of invitation will be sent by post. This will include a participant information
      leaflet, a link to the website, and a unique study ID for each participant. In recent
      studies, more than 8 out of ten women who were asked to participate agreed.

      The website will have the following features:

        -  Patient study information including links to other relevant information sources (e.g.
           ABS, Breast Cancer Care, RMH, ICR, BRC), patient testimonials, and biographies from the
           study team.

        -  An online consent process for the study.

        -  A questionnaire for patient demographics (height, weight etc)and treatment information
           (i.e. type of operation and other treatments like radiotherapy).

        -  An online version of the BREAST-Q reconstruction module and radiotherapy module from the
           breast conserving surgery BREAST-Q (a questionnaire designed to assess quality of life
           and satisfaction with care for patients having breast surgery).

        -  An online calendar to book a 3D-SI appointment at the hospital.

        -  A user survey to gain patient feedback on the website and the concept of online consent.

        -  A 'contact us' section in case further information is required.

      At each stage the participant will enter their unique study ID so all of the information
      collected will remain anonymous. We will hold the code for study IDs securely. There is no
      patient identifiable data collected on the website. The participant will be guided through
      the different aspects of the online recruitment processes outlined above. When they have read
      the patient information, they can click on the link to consent to the study at which point a
      check screen will ask:

        1. I have had enough information and wish to consent to the study - link to the consent
           form

        2. I would like further information which is not available on the website - link to contact
           us section

      Only then will they be able to access the data collection stages of the website and book a
      photography slot, thereby we can be sure that no patient starts to enter information or
      attends for a photograph without valid consent.

      Following this the participant will be required to attend the hospital only once for an
      appointment (booked online) for a 3D photograph and height and weight measurement. This will
      take less than 20 minutes. This will be the end of the patient involvement in the study.

      Success in this pilot will provide:

        -  A bespoke website to facilitate online patient education, consent, and data collection
           to streamline research processes.

        -  Information on uptake rate and specific evaluation of the acceptability of the web
           system and accuracy of patient entered data.

        -  Data on the accuracy of the VECTRA software to measure implant base reconstruction.

        -  A secure online 3D-SI storage facility to enable access from multiple hospitals to
           enable wider involvement in large scale research.

        -  A library of 3D-surface images on which to base a panel assessment score for
           implant-based reconstruction by way of a consensus meeting at the outset of the future
           multi-centre study.
    
  