
    
      This study aims to investigate the potential efficacy of a combination of two FDA-approved
      agents, sustained release (SR) Bupropion (BUP) and immediate release (IR) Dextromethorphan
      (DXM), for the purpose of smoking cessation treatment. DXM, a widely used over-the-counter
      cough suppressant, is a nicotine receptor antagonist. In fact, studies by Duke's Center for
      Smoking Cessation (CSC) have shown that administration of DXM leads to a decrease in
      self-administration of nicotine in nicotine-dependent rats. DXM, however, has not been
      studied in humans. DXM, when taken alone, is not expected to be useful for treating nicotine
      dependence in humans given DXM rapidly metabolizes in humans via CYP2D6. As a result,
      therapeutic concentrations needed to bind to nicotine receptors are not obtained. Therapeutic
      concentrations of DXM are required, therefore, to allow DXM to bind to nicotine receptors and
      act as a nicotine antagonist. In order to attain therapeutic concentrations of DXM a
      metabolism inhibitor must be introduced. BUP is a well-known FDA approved smoking cessation
      medication that has been shown to inhibit the metabolism of DXM. When BUP is co-administered
      with DXM to healthy volunteers, a significant increase in DXM plasma levels is observed.

      Currently, Axsome Therapeutics Inc. (Axsome) is developing and testing an oral fixed-dose
      combination of IR DXM with SR BUP to achieve therapeutic concentrations of DXM. This
      investigational drug has been named AXS-05. Axsome has found AXS-05 to be generally safe and
      well-tolerated in three Phase 1 studies. The adverse event profile of AXS-05 was similar to
      that of BUP alone.

      Given the distinct mechanisms by which BUP and DXM interact, it is hoped that combining DXM
      and BUP will prove more efficacious than either drug administered alone for the purpose of
      tobacco use treatment in humans.
    
  