
    
      DESIGN TEPHRA is a randomized control trial investigating the cardiovascular effects (blood
      pressure, structure, and function) of aerobic exercise intervention in young adults with
      elevated blood pressure. The trial will compare outcomes in premature born participants vs
      full-term born participants.

      SCIENTIFIC JUSTIFICATION 1 in 4 adults develop high blood pressure, a risk factor for heart
      disease and stroke. Although high blood pressure is becoming more common in younger adults,
      recent literature review shows that most research on exercise and blood pressure has focused
      on older populations. The effect of exercise on the blood pressure of preterm born young
      adults has not been well studied or reported. Most babies are born full term (between 37-42
      weeks gestation) but 1 in 10 babies are born early (preterm). Evidence suggests that preterm
      birth may be associated with higher blood pressures and differences in the size, shape and
      function of the heart and blood vessels. These differences may alter how a person's blood
      pressure and cardiovascular system respond to exercise. These factors contributed to the
      investigators pursuing this research study.

      The trial is a vehicle to learn more about hypertension in young adults and how exercise
      helps reduce blood pressure. It will investigate the structure and function of the
      cardiovascular system and how it responds to exercise. It will specifically seek to improve
      understanding of how birth histories, such as being born premature may influence blood
      pressure and response to exercise training.

      This trial seeks to illuminate clinically relevant information for one of the most prevalent
      diseases in the UK (hypertension).

      BACKGROUND AND AIMS

      1 in 10 babies are born preterm and studies have identified preterm birth to be associated
      with increased risk of high blood pressure and reduced exercise capacity. This trial aims to
      advance the understanding of how aerobic exercise affects blood pressure and cardiovascular
      structure and function in adults aged 18-35 with different birth backgrounds.

      PARTICIPANTS:

      200 participants (100 preterm born & 100 full term born) aged 18-35 with elevated blood
      pressure.

      RECRUITMENT:

        1. Open advertising

        2. Hypertension Services at the John Radcliffe Hospital

        3. Previous study participants

        4. Local GP surgeries

      RATIONALE AND FUNDING The study rationale and design has been peer-reviewed to secure
      external funding from the Wellcome Trust and has been substantially informed by significant
      interaction with the public and patient involvement group.

      ACRONYMS AE Adverse Event CI Chief Investigator CRF Case Report Form CTRG Clinical Trials &
      Research Governance, University of Oxford GCP Good Clinical Practice GP General Practitioner
      ICF Informed Consent Form NHS National Health Service PI Principal Investigator PIL
      Participant/Patient Information Leaflet R&D NHS Trust R&D Department RCT Randomised Control
      Trial REC Research Ethics Committee SOP Standard Operating Procedure

      RECRUITMENT

      Participants will be recruited via four approaches:

        1. Outpatient Hypertension Clinic, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford.

        2. Open advertising targeting Oxford residents and students

        3. Contacting those who gave consent to be contacted for research from previous ethically
           approved studies

        4. Local GP surgeries

      Each approach has been considered from the perspective of the participant and discussed with
      our public and patient involvement group. Collaboration from the clinical team running the
      hypertension service will mirror the process used in the YACHT2 study (NHS REC Form
      Reference:

      14/SC/0275 IRAS Version 3.5 Date: 06/05/2014

      i)Participant Consent The informed consent process is intended to facilitate participants'
      understanding of the study. Full study information will be provided to participants in
      advance of seeking consent, allowing time to interpret the information and ask related
      questions. Trained study investigators will facilitate the informed consent process.
      Participants lacking capacity to provide informed consent will be excluded.

      ii)Participant Safety Prior to enrollment in the study participants will be given opportunity
      to fully consider the study procedures. The study team places emphasis on participants
      understanding that study procedures involve performing a maximal exercise tests and wearing
      monitoring devices (blood pressure, and physical activity) in their home environments as part
      of the study. The team will also emphasize that participants will be randomly placed into
      either the exercise or control group and the exercise group in particular will require a
      substantial commitment of time and physical effort to complete the 16 week intervention
      goals. The intervention support team will provide individual guidance and support to the
      exercise group to support participants in achieving their exercise goals in the safest manner
      possible. The exercise intervention component is designed at an intensity level (60-80% of
      max heart rate) and frequency (3 times per week) that is consistent with standard guidelines
      for safely building aerobic fitness.

      Investigators will emphasize that the MRI sub-study involves undergoing magnetic resonance
      imaging with strong magnetic fields and requires additional screening for contraindications.
      All participants will be fully screened to ensure there are no contraindications to safely
      participating in the study. The study procedures are safe and commonly used in both research
      and clinical practice. Participation in the study does not pose significant risk or burden to
      the participants.

      CONFIDENTIALITY All information and documents collected will be stored securely and kept in
      strict confidence in compliance with Caldicott Principles and the Data Protection Act.

      v)Study samples, investigation results and incidental findings. The use of the participants'
      study samples and investigations are clearly defined in the participant information leaflet
      and will be explained during the informed consent process. The investigations used in the
      study are purely for research purposes but standard operating procedures are in place in the
      unlikely event of incidental findings that are significant to the participants' well-being.
      It is possible that some samples will be used for genetic research. The genetic tests would
      involve looking at common variations in genes that affect how blood vessels work. We do not
      propose to test for inherited genetic diseases. There is no evidence to suggest that the
      results of these genetic studies are likely to have significant implications for the
      participants.

      C. Completion of the Study The participant information leaflets and informed consent process
      clearly explain the intended outcomes of the study and how participant information will be
      stored. At the end of the study, the study team will coordinate dissemination of data from
      this study via journal abstracts, articles, and oral/written presentations. Any scientific
      publications arising from the study will be available on request to all participants as well
      as a summary of the main findings.

      CONSIDERATION OF NULL HYPOTHESES A null hypotheses that "sustained aerobic exercise does not
      reduce blood pressure in preterm born young adults" was not selected. Rather, studies in
      older cohorts (birth backgrounds not assessed) strongly suggests that regular aerobic
      exercise has a blood pressure reducing effect. Previous research has identified differences
      in the structure and function of the heart and blood vessels of preterm born young adults vs
      full term born. Accordingly, the hypothesis that "regular aerobic exercise will elicit
      different blood pressure lowering effects in premature born young adults with elevated blood
      pressure vs full-term born young adults with elevated blood pressure" will be tested in this
      study.

      SAMPLE SIZE SELECTION Recent systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised control trials
      identified an average decrease of 5.4mmHg in systolic blood pressure (SBP) post-intervention
      via supervised exercise in young adults with prehypertension (mean systolic blood pressure at
      baseline 126 mmHg). The post intervention standard deviation of change was 8.7 mmHg. The
      investigators' available cross-sectional pilot data suggests that change will be higher in
      the preterm born participants and participants exposed to maternal hypertension during
      pregnancy. To calculate the sample size, the investigators used an estimated change of 5 mmHg
      following 4 months of intervention. The investigators used a SD of 11.3 from the pooled SD
      for ambulatory systolic blood pressure from cross-sectional pilot data. To observe a
      treatment effect on systolic blood pressure of 5mmHg, powered to 80% (p=0.05) requires a
      total sample size of 164 participants. The SD deviation for the pooled 24 hour awake
      diastolic blood pressure is 8.3 mmHg. To observe a treatment effect on diastolic blood
      pressure of 5mmHg, powered to 80% (p=0.05) requires a total sample size of 114 participants.
      The power calculations for systolic blood pressure are used to determine the final sample
      size, with adjustment to 200 participants to allow for 18% attrition. To ensure primary
      objectives for the study are answered the study team may recruit additional participants to
      replace those who drop out of the study.

      WHY THE DESIGN AND METHODOLOGY WAS SELECTED The TEPHRA design and methodology was selected to
      build on two closely related ongoing studies, EXPRESSO and YACHT2 (summarised below).
      EXPRESSO and YACHT2 collect data that provides significant insight into better characterizing
      the activity norms and cardiovascular systems of young adults with various birth backgrounds.
      TEPHRA advances these research themes by employing an intervention arm (aerobic exercise) to
      investigate the effects of exercise on blood pressure and the structure and function of the
      cardiovascular system.

      JUSTIFICATION FOR INCLUDING A CONTROL ARM Previous studies have identified anatomical and
      functional differences in the cardiovascular systems of preterm born young adults compared to
      full-term born controls. The investigators seek to understand the clinical significance of
      these differences, the response to treatment (in this case exercise) can only be properly
      assessed by comparing the preterm born cohort against controls.

      MINIMISATION OF RESEARCHER EFFECTS AND BIAS

      Due to the nature of the intervention (supervised exercise sessions vs "normal" activity
      levels), TEPHRA is an unblinded trial. However, numerous measures will be taken to minimize
      investigator effects including:

        -  All MRI sub-study images will be assessed by investigators who are blinded to
           participant details

           -- All other images (ie. Ultrasound of heart and small blood vessel imaging) will be
           assessed by investigators who are blinded to participant details

        -  Analysis of all blood samples will be completed by laboratories or investigators who are
           blinded to participant details

        -  Intervention support protocols are standardised for all participants

        -  The intervention team field lead (conducts gym visits etc.) is blinded to participant
           details and does not collect primary study measures

      STUDY PROCEDURES AND DATA COLLECTION

      SCREENING VISITS Screening Visit Procedures (Visit 0, total time 1 hour) Height, weight, body
      composition, and blood pressure will be collected. The investigators will also ask candidates
      to provide information about their medical history and physical activity, and birth history.

        -  Electrocardiogram (ECG) (20 Minutes) An ECG, will be accomplished to check basic heart
           function by placing 12 sticky pads on the chest to record the electrical signals the
           heart makes when it beats. If desired, the investigators will arrange for a candidate's
           preference of a male or female investigator to set up the ECG. The ECG will take about
           20 minutes and will be reviewed by a trained physician. Provided the candidate is happy
           to continue and there are no exclusionary criteria met, an investigator would then fit
           the candidate with a 24 hour blood pressure monitor.

        -  Fitting of 24 hour monitoring equipment (5 minutes) If the screening indicates that the
           candidate may be a good fit for the trial, the study team will also ask the candidate to
           wear a blood pressure monitor for 24 hours. It consists of a blood pressure cuff worn on
           the upper arm that easily fits under clothing. The cuff is attached by a lead to a small
           box which is slightly larger than a deck of cards. This can be placed in a pocket or
           attached to a belt provided by the research team. The cuff will inflate and deflates
           every 30 minutes during the day and every 60 minutes at night to measure blood pressure.
           It is unlikely that it will disturb sleep and participants are asked to power off the
           monitor while driving (the research team will show them how to turn the device on and
           off). A postage paid, addressed envelope will be provided to return the monitor. If all
           the screening measures indicate that the candidate is a good, safe match for the trail
           and would like to proceed, the investigators will arrange a convenient time for them to
           meet for their main trial visits at the Cardiovascular Clinical Research Facility at the
           John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford.

      MAIN STUDY VISITS COMPLETION OF STUDY VISITS 1-3 (3 hours per visit)

      There are three main visits planned for each participant:

        -  Visit 1: conducted at the beginning of trial (baseline)

        -  Visit 2: conducted ~16 weeks into trial (this visit coincides with completion of the
           structured exercise intervention)

        -  Visit 3: conducted after 52 weeks (at the end of the trial)

      Note - If Visit 1 is within 30 days of the screening and the participant has had no change in
      medical or physical activity status, some basic physical measures (ie. 24 hour blood pressure
      and body composition) will not be re-assessed. Apart from this noted exception, the same
      assessments will be repeated at trial visits 1-3. Participants will be asked to have only
      water for 4 hours before each visit

        -  Questionnaire (30 minutes) This will collect more detailed information about physical
           activities and also lifestyle information such as daily routines and use of alcohol and
           tobacco.

        -  Physical Measures (15 minutes) (as noted, if the baseline visit is within 30 days of
           screening, some measures will not be repeated). THe investigators will measure blood
           pressure and ask participants to walk on the flat for 10 meters while wearing a
           belt-mounted sensor. The participant will be asked to give a urine sample to test for
           the presence of protein as an indicator of cardiovascular and blood vessel function
           related to blood pressure.

        -  Cardiovascular Measures (45 minutes)

             -  Small vessel imaging The investigators will use a special camera to take a picture
                of the blood vessels in the participants' retina. This is a simple, non-invasive
                procedure which uses a special camera that looks through the pupil to observe the
                blood vessels in the back of the eye. This is painless and does not require any
                physical contact with the eye. The investigators may also use a special microscope
                to take video images of the small blood vessels on the back of a finger. This is
                also a painless, non-invasive procedure.

             -  Vascular stiffness measurement The investigators will measure stiffness of the
                blood vessels by placing an inflatable cuff on one arm and also above one knee.
                This is also a painless, non-invasive procedure.

             -  Echocardiogram The investigators will perform an ultrasound (Echocardiogram or
                "ECHO") of the heart. Participants will be asked to disrobe down to the waist and
                put on a hospital gown that is untied at the front to allow the study investigators
                access to place the ultrasound probe on the chest. Participants will lie on a
                padded treatment table on their left side. The probe is placed on chest and
                lubricating jelly is used so the probe makes good contact with the skin. Ultrasound
                waves then create images of the heart on the scanner monitor. The research team are
                trained to perform echocardiograms, and will ensure that privacy is maintained
                throughout the visit. Participants can request that a same gender echocardiographer
                perform the echocardiogram.

        -  Cardiopulmonary Exercise Testing (50 minutes) During the exercise testing, participants
           will be asked to donate a total of up to 150mLs (8 to 9 tablespoons) of blood at each
           trial visit. The blood samples will be stored and analysed for natural compounds and
           genes involved in blood vessel function and cardiovascular disease development. To allow
           for collection of blood samples, a cannula will be placed in a vein in the participants'
           hand or arm. The cannula is a very small, flexible plastic tube that is inserted using a
           needle and allows for collection of blood without the need for multiple needle pricks.
           It is also possible to have conventional blood sampling, involving a number of needle
           pricks, if preferred by the participant.

      Exercise testing will allow assessment of heart and lung function during exercise and is the
      same test used on athletes to see how well they respond to exercise. The exercise test will
      be performed on a stationary bike. We will ask participants to wear appropriate clothing to
      exercise in such as shorts or loose fitting track trousers and a comfortable top (hospital
      scrubs available if needed). Participants will breathe through an opening in a mask worn over
      their mouth and nose whilst exercising which will allow the measurement of oxygen use and
      fitness. Participants may stop the test at any time for any reason. As they cycle on the
      bike, their body response such as heart rate and blood pressure will be recorded.
      Participants will wear a blood pressure cuff on one arm which will be inflated occasionally
      throughout the cycle test. The investigators will place three small sticky pads on
      participants' back to record and ECG during the test.

      The exercise testing lasts approximately 10-15 minutes and participants will pedal against
      gradually increasing resistance. The test is designed to be increasingly difficult as it
      progresses and will be very physically demanding for the last 3-4 minutes. This is likely to
      make participants feel quite exhausted, breathe heavily and their leg muscles may ache
      (particularly if they are not accustomed to exercise). After the test participants will pedal
      against minimal resistance for a cool down.

      --Blood Sampling Before, immediately following, and 20 minutes after the exercise test the
      cannula in the back of the hand or arm will be used to take a sample of blood. This will
      allow the study team to measure changes in blood associated with exercising.

      DATA MONITORING An independent Data Monitoring Committee will monitor and audit the research
      project and data collected.

      ANALYSIS The analysis will be carried out on the basis of intention-to-treat (ITT). This is,
      after randomisation, participants will be analysed according to their allocated intervention
      group irrespective of what they actually receive.

      Patient demographic characteristics and other baseline information will be summarised by
      treatment group. Numbers (with percentages) for binary and categorical variables and mean
      (standard deviation), or median (interquartile or full range) for continuous variables will
      be presented. Normality of variables will be assessed by visual assessment of the normality
      curves and the Shapiro-Wilk test. The analysis of the primary outcome will be assessed using
      analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) adjusting for baseline values and minimisation factors used
      in the randomisation process. Results will be presented as adjusted mean difference in change
      in ambulatory blood pressure between randomised groups at 4 months with 95% confidence
      intervals (CI) and associated two-sided p value. The analysis of secondary outcomes will also
      be done using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) to establish a co-variant model to examine the
      effect of cardiac structure, vascular function and lifestyle behaviours on exercise capacity.
      Outcomes measured on more than one occasion will be analysed using a mixed effects model. If
      the model assumptions are not met and evidence of departure from Normality is observed,
      transformations of the data will be employed or non-parametric tests will be carried out.
      Statistical analysis will be carried out using STATA or SPSS statistical software.
    
  