
    
      This study will test whether the immune-suppressing drug rituximab can increase blood counts
      and reduce the need for transfusions in patients with moderate aplastic anemia, pure red cell
      aplasia, or Diamond Blackfan anemia. These are rare and serious blood disorders in which the
      immune system turns against bone marrow cells, causing the bone marrow to stop producing red
      blood cells in patients with pure red cell aplasia and Diamond Blackfan anemia, and red blood
      cells, white blood cells and platelets in patients with aplastic anemia. Rituximab is a
      laboratory-made monoclonal antibody that recognizes and destroys white blood cells called
      lymphocytes that are responsible for destroying bone marrow cells in these diseases. The drug
      is currently approved by the Food and Drug Administration for treating patients with B-cell
      non-Hodgkin lymphoma, a disease of white blood cells.

      Participants receive four doses of rituximab, once a week for 4 weeks through a needle in an
      arm vein. The infusion rate depends on how well the patient tolerates the drug. The first
      infusion usually takes 4 to 6 hours and the rest take 3 to 4 hours. The first and fourth
      infusions are given at NIH; the second and third may be given at NIH or by a patient's
      referring doctor. Patients who respond to rituximab but then relapse may receive one
      additional course of four doses. Patients may continue with transfusions and their current
      medications, including growth factors (e.g., Epogen and Neupogen) while on study, but may
      have to stop taking immunosuppressive drugs, such as prednisone or cyclosporine. Patients who
      must start another immunosuppressive medication are taken off rituximab and followed for
      safety with clinic visits one week and then once a month for 6 months after the first dose of
      rituximab.

      Patients have a blood test once a week while receiving rituximab to evaluate blood counts.
      After treatment is completed, patients are evaluated once a month until 6 months, then once a
      year until 3 years to monitor the response to treatment and any drug side effects. Patients
      are evaluated at NIH for the 3- and 6-month visits and the annual visits. They may be seen at
      NIH or by their referring doctors for the 1-, 2-, 4- and 5-month visits. A blood test is done
      at every visit, and a bone marrow aspiration and biopsy are done at the 3-month visit (and
      when clinically needed to evaluate the effect of rituximab on bone marrow cells).
    
  