
    
      Sexual violence is any sexual act committed against a person without freely given consent.
      Men and women may experience sexual violence, but most victims are women. Women's first
      experiences of sexual violence often occur in adolescence. In Asia and the Pacific, about 14%
      of sexually experienced adolescent girls report forced sexual debut. Thus, early prevention
      with men is critical; yet, young men often are difficult to reach and may resist programs
      that target sexual violence, not seeing themselves as potential perpetrators. Prevention with
      men that integrates a bystander framework, which treats men as "allies" of women, is one way
      to target attitudes and behaviors while decreasing resistance to participation. In this
      study, the researchers will adapt an existing program for use with men attending one of two
      universities in Hanoi, Vietnam. This study will test the impact of the adapted program on
      knowledge/attitudinal/emotional mediators, and in turn, on sexual violence perpetration and
      prosocial bystander behavior in this target group. The adapted program is a novel,
      six-session, web-based serial drama and educational program designed to prevent sexual
      violence perpetration and to enhance prosocial bystander behavior in young men. The program
      has reduced the incidence of sexual violence among men attending an urban, public university
      in the Southeastern United States.

      After conducting interviews with men and women, and focus group discussions with college men
      and university stakeholders the researchers will produce a web-based adaptation of the
      RealConsent program in Vietnam. The researchers will then conduct a randomized controlled
      trial to test the impact of the adapted program (200 participants), relative to a
      health-education control condition (200 participants), on knowledge/attitudinal/emotional
      mediators, and in turn, on sexually violent behaviors, and prosocial bystander behavior in
      freshmen men attending two universities in Hanoi. This project will be the first to adapt and
      to test the impact of a novel, theoretically grounded, web-based intervention to prevent
      sexual violence perpetration and to promote prosocial bystander behavior among young men for
      use in a middle-income country. If this study shows that the adapted program is effective
      cross-culturally, it will have exceptional potential for scale-up to prevent men's
      perpetration of sexual violence against women globally.
    
  