
    
      This study is a Phase 3 single center, uncontrolled trial in which 1-3 allogeneic pancreatic
      islet transplants are performed for each study subject. Follow-up evaluations after
      transplant continue for 52 weeks after the final islet transplantation. Thereafter, subjects
      may enroll for a 5-year follow-up study and an additional 5 year to 10 year follow-up study
      to evaluate the function of the islets and to measure and regulate immunosuppressive drug
      levels and side effects.

      The safety of islet transplantation depends primarily on the incidence of serious and
      unexpected complications or adverse events and the ability of the cell isolation laboratory
      to produce uncontaminated islet cell preparations with minimal endotoxin content.

      All study subjects are followed for safety for one year. An independent Data Monitoring
      Committee (DMC), composed of 3 members who have training in medicine and/or organ
      transplantation, will review eligibility and safety data within 2 weeks after each islet
      transplantation and every two months thereafter. An independent monitor, who is knowledgeable
      about Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines and regulations, monitors the study for
      compliance with 21 CFR and according to ICH GCP Guidelines. Within the Clinical Research
      Center, representatives of the Scientific Advisory Committee and the Research Subject
      Advocacy Program monitor safety. These entities report to the UIC Institutional Review Board
      (IRB), which also reviews safety data annually and on occurrence of serious adverse events.
      The principal investigator also reports serious adverse events to the US Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA).

      Success: Islet transplantation is considered a success when subjects do not use insulin, and
      they achieve a fasting glucose level not exceeding 140 mg/dL more than three times in a week,
      and not exceeding two-hour post-prandial values of 180 mg/dL more than four times in a week.

      Partial Success: Subjects who have a reduction in insulin requirements but who do not achieve
      insulin independence and present with a reduction in HbA1c and number of hypoglycemic
      episodes are considered to have partial success of islet transplantation. Reduction in
      insulin-requirements are assessed by comparing the pre-transplant insulin requirement
      recorded over two consecutive days (expressed as insulin units per kg) with the requirement
      on the two consecutive days preceding the subsequent islet infusion, and the requirements on
      two consecutive days at six months and again on two consecutive days at one year after the
      final transplant.

      Failure: Absence of measurable levels of C-peptide after transplantation is considered as
      failure of islet cell transplantation.
    
  