
    
      At present, there is no proven drug or modality to stabilize the vulnerable plaques. A number
      of drugs that are beneficial for patients with coronary disease may act in part by improving
      the stability of plaques that are vulnerable for future rupture. Especially, Lipid-lowering
      therapy, particularly with statins, can stabilize vulnerable plaques or those that have
      already ruptured by improving endothelial function and reducing thrombogenicity, platelet
      aggregation, and possibly inflammation. As the atherosclerotic disease has progressed, there
      is an increase of the atherosclerotic plaque amounts. However, the changes of specific plaque
      compositions within the atherosclerotic lesions have not been sufficiently evaluated.
      Previous pathologic findings reported that there was a significant relation between the
      plaque size and necrotic core size.Conventional grey-scale intravascular ultrasound (IVUS)
      has significant limitations in accurately assessing atheromatous plaque composition. These
      limitations have been partially addressed by radiofrequency signal processing with spectral
      analysis of the back-scattered ultrasound signals. Using this technology, Virtual Histology
      (VH) IVUS is capable of characterizing plaque as calcified (white), fibrotic (dark-green),
      fibrofatty (yellow-green), and necrotic core (red). In addition, optical coherence tomography
      (OCT) is a light-based imaging modality that can be used in biological systems to study
      tissues in vivo with near-histologic, ultrahigh resolution. The rationale for intravascular
      application of OCT is its potential for in vivo visualizations of the coronary artery
      microstructure. This unique image resolution of OCT offers the potential to detect key
      features of vulnerable plaque in vivo. Beyond the inherent limitations of angioscopy and
      intravascular ultrasound, OCT might offer a much higher sensitivity in the detection of
      necrotic/lipid cores within coronary atheromas. Therefore, plaque characterization using
      VH-IVUS and OCT may provide detailed morphologic insights of plaque vulnerability.

      We hypothesized that statin would provide benefits to stabilize coronary plaque composition
      by LDL-reduction and/or a pleiotropic effect. We also hypothesized that high-dose statin
      would be more beneficial in reducing the vulnerable plaque and stabilizing the vulnerable
      plaque composition than low-dose statin.
    
  