
    
      Each female sets her experience of 47 manifestations on a 6 point scale separately for the
      premenstrual, menstrual and intermenstrual phases of her latest and worst menstrual cycle.
      Daily Symptoms Report was filled at the start and at end of the study (before and after
      performing swimming exercise) Females in group I were instructed to engage into swimming
      exercise 30 minutes daily, 3 times weekly for 3 months. Exercise was ceased on the first 3
      days of menstrual cycle then resumed afterwards.

      The exercise included three stages: warming up, swimming and cooling down. Warming up phase
      involved 5 minutes of breathing, circulatory and stretching exercises. Breathing
      diaphragmatic and costal exercise was performed. Diaphragmatic breathing exercise was
      performed at a convenient position with full relaxation, then she inspires deeply through the
      nose, ballooning her abdomen then expires through the mouth with a sigh and slowly and that
      was repeated 3-5 times.

      Costal breathing exercise was done also at the woman favorable position then she inspires
      deeply through the nose, opens out her ribs then expires through the mouth with a sigh and
      slowly and that was repeated 3-5 times..

      Circulatory foot and ankle exercises were done by instructing the woman to point her toes up
      and down, doing isometric calf muscle contractions and knee flexion and extension.

      Stretching exercise of neck flexors, extensors, latissimus dorsi, Deltoid dorsal fibers,
      triceps, pectoralis major, supraspinatus, wrist , lumbar extensors, abdominal, lumbar
      flexors, lumbar rotators, hamstrings, adductor, gluteal, gastrocnemius, hip flexors, tensor
      fascia latae and quadriceps muscles were performed during warming up phase.

      The second phase of treatment was swimming for 20 minutes starting with 5 minutes walking
      inside the pool around its edges, then forth and back swimming without reaching fatigue level
      for 15 minutes.

      The last phase was cooling down phase which was the same exercises of the warming up phase
      for 5 minutes
    
  