
    
      Hypertension can often cause neurological worsening in patients with either ICH or SAH.
      Hypertension has been related to increased incidence of intracranial hemorrhage in patients
      who are treated with thrombolytics or on anticoagulation. Timely control of hypertension is
      directly related to the outcome of these patients. Furthermore, unlike in the conditions of
      hypertensive emergency or urgency, gentle titration to control the blood pressure is
      recommended in patients with either ischemic cerebral infarction or hemorrhage. Therefore the
      ideal agent to control hypertension in these patients would have these characteristics:

        -  Rapid onset of action

        -  Predictable dose response

        -  Titratable to desired BP

        -  Minimal dosage adjustments

        -  Minimal adverse effects

        -  No increase in INTRACRANIAL PRESSURE (ICP)

        -  Easy transition to oral formulation for long-term maintenance

      Currently, only IV sodium nitroprusside, nitroglycerine, enalapril and esmolol are used for
      controlling blood pressure in patients with IS, ICH and SAH. These agents are difficult to
      titrate and may potentially be harmful to brain cells.

      Nicardipine offers several advantages in blood pressure control. It may cause dilatation of
      the coronary vessels while has no effect on cardiac conduction. It is not associated with
      coronary steal. As the only IV calcium channel blocker approved for the treatment of
      hypertension, nicardipine is vasoselective, and has a rapid onset and precisely controllable
      in a variety of patient types. It is as effective as sodium nitroprusside with fewer dose
      adjustments. It has documented safety with a low incidence of side effects. It requires
      minimal dose adjustments.

      The disadvantage of Nicardipine IV drip is the relative large volume of fluid needed (up to
      150 cc/hr). In patients with ischemic cerebral stroke (IS) or hemorrhage (ICH), intravenous
      infusion of large volume can contribute to cerebral edema or increase in intracranial
      pressure (ICP). If the infusion of nicardipine can be double or triple concentrated without
      the need of a central line, it not only offers titratable BP control, but also less overall
      volume to infuse the drug.

      This is a phase IV prospective, open-label, dose regimen study of double or triple
      concentration nicardipine infusion for controlling blood pressure in patients with either
      ischemic cerebral infarction (IS) or intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) or subarachnoid
      hemorrhage (SAH). Once the patient has the need for rapid control of blood pressure, he or
      she will be eligible for the study. The first 25 patients will be consented for the double
      dose treatment and the next 25 patients will be consented for the triple dose treatment. The
      patient will be followed during the infusion period for efficacy and safety.
    
  