
    
      Study Background. BCS has been established as the preferred treatment option for early stage
      breast cancer (BC) or for initially inoperable tumors that respond sufficiently to
      preoperative therapy. BCS plus RT obtains at least the same results in terms of survival,
      without the huge impact on the patient's body image and HRQoL as that seen after mastectomy.
      For decades, standard whole breast irradiation (WBI) consisted of 45-50 Gy delivered at
      1.8-2.0 Gy/fraction over 4.5-5 weeks with or without a boost dose to the surgical bed. Large
      phase 3 trials evaluating different hypofractionation schedules proved that overall treatment
      time could be reduced without compromising local control and safety profile.

      PBI has been introduced as an alternative treatment method for selected patients with early
      stage BC. Potential advantages of accelerated PBI include shorter treatment time, equivalent
      disease control, improved safety profile, and cost reduction as compared to standard WBI. The
      role of PBI has been investigated in large-scale prospective phase 3 clinical trials (i.e.,
      NSABP-B29/RTOG 0413, IRMA, RAPID, IMPORT-LOW, GEC-ESTRO trials).

      5-year results of the IMPORT-LOW trial showed non-inferiority of PBI when compared to WBI in
      women with low risk early BC, with a 5-year local recurrence (LR) rate of 0.5%. Ongoing
      research explores other modalities of RT that will minimize toxicities without reducing
      effectiveness. Intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) has the theoretical advantage of a
      further increase in dose conformity compared with three-dimensional techniques, with
      increased normal tissue sparing. To date, only the Florence IMRT-APBI phase 3 trial reported
      the outcomes of exclusive IMRT accelerated PBI compared to WBI, demonstrating no significant
      difference between the two groups in terms of ipsilateral breast tumor recurrences (IBTR).
      The PBI group presented significantly better results considering acute (p=0.0001), late
      (p=0.004), and cosmetic outcome (p=0.045). The subgroup analysis evaluating patients aged 70
      years or older, showed a 5-year IBTR rate of 1.9% for both groups, and significantly better
      results in terms of acute skin toxicity, in favor of the PBI arm. Therefore, a significant
      impact on patients' compliance to RT could translate into a consistent improvement of overall
      HRQoL.

      Heart exposure to ionizing radiation during RT for BC increases subsequent rates of ischemic
      heart disease (IHD). The increase is proportional to the mean dose to the heart. Women with
      pre-existing cardiac risk factors have greater absolute increases in risk from RT. An age >70
      years seems to be one of the most significant factor for IHD occurrence. PBI represents one
      of several effective strategies to reduce cardiac radiation dose when compared to WBI.

      Postoperative RT in the elderly is a matter of constant debate. RT was shown to benefit these
      patients with regards to local control; however, the absolute benefit is small (for low risk
      subtypes). Moreover, considering the poor compliance of elderly patients to conventional RT
      treatment time (3-6 weeks), conventional RT is often omitted in cases of low-risk BC, at the
      expense of reducing the local control rate by less than 4%.

      In an unplanned subgroup analysis of the PRIME-II trial by estrogen receptor (ER) score, LR
      at 5 years for women in the rich ER subgroup was lower than in the whole population; for
      patients assigned no RT, 3% had a LR compared with 1% of women allocated WBI (5-year IBTR was
      3.3%, and 1.2%, respectively).

      The British Association of Surgical Oncology (BASO)-II trial confirmed that patients treated
      with either exclusive adjuvant RT or ET with tamoxifen had an equivalent LR rate per year of
      0.8%. These data suggested that RT or ET alone resulted in excellent disease control in older
      women with early BC, and that the combination of treatments may have less benefit than
      expected. A direct comparison between PBI or ET omission as adjuvant treatment is lacking in
      the existing literature.

      Conversely, the toxicity profile of ET is well known, and could significantly impact long
      term HRQoL of these potentially frail patients. Elderly patients with early BC are a unique
      population with regards to good prognosis and potential comorbidities, thus minimizing
      treatment to maintain HRQoL without compromising survival is extremely important. In the
      decision-making process for adjuvant therapy, estimates of the patient's risk of benefit
      and/or harm with treatment should be performed together with an assessment of baseline
      comorbidities, life expectancy and care preferences. Many large phase III studies reported on
      the detrimental effects of postmenopausal ET on bone density and fractures incidence,
      thromboembolic complications, sexual, and cognitive functionality. Moreover, patient's
      compliance and oral treatment adherence may be a concern, and some patients would like to
      avoid the toxicities associated with ET.

      Considering that the potential benefit of PBI alone could be better than that of the RT-only
      effect reported in the above WBI-using trials, it may be possible to avoid the long term
      toxicity of ET and favorably impact HRQoL in selected patients, such as elderly patients with
      a good prognosis.

      Importantly, all previously published de-escalation studies were designed and performed in
      order to evaluate RT omission, regardless of efficacy and compliance of ET. When expecting a
      comparable efficacy among tested treatment modalities, HRQoL might be the factor with the
      most influence on the treatment decision-making process and should therefore be the primary
      endpoint.
    
  