
    
      Neurocysticercosis (NCC) is the commonest parasitic infection of the central nervous system.
      It can affect the brain, meninges, eyes as well as other parts of the body. Disseminated
      cysticercosis involves brain and one other organ such as muscles, viscera etc. NCC is common
      in tropical countries and is the commonest cause of focal seizures. It is quite frequently
      also found incidentally in imaging done for unrelated conditions such as headaches and
      trauma. NCC can be parenchymal or extra-parenchymal. Parenchymal NCC is commoner than
      extra-parenchymal lesions. Some patients with parenchymal NCC have less than three cysts and
      they have seizures which are well controlled with medication. On the other hand some have
      multiple cysts and present with complications such as stroke, cognitive decline, aphasia,
      hydrocephalus, increased intra-cranial pressure etc. Cysts occurring extra-parenchymal
      locations such as inside the ventricular system or sub-arachnoid space are less common than
      parenchymal ones, but can be more symptomatic due to obstruction in the CSF flow leading to
      hydrocephalus, arachnoiditis and impaired CSF absorption etc.

      Though NCC is very common in the Indian subcontinent, there is no consensus on optimum
      management strategies. There is a wide variation in the practices of prescribing
      anti-helminthic drugs, corticosteroids, steroid sparing agents etc. Clinical experience
      suggests that some patients with NCC need long term corticosteroids and on withdrawing
      corticosteroids, they develop peri-lesional edema and they become symptomatic. In such
      patients, steroid sparing agents such as methotrexate are recommended.2 However there is no
      data on the long term follow up of such patients especially from India. Similarly, patients
      with intraventricular NCC treated surgically are given varying types of anti-helminthic
      therapy ranging from none to combination therapy after surgical /endoscopic resection of the
      cysts.

      It is high time, that a registry is established and patient data collected systematically, to
      enable analysis of clinical features as well as to study the patterns of treatment offered by
      individual physicians. This will also promote the development of hypothesis for planning
      trials in future.
    
  