
    
      Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic relapsing disease that involves the colorectal mucosa.
      Over the years, the therapeutic target has been upgraded from the resolution of symptoms to
      deep remission to prevent relapses and complications. The primary therapeutic target to be
      achieved in patients with UC is both clinical and endoscopic remission . The assessment of
      histological inflammation has emerged as a promising endpoint in UC . However, the link
      between histological disease activity and other measures of clinical disease activity is not
      yet well established . Some authors suggest that the presence of histological inflammation is
      a better predictor of future clinical relapse than endoscopic activity . Several studies
      showed that patients with residual microscopic active inflammation seem to be more prone to
      relapse when compared with patients with normal histology .

      Calprotectin is a 36-kDa calcium- and zinc-binding protein, which represents approximately
      60% of soluble proteins of granulocyte cytoplasm . Fecal calprotectin (FC) is strongly
      correlated with both MES and Ulcerative Colitis Endoscopic Score (9, 10). In previous
      studies, FC was shown to be helpful in predicting sustained clinical remission and mucosal
      healing during anti-TNF treatment, particularly with IFX and ADA. However, no investigations
      have been performed to evaluate the predictive value of FC in terms of mucosal healing in a
      prospective cohort of patients with UC treated with biological therapy. Based on the above
      background, the aim of the present prospective study is to identify a reliable biomarker able
      to predict therapeutic effectiveness in UC .

      Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic relapsing disease characterized by a neutrophil-mediated
      inflammation of the gut.

      Indeed, European Crohn and Colitis Organization guidelines have highlighted how the grade of
      neutrophilic infiltration is necessary for the diagnosis of this pathological condition and
      for the evaluation of histological activity. Thus, colonoscopy is necessary to collect
      mucosal biopsies and assess neutrophilic infiltration for the diagnosis and during follow-up
      to evaluate treatment response and predict long-term outcome, although histological healing
      is still debated. However, colonoscopy is an invasive, costly, and not always well-tolerated
      examination for patients. Apart from endoscopic interventions, disease severity can be also
      assessed using less-invasive biomarkers, including blood count.

      In these regard the investigators aimed to investigate the ability of prediction of
      hematological indices including (PLR, NLR and MLR) and fecal calprotectin to predict
      histological remission in ulcerative colitis patients receiving biological therapy .
    
  