
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second leading cause of cancer mortality in the US. CRC's risk
      is closely linked to the modern lifestyle. Alcohol is commonly used in our society and is an
      established risk factor for both pre-cancerous (polyp) and cancerous lesions of the colon.
      However this knowledge has not been translated to our current risk stratifications for CRC as
      the process of alcohol-induced carcinogenesis is not predictable. Mucosal inflammation is a
      well-established mechanism that mediates the effect of alcohol induced tissue injury in the
      intestine. Inflammation also plays a crucial role in pathogenesis of CRC. Factors that
      promote a pro-tumorigenic inflammatory state in the setting of alcohol are unknown. Since CRC
      occurs only in a small subset of alcohol user, alcohol alone may not be sufficient to start
      the neoplastic process and additional cofactors are required. One such factor is circadian
      dysrhythmia that is another modern lifestyle habit, shown to be associated with an increased
      risk of CRC. Further, previous research has shown that disruption of circadian rhythm
      exacerbates alcohol-induced intestinal inflammation. The Investigator hypothesize that
      altered circadian rhythms due to "wrong-time" eating (abnormal eating) are an important
      determinant in alcohol induced mucosal inflammation and carcinogenesis. Our preliminary data
      supports our hypothesis and shows that abnormal eating patterns accelerate alcohol-induced
      polyposis in a mouse model of CRC. Each subject will experience four conditions (each for one
      week in duration with a week +/- 2 days wash-out in between): (1) "right-time eating" / no
      alcohol, (2) "right-time eating" / with alcohol, (3) "delayed-eating" / no alcohol, (4)
      "delayed-eating" / with alcohol. The order of experiments will be randomized [concealed
      randomization]. All subjects will undergo unprepped sigmoidoscopy after each week of
      intervention. In Aim 2, all subjects will have an option to undergo a 24h circadian
      assessment in the Biological Rhythms Research Lab after each week of intervention. The
      Investigator will assess (i) central circadian rhythms by collecting hourly salivary samples
      for melatonin assays and (ii) peripheral rhythm in the intestinal tract by buccal swabs once
      every 2h (12 time points) as well as by rectal sampling twice (every 12 hr). For Aim 3,
      sigmoidoscopy without sedation will be used to obtain colonic samples as the safe method
      compared to colonoscopy, which has some small but finite risks associated with the procedure
      (e.g, bleeding or perforation) as well as sedation.
    
  