
    
      Aim 1. To develop a quality improvement program to improve the care of Veterans with TIA or
      minor stroke that can be deployed nationwide. The program will include multiple components: a
      reporting system that is based on validated electronic quality measures (eCQMs) that will
      allow staff to monitor the time-sensitive processes of care and outcomes of their population
      of Veterans with TIA or minor stroke; clinical protocols to improve the timeliness and
      completeness of care; professional education materials; and clinical note templates for use
      by nursing and pharmacy staff. Lessons learned at the individual sites engaged in the quality
      improvement program will be shared across sites by use of a web-based platform and a virtual
      collaborative. We will assess end user's assessment of the program and its core elements.

      Aim 2. To evaluate the effectiveness of the Aim 1 QI intervention program for Veterans with
      TIA or minor stroke against usual care. Teams at the 6 intervention sites will be given the
      quality improvement program components. The primary effectiveness outcome is the proportion
      of Veterans who received all of the guideline-concordant processes of care for which they are
      eligible referred to as the "Without-Fail" care rate.

      Aim 3. To evaluate the implementation of the QI intervention program across the 6
      participating sites. The two primary implementation outcomes will be the number of
      implementation activities completed during the one-year active implementation period and the
      final level of team organization (defined as the Group Organization (GO Score)) for improving
      TIA care at the end of the 12-month active implementation period.

      Secondary Aim To evaluate the sustainability of the program. Sustainability will be evaluated
      over a one-year period that begins immediately after the one-year active implementation
      period. We will compare the Without-Fail rate in the sustainability period to the baseline
      period and the post-implementation period.
    
  