
    
      This study will be a randomized, double-blinded, three-phase crossover trial which will
      investigate the bioavailability of SF following consumption of broccoli + stilton soup
      containing different concentrations of glucoraphanin.

      The study population will consist of non-smoking men and women aged between 18 and 65 years
      old. Participants will undergo three phases separated by a minimum of two weeks (wash-out
      period). Each phase will consist of a 48 hour pre-intervention diet restriction, a study day
      involving an 8 hour cannulation at the Human Nutrition Unit (HNU) of the Institute of Food
      Research (IFR) and collection of a 24 hour urine and blood sample the following morning.
      Participants will be randomly allocated to one of the three soups in each phase. The
      following soups will be tested in the three phases: i) 300g standard broccoli + stilton soup,
      ii) 300g Beneforte® broccoli + stilton soup, iii) 300g Beneforte Extra broccoli + stilton
      soup.

      Beneforte and Beneforte extra broccoli are especially cultivated to deliver high sulforaphane
      levels after consumption. All the three broccoli varieties have the same appearance and
      flavour thus enabling a blinded human intervention study to be undertaken. Broccoli soups
      will be manufactured by a food company that supplies soups to the leading supermarket
      retailers in the United Kingdom.

      Each phase will consist of a 48 hour pre-intervention diet restriction, a study day (study
      day 1) comprising of approximately a nine hour stay at the HNU which will involve
      cannulation. The following morning participants will visit the HNU for up to 1 hour for
      collection of a single blood sample at 24 hour post-dose followed by breakfast. During study
      day 1, eleven 10ml blood samples will be collected over the course of the day from
      participants at the following timepoints: 0, 30, 45, 60, 90, 120, 180, 240, 360, 480 mins and
      a 24 hour blood sample. Six urine samples will be collected at the following timepoints: 0,
      0-2, 2-4, 4-6, 6-8, 8-24 hours.

      The three phases will be separated by a minimum of a two week washout period. For the
      duration of the study, participants will be required to follow a glucosinolate-free diet for
      a total of nine days which will be three days per phase. The three days are split into 48
      hours (2 days) prior to the study day, 24 hours (1 day) on the study day as well as the
      following morning until the 24 hour blood and urine sample have been collected. After the 24
      hour urine and blood samples have been collected, participants can resume their normal diet
      for a minimum of two weeks until 48 hours prior to their next study day. This will reduce the
      contribution of glucosinolate from other foods having an impact on the results of the study.
      The involvement of the participants will last approximately 11-12 weeks.
    
  