
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the clinical activity (as assessed by complete clinical response rate) of
      pembrolizumab plus chemoradiation.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab plus chemoradiation.

      II. To determine the overall survival efficacy of pembrolizumab plus chemoradiation.

      III. Evaluate progression free survival (PFS) by local investigator review and by blinded
      central radiologists' review.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the association between PD-L1 expression by immunohistochemistry, somatic gene
      expression profiling, and clinical efficacy of pembrolizumab.

      II. To explore the relationship between genomic variation and response to study treatment.

      III. To identify molecular (genomic, metabolic, and/or proteomic) biomarkers that may
      correlate with clinical response/resistance, safety, pharmacodynamic activity, and/or the
      mechanism of action of pembrolizumab in combination with chemoradiation.

      IV. To determine the effect of pembrolizumab plus chemoradiation treatment on tumor T cell
      infiltration.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on
      day 1. Treatment with pembrolizumab repeats every 3 weeks for up to 3 cycles in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive oxaliplatin IV over 2
      hours on day 1 followed by fluorouracil IV over 48 hours once every 2 weeks (Q2W) for 8 weeks
      (4 cycles) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      CONSOLIDATION CHEMORADIATION: After a 3 week treatment free period, patients receive
      pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment with pembrolizumab repeats every 3 weeks
      for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      also receive fluorouracil IV continuous over 5 days (Monday through Friday) for 5 weeks and
      docetaxel IV over 1 hour once a week (QW) for 5 weeks in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity. Starting no later than 3 days after the beginning of the
      Consolidation Chemoradiation period, patients also undergo 28 fractions of radiation therapy
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After a 6-9 week treatment free period, patients continue pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on
      day 1. Treatment with pembrolizumab repeats every 3 weeks for up to 30 cycles in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then every 9-12
      weeks thereafter.
    
  