
    
      Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a common liver disease in the United States.
      NAFLD can lead to severe liver disease in some patients. Patients with NAFLD develop
      resistance to the normal action of insulin. Insulin is important for processing sugar and fat
      and increased resistance to insulin leads to fat in the liver. There is a correlation between
      the amount of iron in a person's body and the ability of insulin to work properly. Several
      small studies suggest that removal of iron may improve both diabetes and NAFLD by lowering
      insulin resistance.

      The goal of this pilot study is to determine the effect of iron depletion on insulin
      sensitivity in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.
      This study will be performed as an ancillary P&F study to the NASH CRN; all participants will
      be recruited from the NASH CRN Database Study. Secondary outcome measures will include the
      effect of iron depletion on hepatic necroinflammation, markers of oxidative stress and
      intrahepatic fat content. Insulin resistance will be directly measured using a two-step
      hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp procedure, before and after iron depletion by phlebotomy.
      Oral glucose tolerance tests will also be performed in order to evaluate the efficacy of
      using the indirect, but less cumbersome, HOMA model to derive values of insulin resistance in
      this patient cohort. This study will advance our understanding of the role of body iron
      stores in the pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes mellitus and non-alcoholic fatty liver
      disease. If iron depletion results in improved insulin sensitivity, reduced hepatic
      necroinflammation and/or intrahepatic fat content, a large scale, randomized, controlled
      trial of iron depletion in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and non-alcoholic fatty
      liver disease will be planned.
    
  