
    
      The study is a cluster-randomized controlled trial including male and female youth and adult
      football players (≥14 years). Club is used as cluster unit, where all the teams from the same
      club will be randomized to the same intervention arm. The randomization is stratified by
      level (junior/senior) and sex (male/female).

      The study has three intervention arms:

      Teams in the randomized intervention group A receive education of the injury prevention
      exercise program Knee Control+ (Knäkontroll+) before the start of the competitive football
      season in April. Knee Control+ consists of 6 different exercises, with 10 different
      variations/progressions, and takes 10-15 minutes to complete. In addition, teams are
      instructed to perform a structured 5-minute running warm-up before the Knee Control+
      exercises. Teams are to carry out the running warm-up and Knee Control+ at all training
      sessions, and the running warm-up before all matches, during the whole season.

      Teams in the randomized intervention group B receive education of an Adductor strengthening
      program before the start of the competitive football season in April. The Adductor
      strengthening program consists of a single exercise with three levels of difficulty, as
      described by Harøy et al., 2019, British Journal of Sports Medicine. The exercise is based on
      the Copenhagen Adduction exercise. Teams are to carry out the Adductor strengthening program
      as part of their regular warm-up 2-3 times per week, one set per side, during the pre-season,
      and 1 time per week, one set per side during the in-season. One set takes about 5 minutes to
      complete for a pair of players.

      Teams reporting that they are already using the injury prevention exercise program Knee
      Control (Knäkontroll) at recruitment are not eligible for inclusion in the randomization.
      They will be invited to participate in the study as a non-randomized intervention group C and
      act as a comparison group to the randomized groups A and B. These teams will carry on their
      normal training and warm-up routines with no intervention from the researchers. Knee Control
      consists of 6 different exercises, with 4 different variations/progressions and 1
      pair-exercise.

      Hypotheses:

      Hypothesis 1: Teams/athletes in the randomized group A (Knee Control+) will have a lower rate
      of ankle, knee and hamstring injuries compared to teams/athletes in the randomized group B
      (Adductor strengthening program).

      Hypothesis 2: Teams/athletes in the randomized group B (Adductor strengthening program) will
      have a lower rate of hip/groin injuries compared to teams/athletes in the randomized group A
      (Knee Control+).

      Hypothesis 3: Teams/athletes in the randomized group A (Knee Control+) will have a higher
      intervention compliance compared to teams/athletes in the non-randomized comparison group
      (Knee Control).

      Data collection:

      Teams are followed for one competitive football season from April to October 2020. Data
      registered for the study include individual exposure to football training and matches, and
      injuries that occur as a result of participation in football. Exposure and injury data are
      athlete-reported prospectively every week using web-based questionnaires (the Oslo Sports
      Trauma Research Center questionnaire). Study designated physiotherapists will collect
      additional injury information for the four main injury outcomes via telephone interview using
      a standard injury card. Use of the intervention (compliance) is reported weekly by the team
      coach and the athletes. Coaches and players will report demographics at baseline, and at
      three time-points during the season (baseline, mid-season, end of season) will report use and
      experiences of the training interventions, injury risk perceptions and outcome expectancies.

      Sample size for primary outcomes:

      Hypothesis 1: required sample size for primary outcome "any football related injury occurring
      to the ankle, knee or hamstrings, regardless of need of care or absence from football
      training or matches" is 252 subjects (approximately 17 teams). To account for a 30% dropout a
      sample size of 328 subjects (approximately 22 teams) is planned at study start.

      Hypothesis 2: required sample size for primary outcome "any football related injury occurring
      to the hip/groin, regardless of need of care or absence from football training or matches" is
      301 subjects (approximately 20 teams). To account for a 30% dropout a sample size of 391
      subjects (approximately 26 teams) is planned at study start.

      Statistical analysis plan:

      Generalised estimating equations will be used to analyse cluster-aggregated weekly data of
      injuries and exposure. A Poisson distribution with a log link function will be applied to
      calculate the rate ratio and corresponding 95% confidence intervals for the injury incidence
      and injury prevalence according to the intention to treat (ITT) principle. ITT analyses on a
      whole group level will be adjusted for sex, and analyses will also be performed by sex
      separately. The statistician who performs the ITT analysis will be blinded to group
      allocation. The number needed to treat will be calculated as the inverted absolute rate
      reduction for the primary outcomes.
    
  