
    
      Patients affected by peritoneal metastasis from colorectal cancer or pseudomyxoma peritonei,
      submitted to complete cytoreduction (residual disease <2.5mm) would be eligible for the
      study. Residual and resectable tumour nodules of 0.5 to 1.0 cm will be left behind after the
      cytoreduction and they will be collected at the end of HIPEC for the purpose of this study.
      HIPEC will be performed using closed abdomen technique and cisplatin (42mg/L of perfusate) +
      mitomycin-C (3.3mg/m2/L of perfusate) for 60 minutes, at 42.5째C. Patients will be randomly
      assigned to HIPEC with low IAP (8-12 mmHg) or high IAP (18-22 mmHg). IAP will be measured
      using bladder catheter. Patients of high IAP group will be strictly monitored during the
      perfusion regarding hemodynamic/respiratory parameters. During the HIPEC, perfusate and blood
      samples will be collected every 10 minutes. Additional samples of arterial blood will be
      collected at 70, 90,120,180 and 240 minutes. After the completion of HIPEC residual tumor
      tissues, normal peritoneum and muscular fascia will be sampled for determination of cisplatin
      concentration.

      Blood samples will be immediately centrifuged to separate plasma. An aliquot of plasma will
      be stored at -30째C for total platinum determination. Another aliquot will be ultrafiltered by
      centrifugation through a membrane with a cut-off 5000 Da for ultrafilterable platinum
      determination. The ultrafiltrate will be stored at -30째C until analysis.

      Perfusate samples will follow the same procedure of blood samples. Tissues samples will be
      stored at -80째C until analysis. Platinum determination will be performed using an Inductive
      Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry (ICP-MS) system by Thermo Scientific after preparing
      calibration curves with atomic platinum. Fluid samples simply dilute before ICP-MS
      examination while tissues will be desiccated, digested with a mixture of nitric acid and
      oxygen water, and evaporated to dryness prior to determination.

      The investigators will compare the following outcomes between the study groups: tumor tissue
      concentration of cisplatin; the area under the curve (AUC) ratio of perfusate UF
      concentration of cisplatin times time to plasma UF concentration times time; in-hospital
      stay; systemic toxicity (NCI-CTCAE.v3), morbidity, and mortality.

      Thirty eight patients (19 in each group) would be needed to detect an increase cisplatin
      concentration of 20 ng/mg of tumor tissue if patients are submitted to high-IAP during HIPEC,
      assuming alfa=0.05 and power=0.90 and standard deviation of 15 ng. Accrual time will be 30
      months. The randomized groups will be stratified according to tumor type.
    
  