
    
      Current data suggest that bladder control comprises 3 cerebral circuits that maintain
      continence by suppressing the voiding reflex in the midbrain. In the UUI phenotype that
      responded to BFB (Biofeedback assisted pelvic floor muscle therapy), the mechanism involved
      enhancing deactivation of the first brain circuit (medial prefrontal cortex, mPFC) which
      resulted in less activation of the second circuit (which includes the midcingulate cortex).
      In the phenotype that was resistant to BFB, no brain changes were seen. Although the
      investigators have an emerging picture of the brain's role in UUI, the investigators have
      only rudimentary understanding of what is 'normal', i.e. how the brain normally controls the
      bladder. Moreover, the investigators do not know whether this control mechanism is the same
      across the lifespan, or whether it changes owing to the impact of aging. Thus, the
      investigators aims are to characterize the brain's normal role in bladder control in both
      young and old people, to determine the changes in brain structure and function that lead to
      bladder control failure (UUI), and to examine how such changes differ between young and old
      individuals. To address the aims, the investigators will utilize detailed neuroimaging to
      evaluate 80 asymptomatic women and 80 women with UUI, each group divided into young (18-45)
      and old (65+ years) individuals. The study will enable the investigators to define the
      brain's key structures, functional activity, and mechanisms involved in normal bladder
      control, and to identify the differences in these elements among those with UUI, both young
      and old.

      By elucidating the mechanisms that mediate the brain's control (and loss of control) of
      bladder function, the proposed study should enhance the investigators working model, deepen
      the understanding of the impact of aging, and identify better targets for the treatment of
      UUI. It may thereby enable scientists to develop novel and more effective new therapies based
      on the revolution in neuroscience-and more hope for UUI sufferers.
    
  