
    
      Cardiac failure is the major cause of death in patients with transfusion-related iron
      overload. Histopathologic studies indicate that patients with myocardial siderosis have
      diffuse interstitial fibrosis. Cardiac MR assessment of the extracellular volume (ECV)
      fraction in other disease processes has been shown to accurately characterize diffuse
      myocardial fibrosis and to correlate with changes in diastolic function. No prior studies
      have assessed for diffuse interstitial myocardial fibrosis in patients with iron overload
      utilizing the proposed imaging techniques.

      In this study, the investigators will assess the presence and extent of interstitial fibrosis
      in patients with transfusion-dependent anemias using cardiac MR techniques of T1 mapping and
      determination of ECV fraction. ECV values will be correlated with the severity of myocardial
      iron deposition determined by multi-echo T2*-weighted imaging, systolic ventricular function
      as determined by cardiac MR and diastolic function assessed by echocardiography. The
      investigators will recruit 35 patients with transfusion-related iron overload. Ten
      age-matched healthy subjects will be included as controls, to establish baseline values of
      myocardial T1 and ECV values. A modified Look-Locker with inversion recovery (MOLLI) sequence
      will be used to determine T1 values pre-, and post-administration of a gadolinium-based
      contrast agent (GBCA) at 1.5 Tesla. Calculated ECV values will be compared between
      iron-overload subjects and healthy controls, and will be correlated with left ventricular
      ejection fraction, measures of diastolic dysfunction and T2* values.

      Detection of myocardial fibrosis in patients with iron overload would allow for improved
      prognostication and risk stratification. Elucidation of the relationship between myocardial
      fibrosis and myocardial iron deposition as well as cardiac functional parameters would
      provide valuable mechanistic insights and improved pathophysiological understanding of the
      disease. The results of the proposed study have the potential to significantly impact patient
      management including recommendations for earlier or more aggressive chelation therapy based
      on changes in ECV values.
    
  