
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients with locally advanced unresectable or
           metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas treated with gemcitabine and cetuximab vs
           gemcitabine alone.

        -  Compare the time to treatment failure in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Estimate the percentage of patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tumor
           expression in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients in the EGFR-positive subset treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the total response rate (confirmed and unconfirmed complete and partial
           response) in patients with measurable disease treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the patient report of pain and quality of life of patients treated with these
           regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to disease status (locally advanced unresectable vs metastatic), Zubrod performance
      status (0 or 1 vs 2), and prior pancreatectomy (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and
           gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 for course 1 and days 1, 8, and
           15 for all subsequent courses.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive gemcitabine as in arm I. In both arms, courses repeat every 4
           weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, before each course, and at the end of study therapy.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and then annually for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 704 patients (352 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 5 years.
    
  