
    
      Background:

      Xerostomia is the diagnosis of the subjective feeling of dry mouth. Xerostomia can coexist
      with or exist without a reduced production of saliva, although xerostomia is first perceived
      when unstimulated whole saliva flow rate is reduced by more than 40-50%. In this context, a
      subnormal or pathologically reduced saliva production (hyposalivation) will severely diminish
      the quality of life and lead to severe dental decay. The two main causes of grave xerostomia
      are Sjögren's syndrome and radiation therapy for head and neck cancer. Radiation therapy
      plays a central role in the curative treatment of most upper head and neck cancers, either as
      a single modality or in combination with chemotherapy and/or surgery, and the prevalence of
      xerostomia after head and neck radiation ranges from 74 to 85%.

      Radiation therapy increases local tumor control significantly along with the chance of
      survival, but despite the more advanced methods of radiation therapy, Intensity-Modulated
      radiation therapy (IMRT), a significant proportion of the radiation is deposited in the
      healthy tissue surrounding the tumor. The decrease of saliva secretion after radiation
      therapy predisposes the patients to a variety of conditions. These are either directly or
      indirectly a result of the decreased production of saliva and include xerostomia, impairment
      of the normal oral functions (talking, chewing, and swallowing) due to insufficient wetting,
      and reduced lubrication of mucosal surfaces and the ingested food which impairs nutrition.
      Furthermore, the oral mucosa can become dry, making the oral mucosa vulnerable, which may
      lead to frictional trauma and ulceration. In addition, a reduced salivary flow results in a
      reduced "rinsing" of the entire oral cavity, thus leading to microbial overgrowth, which in
      addition to other factors may result in rapid dental decay, dental erosion, and oral
      candidiasis (thrush).

      Stem cells have been identified as a potential treatment modality for a wide variety of
      disorders by their ability to differentiate into many functional cell types. For more than
      ten years, researchers have investigated the potential of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) as an
      approach to restoring the function of salivary glands after radiotherapy damage and several
      groups have addressed the use of MSCs or adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (ASCs) in
      preclinical studies of radiation-induced salivary gland dysfunction.

      The research group has completed an encouraging randomized-controlled pilot study (MESRIX-I)
      with 30 patients assessing the safety and efficacy of ex-vivo expanded autologous ASCs for
      radiation-induced xerostomia in an effort to regenerate the function of the salivary glands
      (EudraCT nb:2014-004349-29). The results of this study show most importantly that the
      treatment is safe without any serious adverse events (SAE) and no systemic reactions, and
      secondly, the patients treated with stem cells have a promising enhanced production of saliva
      of 33%-50%. Furthermore, the research group has shown that the stem cell group gained vital
      quality of life measures compared with the placebo group in the form of diminished trouble in
      eating.

      The research group has furthermore recently investigated the safety of allogenic ASCs for the
      treatment of xerostomia (MESRIX-II) with a clinical safety and feasible trial (EudraCT nb:
      2018-003856-19). The study included ten patients who received intraglandular injections of
      allogeneic ASCs. No serious treatment-related adverse reaction occurred, and the efficacy
      data was similar to the results from our first trial with autologous ASCs.

      Research hypothesis Treatment with ASCs will result in an improvement of the participant's
      unstimulated and stimulated whole saliva flow rate and ameliorate the xerostomia and increase
      quality of life.

      Study aim The purpose of the study is to assess the efficacy and safety of the injection of
      allogeneic ASCs from healthy donors on radiation-induced salivary gland hypofunction and
      xerostomia in previous head and neck cancer patients. The project can potentially help to
      develop a clinically relevant treatment option for the growing number of patients suffering
      from xerostomia after irradiation. The development of new therapies is especially meaningful
      since only sub-optimal, symptomatic treatments are currently available, and since the symptom
      of xerostomia immensely reduces quality of life.

      Study design The study is an investigator-initiated, prospective, single-center,
      double-blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled trial to compare the safety, tolerability and
      efficacy of ASCs as a treatment for radiation-induced hyposalivation and xerostomia for
      previous head and neck cancer patients.

      Method Patients between the age of 18-70 years previously treated with radiation for a head
      and neck cancer and a clinically evaluated reduced salivation and hyposalivation, evaluated
      by a screening, can be included. Each participant will be double-blindly randomized to
      receive either allogeneic ASCs or placebo consisting of CryoStor10 (BiolifeSolutions), the
      freeze media for ASCs containing 10% Dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO). Allogeneic ASCs are provided
      from the Cardiology Stem Cell Centre (CSCC) at Rigshospitalet.

      Patients will be evaluated on salivary gland function and saliva flow rate by sialometry.
      Both unstimulated whole saliva and stimulated whole saliva will be collected. Furthermore,
      the investigators will analyze the following on the collected saliva: pH and bicarbonate by
      ionic balance estimation, sodium, potassium, calcium, phosphate, chloride and fluoride, total
      protein and selected proteins, and amylase. For evaluation of the participants´ perception of
      xerostomia, the participants will answer validated questionnaires in Danish (EORTC QLQ Module
      for H&N-35 and XQ) at baseline and after four months. These patient-reported outcomes (PRO)
      questionnaires are essential, validated tools for estimating the degree of quality of life
      (QoL) and xerostomia.

      Recruitment of MESRIX-III participants and obtaining informed consent MESRIX-III participants
      (recipients/placebo) will be recruited through the Department of Otolaryngology, Head and
      Neck Surgery at Rigshospitalet and Oncology Departments at Rigshospitalet and Herlev
      Hospital, and through our databases on head and neck cancer patients. The investigator will
      send a letter to eligible patients who have been treated and followed for their previous
      cancer disease. Eligible patients can also contact the investigators or a trained member of
      the MESRIX-III study by phone or by a specific study e-mail
      (regionh-stamcelle.rigshospitalet@regionh.dk) if the eligible patients wish to receive a
      letter with further information. Subsequently, the principal investigator or a trained member
      of the MESRIX-III study group will contact patients by phone and inquire about their interest
      in participating in the research project.

      If the eligible patients have an interest in participating in the project, the eligible
      patients will be invited to an interview at the outpatient clinic of the Department of
      Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Rigshospitalet for further information concerning the
      trial. In the written information material, besides material about the trial, the pamphlets
      "Rights of test subjects in a health scientific research project" and "before decision" will
      be included. The right to bring counsel to the information interview will likewise be
      explained. Motivated patients referred from doctors in other parts of Denmark and patients
      who approach our department with an interest in participation in the stem cell research will
      also be offered information about the trial. Patients from all parts of Denmark can be
      included if the participants pass the inclusion and exclusion criteria described below.
      However, transportation and accommodation cannot be provided.

      The information interview will take place in an undisturbed environment with the principal
      investigator or trained member of the MESRIX-III study group, who has the professional
      qualifications to communicate the content of the research project, and who will clearly
      explain that it is a request to participate in a health science research project. The
      participant will be given oral information about the project in layman's terms on the basis
      of the written information, and any questions will be answered. The oral information will be
      adapted to the participant's requirements, and it will be explained without the use of
      technical terms. Participants will be informed of the right to reflection following the
      information interview. Participants will likewise be informed of the opportunity to get
      feedback on the scientific results but will also be informed that no new information on the
      individual participant's disease or prognosis will be obtained. The potential participants
      for MESRIX-III will be contacted by telephone by the responsible physician for final
      commitment to participate. If participants are still interested in participating in the
      project, an appointment is made where a medical history is taken, and where the remaining
      trial appointments will be planned in agreement with the participant, and here the
      participants and the responsible physician will sign the medical consent form.

      Evaluation, reporting, and recording of adverse events All adverse events (AEs) are monitored
      and recorded along with concomitant medicine at the scheduled follow-up (day one, and 4
      months after the intervention). AEs are defined as any untoward medical occurrence in the
      clinical trial participant administered a medicinal product and which does not necessarily
      have a causal relationship with the treatment (ASC/placebo). AEs will be assessed and graded
      according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v5.0 guidelines (CTCAEv5.0).
      Thus, all adverse events are recorded with CTCAE grade. All grade 3 and grade 4 events and
      incidents considered related to this trial will be reported to the sponsor by the
      investigator immediately after the events are discovered.

      An adverse reaction (AR) is defined as any untoward or unintended response in a participant
      to an investigational medical product (IMP) which is related to any dose administered to that
      subject.

      An adverse Drug Reaction (ADR) is stated as all noxious and unintended responses to a
      medicinal product related to any dose should be considered ADR.

      Serious Adverse Event (SAE), Serious Adverse Reaction (SAR), or Suspected Unexpected Serious
      Adverse Reaction (SUSAR), means any AE, AE, SUSAR, respectively, that:

        1. Results in death or

        2. A serious deterioration in health that

             1. Resulted in life-threatening illness or injury

             2. Required hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization

             3. Resulted in permanent impairment of body structure or body function

             4. Resulted in medical or surgical treatment to prevent the above

        3. Lead to foetal death, congenital anomaly or birth defect, or other negative effect on
           the foetus

        4. Anything the Principal Investigator deems to be of Clinical serious significance

      Medical judgment will be exercised by the primary investigator together with the sponsor
      whether an AE or AR should be classified as serious in other situations.

      The included participants will be instructed to contact the principal investigator or a
      special trained person from the research group in case of events with possible relation to
      the trial treatment within the main study period.

      The principal investigator will immediately (within maximum 24 hours after receiving the
      information) inform the sponsor if SAR, SAE or serious suspected adverse reactions occurs.
      The sponsor will report SUSAR (Suspected Unexpected Serious Adverse Reaction) to the Danish
      Medicines Agency and the Danish National Committee on Health Research Ethics within 15 days
      of occurrence and 7 days in case of death or life-threatening issue. Unexpected reactions are
      defined as reactions that are not described in the section "Reference Safety information" of
      this protocol. All other unexpected serious adverse reactions will be reported within 15 days
      after the sponsor becomes aware of these.

      All SARs that have occurred during the trial will be reported to The Danish Medicines Agency,
      The Danish Patient Safety Authority, and the National Committee on Health Research Ethics (if
      appropriate) once a year by the sponsor.

      The sponsor will annually send a concise review and evaluation of pertinent safety
      information, a Development Safety update report (DSUR) collected during the reporting period
      related to the Danish Medicines Agency (DKMA).

      After completion of the trial, the sponsor will after 90 days inform the Danish Medicines
      Agency that the study is completed. Within a year, the sponsor will submit trial results to
      the board, according to the law on drugs (Lov om lægemidler) § 89. 2, No. 4

      Reference safety information (RSI) Adverse events with possible relation to injection of
      ASCs: Type; Frequency; Seriousness Temporary soreness of the salivary gland; 10-50%; Not
      serious Temporary redness of the salivary gland; 10-50%; Not serious Temporary swelling of
      the salivary gland; 10-50%; Not serious

      Adverse events with relation to similar procedures and in MESRIX-I: Type; Frequency;
      Seriousness Temporary soreness of the salivary gland (up to 7 days after injection); 10-20%;
      Not serious Temporary redness of the salivary gland (up to 7 days after injection); 10-20%;
      Not serious Temporary swelling of the salivary gland (up to 7 days after injection); 10-20%;
      Not serious Infection of the salivary gland; 0.5-5%; Not serious Bleeding/hematoma in the
      salivary gland; 1-5%; Not serious

      The above numbers and AEs are based on the previous phase I-II trial (EudraCT:
      2014-004349-29) and on the literature cited and described in the section "Risk Assessment".
      In the previous study by the research group, MESRIX-I, with autologous ASCs no SAR or SUSARs
      were detected, so any SAR in this study will be reported as a SUSAR.

      Long-term safety and efficacy follow-up Following Committee for Medicinal Products for Human
      Use (CHMP) under EMEA draft from January 2018 on safety and efficacy (S&E) follow-up and risk
      management of advanced therapy medicinal products (ATMP), the MESRIX-III participants will be
      invited to a follow-up of efficacy and ARs one year after the intervention (ASCs/placebo).
      Longer follow-up is not needed based on the reported long-term safety described in the
      section.

      "Risk Assessment". Follow-up will include basic ear, nose, and throat examination,
      fiberscope, ultrasound of submandibular glands, sialometry, and blood samples. Data from the
      electronic medical journals and national pathology database will be gathered. It is expected
      that a number of the participants will have a recurrence of their primary cancer during the
      study or follow-up period due to the nature of the head and neck cancer. The allogeneic MSCs
      are believed to be rejected in the recipients, and the stem cells are adult non-pluripotent.
      However, in case of recurrence of cancer or new primary cancer developments each case will be
      carefully evaluated and potentially investigated with genetic analysis in an attempt to
      distinguish whether a tumor is due to recurrence, the administered product, or endogenous
      tumor formation.

      Sample size and power considerations From MESRIX-I it appeared to be realistic to increase
      saliva production for whole unstimulated salivary flow (in milliliter(ml)/minut) rate by
      about 33% or in absolute numbers from 0.125 to 0.151 after 1 month and 0.155 after 4 months.
      The power calculation is based on a power of 0.8 and an alpha of 0.05. This means that the
      total number of patients included would have to be 100 (50 in each group) for a paired
      t-test. 10-20 additional participants may be included to compensate for dropout during the
      study period. The investigators believe that a 33% increase in whole, unstimulated salivary
      flow rate is clinically important and also realistic to detect.

      Ethical considerations The trial is conducted in accordance with the Helsinki II declaration.
      The National Committee on Health Research Ethics and the Danish Data Protection Agency (DPA)
      will be requested permission to conduct the study. Moreover, the Danish Medicines Agency will
      be requested approval, and the trial will be monitored by the Good Clinical Practice (GCP)
      unit (Birgitte Grøn). Each volunteer (MESRIX-III participants) is required to give written
      informed consent before he/she can be included in the study. Information obtained about
      participants' health, other purely private matters, and other confidential information is
      covered by professional secrecy. No project participant has a personal financial incentive to
      implement the described project. The samples will be analyzed and stored in Denmark.

      Risk assessment When the study participants in MESRIX-III will receive either ASCs or placebo
      into the large salivary glands the risk of adverse events such as infection and bleeding is
      estimated to be below 0.5% when using similar procedures. In our previous studies, none of
      the 40 participants developed adverse reactions.

      The MESRIX-III participants may also experience some pain briefly during injection of the
      transplant product (ASCs or placebo).

      A theoretical risk of a possible carcinogenic effect in the treatment of MSC/ASCs has been
      discussed. This is due to their production of growth factors such as epidermal growth factor
      (EGF), a factor produced by the MSC/ASCs. These considerations are particularly relevant
      since ASCs are used in participants previously diagnosed with cancer. However, in model
      systems of cancer, the effect of MSCs on cancer growth is controversial as MSCs have both
      been shown to be inhibitory and stimulatory. Further, numerous clinical trials with more than
      1000 participants have been conducted with MSCs in different participant populations, and no
      increase in the incidence of cancer has been detected. These studies include local injection
      of MSCs. With respect to the use of ex vivo expanded MSCs, despite extensive research, there
      is no data indicating malignant transformation of expanded human MSCs/ASCs.

      Data collection Source data: There will be source documentation for all data in Case Report
      Form (CRF).

      The study director allows direct access to study data and study documents for the monitoring,
      audit, and inspection of the Science Ethics Committee, the Danish Health and Medicines
      Authority, or similar authorities in other countries. Permission will be sought from the DPA
      for the processing of personal data under the General Data Protection Regulation.
      Applications will be sent via the legal secretariat, Rigshospitalet.

      Data will be analyzed with R. Our data will be kept securely in the electronic data capture
      system (EDC) Redcap. All data will be directly entered. The trial will be completed when all
      data is collected.

      All results will be stored and analyzed electronically; participants' anonymity is ensured in
      accordance with the national data legislation. After completion of the study, data will be
      stored in an anonymous form. Data containing social security numbers will be kept locked and
      inaccessible to unauthorized persons.

      Subject confidentially The investigator is obliged to ensure that participant anonymity is
      protected and maintained. On the CRF´s subjects should be identified by their initials and a
      subject study number only, Documents that are not for submission (e.g., signed informed
      consent forms) will be kept in strict confidence by the principal investigator. In compliance
      with the GCP Guidelines, it is required that the investigator and the institution permit
      authorized representatives of a monitoring company direct access to reviewing subjects'
      original medical records for verification of study-related procedures and data. All
      information obtained concerning this protocol regarding participants is protected according
      to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
    
  