
    
      The study design is divided into two parts. First the investigators will follow a
      non-experimental nature design. Based on the results of this exploratory study we will then
      start a three-armed parallel-group study with equal randomization (1:1:1), prospective,
      double-blind, placebo-controlled and multicenter that will be conducted in Portugal (2
      sites).

      We plan to include 381 patients with RA of the hands in accordance to the selection criteria.
      The patients are going to be recruited from the national centers of rheumatology and patient
      associations in the time from May 2015 to October 2016. All patients are supposed to sign an
      informed consent at the time of enrollment according to the rules of the Helsinki
      Declaration.

      Task 1 In the first task we are going to develop a non-experimental, exploratory and
      descriptive nature design with the goal to describe the epidemiological, clinical and genetic
      profile of patients with RA of the hands according to their TCM diagnosis.

      We will use an individual instrument for the collection of data to characterize the patients
      socio-demographically and clinically.

      The main characteristics, complaints and objective examinations of participants, will be
      characterized by a qualified and experienced acupuncturist (first physician), in accordance
      to the Heidelberg Model (HM) to TCM. This physician will assess the pain in the hand by using
      a pressure algometer in two different distinct points. It is well known that the lower the
      ability to tolerate the pressure is, the worse will be the individual pain. The same
      researcher will also record clinical features based on data from tongue-diagnosis that will
      have been conducted before by an Automatic Tongue Diagnosis System (ATDS). The results so far
      demonstrate that the ATDS is very consistent even in settings with different environmental
      lighting.

      The correlation between pattern classification in TCM and biomarkers that are expressed in
      genetic profiles in RA patients will be explored similarly to other recent studies whose
      results indicated that different patterns could be regarded as a consequence of biological
      networks with deviant gene expressions in various affected tissues and immune effector cells.

      Due to financial limitations, we will only select 15 participants randomly from each of the
      different TCM patterns found. Eight ml of venous blood will be collected in anticoagulation
      tubes from each participant and will then be tested in a microarray assay by using the Trizol
      extraction method.

      Task 2 Next, we aim to evaluate the effect of acupuncture on pain and strength of the hand
      according to the criteria of the HM to TCM for a specific vegetative functional state called
      the TP syndrome.

      A sample of 90 patients with clinical features of a TP syndrome will be assigned randomly to
      one of three parallel groups, in a 1:1:1 ratio to either the control, verum or sham group
      with the help of a computer-generated randomization programme.

      The first physician will mark the points with a red or blue colour on the patients that have
      been randomized to the verum intervention group as well as on the patients that have been
      assigned to the sham intervention group.

      Afterwards, the first physician will present these data to a study-coordination program that
      will assign the colour-codes to a sequence of possible treatment modalities by using a
      computer-generated randomization table. A second physician will then be informed by the
      programme about the colour of the points that is supposed to be needled. The second physician
      will then perform a respective standardized needling technique to the selected points
      indicated by the colour which corresponds to either the sham or verum points.

      We decided to use the Leopard Spot technique, a blood-letting acupuncture therapy that uses
      sterile subcutaneous needles (0,30mmx8mm) and it is known to increase local microcirculation
      by inducing a vegetative response. All patients will receive three sessions of treatment.
      After the acupuncture session, the patients must dress with light garment to cover any
      potential marks from needling.

      Before and after the treatments, the patients will return to the first physician for the
      assessment of the outcomes. The first physician will not know which acupuncture points have
      been used.

      The participants will be followed up for six times Assessment (0) will take place after
      randomization; assessments (1), (3) and (5) will take place five minutes after the
      intervention; assessment (2) will be done 24 hours after the first intervention and
      assessment (4) three days after the first intervention.

      The assessments include an evaluation of the patients tolerance to pain in the hand by using
      a pressure algometer; a measurement of their grip strength with the help of a dynamometer and
      an evaluation of the nerve conduction and muscle function in the hand using an
      electromyography.

      Task 3 In this task we intend to do a longitudinal study to assess the effect of the
      acupuncture treatment on inflammation and on the quality of life.

      The patients that had been randomized to groups 2 and 3 will be treated two times per week,
      over a period of three weeks, respecting an interval of 72 hours in between treatments.
      Therefore these participants will be followed up in the assessments (6), (8), (10), (12),
      (14) and (16) - (before intervention) and assessments (7), (5), (9), (11), (13), (15) and
      (17) - (five minutes after intervention) (Appendix 6). The assessments (0), (5) and (18) will
      also include another parameter to measure the inflammation condition: the cortisol and
      interleukins level in the saliva.

      All the patients randomized to groups 1, 2 and 3 will be followed up in the assessments (0)
      and (18) - 28 days after assessment (0), also to measure of pain by Visual Analogue Scale and
      of quality of life by Health Survey SF-36.

      The results of the first task will be conducted by analyzing statistical data, using
      techniques of descriptive statistics and nonparametric tests. To the second and third tasks
      the results will be analyzed by Pearson Correlation Coefficients and a Multivariate Analysis
      of Variance with the significance set at p<0,05.
    
  