
    
      To conduct the study, a prospective single center endoscopist blinded controlled design was
      used.

      Patients Consecutive patients older than 18 years referred for elective colonoscopy were
      included from March 2013 until November 2013 in a single large volume endoscopy center (over
      4000 colonoscopies/year) in the greater Amsterdam Area in the Netherlands. Exclusion criteria
      were illiteracy in Dutch and audiovisual/mental handicaps.

      Study design After informed consent was obtained, patients were divided in two groups: the
      control group received nurse counselling and the intervention group received computer
      assisted instruction (CAI). Next, patients scored comfort ("How comfortable are you?") and
      patient anxiety ("How anxious are you)"on a 5-point Likert scale. (T1) After this, the CAI
      group had a contact with a trained endoscopy nurse for practical matters like bridging in
      anticoagulant therapy, insulin dosage calculation and scheduling of the colonoscopy. Next,
      patients were scheduled for their colonoscopies, maximum 6 weeks after the counselling
      session.

      One hour prior to colonoscopy patients scored comfort and anxiety on the 5-point Likert
      scale. Also patient knowledge and comprehension was tested in a 10-question survey on the
      provided counselling information (T2).

      Post-colonoscopy, patients re-scored comfort on the 5-point Likert scale (T3). During
      colonoscopy, the endoscopist assessed the bowel cleanliness with the Boston Bowel Preparation
      Scale (BBPS). For more subtle differences the Ottawa Bowel Preparation Scale (OBPS) was used.

      Computer assisted instruction As intervention an interactive CAI was designed, according to
      current best practices, like good accessibility, plain language and engaging the user.
      Therefore the information was presented stepwise. The CAI consisted of a web-based platform
      using video mimicking the patient journey with voice-over supported by photo's, 3D animation
      and instructive texts. The video was presented in short clips, maximal 45 seconds, to
      maintain the focus of patient. Patient interaction was ascertained by mandatory mouse-click
      after each item in the CAI. All informative elements, especially mandatory for informed
      consent for colonoscopy (risks, alternatives) were included.

      Outcomes The primary outcome was cleanliness of the colon during examination as assessed by
      the OBPS and the BBPS. The secondary outcomes were patient comfort, anxiety and knowledge and
      comprehension.

      Statistical analyses The sample size of 350 provides 80% power, with a two-tailed α of 0.05,
      to detect an increase in the primary outcome measure from 6.0 in the control group to 6.3 in
      the experimental group.

      All analyses were performed using SPSS version 20.0 for Windows (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL,
      USA). Descriptive statistics were used to describe baseline information including frequency
      count, percentage and mean ±standard deviation. Further analyses included the chi-square
      test, independent t-test and Mann-Whitney. P-values under 0.05 were regarded statistically
      significant.

      Ethical considerations The study was approved by the ethical and executive board of the
      institute.
    
  