
    
      Background: Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) in patients in atrial fibrillation (AF)
      seems to provide modest favorable effect compared with RV pacing. In the Optimal Pacing SITE
      (OPSITE) trial the results were heterogeneous. The situation was almost certainly one in
      which some patients are showing marked clinical benefit with LV-based pacing, balanced by
      other patients in whom RV was the best choice. Therefore with the actual standards, CRT
      pacing cannot be recommended as a first line treatment for all patients with AF and
      refractory heart failure and new criteria to identify the patients who might benefit are
      needed. Furthermore, a pre-requisite for CRT in patients with AF is the presence of stable
      3rd degree AV block which usually implies the need for performing catheter ablation of the AV
      junction.

      Study hypothesis: We hypothesized that a suboptimal level of resynchronization is achieved in
      many patients with actual standards and that some techniques based on tissue-Doppler
      echocardiography could be more effective to obtain better (hopefully optimal) CRT results.

      Objective: The aim of the APAF+ heart failure (HF) trial is to compare, in patients affected
      by permanent AF and refractory heart failure, a strategy of delayed CRT based on clinical
      indications with a strategy of early optimal CRT based on an echocardiographic
      stratification.

      Study protocol: Eligible patients who successfully received AV junction ablation and
      biventricular pacing are randomised to a comparison between a strategy of RV apical pacing
      with delayed CRT based on clinical indications with a strategy of early optimal CRT based on
      an echocardiographic stratification. The optimal CRT is defined as the shortest intra-LV
      delay obtained with tissue-doppler echocardiography among RV, LV and BiV optimised VV
      interval.

      An acute echocardiographic evaluation is performed shortly after randomisation. A short-term
      clinical evaluation is performed after 6 months. A long-term clinical evaluation is performed
      up to 24 months.

      End-points:

        -  Acute echo comparison (acute echo study)

        -  Quality of life and exercise tolerance (Short-term clinical study)

        -  Composite end-point of CRT clinical failure (Long-term clinical study)

      Study size: The study will randomise 458 patients and will be conducted in 46 centres with an
      average of 10 patients per centre. Patient enrolment time is anticipated to last 2 years. As
      the study will continue for a period of 12 months after the enrolment of the last patient,
      total study duration will be approximately 3 years.
    
  