
    
      The overarching aim of the research program is to develop a vaccine against cutaneous
      leishmaniasis (CL) based on sandfly salivary proteins (SFSPs). In order to determine whether
      vaccination with SFSPs can reduce the subsequent incidence of Leishmania major infections or
      CL in humans, it is first necessary to establish baseline rates of parasite infection and
      disease. We have selected two rural villages in central Mali where we have readily observed
      CL lesions in individuals of all ages and large numbers of sandflies that are known to
      transmit L. major in West Africa. The main objectives of this study are to estimate a
      cross-sectional prevalence of L. major exposure; to determine the prevalence of CL; to
      determine an annual incidence rate of L. major infection; and to determine whether robust in
      vitro T and B cell responses to SFSPs correlate with protection against newly acquired L.
      major infection or CL. To meet these objectives, a standard leishmanin skin test (LST) will
      be administered to all residents of two Malian villages in order to identify a cohort of
      subjects who are at risk for newly acquired L. major. After the sandfly biting and disease
      transmission seasons, all subjects will be examined for the development of CL lesions every
      month for 5 months total. CL lesions will be treated topically with paromomycin-
      methylbenzethonium chloride ointment twice daily for 20 days. Response to therapy will be
      documented on days 28 and 42 of the protocol. After allowing adequate time for the
      development of delayed-type hypersensitivity responses to parasite antigens, LSTs will be
      re-administered to all subjects. Conversion from a negative to positive LST will be taken as
      evidence of newly acquired L. major infection. LST conversion data and clinical diagnosis of
      CL lesions will allow us to calculate both the incidence of new L. major infections and CL in
      our study population. In vitro T and B cell responses to SFSPs will be measured from a subset
      of individuals and correlated with relative resistance to both L. major infection and the
      development of clinically apparent lesions.
    
  