
    
      Standard Operating Procedure (SOP)

        1. Preoperative evaluation Patients satisfied with inclusion/exclusion criteria will be
           informed to join in the clinical study and signature the inform consent.

        2. Randomization: Intraoperative evaluation found that transabdominal or transhiatal R0, D2
           lymphadenectomy, total gastrectomy can be performed, the case will entrance into the
           Randomization period. Random numbers are computer-generated, with the third party
           applications.

        3. Surgical procedures: The surgical treatments is adopted the total gastrectomy according
           to the Japanese Gastric Cancer treatments guidelines, 2010, Version 3. Patients in the
           Group A with 3cm length proximal resection margin and patients in the Group B with 5cm
           length proximal resection margin. Intraoperative frozen section will routinely performed
           to secure the tumor free resection margin. If the positive resection margin is found by
           the intraoperative frozen section, supplementary resection was depend on the
           characteristics of each patients. Whether these patients with supplementary resection,
           the length of supplementary resection and the times of the supplementary resection are
           all needed to record. The two study will take the similar surgical procedures except for
           the length of the resection margin.

        4. Postoperative recovery: Postoperative recovery period need to collect those relevant
           parameters of all the patients. All the relevant parameters had definitely definition in
           the Case Report Form of this study which included the preoperative, intraoperative and
           postoperative clinicopathologic characteristics.

        5. Follow-up: The follow-up of this study divide into two parts, the postoperative
           complications and survival outcomes. The postoperative complications is graded by the
           Clavien-Dindo classification. The survival outcomes included recurrence type, relapse
           free survival (months) and the overall survival (months).
    
  