
    
      Germ-cell tumours (GCTs) are extraordinarily chemosensitive and resemble the clinical and
      biological characteristics of a model for the cure of cancer. Nonetheless, a small proportion
      of patients do not have a durable complete remission (CR) with initial chemotherapy. Only
      20-40% of them will be cured with the use of platinum-containing standard-dose or high-dose
      salvage chemotherapy with autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT). Patients who fail to
      be cured after second-line salvage therapy have an extremely poor prognosis and long term
      survival had been documented in <5%. Paclitaxel plus ifosfamide and cisplatin is considered
      as a standard salvage chemotherapy in relapsed good prognosis GCTs, however, up to 40% of
      favourable prognosis patients failed to achieve durable response to this combination, and
      therefore new treatment strategies are warranted.

      Recent data suggest that PD-L1 is overexpressed in TGCTs, including 73% seminomas and 64%
      non-seminomatous tumors, but none of normal testicular tissue specimens exhibited PD-L1
      expression. In previous study that included 140 patients, PD-L1 was significantly higher in
      GCTs in comparison to normal testicular tissue (mean QS = 5.29 vs. 0.32, p < 0.0001).
      Choriocarcinomas exhibit the highest level of PD-L1 with decreasing positivity in embryonal
      carcinoma, teratoma, yolk sac tumor and seminoma. PD-L1 expression was associated with poor
      prognostic features including ≥ 3 metastatic sites, increased serum tumor markers and/or
      non-pulmonary visceral metastases. Patients with low PD-L1 expression had significantly
      better progression-free survival (hazard ratio [HR] = 0.40, 95% CI (0.16 - 1.01, p = 0.008)
      and overall survival (HR = 0.43, 95% CI (0.15 - 1.23, p = 0.040) compared to patients with
      high PD-L1 expression (Figure 1).

      These data suggest that PD-1/PD-L1 pathway could be a novel therapeutic target in TGCTs and
      that there is strong rationale to inhibit PD-1/PD-L1 signaling in GCTs and phase II study is
      warranted.
    
  