
    
      Participants who consent to participate in the study will be randomly allocated to either the
      intervention or control group.

      Once logged into the website, participants in the intervention group will navigate health
      information through an annotated structured guide to health evidence (see Appendix 2) which
      is designed to inform participants where to find specific health information but it will also
      provide information to understand why such content is more valuable than other content. This
      structured annotated guide to evidence will also outline the value of pre-appraisal and will
      help them navigate to products produced for them. These products have been produced by the
      research team and include a collection of web resource ratings, evidence summaries and blog
      posts modelled after those developed and presented on the McMaster Optimal Aging Portal.

      Once logged into the website, participants in the control group will navigate health
      information through a structured one-page guide (see Appendix 1) that does not include
      pre-appraisal information. Instead it will list the main organizations in the field that
      produce citizen content with descriptions of the type of content they produce with links to
      their individual websites. This will be presented to participants when they login to the
      platform. None of the citizen content produced specifically for the study will be provided to
      them prior to crossing-over.

      All participants will receive periodic reminders to access the content in the form of an
      email sent every two weeks.

      Both the intervention and control groups will continue for three months. After three months,
      the control group will be sent a message highlighting some additions to the content provided
      to them. From his point forward when they login to the system they will be presented with the
      same content that was previously only available to the intervention group. Providing those in
      the control group access to the same material as the intervention group for a period of the
      study will allow for direct within- group comparison as well as a direct comparison between
      groups. Both groups will continue in this manner for an additional three months.
    
  