
    
      To date, very little data is available in HIV-infected patients with Sars-Cov-2 infection.
      Only 11 cases of HIV patients with confirmed Sars-Cov-2 infection have been described in the
      literature. These patients are under 50 years of age, HIV infection with a controlled viral
      load in 8/11, 2 patients with a severe course requiring administration of tociluzumab,
      including one patient who died. In addition, the management of these HIV patients is not
      codified. Some authors have changed antiretroviral therapy to a protease inhibitor such as
      lopinavir or darunavir because of encouraging results in vitro but debated in patients. This
      clearly illustrates the disparity of approaches and the lack of data in this patient
      population.

      Knowing the seroprevalence in the population of people living with HIV will allow us to
      better understand the Covid-19 infection in immunocompromised patients, know the percentage
      of immunization and the persistence or not of the antibodies over time as well as their
      unknown neutralizing effect. until now. No data exist on seroprevalence in the HIV
      population.

      Serological tests can detect the immune response to COVID-19 in serum. Studies to date have
      shown seroconversion typically within two weeks of symptom onset, with notable differences
      depending on the studies, techniques and epitopes of the antigens chosen to detect the
      antibodies. A study which showed that the seropositivity rate reached 50% on the 11th day and
      100% on the 39th day with a seroconversion time of 11, 12 and 14 days in median for the total
      antibodies, IgM and IgG.

      Diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 infection is a major public health issue. Serological tests are
      currently being developed. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, performed on blood samples, can
      be performed in an automated manner and provide an estimate of the level of circulating
      antibody.

      These serological tests could identify patients who have developed immunity to SARS-CoV-2 and
      be useful in the collection of epidemiological data related to COVID-19 or to know the
      serological status of exposed persons.

      Nevertheless, SARS-CoV-2 is a new emerging virus and the antibody response (quantitative and
      qualitative) in COVID-19 patients is largely unknown and that of patients of HIV patients
      completely unknown to date. The relevance of the use of serological tests in clinical
      practice will indeed depend on the prior availability of physiopathological and clinical
      knowledge allowing their interpretation and ensuring adequate indications such as those
      recently proposed by the Haute Autorité de Santé ((https: //www.has
      -sante.fr/jcms/p_3182370/fr/premieres-indications-pour-les-tests-serologiques-du-covid-19, #
      9268)).

      Studies to date have shown seroconversion typically within two weeks of symptom onset, with
      notable differences depending on the studies, techniques and epitopes of the antigens chosen
      to detect the antibodies. A study which showed that the seropositivity rate reached 50% on
      the 11th day and 100% on the 39th day with a seroconversion time of 11, 12 and 14 days in
      median for the total antibodies, IgM and IgG.

      Also, the immune response does not always mean protective immunization against further
      infection with the same virus. Only so-called neutralizing antibodies can obtain such
      protection. But the titer of neutralizing antibody needed to provide protection is still
      unknown for SARS-CoV-2. To date, the target epitopes of neutralizing antibodies have not yet
      been identified. In addition, data demonstrating protective immunity against COVID-19 induced
      by antibodies produced against SARS-CoV-2 are currently very limited.

      A Chinese study that studied the antibody response in 175 patients with mild forms of
      COVID-19 found that 30% of them had low neutralizing antibody titer at the end of
      hospitalization. Differences in the titer of neutralizing antibodies were observed depending
      on the age of the patients, the oldest (40-59 and 60-85 years) having higher titers than the
      youngest (15-39 years). The titers remained stable on a control two weeks later (47/175
      patients). This study raises the question of the protection of the duration of this
      protection.

      This is why it is essential to characterize in depth the prevalence of Sars-Cov-2 infection
      in patients infected with HIV, patients considered to be at high risk of severe forms, and
      the evolution of antibody production according to the evolution of the epidemic and their
      protective role over time.

      To date, no specific treatment or therapeutic strategy has demonstrated its effectiveness for
      COVID-19. Some antiretrovirals such as lopinavir / ritonavir, with in vitro activity on
      Sars-Cov-2, have been tested in real life with discordant results. It will be interesting to
      look at the antiretroviral treatments of patients who have had a Covid compared to those
      seronegative in serology.
    
  