
    
      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE:

      Pancreatic tumors have two distinct cell populations -- eukaryotic tumor cells and
      metakaryotic cells. The first cell type divides quickly but must stop at a certain point.
      Metakaryotic cells, also called cancer stem cells, divide less frequently but have an
      unlimited number of cell divisions. Chemotherapy works well on eukaryotic cells. Metakaryotic
      cells are resistant to chemotherapy and radiation, so they are more difficult to eliminate.

      Massachusetts Institute of Technology basic science researchers working with the Medical
      College of Wisconsin pancreatic cancer group demonstrated in the laboratory that doxycycline
      can kill both eukaryotic and metakaryotic cells.

      This study's goal is to discover if the metakaryocidal drug doxycycline kills any significant
      fraction of the metakaryotic cells found in treated pancreatic tumors. Targeting metakaryotic
      cells may decrease cancer relapse and metastases. The development of antimetakaryotics is
      vital for pancreatic cancer patients, who are at risk for disease recurrence and
      cancer-related death.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES:

      Primary Objectives:

      To assess the efficacy of doxycycline on inducing metakaryotic cell death in primary
      pancreatic tumors from patients with resectable pancreatic cancer.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To determine the plasma drug concentrations of the study drug at baseline and at days 1,
           3, 5, 8, 15, 22, 29, and at restaging and at the time surgery.

        -  To assess the histopathologic treatment response of the primary tumors which have
           undergone neoadjuvant gemcitabine based chemoradiation and concurrent doxycycline
           therapy.

        -  To enumerate the number of observed dead/dying metakaryotes per 1 gram of resected
           pancreatic tissue.

      STUDY PROCEDURES:

      Patients will take 100 mg doxycycline twice daily for a period of eight weeks (56 days).
      Following standard-of-care (not study trial-related) chemotherapy, patients will receive
      radiation therapy. Patients will receive doxycycline beginning on the first day of radiation
      therapy. Following this, patients will undergo surgery four to five weeks after completion of
      chemoradiation. Doxycycline will be discontinued five to seven days prior to surgery.

      This study involves pharmacokinetic studies, which means that patients will have blood draws
      several times so that serum levels may be evaluated.
    
  