
    
      In coronary heart disease (CHD), the coronary arteries become clogged with calcium and fatty
      deposits. The deposits, called plaques, narrow the arteries that carry blood to the heart
      muscle and could cause ischemic heart disease (too little blood and oxygen reaching the heart
      muscle). Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery is a treatment option for ischemic heart
      disease. CABG surgery is surgery to create new routes for blood to flow around narrowed and
      blocked arteries so that the heart muscle will receive needed oxygen and nutrients. Acute
      kidney injury is a serious risk of CABG surgery while on CPB pump (heart-lung machine), which
      could result from ischemia during and following surgery. This study is a double-blind
      (neither the patient nor the doctor knows whether the patient is assigned to receive study
      drug or placebo), randomized (assigned to treatment by chance), placebo-controlled (study
      drug results compared to placebo results) study to determine the effectiveness of nesiritide
      compared to placebo when given to HF patients undergoing CABG surgery requiring the use of a
      CPB pump . Patients will be enrolled into the study until 250 patients have received study
      drug or placebo. Patients will be randomized to one of two treatment groups in a 1:1 ratio
      (nesiritide plus standard care: placebo plus standard care) within each site. Study
      medication administration will be initiated after measurement of qualifying baseline
      hemodynamics and prior to chest incision. Nesiritide or placebo will be administered as a
      continuous IV infusion at a rate of 0.01 mcg/kg/min for a minimum of 24 hours and a maximum
      of 96 hours. Patients will be followed through 30 days from start of study drug. All patients
      may receive additional standard care medications including inotropes, pressors, vasopressin,
      antiarrhythmics, diuretics, nitrates, and nitric oxide as needed. Patient safety will be
      monitored throughout the study through physical exams, vital signs (heart rate, blood
      pressure, respiratory rate, and temperature), blood tests, and side effects. A follow-up
      communication 180 days after the start of study drug was implemented to collect mortality
      data. The patients assigned to the nesiritide group will receive a continuous I.V. infusion
      at 0.010 mcg/kg/min of nesiritide for at least 24 hours and could be extended to up to 96
      hours. The patients assigned to the placebo group will receive matching placebo.
    
  