
    
      The overall goal of the CRUSH PrEP for Women Project is to enhance and extend a response to
      the local HIV/AIDS epidemic in Alameda County with a set of innovative, evidence-based
      interventions across the continuum of HIV prevention and care, which target the individuals
      and communities that are the most vulnerable to HIV infection. The investigators hypothesize
      that women in Oakland will be interested in accessing PrEP through a community based clinic.
      Specifically, the CRUSH PrEP for Women Project is a 16month demonstration project designed to
      evaluate and assess the adherence of PrEP within a community based clinic. The specific aims
      of the project are as follows:

      Aim 1. Assess uptake and adherence to PrEP among women in the study: Uptake will be measured
      as the proportion of female patients at the LifeLong clinic who are approached that start
      PrEP after being offered PrEP, the numbers and rate of PrEP discontinuation, the reasons
      given for PrEP discontinuation (side effects, no longer at risk, fear of stigma, inability to
      adhere), and drug concentrations. Drug concentrations are monitored using dried blood spots,
      which have a large dynamic range capable of detecting use of a few pills every month up
      through daily use. The main measure of PrEP utilization is the proportion of time that PrEP
      is used effectively among those attempting to use PrEP. Because the effective dose of PrEP is
      less well characterized for women, only blood concentration levels consistent with daily use
      will be considered effective use for this analysis. After the supply of study provided
      medication is ended at 12 months, participants will be followed for an additional 3 months to
      determine the proportion who continued on PrEP. The investigators will describe patterns of
      use and the barriers and facilitators to continued use beyond one year. The investigators
      will look at demographic, and psychosocial and risk factors that may be associated with less
      than daily adherence to medication, and describe reasons for early discontinuation of PrEP
      among any women who choose to stop taking medication prior to the end of the first 12 months.
      Factors associated with discontinuation at the end of the 12-month study provided supply of
      medication will also be described. Although these analyses will be exploratory, the
      investigators hypothesize that changes in relationships and pregnancy intentions will be
      related to changes in PrEP use.

      Aim 2. Assess the characteristics of women who enroll in the PrEP study: For Aim 2, the
      investigators are interested in characterizing the women who decide to take PrEP through this
      project. Demographic and psychosocial variables will be used to describe the population who
      enroll. Sexual and behavioral risk profiles of those who decide to initiate PrEP will also be
      described as part of this study. Demographics of women who uptake PrEP through our community
      partners will also be compared to the demographics of Alameda County women who have incident
      HIV infection. In addition to demographics and risk behavior, the investigators will also
      describe the contraceptive use and intentions of women on PrEP towards future pregnancies as
      these may be important factors driving interest in PrEP among women.

      Aim 3: Assess the referral sources of women who enroll in the PrEP study: Process data will
      capture the outreach efforts made to recruit participants for this study. At the time of
      baseline visit, the source of referral for each woman screened will be captured, as well as
      the primary reason for joining the study. Enrollment progress will be carefully tracked
      against outreach activities to monitor the relationship between outreach efforts and demand
      generation. This will help to inform future implementation of PrEP among women.
    
  