
    
      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE.

      Lung cancer is the most common cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. This year alone
      12,817 new lung cancer cases were registered in Australia, the mortality rate of which being
      46% within 5 years. Chemotherapy is still considered the first-line treatment, however recent
      clinical trials have established that with treatment monoclonal antibodies known as
      immune-checkpoint inhibitors shows higher efficacy in terms of overall survival and
      progression-free survival. Despite higher efficacy, immune-checkpoint inhibitors can cause a
      number of immune-related adverse events which may force patients to cease treatment. Among
      these side effects, liver toxicity occurs rapidly and is asymptomatic in the early stages.
      These facts underscore the necessity of stratifying patients based on their risk of
      developing liver toxicity. We aim to predict liver toxicity early on in therapy using data
      collected from routine clinical testing.

      STUDY AIMS / OBJECTIVES.

      This retrospective study aims to answer following research questions:

        1. Does pre-existing liver fibrosis/cirrhosis influence the development of liver
           immune-related adverse events?

        2. What is the first time-point and subsequent timeline of liver immune-related adverse
           events occurrence and progression?

        3. What clinical markers predict immunotherapy related toxicity?

      STUDY DESIGN.

      This is non-interventional retrospective study that plans to collect data from patients with
      stage IV lung cancer treated at Blacktown, Westmead and Nepean Hospitals. The main goal of
      this study is to establish statistically significant clinical predictors of liver toxicity in
      patients treated with immune-checkpoint inhibitors. Full clinicopathological data will be
      collected from hospital medical electronic databases. We will prioritise the examination of
      liver function blood tests in order to establish the first timepoint of liver function
      abnormalities and correlate them to pre-treatment blood results.

      STUDY PROCEDURES.

      This retrospective study will be conducted in 3 steps

        1. Collection of full clinicopathological data of patients with advanced lung cancer
           treated at Blacktown, Westmead and Nepean Hospitals .

        2. Blood tests results will be collected according to the following scheme: (1) The day
           prior to treatment commencement (baseline); (2) every 28th day for patients treated with
           tyrosine kinase inhibitors; (3) the last day of each therapeutic cycle for patients
           treated with immune-checkpoint inhibitors or platinum-doublet chemotherapy or
           combination.

        3. Statistical analysis using SPSS v23 and STATA v16 software.

      DATA COLLECTION:

        1. Clinicopathological data

             -  ID

             -  Age

             -  Sex

             -  Clinical diagnosis

             -  Histological diagnosis

             -  TNM stage

             -  Date of diagnosis

             -  Date of treatment commencement

             -  Therapeutic regimen

             -  Cycling regime

             -  Date of death

             -  Cardiovascular comorbidities

             -  Neurologic comorbidities

             -  Respiratory comorbidities

             -  Endocrine comorbidities

             -  Gastrointestinal comorbidities

             -  Renal comorbidities

             -  Smoking status (pack/years)

             -  Eastern Cooperation Oncology Group performance status (ECOG PS)

             -  Programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression (%)

             -  Genetic mutations

             -  FibroScan data

        2. Data from blood tests

             -  Red blood cells (RBC)

             -  Red blood cells distribution weight (RDW)

             -  Haematocrit

             -  Haemoglobin

             -  Mean corpuscular volume (MCV)

             -  Mean corpuscular haemoglobin (MCH)

             -  Mean corpuscular haemoglobin concentration (MCHC)

             -  Platelets

             -  White blood cells (WBC)

             -  Neutrophils

             -  Lymphocytes

             -  Monocytes

             -  Eosinophils

             -  Basophils

             -  Sodium

             -  Potassium

             -  Bicarbonate

             -  Estimated glomerular filtration rate

             -  Urea

             -  Creatinine

             -  Glucose

             -  Serum protein

             -  Total globulin

             -  Albumin

             -  Alanine aminotransferase (ALT)

             -  Aspartate aminotransferase (AST)

             -  Gamma glutamyltransferase (GGT)

             -  Alkaline phosphatase (ALP)

             -  Total bilirubin

             -  C-reactive protein

             -  Iron

             -  Transferrin

             -  Ferritin

        3. Statistical considerations:

             -  All variables will be analysed using descriptive statistics

             -  Mann-Whitney test will be used for estimating differences in liver functional tests
                between two groups and to evaluate the significance of pre-existing liver damage
                (counted by APRI and Fib-4 scores) on the development of liver immune-related
                adverse events

             -  Multivariate regression for establishment significant predictors of liver toxicity
    
  