
    
      Allogeneic stem cell transplantation is a potentially curative treatment for patients with
      hematologic malignancies such as leukemia, lymphoma and myeloma who are at high risk of
      relapse. As well as the potential to deliver high doses of chemotherapy or radiation this
      procedure affords the benefit of an immunologic weapon against disease in the form of the
      graft versus tumor effect.

      The major variables affecting the outcome of allogeneic transplant include: patient selection
      (age and comorbidities); disease status at the time of transplantation (remission vs. active
      disease); type of donor (HLA matched vs. mismatched or related vs. unrelated); type of
      conditioning regimen; source of stem cells (bone marrow vs. peripheral blood). Recent
      advances in the field of stem cell transplant have substantially lowered transplant related
      morbidity and mortality.

      The availability of stem cell transplant as a treatment modality is dependent upon the
      availability of a suitable donor. Best outcomes are thought to occur in HLA matched sibling
      donors. The chance of a sibling being HLA matched is approximately 25%. Despite the
      development of large worldwide donor registries the likelihood of finding an HLA matched
      unrelated donor is 60-70% at best and drops to 10% in some ethnic minorities. In addition the
      process of identifying, confirming and harvesting an unrelated donor is cumbersome and time
      consuming at a time when the patient must proceed immediately to transplant (time from
      initiation of search to identification of an unrelated donor identification takes a median of
      49 days). Therefore the development of alternative sources of hematopoietic stem cells is an
      area of immense interest to many investigators.

      Alternative sources include cord blood and HLA haploidentical donors. Cord blood has been an
      attractive source permitting immediate availability and possibly a lower rate of graft versus
      host disease (GVHD). However delay in engraftment, particularly after myeloablative
      conditioning, remains a significant disadvantage. Haploidentical transplants carry some of
      the same advantages with virtually all patients having immediate access to a suitable and
      willing donor in the form of a partially HLA matched family member. Furthermore the number of
      potential donors allows for donor selection based upon factors such as age, gender, KIR
      alloreactivity. Finally the donor is readily available for future cellular therapies such as
      donor lymphocyte infusion.

      Early attempts at haploidentical transplantation were hampered by high rates of graft failure
      and severe graft versus host disease. Recent advances in graft versus host disease
      prophylaxis with post transplant high dose cyclophosphamide (Cy) have overcome these barriers
      to a large degree. Published studies have shown that HLA-haploidentical bone marrow
      transplant (BMT) after non-myeloablative conditioning and using 2 doses of
      post-transplantation Cy followed by tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) is a
      well-tolerated procedure. However, the major cause of treatment failure in this high-risk
      population was early relapse. As conditioning intensity has been clearly linked to rates of
      relapse in multiple diseases, it is postulated that utilizing conditioning with higher
      anti-tumor potential will lead to a lower relapse rate.

      Given the advances in GVHD prophylaxis with post-transplantation Cy, reduced intensity
      conditioning with Fludarabine, Busulfan and total body irradiation combined with high-dose
      post-transplantation Cy is the platform for this study. The toxicities of this reduced
      intensity conditioning regimen are not expected to differ substantially from previous data
      incorporating post-transplantation Cy. However, this regimen may have higher anti-tumor
      potential resulting in a decreased relapse rate.
    
  