
    
      This is a new technology and form of clinical treatment. As such it is not possible to draw
      on existing literature to give a hypothesis. Rather this research will aim to help form new
      understanding of this developing technological approach. Subsequently a qualitative approach
      is best to gain an indepth and detailed understanding of the experiences of the clincians who
      delivered Virtual Reality in a chronic pain group structure. In the group, around 8 patients
      with Chronic, non-cancer pain were given the opportunity to use a range of programs; demos
      for commercially available computer games, a virtual natural world to support use of
      mindfulness approaches, and a program developed for us by Sheffield Hallam University
      involving climbing and bow and arrow components.

      Individual semi-structured interviews will allow the researchers to focus on aspects of the
      delivery of the technology and how it might be improved in the future. It will also give the
      freedom to respond to the participating clinicians and explore previously unanticipated
      issues or views.

      The Pain Management Program Group runs over 6 weeks. Exercise components and mindfulness
      makes up part of each session and is normally led by the clinician. They are largely made up
      of educational components that will be led as normal. In these Virtual Reality Pain
      Management Groups the exercise component will be replaced by active games in a virtual
      reality environment. This will involve a range of games that engage the patient to move their
      upper-limbs and trunk. The mindfulness component will place the patient in the immersive
      digital environment and then encourage them to engage with it by making use of conventional
      mindfulness exercises.

      At a date following the completion of the group, the staff leading the group will be involved
      in a single semi-structured interview lasting around 30 minutes. Participants will be asked
      about how they found using Virtual Reality technology in a Pain Management Group, what issues
      arose that they had to overcome and how they think the sessions need to be developed in the
      future. Interviews will take place during clinic times over the telephone. Time will be
      allowed so that staff can take part in these interviews. The interviewer will be another
      member of staff at the same organisation who has not been involved in the delivery of the
      Virtual Reality technology. They are also the chief investigator.

      The interviews will be recorded directly onto a secure laptop (password protected encryption)
      and the recordings will be stored on a secure server in a password protected file. It will be
      transcribed and analysed in Microsoft Word using a thematic approach. This will then be
      transferred to the Sheffield Hallam University Data Archive following analysis.

      Confirmation of the themes identified and outcomes of the qualitative research will be
      reviewed with the interviewed clinicians. This will attempt to address researcher bias and
      ensure that participants recognise the issues raised by the research.
    
  