
    
      In this study, the investigators aim to separate the cortex areas that are activated during
      one remember, set-up and plan and start doing a motor task from the areas that are activated
      during performing the motor component. The investigators hypothesized that these areas can be
      identified by screening areas with fMRI when participants are asked to perform a complex
      motor task with a hand that is completely blocked. The hypothesis is based on the fact that
      in a participant with a peripherally blocked arm the central component of the movement will
      not be affected and the activation areas that remember and plan to do a motor task can be
      separated from the areas that are activated when the effector organ is doing the motor task,
      in other words, the motor component of the task.

      the investigators also aim to show;

        1. If there is an ipsilateral cortex activity during a participant with a peripherally
           blocked arm try to execute a complex motor task. The investigators know that in
           centrally paralyzed hands there is ipsilateral activity and there is no argument if this
           is an adaptive response or it is present from the beginning of the motor paralysis due
           to the strength of the central event of the contralateral brain area.

        2. If there is a difference between activation areas of the cortex during the imaginary of
           complex hand movements with the intact and peripherally blocked arms.

      Adult patients (>18) that have been scheduled to have right-hand surgery with peripheral
      blockage of the arm will be evaluated for the study. The patients will be informed about all
      the details and the consequences of the study and patients who give written informed consent
      will be included in the study. Local ethics committee approval is obtained in 05.12.2018. the
      study will be continued until the planned 15 patients are recruited for the study.

      Right-hand dominance of the patient will be confirmed by Edinburgh handedness inventory
      (Oldfield,1971) and scores will be recorded. In the end, the mean of the score will be
      obtained for the whole study population. medium-high degree right handedness will be required
      for inclusion to the study. The patients who do not give written informed consents, patients
      who use their left hand dominantly, patients who have a neurologic or psychiatric disease,
      the patients with hearing and visual loss, who have history of substance abuse or who had
      surgery in the previous 12 months, with a history of major systemic disease (ASA III and IV)
      , with history of drugs that alter neurologic activity, who are unable to stay at MR machine
      without sedation, who are accepted to have a surgery duration of more than 3 hours, and
      patients who have a motor deficit at their right hand that makes the performance of the motor
      task impossible will not be included to the study. before the MR scanning patients will have
      a neurologic examination to show any neurologic insult related to the pathology they will
      have the operation for.

      All these examinations and evaluations will be made at most 10 days before surgery.

      The participants will perform a given motor task of block sequence. Patients will touch the
      other digits by the thumb in a given order and sequence. At the same session patients, will
      be screened while imagining doing the same task. The orders to rest, imagine and perform the
      task will be given by an MRI compatible monitor- mirror set. Patients will practice the task
      of the experiment before the real screening sessions. The patients will be observed while in
      the magnet to see if they perform the task appropriately.
    
  