
    
      Endometrial scratching (ES) is a procedure used to help embryos to implant more successfully
      after In-Vitro Fertilization (IVF), ICSI in patients who had failed cycles in spite of
      transfer of good quality embryos. New researches and evidence suggests that scratching the
      uterine endometrium causes a repair reaction in patients may increase embryo implantation
      rate. The usual timing to perform ES is approximately one week before starting IVF, ICSI
      treatment.

      Aim:

      Comparing results of performing endometrial scratching one week before starting ICSI cycle
      treatment and at day of oocyte retrieval.

      Material &Methods :

      This is a prospective clinical trial, involving patients undergoing ICSI treatment at
      fertility care unite, Mansoura University Hospital and private fertility centers. The
      subjects were recruited from the period between January 2017 and June 2018. An informed
      consent obtained. Sample size was calculated using Graph Pad Inset soft were, version
      3.01.Twenty four patient in each group were required to give the study a power of 80% and α
      of 0.05. Good responders were defined as the patients who had develop, at least four
      good-quality embryos grade 1 and 2 of Veeck's grading in the previous IVF cycle. Patients
      found eligible for the study were offered to undergo endometrial scratch-suction either in
      The usual timing to perform ES is approximately one week before starting IVF, ICSI treatment,
      the other at the time of oocyte retrieval, just after finishing oocyte pickup.

      All patients were evaluated with basal (day 3) Follicle Stimulating Hormone( FSH), and antral
      follicle count of the cycle prior to the embryo transfer cycle. Each woman recruited in the
      study underwent the same Controlled Ovarian Stimulation (COH) protocol that she had undergone
      in the previous ICSI cycles, which included only, long mid luteal phase Gonadotroph in
      Releasing Hormone (GnRH) agonist suppression . Records of previous stimulation protocols and
      embryology details were reviewed. The patients in study undergo endometrial scratch technique
      after being randomly assigned in to one of two groups. First group undergo oocyte pickup just
      after finishing oocyte pick up and the other group undergo oocyte pickup one week before
      starting COH. Manual Vacuum Aspiration (MVA) size 5 moved from below upwards with suction
      scratching anterior uterine wall then posterior then left lateral uterine wall then right
      lateral uterine wall and lastly fundus. All patients were prescribed vibramycine 100 mg twice
      daily for 3 days starting one day before procedure. In the long protocol, patients were down
      regulated with 0.1 mg GnRH agonist for the period of 10 - 14 days following which the dose
      was reduced to 0.5 mg and continued till human chorionic gonadotrophine (hCG) . After
      confirming adequate down-regulation, FSH, in the dose ranging from 150 to 250 IU, was
      commenced. FSH was continued till ovulation triggering .Women were scheduled for oocyte
      retrieval when at least three follicles reached a size of 18 mm. Oocyte retrieval was
      performed by the trans vaginal route under ultrasound guidance, 34-hr after HCG trigger with
      5000 -1000 IU, with the patient under conscious sedation. The morphology of each aspirated
      oocyte was noted after denudation with hyaluronidase . ICSI was performed for all patients
      .The embryos were classified according to Veeck's grading as follows:

      Grade 1 - preembryos with blastomeres of equal size and no cytoplasmic fragmentation; Grade 2
      - preembryos with blastomeres of equal size with cytoplasmic fragmentation equal to 15% of
      the total embryonic volume.

      Grade 3 - uneven blastomeres with no fragmentation; Grade 4 - uneven blastomeres with gross
      fragmentation (≥20% fragments) . Grade 1 or 2 embryos were considered to be good-quality
      embryos. Embryo transfer was performed with a Wallace® catheter (Smith Medical International
      Ltd., Hythe, Kent, UK) on day 3 a traumatically under ultrasound guidance by a senior
      consultant. we transfer up to three good-quality embryos. β-hCG was determined 2 weeks after
      the embryo transfer.

      Statistical analysis All statistical analyses using SPSS for windows version 17.0 (SPSS,
      Chicago, IL). Continuous data were expressed as mean ±SD and compared between the two groups
      using independent Student's t test. Categorical data were expressed in number and percent and
      compared using the χ2 test. The 95 % confidence intervals (CI) for the difference in means
      were calculated. Statistical significance was set at p<0.05.
    
  