
    
      This first-in-human phase 1 trial of ABNCoV2 is a single center, sequential dose-escalation,
      open labelled trial to establish the safety and tolerability of two doses of ABNCoV2,
      formulated with and without MF59 in healthy, adult, severe acute respiratory syndrome
      coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)-naïve volunteers. The immunological objective of this trial is to
      identify a dosage that optimizes the immunogenicity-tolerability ratio 14 days following
      first vaccination with ABNCoV2. The trial will be carried out by the Radboud University
      Medical Center (Radboudumc).

      The trial involves first-in-human administration, dose escalation of ABNCoV2 and adjuvant
      selection. Volunteers will be screened for eligibility and receive two vaccinations by
      intramuscular injection. While we cannot predict with certainty the safety in human subjects,
      we have adopted a safety-orientated staggered trial design with ascending doses of ABNCoV2.
      Seven groups of volunteers (n=6) will receive a given dose of ABNCoV2, either with or without
      MF59, followed by a booster with the same dose and formulation four weeks after the first
      vaccination. All vaccinations will be given as intramuscular injection. The pre-defined
      escalation schedule will start with 6 μg ABNCoV2, with a maximum dose of 70 μg.
      Dose-escalation will proceed only in absence of protocol-defined safety signals.
      MF59-adjuvanted and non-adjuvanted formulations will be tested in parallel at the first three
      escalation steps (Group 1-3) to detect superiority or futility of the MF59-adjuvanted against
      the non-adjuvanted formulation. Up to forty-two (n=42) subjects will be enrolled, as well as
      one reserve subject per group.

      Safety follow-up will be done at following timepoints: baseline, day 1, day 2, day 7, day 14,
      day 25, day 29, day 30, day 35, day 42, day 70, day 119 and day 196 after first ABNCoV2
      administration.
    
  