
    
      Boston keratoprosthesis type 1 (KPro) surgery is the most common corneal graft and is used to
      restore vision in patients with high risk of failure with traditional penetrating
      keratoplasty. Common complications of KPro surgery include retroprosthetic membrane formation
      behind the backplate of the KPro. Glaucoma is the most common threat to vision rehabilitation
      in patients with KPro. Glaucoma is often present before surgery and progresses after KPro,
      seven times faster than in patients with only glaucoma. Retinal detachment is a common
      posterior segment complication that arises post-KPro and can lead to a serious loss of
      vision. Pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) is the standard treatment for patients with vitreoretinal
      diseases and opacities. PPV can include peeling of the anterior hyaloid membrane to ensure
      total resection of the vitreous body. PPV allows for example for retroprosthetic membrane
      excision, installation or revision of a glaucoma drainage device, or repair of retinal
      detachment. Often PPV is performed at the same time as KPro surgery for different
      indications. It has been shown to reduce postoperative complications in comparison to when it
      is performed after the KPro surgery. Patients who receive a complete PPV with peeling of the
      anterior hyaloid membrane have a lower incidence of retroprosthetic membrane formation and
      less vision loss due to glaucoma when compared to patients with partial PPV or anterior
      vitrectomy. Combined surgeries of KPro and PPV offer a complete evaluation of the optic nerve
      and of the retina, which would not be possible otherwise. During a complete PPV, peeling of
      the anterior hyaloid membrane is a difficult step because visualisation is poor, especially
      with a KPro in place. Visualisation can be improved using endoscopy to visualize the inside
      of the eye over 360 degrees. The investigators suggest that peeling of the anterior hyaloid
      membrane assisted by endoscopy during KPro surgery would decrease postoperative complications
      in comparison to a PPV done after KPro surgery and without endoscopy.
    
  