
    
      The development of SBRT for treatment of stage I NSCLC (non-small cell lung cancer) inspired
      the collaboration between thoracic surgery and radiation oncology and has prompted the
      investigators to work closely together to evaluate the relative role of SBRT and surgery.
      Comparative studies of these modalities have been limited in number and are often difficult
      to interpret due to variability in methodological issues. The productive collaboration has
      resulted in publication of several studies comparing SBRT and surgery utilizing propensity
      score based analyses to match patients from each group. However, matching on limited numbers
      of variables between patients ultimately selected for therapy based largely on their real or
      perceived comorbidity leads to significant reporting bias, and therefore methods to
      comprehensively assess comorbidity are necessary.

      As extension of above, a very real ongoing challenge that the investigators have evaluated
      within clinical practice is that current guidelines defining the high risk patient are
      subjective and prone to physician bias. A recent secondary analysis of clinical trial
      inclusion criteria for SBRT underscored this bias by demonstrating that many patients that
      were considered inoperable were perhaps reasonable surgical candidates. Based on standard
      pulmonary function tests the inoperable SBRT patients had a diffusion capacity 33% higher
      than the high risk surgical patients in ACOSOG Z4032. Conversely, stratification of high risk
      surgical patients within ACOSOG Z4032 trial identified an extremely high risk subset (median
      DLCO% 30%, FEV1% 39%) with a 90-day 3+ adverse event rate of 48% compared to the lowest risk
      subset (DLCO% 69%, FEV1% 56%) with a 90-day 3+ adverse event rate of only 24%. In the absence
      of a clinical trial or a prospective database, there is currently no objective algorithm to
      guide the assignment of surgery versus SBRT.

      Attempts to objectively stratify risk within the surgical population have been challenging.
      Risk models based on the European Thoracic Database and the Society of Thoracic Surgeons
      Database are not yet robust enough to guide decision-making regarding treatment assignment or
      classification of the very high risk surgical patient where alternative therapies may be
      preferable. Unfortunately, one of the current limitations to stratifying these high risk
      patients is that these patients are followed by physicians in independent specialties. The
      STS Thoracic Surgical Database does not include patients that undergo SBRT therefore it is
      difficult to create an inclusive algorithm for operable and inoperable patients. A principle
      objective of the study is to create a validated risk model for treatment selection. This will
      greatly enhance the ability to counsel patients regarding their specific risks/benefit ratio
      for surgery or SBRT. This will improve informed decision making on the part of the patient,
      and remove much of the subjectivity of treatment selection. Inclusion of unique metrics such
      as HRQOL data will further bolster the benefit to the patient by making it more
      patient-centric, rather than focusing on cancer outcomes alone.

      As the implementation of the Affordable HealthCare Act (AHCA) continues, physicians will
      experience additional pressure to cut costs while maintaining or improving the quality of
      care provided. The current fee-for-service system is often criticized for being
      compartmentalized and fragmented without well-defined incentives for quality improvement.

      Initiatives of the AHCA have included efforts to test care models to reduce hospital
      associated conditions, bundled payment plans for care improvement, and shared savings
      programs for accountable care organizations whereby participating providers who meet certain
      quality standards share in any savings achieved for the Medicare program. These are just some
      of the efforts designed to rein in the cost of medical care while improving the transparency
      and quality of care. Pilot efforts involving bundling of payments for coronary artery bypass
      grafting resulted in Medicare savings of $40 million with simultaneous reduced in-hospital
      mortality. These types of initiatives are likely to become more commonplace in the United
      States as efforts to create new models of care to constrain cost are introduced.

      With the stimulus of these initiatives for novel systems of healthcare delivery the
      investigators recognized that a model of bundled payment for treatment of stage I NSCLC may
      not only reduce overall costs associated with treatment of stage I lung cancer but
      potentially improve the quality of care provided. At Washington University the investigators
      have taken a preemptive measure to create an accountable care organization (ACO) between the
      Department of Radiation Oncology and the Department of Thoracic Surgery with a focused
      approach on the treatment of stage I NSCLC. Important components of this collaborative effort
      include a bundled payment system for episodes of care involving the treatment selection,
      implementation, and follow up care of patients with stage I lung cancer as well as
      prospective assessment of quality of care measures.

      The impetus for the development of this unique collaboration between radiation oncology and
      thoracic surgery stems from the ongoing interest in improving the quality of care for
      patients with early stage NSCLC. The clinical research focus has been on determining the best
      treatment strategies for the significant number of patients with stage I lung cancer
      considered medically inoperable or high risk surgical candidates. In the aging population,
      pulmonary insufficiency, cardiac disease, as well as other comorbidities may preclude surgery
      or place patients at significant risk for complications after surgery. The evolution of
      stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) in the medically inoperable population has resulted in
      relatively low local recurrence rates ranging from 3-20% with favorable overall and
      disease-free survival in inoperable patients with Stage I NSCLC.
    
  