
    
      The HE10A/13 study is an observational study of the Hellenic Cooperative Oncology Group
      (HeCOG). Its main purpose is the collection of biological material from patients in search of
      prognostic / predictive biomarkers. Each patient signed an informed consent for the provision
      of biologic material for future research purposes. The study was conducted in accordance with
      the Declaration of Helsinki. The clinical and translational protocol has been approved by the
      Hellenic Cooperative Oncology Group Scientific Committee and is under review by the
      Institutional Review Board of Metropolitan Hospital. Patients exclusively with Luminal A or
      Luminal B (Estrogen Receptors (ER)-positive with or without Progesterone Receptors (PgR)
      positive, HER-negative) breast cancer who received adjuvant chemotherapy with positive lymph
      nodes or node-negative with tumor stage or pathological features according to Saint Gallen
      guidelines suggesting high-risk or when genomic testing determined in favor of adjuvant
      chemotherapy are eligible for registration in the study.

      Before registration to the study, each patient signed an informed consent for the provision
      of biologic material for research purposes.

      Potential biomarkers will be examined using in situ or molecular methods in Formalin fixed
      paraffin embedded (FFPE) tumor sections. For tumor subtyping immunohistochemistry for ER,
      PgR, HER2, Ki67 and Fluorescence in Situ Hybridization (FISH) will be performed where needed
      for the assessment of HER2 status; for Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) and CK5 for
      the classification of basal-like tumors; and, the expression of CD8, CD3 and FOXP3 on (Tumor-
      infiltrating Lymphocytes (TILs) will also be evaluated. Moreover, will be evaluated the
      mutational profile, including actionable genomic alterations, and the immune response
      -related profile of Greek women with breast cancer, via the application of DNA/RNA Next
      Generation Sequencing (NGS) technologies, relative also to patient outcome.
    
  