
    
      Palpitations (noticeable pounding, fluttering or irregular heart beat) and pre syncope (near
      blackout) are common ED problems sometimes due to an abnormal heart rhythm. Diagnosis is
      difficult as examination and electrocardiogram (ECG) are commonly normal and symptoms have
      usually resolved by the time the patient arrives in the ED. Diagnosing an abnormal heart
      rhythm as the cause of symptoms rests on capturing it on an ECG and patients are usually
      advised to return to the ED for a 12-lead ECG should symptoms recur. The investigators will
      recruit 242 participants aged 16 years or over presenting to the ED or Medical Assessment
      Unit of the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh with an episode of palpitations or pre-syncope and
      who remain undiagnosed after ED assessment. The investigators will randomise and allocate
      participants to either study or control arms. All study arm participants will be given an
      AliveCor Heart Monitor and trained in the use of the device. Control arm participants will
      receive standard care only. If a participant allocated to the study arm has palpitations or
      pre-syncope during the 90-day study period, the participant can record an ECG using the
      AliveCor Monitor which can be viewed by the study team. Participants will be asked to log
      symptoms and whether the participant was able to record an ECG during the symptoms in a
      participant symptom diary, which the participant will return to the research team along with
      the Participant satisfaction and compliance questionnaire, and smart phone based event
      recorder at the end of the 90 days in a pre-paid stamped, addressed envelope. Participants
      will be phoned at 90 days to remind the participant to complete the Participant satisfaction
      and compliance questionnaire and to return this with the symptom diary and smart phone based
      event recorder. The investigators believe a smart phone based event recorder will allow
      better and earlier diagnosis in patients.
    
  