
    
      A prospective, block randomized controlled 6 months study comparing the blood pressure
      control of hypertensive patients who participate in enhanced usual care plus smart phone
      based telemonitoring (TM) of Blood Pressure (BP) to hypertensive patients receiving enhanced
      usual care (UC) alone in primary care setting.A previous local study done by Fung et al
      showed a mean diastolic BP reduction of 3.84 mmHg using manual recording of HBPM after
      structured program. On the basis of the expectation of least 5 mmHg difference with a power
      of 90% at a significance of level of 5% assuming a standard deviation of 10 mmHg and
      accounting for 20% attrition rate, a sample size of 206 was needed. Following the inclusion
      and exclusion criteria, subjects will be recruited on voluntary basis for this study. Having
      obtained informed consent, all subjects will be required to attend a structured home blood
      pressure monitoring education program based on Fung et al study and all are required to pass
      the self-BP measurement competency test before randomisation.[1] All participating subjects
      will be allocated using block randomization into the intervention group (TM) or control group
      (UC). Research assistants doing the assessments at baseline, 3 months and 6 months post
      intervention will be partially blinded to the groupings.At baseline and follow-up visits,
      research assistants who are blinded to allocation outcomes will measure clinic blood pressure
      after 15 minutes rest with validated electronic automated sphygmomanometer and conduct the
      self-efficacy for managing chronic disease scale ( 6-item scale). Four blood pressure
      readings taken at 1 minute interval will done for each subject and the mean of the 2nd and
      3rd readings would be used for the outcome measures at baseline, 3 months and 6 months. For
      intervention group, patients will be assisted to download a mobile application tool (apps),
      specifically developed for use in telerecording of readings from home self BP measurement.
      For the control group, patients will be encouraged on self BP monitoring and keep the BP
      diary. The research assistants are not blinded in the collection of the mean systolic and
      diastolic home blood pressure readings readings based on the subjects' paper records for
      control group or mean systolic and diastolic BP readings sent to the data center at baseline,
      3 months and 6 months. Regular home BP monitoring is defined as taking at least 3 or more BP
      readings per week and documented manually in their paper record or sent electronically
      through mobile apps to the data center.

      Comparisons between these two groups in terms of compliance to home BP measurement and
      readings,proportion of patients doing home BP monitoring,self-efficacy outcomes and
      improvement in clinic BP readings at 3 months and 6 months post-intervention will be assessed
      using statistical analysis.Data analyses were conducted using the Statistical package for the
      Social Sciences (SPSS) version 16.0. Descriptive statistics, including frequency and
      percentage for categorical variables and mean and standard deviation for continuous variable,
      were used to describe the demographic characteristics and summarize baseline characteristics
      of the variables. Independent T-test was used to examine the differences of outcome variables
      between TM and UC group. A p-value of 0.05 was used as the level of statistical significance.

      The principal investigator and sub-investigator will do regular monitoring, conduct regular
      meetings with research team to ensure quality assurance in patient recruitment, data
      collection, data management, data analysis, reporting for adverse events.
    
  