
    
      Although clinical trials have identified interventions that reduce adverse outcomes such as
      falls in nursing home (NH) residents, attempts to translate those interventions into practice
      using current standard of care quality improvement (QI) programs[1, 2] have not led to
      expected improvements.[3, 4] Barriers encountered in previous studies point directly to a
      need for effective nursing management practices (NMPs).[1, 3, 5] Many studies now show that
      relationship-oriented NMPs such as open communication, participation in decision-making,
      teamwork, and leadership result in better resident outcomes.[5-10] Our recent case-studies
      described how NMPs work in day-to-day practice, and identified new NMPs associated with
      better NH care. We found that staff at all levels engaged in these NMPs, albeit erratically,
      suggesting that NHs have substantial untapped capacity to provide better resident
      care.[11-15] Thus a new intervention that fosters systematic use of NMPs may provide a
      foundation for more effective QI programs.

      QI programs are the current standard for improving resident outcomes for common and costly
      conditions such as falls, pressure ulcers, pain, and depression. Such geriatric syndromes are
      inherently multifactorial, requiring modification of multiple risk factors to improve
      outcomes.[16, 17] Clinical trials using study staff to implement multiple risk factor
      reduction have improved resident outcomes,[18-20] but QI programs teaching existing NH staff
      to implement multiple risk factor reduction have not shown significant effects.[1, 21-24] One
      proposed reason for this failure is that QI programs seek to change individual clinician
      behavior but fail to account for the interactive dynamics of care. We propose that CONNECT,
      an intervention to foster systematic use of NMPs, will enhance the effectiveness of a Falls
      QI program in NHs by strengthening the one-on-one staff interactions that are necessary for
      clinical problem-solving about geriatric syndromes.

      We have developed the Connect intervention based on complexity science and empirical
      research[25] to target these local interactions among staff in a new approach to facilitating
      organizational learning. Connect is a multicomponent intervention that includes: 1) helping
      staff learn new strategies to improve the effectiveness of day-to-day interactions; 2)
      helping staff identify important relationships and encouraging interaction at the point of
      care; and 3) mentoring to reinforce and sustain newly acquired interaction behaviors.
      Complexity science and empirical research suggest that interaction patterns determine
      information flow, ease of knowledge transfer, and capacity to monitor behaviors and outcomes
      in health care settings. [10, 26-28] Thus, Connect has the potential to improve resident
      outcomes when combined with QI programs for clinical problems such as falls. Falls is an
      excellent outcome for this initial test of Connect because: 1) there is ample evidence that
      multifactorial risk factor reduction interventions effectively reduce fall rates in NHs; 2)
      accepted practice guidelines and fall prevention programs exist;[29-32] and 3) falls is an
      important clinical problem in its own right.

      The specific aims of this longitudinal, two arm, randomized intervention study are:

      Aim 1: Compare the impact of the Connect intervention plus a falls reduction QI intervention
      (Connect+Falls) to the falls reduction QI intervention alone (Falls) on fall-related process
      measures in nursing home residents.

      Aim 2 (exploratory): Compare the impact of Connect+Falls to Falls alone on fall-related
      outcome measures in nursing home residents, and determine whether these are mediated by the
      change in fall-related process measures.

      Aim 3 (exploratory): Compare the impact of Connect+Falls to Falls alone on staff interaction
      measures as reported by NH staff, and determine whether these mediate the impact on
      fall-related process measures and fall-related outcome measures.

      With its focus on improving local interaction, Connect is an innovative new approach
      targeting the learning environment to maximize NH staff's ability to adopt content learned in
      a Falls QI program and integrate it into knowledge and action. Our pilot work shows Connect
      to be feasible, acceptable and appropriate. Connect results from empirical findings; local
      interaction behaviors already exist in NHs, albeit to a limited extent and not in a way that
      effectively enables the staff to adopt evidence-based current practice for falls prevention
      inherent in the Falls approach. We are confident that in most NHs the capacity exists to
      develop and focus these behaviors using existing staff and resources and, therefore, the
      Connect intervention has the potential to enhance the effectiveness of Falls by promoting its
      adoption. Also, being a system intervention, Connect can be applied in future projects to
      examine the adoption of evidence-based practices for a wide variety of clinical problems such
      as pressure ulcers, pain, and depression. This study offers a unique opportunity to
      understand the circumstances in which such proven interventions (e.g., Falls) are likely to
      be translated into practice. Our future work will build on this study to establish correlates
      of the sustainability of the intervention in NHs and examine transferability to other
      clinical problems and other health care settings. The results of this research will be of
      interest to NH leadership and policy makers, particularly in light of ongoing state and
      national initiatives to improve care in NHs.
    
  