
    
      Five to eight percent of all children in the United States have a speech sound disorder
      (SSD). Children with SSD have difficulty producing sounds of their target language system.
      Some of these children also have difficulty perceiving and categorizing speech sounds. It is
      presently unknown what underlying mechanisms might account for the communication problems
      children with SSD encounter. One possible explanation is that children with SSD cannot
      produce speech sounds correctly because they have poorly specified phonological
      representations, which are the result of inaccurate speech sound perception. Thus, speech
      sound production errors may stem from imprecise speech perception and its resulting sparse
      phonological representations.

      Most children with SSD make slow and steady gains in speech treatment. This is likely due to
      the fact that speech treatment typically targets just phonetics (i.e., speech production) and
      phonology (i.e., speech sound knowledge and use). However, it is possible that the underlying
      mechanisms of speech sound disorders are not specifically phonological in nature but may in
      fact be related to more general cognitive and/or linguistic impairments. Thus, children will
      be randomly assigned to one of two treatment conditions in the present study: 1) Traditional
      speech treatment alone or 2) Traditional speech treatment in conjunction with speech
      perceptual training.

      One goal of the research program is to identify what components of treatment induce the
      greatest amount of phonological change in children with SSD. By comparing the treatment
      components, the investigators will be able to identify what treatment activities induce the
      greatest phonological change in children. This information should aid in developing more
      efficient and effective treatment programs for SSD.

      A second goal of the research program to use electrophysiological measures
      (electroencephalogram, EEG; event-related potentials, ERP; frequency following responses,
      FFR) to examine how phonological representations and their associated auditory neural
      responses change in conjunction with the two traditional speech treatment approaches. A
      better understanding of phonological representations and the auditory sensory system in
      children with SSD will inform how speech evaluations and treatment are best conducted by
      speech-language pathologists.
    
  