
    
      Goals of the Demonstration Project. The goals of this project are as follows:

      Goal 1: To utilize recent technological advances and refine a theory-based, computerized
      intervention system currently being evaluated in a Birmingham STD clinic. Our proposed
      interventions will target men-who-have-sex-with-men (MSM) and will be designed to: increase
      condom use for specific sexual activities with both main and casual (other) partners;
      decrease numbers of sexual partners among those reporting multiple partners; and increase the
      frequency of HIV serostatus disclosure to sexual partners.

      Goal 2: To evaluate a computer-guided, theory-based, provider-delivered intervention in the
      context of standard care in an HIV primary care facility in collaboration with the Center for
      AIDS Prevention Studies (CAPS). We will test the following hypotheses after 18 months of
      follow-up:

      Hypothesis 1: That the proportion of HIV-positive MSM reporting 100% condom use with main
      partners will be significantly increased in the intervention group compared to the usual care
      group.

      Hypothesis 2: That the proportion of patients reporting 100% condom use with casual partners
      will be significantly increased among patients in the intervention group compared to the
      usual care group.

      Hypothesis 3: That the proportion of patients with multiple sexual partners will be
      significantly reduced among intervention group participants compared with the usual care
      group.

      Hypothesis 4: That the proportion of HIV-positive MSM who disclose their HIV status to sex
      partners who are HIV-negative or are of unknown HIV status will be significantly increased
      among the patients receiving the intervention compared to the patients in the usual care
      group.

      Goal 3: In collaboration with the Center and SPNS program, to conduct a holistic evaluation
      of the intervention program.

      Goal 4: To compare the cumulative incidence of symptomatic and asymptomatic treatable STDs
      (gonococcal and chlamydial infections) between patients in the intervention and usual care
      groups.
    
  