
    
      For the past 13 years the MIRAGE project has demonstrated that genetic factors play a major
      role in the development of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) among patients ascertained in clinical
      settings. This research has also shown that the E4 variant of apolipoprotein E (APOE), is the
      strongest AD risk factor identified thus far.

      The researchers are turning their attention to the growing body of evidence from
      pathological, epidemiological and genetic studies that risk factors for vascular disease also
      enhance the risk of AD. However, since most epidemiological studies lack neuroimaging data,
      it is unclear whether the apparent association between vascular risk factors and AD is
      brought about by ischemic injury to the brain, acceleration of the primary Alzheimer
      neurodegenerative process, or some other process.

      Some vascular risk factors are more prevalent in African American and Japanese American
      populations than in Caucasians. This study will build upon earlier work by evaluating the
      association between APOE, genes involved in vascular function, and other indictors of
      cerebrovascular health including blood pressure and structural brain imaging (MRI), and
      susceptibility to AD in these ethnic groups.

      In order to carry out this project successfully, a sample of 1000 patients (500 Caucasians,
      300 African Americans, 200 Japanese Americans) who meet NINCDS/ADRDA criteria for probable or
      definite AD from 11 centers in the U.S., Canada and Germany will be recruited. Many patients
      will be identified from the existing family registries. Family history, medical history, and
      epidemiological information will be obtained from the AD patient and their first-degree
      relatives using standardized questionnaire instruments and established protocols. A cognitive
      screening test will be administered to and blood samples will be collected from the patient's
      living siblings, spouses and children over the age of 50 years. DNA, plasma and MRI of the
      brain will be evaluated in patients and siblings.
    
  