
    
      There are several lesions arising in the petroclival region. The most frequent tumor is the
      petroclival meningioma, followed by chondrosarcomas, chordomas, schwannomas of the cranial
      nerves V and VII, and other malignant tumors [1, 2, 3, 4, 5].

      Petroclival meningiomas are tumors of the skull base that present a formidable challenge to
      surgical resection because of their deep location and relationship to vital neurovascular
      structures. In the majority of the cases they are benign tumors, but may involve or
      infiltrate the skull base bone, the dura mater, the brainstem, and all important
      neurovascular structures of this region. The petroclival region comprises the anatomical
      location of the body of the sphenoid bone, the anterior central portion of the occipital
      bone, and is bordered on the lateral aspect by the petrous apex. The roof of this space is
      formed by the petroclival ligaments and the tentorium. This space contains important
      neurovascular structures that are frequently involved or displaced by the tumor in a variable
      pattern. The basilar artery with its branches may be embedded or displaced by the meningioma.
      The petrosal vein is often displaced posteriorly by the tumor. Cranial nerves III and IV are
      usually displaced upwardly and the nerve VI is often surrounded by tumor. Petroclival
      meningiomas have their origin medial to cranial nerves V, VII, VIII, IX, X, and XI, and reach
      the tentorium . They frequently extend to the middle cranial fossa, cavernous sinus,
      prepontine space, and down to the foramen magnum. These tumors frequently compress the
      brainstem making total removal very difficult or impossible without neurologic deficits.
      cerebellopontine angle (CPA) and low clivus meningiomas may reach these areas. These lesions
      usually need different surgical approaches as transpetrosal approach ( anterior, modified and
      combined ) and retrosigmoid approach
    
  