
    
      The proposed pilot study uses a prospective, longitudinal, randomized design with repeated
      measures to address vitamin D sufficiency in Active Duty (AD), retiree, beneficiary, and
      Department of Army civilian populations. It is important and necessary to conduct this study
      with adult humans, military personnel in particular, to determine acceptability and
      feasibility of this phototherapy kiosk as an addition to existing Warfighter resources to
      promote health and resilience. Anticipating 20% attrition, approximately 120 volunteers will
      be recruited from Madigan Army Medical Center and Joint Base Lewis-McChord (JBLM), a large
      joint base in the Pacific Northwest, where over 25,000 Soldiers and Airmen train every day
      and regional beneficiaries number ~98,000. Recruiting efforts will attempt to capture a
      representative sample of the population including genders, diverse ethnicities, and a range
      of age (18-70 years) and body mass index, who have no contraindication for Ultraviolet (UV) B
      exposure or oral vitamin D supplementation. Using a computer-generated block design,
      volunteers will be randomized to one of two treatment groups; 1) oral vitamin D
      supplementation, or 2) standing phototherapy kiosk (SPK) with UVB exposure, for a 10 week
      period.

      Group 1- Supplement: A Madigan Army Medical Center (MAMC) Research Pharmacist will dispense a
      10-week supply of the vitamin D3 600 International Units (IU) oral supplement to subjects
      assigned to this group one time. The Project Coordinator will work with the pharmacist to
      coordinate pick-up of supplement bottles for subjects or optimal in-person dispensing times.

      Group 2 - SPK: The Project Coordinator will oversee the phototherapy treatment. Spectrum
      isolation modules in the kiosk will deliver the UVB dose under supervised conditions over a
      2-5 minute interval based on the Fitzpatrick skin type category with the subject wearing
      minimal or no clothing, preferably no more than a bathing suit and protective eye-wear. The
      experience in the SPK is designed to be comfortable.

      We will enroll all eligible adult volunteers regardless of their baseline 25(OH)D level; it
      is important to show there is no potential for harm from phototherapy, even if the baseline
      25(OH)D level is above 30 ng/mL. We also must learn the trajectory of vitamin D absorption
      and availability over a 3-4 month period in order to make evidence-based therapeutic
      recommendations. It is not possible to blind the subjects or research team to the group
      assignment. Serum levels of 25(OH)D, calcium, and parathyroid hormone will be drawn at
      baseline (T0), and immediately following the intervention at 10 weeks (T6); at 14 weeks (T8),
      25(OH) D will be drawn to document sustainment of treatment effect. A survey will be
      completed at T1 to capture relevant demographic, medical history, sun exposure, travel, daily
      activities, and dietary data. Active duty participants will also report the number of days on
      profile for the previous three months, at T1 and T6. A survey regarding Device Usability will
      be administered upon kiosk protocol completion. We will analyze data using repeated measures
      analysis of variance adjusting for significant covariates such as 25(OH)D level at baseline.
      Logistic regression analyses will be used to predict outcomes and explain the
      interrelationships among variables, i.e. age, gender, body fat, BMI, ethnicity, and sun
      exposure relationship to 25(OH)D serum levels.

      Outcomes:

        1. Serum 25(OH)D level. This primary outcome will be crucial to establishing whether the
           device, a standing phototherapy kiosk (SPK), is equivalent to oral vitamin D3
           supplementation which is currently the standard of care prescribed by licensed providers
           to address vitamin D insufficiency/deficiency. We will establish a baseline 25(OH)D
           level for both study arms.

        2. Change in serum 25(OH)D at 10 weeks to reflect adequacy of SPK and supplement treatment.

        3. Change in serum 25(OH)D at 14 weeks will evaluate sustainment of the post-SPK treatment
           level.

        4. Device acceptability by Device Usability Scale. To properly evaluate the outcome of
           acceptability of this demonstration project involving two arms, one an SPK and the other
           an oral vitamin D supplement, the research team will administer the Device Usability
           Scale upon study completion at 14 weeks.

        5. Device feasibility will be assessed by meticulously tracking of the number of potential
           participants screened, the number of enrolled subjects, and attrition from each arm.
           Reasons for attrition will be documented following a discussion with the subject, if
           possible.
    
  