
    
      Scientific background

      Diabetic Kidney Disease (DKD):

      The kidneys, which are an important target for diabetic induced damage, contribute a lot to
      this burden. Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is the most common cause of end-stage kidney disease
      worldwide, associated with increased morbidity and mortality in patients with diabetes.

      The pathogenesis of DKD is relatively established, less progress however have been achieved
      in the effort to heal the diabetic kidney. Current therapies aimed to control blood glucose
      levels and blood pressure, and in particular, inhibition of the RAS in order to prevent the
      development of albuminuria and progression of DKD. Many new therapies emerging recently have
      offered some potential, but yet none of them had proven effect on the renal progression.

      While TGF beta1, MAPK, HIF, VEGF and others have stand in the focus of trials, and drugs that
      control each of these mediators were offered as the drug that will "make the change" these
      mediators are probably not the key insult.

      Oxygen and the kidney

      The kidneys consist of only 1% of the body weight, but consume more than 10% of its total
      oxygen consumption. Eighty percent of the oxygen is being consumed by the Na/K ATPase in the
      proximal tubule.

      For most organs tissue oxygen tension is determined by the balance between the blood flow and
      tissue oxygen consumption. However, the kidneys do not fall under such a simple calculation,
      because the kidney receives blood to regulate the blood volume and composition, not for their
      own benefit.

      Increased renal blood flow increases the glomerular filtration rate, which in turn must
      increase the rate of sodium reabsorption, increasing tissue oxygen consumption. Inability to
      increase delivery without increasing the demand may cause chronic hypoxia. And indeed recent
      studies using DW MRI and BOLD MRI have demonstrated renal parenchymal hypoxia of CKD patients
      with or without diabetes.

      Chronic hypoxia is one of the major key insults affecting the diabetic kidney as
      hyperglycemia and hyperfiltration triggers a vicious circle between increasing oxygen
      delivery and increasing oxygen consumption that leads to more need for oxygen supply.
      Pseudohypoxia also exists due to hyperglycemia induced mitochondrial oxygen consumption.
      Hypoxia/pseudohypoxia contributes to the induction of TGF Beta1, MAPK, which have important
      role in these pathological mechanisms.

      Dissociation between demand and delivery can only be achieved by increasing oxygen delivery
      using hyperbaric oxygen therapy.

      Hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT)

      Hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT) includes the inhalation of 100% oxygen at pressures
      exceeding 1 atmosphere absolute (ATA) in order to enhance the amount of oxygen dissolved in
      the body tissues. During HBOT treatment, the arterial O2 tension typically exceeds 2000 mmHg,
      and levels of 200-400 mmHg occur in tissues.

      As explained in detail by Efrati and Ben-Jacob, the diverse and powerful innate repair
      mechanisms activated by HBOT are associated both with the elevated level of dissolved oxygen
      and with the elevated pressure.

      Hyperbaric oxygen therapy has been used for years for the treatment of ischemic diabetic
      ulcers. The sharp increase in tissue oxygenation enables angiogenesis and regeneration.

      The same effects on brain ischemic lesions have been comprehensively studied, reviling
      improved perfusion and function after a course of HBO treatment.

      Breathing oxygen under hyperbaric conditions elevates the capillary dissolved oxygen partial
      pressure significantly, which enables maximal passive diffusion of oxygen from the capillary
      to the mitochondria in all tissues.

      Hyperbaric oxygen upregulate the expression of hypoxia-inducible-factor-1alpha
      (HIF-1a).probably via sensation of relative decrease from hyperoxia to normoxia, which could
      be sensed as relative hypoxia. HIF-1a increases the transcriptional activity of VEGF and its
      mRNA stability, improves vascular permeability, and eliminates edema.

      HBOT and stem cells:

      HBOT induces stem cells mobilization from bone marrow. The number of circulating stem cells
      increases up to 3-8 times compared to pretreatment level . Mobilized stem cells have higher
      concentrations of an array of regulatory proteins such as hypoxia inducible factors, which in
      the murine model exhibit improved neovascularization.

      Studies have shown that stem cells mobilized by HBOT home in on tissues that have suffered
      damage and signal a need for regeneration, such as in the case of diabetic chronic ulcers or
      radiation related injuries.

      HBOT and the kidneys:

      The effect of HBO on the diabetic kidney has never been studied in human. However few studies
      have analyzed it's effect in animal diabetes model. Hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT)
      suppresses biomarkers of cell stress and kidney injury in diabetic mice. And the treatment
      was found to be safe for renal function in another study with rats.

      The aim of the present study is to evaluate the effect of HBO on a wide range of kidney
      functions and markers in patients with diabetic nephropathy.

      Methods

      The study is as a prospective, controlled trial conducted in the Segol hyperbaric institute
      and the research unit of Assaf-Harofeh Medical Center. All patients will sign a written
      informed consent. The protocol was approved by Assaf-Harofeh institutional review board.

      After signing an informed consent form, patients are invited for baseline evaluation.
      Analysis of urine, blood, pulse wave analysis and fMRI will be done at baseline, after the
      follow up period and after the treatment period are done, after which patients will be
      randomly assign to either follow up or HBOT treatment. The analysis listed above will be
      repeated by the end of the first period, and then patients will be cross over to either HBOT
      or follow up. The following HBOT protocol will be practiced: 60 daily sessions, 5 days/week,
      120 minutes each, 100% oxygen at 2ATA.
    
  