
    
      The efficacy of secondary prevention is limited in the prevention of RHD progression. For
      this reason, new strategies and therapies are needed to prevent the progression of RHD.
      Neutralizing inflammatory cytokines or antagonizing their receptor function has been
      considered as a useful therapeutic strategy to treat autoimmune diseases. In this respect,
      new therapies targeting ST 2 and their receptors as studied in some autoimmune diseases may
      promise a new approach for patients with RHD. Angiotensin II induces the upregulation of
      Transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) and latter the binding of IL-33 to sST2 and not to the
      natural ligand (ST2L). The binding of IL-33 to sST2 will cause fibrogenesis even more. Thus,
      ACEI is hypothesized to attenuate this vicious cycle through the inhibition of Angiotensin II
      and consequently increase Bradykinin that furtherly inhibits fibrosis through the negative
      regulation of angiotensin II activity in Mitogen Activator Protein Kinase (MAPK) pathways
      through the suppression of the Ca2+ response and the Na+ transportACE inhibitor were agents
      with anti-fibrosis effects. The investigators keen to investigate the effect of Ramipril in
      suppressing ST2 expression as biomarkers of fibrosis in cardiac mitral valve in patients with
      Rheumatic Heart Disease in the National Cardiac Center Harapan Kita hospital Jakarta
      Indonesia. This study was designed as a randomized clinical trial. Patients with mitral
      stenosis valvular dysfunction due to rheumatic process planned for cardiac valve replacement
      surgery were given Ramipril or placebo for a minimum of 12 weeks (3 months). ST2 expression
      will be analyzed as the fibrosis biomarker in the mitral valve. This study will be conducted
      in the Department of Cardiology and Vascular Medicine, University Indonesia, National Cardiac
      Center Harapan Kita Hospital, Jakarta, Indonesia from June 2019
    
  