
    
      This study is a multi-center randomized controlled trial that will be conducted at the Kansas
      City VA Medical Center, Kansas City, MO and The Barnes Jewish Hospital, St Louis, MO.
      Patients referred for screening and surveillance colonoscopy will be enrolled. They will be
      randomized to one of the following three groups: standard white light colonoscopy,
      high-definition white light colonoscopy or NBI.

      All colonoscopies will be performed at the Kansas City VA Medical Center and The Barnes
      Jewish Hospital, St Louis, MO. Moderate sedation will be administered for the procedure with
      intravenous midazolam, demerol or fentanyl and Propofol. In patients randomized to the NBI
      arm, the colonoscope will be inserted to the cecum under white light and will switch to NBI
      mode at the time of withdrawal. After cecal intubation, the colonic mucosa will be carefully
      visualized during withdrawal of the scope with one of the three imaging modalities to which
      the patient has been randomized. No effort will be made to look for polyps during the
      insertion of the colonoscope. All polyps detected will be documented for their size,
      morphology (Polypoid: sessile, pedunculated or Non polypoid: superficially elevated,
      completely flat, depressed), and location. The surface of the polyp will be assessed during
      the procedure and the histology will be predicted real time by evaluating the surface mucosal
      and vascular patterns. The patterns would be classified into one of the four patterns
      described in our pilot study (tubular and gyrus patterns will be combined to tubulogyrus
      pattern). Any other patterns detected would be described and kept in the miscellaneous
      category. If a pattern is not identified on a polyp with either white light or NBI, it will
      be recorded as such and no attempts will be made to predict histology. Photo documentation of
      the surface patterns of the polyps will be performed. Polyps will then be removed either with
      a biopsy forcep or snare and sent for histopathological evaluation. Each polyp removed will
      have one or more corresponding picture of its surface patterns and these will be labeled
      accordingly. The total time spent in inspecting the colonic mucosa (excluding the time spent
      in removal of polyps or clearing the colon of liquid and solid debris) will be measured with
      a stop watch. Representative images of the various polyp patterns will be reviewed, discussed
      and standardized amongst all the investigators at both sites. In addition, images of all the
      polyp patterns will be printed and posted in the endoscopy suites at both hospitals.

      The bowel preparation will be evaluated and graded as follow:

      Excellent (score=1) - >90% mucosa seen, mostly liquid colonic contents, minimal suctioning
      needed for adequate visualization.

      Good (score=2) - >90% of mucosa seen, mostly liquid colonic contents, significant suctioning
      needed for adequate visualization Fair (score=3) - > 90% mucosa seen, mixture of liquid and
      semisolid colonic contents, could be suctioned and/or washed Inadequate (score=4) - <90%
      mucosa seen, mixture of semisolid ands solid colonic contents, which could not be suctioned
      or washed

      Patients with "Inadequate" (score = 4) bowel prep will be excluded.
    
  