
    
      Neurological complications following total hip arthroplasty are uncommon, and their impact
      ranges from transient and trivial to permanent and devastating.

      In general, the prevalence rate of neurologic injury after primary hip arthroplasty is
      estimated as 0.7-3.5% , whereas it may increase up to 7.6% after revision hip arthroplasty.

      Direct or indirect injuries of nerves may occur during operative exposure and subsequent
      procedures. Injuries to the peripheral nerves can come about in several ways: laceration,
      ischemia, mechanical deformation from compression or distraction, or a combination of these
      causes.

      Peripheral nerve injuries can involve either distant sites or nerves in the immediate
      vicinity of the hip joint. Sciatic nerve injury is the most common nerve to be injured
      following total hip arthroplasty. Femoral nerve injury is much less common and is associated
      with an anterior approach. Its diagnosis is often delayed, but the prognosis is generally
      better than with sciatic nerve injury.

      The direct lateral approach to the hip was described by Hardinge and is based on the
      observation that the gluteus medius and vastus lateralis are in functional continuity through
      the thick tendinous periosteum covering the greater trochanter.

      This approach involves splitting the gluteus medius and retracting a portion of the muscle
      anteriorly in continuity with part of the vastus lateralis. It avoids trochanteric osteotomy,
      but the neurovascular supply of gluteus medius and tensor fascia lata is vulnerable.

      The superior gluteal nerve may be compromised during total hip arthroplasty done through the
      direct lateral approach of Hardinge which puts this nerve at risk when the gluteus medius is
      split and retracted anteriorly.

      The function of the abductors may be impaired after operation if there is damage to the
      superior gluteal nerve or if the muscle flap is reattached inadequately to the trochanter.
    
  