
    
      If participant agrees to take part, participant's medical history and demographic information
      (such as age, sex, and race) will be recorded. By signing this consent, participant also
      agrees that participant's caregiving partner will be approached to take part in this study.

      Questionnaires:

      Participant will complete about 10 questionnaires before participant's first radiation
      treatment and again after participant completes participant's treatment schedule (usually 6
      weeks later). The questionnaires ask about participant's health, any symptoms participant may
      be having, participant's mood, participant's level of fatigue, participant's sleeping habits,
      participant's relationship, and participant's quality of life. It should take about 45
      minutes to complete these questionnaires.

      Participant will complete about 5 questionnaires again halfway through participant's
      radiation treatment schedule. These questionnaires ask about participant's quality of life.
      These should take about 20 minutes to complete.

      During each week of radiation therapy, participant will also complete a questionnaire asking
      participant's feelings about the Hatha Yoga sessions. Participant will be asked to list what
      participant liked or disliked, what participant found most and least useful, and how
      participant would rate the instructor. Participant will also be asked about how often
      participant practices outside of class and if participant thinks they are benefitting from
      the Hatha Yoga program. It should take about 5 minutes to answer this questionnaire.
      Participant's answers to the questions will not be shared with participant's caregiving
      partner.

      Hatha Yoga Sessions:

      Participant will take part in up to 18 sessions of Hatha yoga over the course of radiation
      therapy. Each 45- to 60-minute session will be guided by an instructor. Participant should
      attend each session together as a couple.

      During the yoga sessions, participant will be asked to do deep-breathing exercises and
      perform different stretching and movement exercises. The movements are designed not to be
      difficult, and participant will sit on the floor or in a chair while participant does them.
      Participant can move through the exercises at participant's own pace. The instructor will be
      available to answer any questions participant may have about the practice of Hatha yoga. Most
      of the yoga sessions may be videotaped. This is so the researchers can keep track of the
      quality of the sessions. Only the study staff will be able to view this videotape. The video
      files are digital and will be deleted after all the data are studied.

      At participant's first session, participant will be given a CD and instructions for
      practicing Hatha yoga at home. While participant is receiving radiation therapy, participant
      will be asked to practice at home 1 time a day either with participant's caregiving partner
      or alone on the days participant does not have a session at the clinic.

      Length of Study:

      Participation on this study will be over when participant has completed the questionnaires
      during participant's last week of radiation therapy.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 15 patients and their caregiving partners, for a total of 30 participants, will take
      part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  