
    
      While total hip and knee replacement surgery remains a highly successful treatment for
      arthritis of the hip and knee, infection following a joint replacement still remains an
      issue, occurring in approximately 1-2% of joint replacement patients. Treatment of infection
      remains very difficult with the successful elimination of the infection being quite variable,
      ranging from as low as 10% to approximately 85-90%, following a two stage revision. A two
      stage revision involves removing the joint replacement implant and replacing it with a cement
      spacer until the surgeon is comfortable that the infection has been eliminated. In the second
      part of a two stage revision the cement spacer is removed and a new joint replacement implant
      is inserted in the joint space. In particular, the treatment of an acute infection, that is,
      infection occurring in the early postoperative period or in a patient with less than two
      weeks duration of symptoms, is particularly problematic. As a first line of treatment,
      surgeons often perform an irrigation (washing out a wound with a stream of water) and
      debridement (the surgical removal of contaminated tissue) surrounding the joint in the hopes
      of preserving the joint replacement, although the success rate is highly variable. Most
      treatment routines involve irrigation of the joint with copious (large) amounts of fluid,
      removal of infected soft tissue, replacement of any removable parts (example plastic liners
      or femoral heads) and then intravenous antibiotics for a prolonged period of time (6-8
      weeks). It is thought that part of the reason for failure with this form of treatment is the
      inability to adequately provide local antibiotics to the joint environment while the joint
      replacement components are in place. In particular, the formation of a bacterial slime by the
      infecting organism, which can attach itself to the metallic components, is thought to be a
      major hindrance to removing infection. In theory, the ability to infuse local antibiotics to
      the joint could prove advantageous to the treatment of joint replacement infections.

      Collatamp® is a like a small flat sponge soaked with antibiotics that delivers a consistent
      dose of fast-release antibiotics called Gentamicin Sulphate (2.0 mg/cm2). The antibiotic is
      concentrated locally in the tissue around the joint replacement. The sponge is reabsorbed by
      the body and therefore does not need to be surgically removed. Collatamp® sponges have been
      utilized in the clinical setting for over 20 yrs. This material has been used in treatment of
      other orthopaedic, general surgery, and cardiac infections, but has not been studied in the
      setting of infected total joint replacements. The purpose of this study is to examine the use
      of CollatampTM sponges as an addition to the treatment of acute joint infections after a
      total joint replacement surgery.
    
  