
    
      Design and Patients: this is a prospective, observational multi-center study, to be conducted
      at King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Centre (KFSH & RC), Riyadh, Saudi Arabia as a
      primary center. Collaborating centers are Buraidah Central hospital,King Khalid University
      Hospital and King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz University Hospital (affiliate of Princess Nourah
      Bint Abdulrahman University)

      Sample size: 226 subjects.

      Protocol: Patients diagnosed with COVID19 infection via positive polymerase chain reaction
      (PCR) test will be screened for one of the following five comorbidity (hypertension, diabetes
      mellitus, cerebrovascular disease, coronary artery disease, and heart failure) will be
      identied on admission to hospital. The use of ACE-I and ARBs or other antihypertensive
      medications will be recorded. Additional information to be gathered will include the
      following: patient demographics (age, sex, weight, and height), indication for ACE-I or ARB
      therapy, duration therapy and doses; plasma or serum levels of the following laboratories
      will be obtained on admission: creatinine levels, lactate dehydrogenase, creatinine kinase,
      ferritin, D-Dimer, and c-reactive protein. The date of positive COVID19 PCR; admission to the
      intensive care unit (ICU) with calculating the Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA)
      score. The requirement of mechanical ventilation and vasopressors will be recorded with a
      length of ICU stay. Patients fulfilling the criteria of acute respiratory distress (ARDS)
      will be recorded, and the PF ratio will be assessed for all subjects admitted to the ICU.
      Patient who die in ICU or during hospitalization will be recorded. The entirety of the
      hospitalization period will be determined and recorded.

      Outcome Assessment: The primary endpoint will be the severity of COVID-19 infection,
      described as the composite of admission to the intensive care unit, requirement for invasive
      mechanical ventilation or death. The use of ACE-I and ARBs will be assessed independently for
      associations with severity of respiratory disease.

      The rate of patients using ACE-I or ARBs will be reported with the indications for their use.
      The association of ACE-I or ARBs with prognosis of patients with COVID19 will be reported.
    
  