
    
      The Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) intensive lifestyle intervention is the gold standard
      weight loss treatment for adults with cardiometabolic risk factors. Despite its efficacy, the
      DPP has not been widely adopted, because its 16 individual, face-to-face sessions with a
      specialist are considered too burdensome and expensive to be a sustainable program. Attempts
      to reduce cost by decreasing session number have yielded greatly diminished weight loss.
      Behavioral adherence to diet and activity goals declines and weight regain routinely begins
      once frequent face-to-face meetings cease. The still unmet challenge of DPP implementation is
      how to reduce treatment intensity without excising the regular social support,
      accountability, and feedback that are essential to maintain adherence. We hypothesize that it
      is feasible to implement DPP Intensive Lifestyle Treatment as effectively but twice as
      efficiently by using hand held technology to preserve feedback, accountability, and regular
      social support. The smartphone-based technology system to be tested is guided by Carver and
      Scheier's control systems theory of self-regulation. Initial formative research will upgrade
      the smartphone with engaging features that motivate participants to use the device to
      self-monitor and interact with a coach and peer support group. Use of the finalized tool will
      be compared to usual recording on paper records in a preliminary 3-group randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) involving 96 obese adults. By enabling peer support, accountability,
      and feedback on diet, physical activity, and weight loss goals continuously through the
      6-month intervention period, the ENGAGED system is expected to enhance (1) behavioral
      adherence [operationalized by (a) self-monitoring of diet and activity and (b) attainment of
      diet and activity goals], and (2) weight loss. An enabling technology that integrates
      specialist and peer support resources to improve treatment adherence could help to curtail
      the obesity epidemic by increasing the efficiency, feasibility, and reach of effective DPP
      lifestyle intervention.
    
  