
    
      The aim of the Athena project is to develop an ostomy product, for people with a colostomy,
      with better comfort than other normal ostomy products. This has been attempted through
      development of a soft and flexible base plate that follows the contours of the body.

      It is the aim of Coloplast to gain knowledge about whether the Athena base plate can adhere
      to peristomal skin to the same degree as the SenSura base plate in situations of perspiration
      both with and without mechanical exposure.

      Primary endpoint Calculation of the area of the base plate that has detached from the skin.
      The area is based on a visual evaluation of Athena and SenSura adhesives measured on the skin
      of the stomach after 1 hour of cycling at moderate intensity.

      Secondary endpoint(s)

        -  Registration of the weight of the adhesive after physical activity on the bike and after
           1 hour in a warm room.

        -  Evaluation of the effects on the skin measured as number of skin cells on the adhesive
           after use.

        -  Loss of liquid.

        -  Peel test (tractive force) of the adhesive on the skin of the stomach (mechanical
           exposure and perspiration).

        -  Peel test (tractive force) of the adhesive on the skin of the back (perspiration without
           the mechanical exposure).

        -  Calculation of the area that has detached from the skin based on a visual evaluation of
           the adhesives on the skin of the back (perspiration without mechanical exposure).

        -  Mechanical evaluation of the area of the adhesive that no longer adhere to the skin on
           both the stomach and on the back.

      Safety endpoint(s)

        -  Test of health (is evaluated by the responsible physician and cardiologist).

        -  Test of fitness (fitness rating).

        -  Unexpected clinical occurrence (adverse events, AE) / Serious unexpected clinical
           occurrence (serious adverse events, SAE).

      Criteria of success The investigation is an explorative investigation where the adherence of
      Athena on perspiring skin is evaluated. Due to the explorative nature of the study it has not
      been possible to define specific success criteria up front. However, the adherence qualities
      of Athena may not be significantly reduced compared to SenSura.

      Design of the clinical study Study design The investigation is designed as a randomized
      control study with 2 groups: A and B. Group A includes 15 healthy men in the age of 50-70
      years who have volunteered. Group B includes 15 men with a colostomy who have volunteered.
      All persons included should have a healthy cardiovascular system (see below) allowing them to
      accomplish one hour of cycling at moderate intensity. Both screening and test will take place
      at the Physicians Test Centre (Lægernes Test Center), Skodsborg Strandvej 215 A, 2942
      Skodsborg, Denmark.

      40 participants will be invited for screening. Those who are evaluated as suitable will be
      invited to proceed in the investigation. If more than 15 men without a stoma or more than 15
      men with a stoma are evaluated as suitable for the test then the additional persons will be
      invited to register on a waiting list and they will be informed about participation in the
      investigation if needed. If less than 15 men without a stoma or 15 men with a stoma are
      evaluate as suitable then the investigation will proceed with the persons available. There
      will be no further recruitment of additional subjects after the screening.

      The Clinical Protocol is signed by the responsible investigator at the Physicians Test Centre
      before the test will take place. The responsible investigator and other physicians who will
      act as investigators will receive thorough information about the investigation. Before
      recruitment of subjects the investigators will be trained in how to inform the subjects about
      the investigation and how to fill in the CRF (Case Report Form)(inclusive training in how to
      perform the different tests of adhesive qualities).

      On the day of screening the subjects will be examined by an investigator with regard to
      health and fitness. The examination will take place at the Physicians Test Centre. The
      examination will also include an interview regarding life style. The cardiological data will
      be evaluated by a cardiologist. Persons will be invited for another one or two test days if
      the investigator finds that the person is able to do one hour of cycling at moderate
      intensity without risk and otherwise comply with the inclusion criteria.
    
  