
    
      Parent-Child Interaction Therapy (PCIT) is an empirically supported behavioral parent
      training program for reducing aggressive behavior in young children and for reducing future
      rates of child physical abuse. Prior research has found that an adapted version of PCIT
      developed specifically for violent parents in the child welfare system reduced future child
      physical abuse recurrence rates from 49% to 19%. OUHSC/CCAN researchers, in prior and ongoing
      studies, have found the benefits of PCIT to be durable over time and to generalize across
      settings and across children in the same family. Culturally-specific adaptations of PCIT and
      adaptations for older abused children and their abusive parents have been developed. A number
      of blue-ribbon panels have recommended PCIT for widespread dissemination in child abuse
      prevention and intervention service systems, but uptake of PCIT has been limited. One reason
      for this is that the traditional PCIT practitioner training models are not easily replicable
      in field settings. PCIT has historically been taught in University-based training programs
      (graduate programs, internships, etc.) and includes several months of co-therapy mentoring
      where trainers work directly with trainees during live sessions. In contrast, given the
      difficulties of conducting co-therapy mentoring in field settings, training for widespread
      implementation has generally involved initial training in the model followed by phone
      consultation.

      OUHSC/CCAN researchers have pilot- and feasibility tested a system using internet-based
      telemedicine technology to deliver live, mentored PCIT training. OUHSC/CCAN researchers have
      piloted Remote Real-Time (RRT) training at sites in Utah, Seattle, Alaska, Oregon, and
      Oklahoma. Feasibility appears excellent, and the approach has been well received. Moreover,
      RRT implementation revealed misapplications of the model that had gone unaddressed in phone
      consultation. This research project will make use of planned, funded PCIT start-up
      implementations at 20-24 agency sites in Washington and Oklahoma. Study participants will
      include agency practitioners engaged in implementing the PCIT model and families receiving
      PCIT services at these community agencies. Using a multilevel interrupted time series
      randomized design; the study will compare the RRT implementation approach with standard phone
      consultation (PC). Outcomes will include practitioner fidelity and competency in implementing
      PCIT, practitioner acceptance and satisfaction with PCIT, and family outcomes of parental
      skill acquisition, parent satisfaction, child aggressive and oppositional behaviors, and
      rates of future child welfare abuse reports. A mediational model is proposed in which
      differences in client outcomes are mediated by improved practitioner fidelity and competency.
      Cost effectiveness and practitioner response to the implementation approach will be examined.
      The study thus will inform strategies for facilitating widespread dissemination and
      implementation with fidelity of the evidence-based PCIT model, thereby making the model
      available to a broader range of agencies and practitioners working with at-risk families.
    
  