
    
      Open-label, phase 1 dose confirmation study in patients with advanced, unresectable and/or
      metastatic soft tissue sarcoma.

      Six (6) Patients will be enrolled sequentially and will be treated according to the following
      scheme:

      • Doxorubicin 75 mg/m2 i.v. on day 1 of each 21-day cycle L19TNF 13 µg/kg i.v. on day 1,3 and
      5 of each 21-day cycle Initiation of the study treatment for an individual subject will occur
      no less than 3 days after initiation of the study treatment for the previous patient. Not
      more than 2 patients are to be treated simultaneously in Cycle 1.

      Should unacceptable toxicities occur in ≥ 2 patients during the observation period from Day 1
      to Day 21 (first cycle), enrollment will be stopped.

      If a patient is not evaluable for unacceptable toxicity, he/she will be replaced.

      Patients will be treated in repeated cycles until the treatment or when one of the following
      criteria are met:

        -  Unacceptable toxicity

        -  Disease Progression or relapse

        -  The patient or the investigator requests the treatment discontinuation

        -  The patient meets a withdrawal criterion. Patients with SD or PR (according to Response
           Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v.1.1 evaluation) after the maximum of 6
           cycles of study treatment, will receive maintenance therapy for up to 18 maintenance
           cycles from start of treatment, toxicity or until disease progression occurs.
           Maintenance can start immediately after the end of cycle 6 and consists infusions of
           L19TNF on Day 1 of each maintenance cycle (every 3 weeks) and doxorubicin on Day 1 of
           maintenance cycle 1 and 2 (if appropriate).

      The primary objective is to evaluate the safety of L19TNF in combination with doxorubicin and
      to establish a recommended dose (RD), assessed as follows:

        -  Adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAE) and drug induced liver injury (DILI)
           assessment based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v.5.0

        -  Standard laboratory (hematology, biochemistry and urinalysis) parameters.

        -  Electrocardiogram (ECG) and echocardiogram (ECHO) findings. In particular, data about
           QT/QTc intervals will be collected and analyzed for QT/QTc prolongation potentially
           caused by treatment.

        -  Physical examination findings including assessment of vital signs and physical
           measurements.

      The secondary objective of the study is to evaluate signs of efficacy measured as
      progression-free survival (PFS) rate at 3, 6, 9, 12 and 18 months.

      The other secondary objectives of the study are as follows:

        -  Efficacy of L19TNF in combination with doxorubicin:

        -  Overall response rate (ORR, consisting of CR and PR).

        -  Disease Control Rate (DCR, i.e. complete response (CR), partial response (PR) and stable
           disease (SD))

        -  Assessment of the formation of human anti-fusion protein antibodies (HAFA) against
           L19TNF.

        -  Characterization of pharmacokinetics (PK) of L19TNF and doxorubicin
    
  