
    
      Nocturnal enuresis is a functional urinary disorder in children. It is intermittent urinary
      incontinence during sleep in children aged 5 years and older. It is said to be "primary" if
      the child has never been clean at night for at least 6 months and "isolated" if there are no
      other associated urinary symptoms, including daytime symptoms.

      It is a common condition with significant repercussions, including disruption of family and
      social life and a frequent decline in self-esteem. Without treatment, it can persist into
      adulthood.

      All these reasons justify taking care of these children.

      This is usually based on:

      The establishment of hygienic-dietetic rules: Regular urination and before sleeping,
      limitation of fluid intake in the evening. They are systematically implemented, whatever the
      subsequent management Drug treatments (Desmopressin, oxybutynin). These treatments have an
      efficiency of 60 to 70% at 6 months post treatment and sometimes have side effects.

      Non-drug treatments: Night-time "pee stop" alarms. They have an efficiency of around 70%.
      They are little used because they often wake up the whole family and are not reimbursed by
      social security.

      TENS (Transcutaneous Electro Neuro Stimulation) is a neuro-modulation technique which
      consists of stimulating the nerves by means of skin electrodes in order to obtain a somatic
      response.

      In urology, it is mainly used by stimulating either the sacral region, origin of the vesical
      innervation, or the tibial nerve. Its main indication is overactive bladder, a source of
      discomfort and incontinence.

      It is used at home, the side effects are exceptional and it does not disturb the activities
      of the patients.

      Main objective is to compare the effectiveness of treatment with TENS versus TENS sham
      procedure (placebo) in isolated primary enuresis, one month after the end of treatment in
      patients from 5 to 17 years old The effectiveness will be evaluated by the evolution of the
      number of wet nights
    
  