
    
      After screening all patients will be randomized in 1:1 ratio to either placebo group or study
      group (receiving L-C for 8-weeks). Randomization will stratify patients by: age, sex, BMI and
      severity of OSA. Randomized patients will receive orally either placebo or L-C once a day for
      8-weeks. All supplements will be packed in a white box. Because this is a double-blind study,
      vial labels will contain a unique identification number that will not disclose to the patient
      or investigator if L-C or matching placebo is included. The daily amount of L-C will be 1400
      mg. The detailed composition of the product will be assessed. All patients will receive a
      test product during the control visits once a month and will be asked to take it once a day
      in the morning. The completion of the data will be checked during the visits and also via
      telephone while the study is conducted. All concomitant medications used (including herbal
      supplements) will be recorded in electronic database. The patients will be asked to continue
      their habitual diet. Moreover, they will be also advised that they are free to withdraw from
      participation in this study at any time, for any reason, and without prejudice. The reason
      for withdrawal and the date of discontinuation will be recorded in our database. Any Adverse
      Event (AE) will be recorded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v4.0
      (CTCAE), clinically significant AE, severe laboratory abnormality, intercurrent illness, or
      other medical condition that indicates that continued administration of study medication is
      not in the best interest of the patient.

      The treatment will be administrated under supervision of experienced nutritionist and medical
      doctor. The anthropometrical and biochemical measurements with assessment of diet, quality of
      life and sleep will be completed by the patients at each of the study visits, which will take
      place at the baseline (screening visit), after 4 weeks, in the post-intervention period (week
      8) and at a 6-month follow-up.
    
  