
    
      Cystic fibrosis (CF) is characterized by airway inflammation and infection leading to
      progressive destruction of lungs. One of the most important abnormalities in CF is an
      abnormal processing of the mutated CFTR protein through the endoplasmic reticulum that causes
      abnormal location or even absence of the protein at the apical plasma membrane of airway
      epithelial cells. This abnormality results in a marked dehydration of the airway surface
      fluid, decreased mucus transport and airway obstruction. Nevertheless, the events that occur
      very early during the progression of the disease at the airway level in infants are not
      known. At cellular level, it has also been reported that the CFTR expression and localization
      could be related to the differentiation state of the airway epithelium. Furthermore, it has
      been reported that gap junctions could be involved in dysregulate inflammation process. In CF
      infants, many answers are still lacking.

      Is inflammation present before infection? Is native epithelium of CF infants more sensitive
      than controls? Could the investigators analyse the localisation and functionality of CFTR,
      tight and gap junctions in respiratory epithelial cells in CF infants? Could the activation
      of the epithelial cells by bacteria alter their functional properties? For a better
      understanding of the early stages of cystic fibrosis, it is of major interest to study
      respiratory epithelial cells obtained as early as possible. Although bronchoalveolar lavage
      has been proposed for this purpose, nasal brushing, which is a much less invasive technique,
      has seldom been used in CF infants. the investigators have shown that, by means of a simple
      nasal brushing technique easily performed and well tolerated, it is feasible, in infants, to
      harvest native respiratory cell sheets in order to analyse the airway epithelium
      functionality. In 15 CF infants and 15 control infants, a nasal brushing will be performed by
      means of a soft sterile cytology brush. Samples will be used for cytological and functional
      studies: ciliary beating frequency, cAMP-dependent chloride efflux, potassium efflux, tight
      and gap junctions functionalities. These studies will be done in basal conditions and will be
      repeated after activation of the nasal epithelial cells by the bacteria, such as
      Staphylococcus aureus, which can be found very early in the course of CF disease.

      the investigators believe that the present study could help to understand the pathophysiology
      on the very early stages of CF disease.
    
  