
    
      One of the last unanswered question in relation to the influence of glycemic control on
      diabetes complications is whether increased month-to-month changes in blood glucose (as
      measured by variability in glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c)) compounds the complication rate and
      if this can be altered with intervention. Qatar has a high prevalence of diabetes, affecting
      approximately 23% of the adult population (International Diabetes Federation 2014) that is
      going to lead to the development of both microvascular and macrovascular complications
      resulting in the increased morbidity and mortality associated with the disease. The fact that
      improved glucose control in type 2 as well as type 1 diabetes reduces the risk of
      microvascular complications is well established. However, more recently it has been
      demonstrated that the month-to-month variability (the 'rises and falls') in glucose control
      are also associated with an increased risk of developing these diabetes-associated problems.
      An individual's long term measure of blood glucose control is represented by the amount of
      HbA1c measured in the blood. The HbA1c level changes slowly over a much longer period than
      the constantly fluctuating glucose levels, giving a good indication of overall glucose
      control in the preceding 2-3 months. What is not known is whether interventions to reduce
      variability in HbA1c could, in turn, lead to a reduction in diabetes complications. For
      example even when HbA1c mean is the optimal 7%, there can be high variability in the HbA1c
      measures (large standard deviation) that may still lead to complications.

      This study proposes to gather data to determine whether different treatment thresholds for
      diabetes in Qatar people have inherently different effects on the variability of HbA1c on a
      month-to-month basis. By establishing an understanding of how different treatment regimens
      for hyperglycemia may affect HbA1c variability, this study would then inform on a long term
      study designed to determine whether interventions to reduce HbA1c variability can reduce
      micro- or macrovascular complication risk independently of mean HbA1c. If proven, this
      concept would allow patients to help avoid glycaemia-related vascular complications without
      having the high potential risk of hypoglycemia that is associated with the current gold
      standard of diabetes care.

      The investigators plan to recruit 150 patients on any glucose lowering medication (HbA1c
      7.5-9%), randomize them into one of two treatment threshold groups and test their HbA1c every
      6 weeks for 20 visits (visit 1 baseline; therefore 114 weeks) to assess the HbA1c variability
      of each group. Self-monitored fasting plasma glucose (FPG) measurement will be undertaken 3
      times weekly and reported back to the medical team as part of the safety monitoring. Patients
      will be randomly divided into 2 treatment thresholds. In one the investigators will intensify
      treatment in those with FPG>140mg/dl until their FPG is <90mg/dl, using whatever treatment is
      clinically appropriate for them, and only intensify it further if their FPG rises to
      >140mg/dl again. In the other group Investigators will intensify if their FPG is >115 mg/dl
      until it is <=115 mg/dl and intensify further if >115 mg/dl again. As such the study will be
      treatment threshold dependent and therapy independent. This will help circumvent any concern
      that the drug regimen could complicate the analysis or present a confounder. In practical
      terms it means the investigators give both groups of patients the same therapy that is
      intensified according to the treatment threshold with the addition of the same hypoglycemic
      agents as used in routine clinical practice. Intensifying treatment dose would be undertaken
      if three consecutive FPG were above the target of 140 or 115 mg/dl. This will be advised by
      the patient ringing the study coordinator and/or the study coordinator ringing the patient
      weekly and advising the consultant what the FPG values are for action. It is anticipated that
      the mean HbA1c will be comparable but the variability of the HbA1c will differ between the 2
      populations.

      Whole blood samples taken from the recruited patients will be freshly analyzed in a
      biochemical and HbA1c analyzer. Following this the samples and an aliquot of haemolysate will
      be stored at -80C for 2-3 years (the duration of the study), when they will be reanalyzed at
      the completion of the study and the results will be compared with the measurements prior to
      storage.

      All patients entering the study will be assessed by a dietician at Hamad hospital and advised
      how to complete the food frequency questionnaire that was devised for an Arab population and
      based on EPIC. It will be completed every six weeks at the time that the HbA1c is taken.
      Patients will also be asked to fill in the WHO Global Physical Activity Questionnaire (G-PAQ)
      that has been translated into Arabic and will be collected on a six weekly basis.

      Measurement of the serum lipids (total cholesterol, HDL), inflammatory marker (hsCRP) will be
      undertaken every 6 weeks when the HbA1c is measured. Twenty four hour urinary oxidative
      stress (urinary isoprostanes by LC/MS) will be measured at baseline, 12 and 24 months. These
      measures may provide some insight on the mechanism by which HbA1c variability may alter
      microvascular and macrovascular risk.

      Measures for microvascular complications have been included and these include
      albumin/creatinine ratio and eGFR that will be undertaken every 4 months as a measure for
      nephropathy. For neuropathy, autonomic function testing using deep breathing heart rate
      variability, corneal nerve fiber density (CNFD), a sensitive measure of small fiber
      neuropathy will be performed at baseline, 12 and 24 months under the expertise of Professor
      Malik who has established the techniques here in Doha.

      Recruitment of the patients:

      Only Qatari patients will be recruited and the investigators will aim to recruit a gender
      balance that reflects that of the local eligible diabetes patients until 150 are recruited
      aged 18-65 years of age. Patients can be on any treatment including insulin as the study is
      aiming to look at treatment thresholds, rather than actual treatments. This would mean that
      patients might have additional medication added or substituted in order to reach the
      necessary threshold of the study. Patients who may be suitable will be given an information
      sheet detailing the study and asked to contact the designated coordinator within 2 days.
      After informed consent that will follow"HRP-803 and HRP-802 INVESTIGATOR GUIDANCE -
      Documentation of Informed Consent", taken by the study coordinator, subjects will be screened
      against the inclusion and exclusion criteria for eligibility. Should the patient be suitable
      for inclusion in the study then blood will be withdrawn for HbA1c, routine biochemistry
      including creatinine, insulin, fasting glucose, fasting lipids, blood for hsCRP and a full
      blood count at that visit. Urinary albumin/creatinine will also be assessed. Patients would
      be randomized at that point. Patients will either attend the clinic or have the study
      coordinator visit their home every 6 weeks to take blood for HbA1c, routine biochemistry
      including eGFR, lipids, and hsCRP. Urine for urinary isoprostanes will be taken as a measure
      of oxidative stress. Urinary albumin/creatinine will also be assessed. This will be
      undertaken for the 20 study visits to assess their HbA1c variability on their two treatment
      thresholds. A fasting insulin and glucose will be taken at the beginning, at week 60 and at
      the end of the study as a measure of insulin resistance (HOMA) to determine if there has been
      a change in insulin resistance over the course of the study. Sex hormone binding globulin
      (SHBG) as an indirect measure of insulin resistance will also be taken in the event that the
      fasting bloods cannot be obtained. Assessment of retinopathy by an ophthalmologist and
      neuropathy will be undertaken at the beginning, mid point and end of the study that fits with
      current clinical practice. Renal function will be determined every 6 weeks throughout the
      study by monitoring GFR and measuring urinary albumin/creatinine. Urinary isoprostanes will
      be measured using LC/MS in a validated assay that is currently in use.

      Autonomic function testing using deep breathing heart rate variability, and a sensitive
      measure of small fiber neuropathy using corneal confocal microscopy to quantify corneal nerve
      fiber density (CNFD) will be performed at baseline, 12 months and at 24 months (a total of 3
      times over the 2 year study period).

      Study Visit Schedule

      Visit 1:

        -  Consent, inclusion and exclusion criteria

        -  Anthropometric measurement

        -  Baseline bloods: routine biochemistry including eGFR, lipids, fasting glucose, insulin
           and full blood count, HbA1c, SHBG, hsCRP.

        -  Urinary measurements. Urinary albumin/creatinine ratio and isoprostane measurement.

        -  Randomization into one of the two treatment threshold regimes.

        -  Autonomic function testing using deep breathing heart rate variability and small fiber
           nerve measurement using corneal confocal microscopy.

      Visits 2-10:

      Bloods: HbA1c, lipids. Each specimen will be identified and coded as part of the trial.
      Urinary isoprostanes will be measured in a validated assay that is currently in use.

      Visit 11:

      Midpoint of the study Anthropometric measurement: Height, Weight, Waist circumference, blood
      pressure Baseline bloods: routine biochemistry including sGFR, lipids, fasting glucose,
      insulin and full blood count, HbA1c, SHBG, hsCRP Urinary measurements: urinary
      albumin/creatinine ratio 24 hour isoprostane measurement, corneal confocal microscopy and
      autonomic function assessment performed

      Visits 12-20:

      Bloods: HbA1c, lipids, eGFR, hsCRP. Each specimen will be identified and coded. 24 hour
      isoprostane measurement, corneal confocal microscopy and autonomic function assessment
      performed at visit 20.

      Autonomic function testing using deep breathing heart rate variability, and a sensitive
      measure of small fiber neuropathy using corneal confocal microscopy and a 24 hour urine
      collection for urinary isoprostanes to measure oxidative stress will be performed, these
      measurements will be performed at baseline, 12 and 24 months.
    
  