
    
      After triage, each acute pain patient who qualified for the study was asked for consent.
      Written informed consent was obtained from all patients who were eligible for the study.
      After obtaining written informed consent, demographic and clinical data were collected and
      recorded by the attending physician. Our study consisted of two parallel groups. Participants
      were randomly assigned into two groups with a 1:1 allocation following simple randomization
      procedures by a program generating an online random number. The control group was given only
      the analgesic drug dexketoprofen trometamol and the study group was given analgesic plus
      anxiolytic, the same dose of dexketoprofen trometamol plus midazolam . Both groups received
      the study drugs in 100 mL of normal saline within 5 minutes. The dexketoprofen trometamol
      dose was 50 mg, and the midazolam dose was 1 mg. The study was double-blind. Sequenced study
      medications were prepared by a nurse, and another nurse administered the medications. In
      patients with an insufficient improvement of pain after 60 minutes, fentanyl 1 mcg/kg ı.v.
      was administered as a rescue medication.

      Pain and anxiety in patients was measured at 0, 30, 60 and 120 minutes using the standard 100
      mm horizontal visual analogue scale (VAS). The patient's general anxiety states were measured
      with the Turkish adopted version of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS).
      Patients who have greater than 10 points are assumed anxious (9). The HADS and VAS scores
      were measured and recorded to the database by the researcher. At the time of discharge,
      patient satisfaction with treatment was evaluated by asking two questions with the 5-step
      Likert scale. The questions were, "I am satisfied with the applied treatment", and "I would
      like the same treatment applied again". Patient answers were, "1-I strongly disagree", "2-I
      disagree", "3-I am not sure", "4-I agree", and "5-I strongly agree".
    
  