
    
      Background: The primary goal of most acute stroke interventions is to restore cerebral blood
      flow (CBF) in the affected region and prevent hypoperfusion during early clinical course.
      Diffuse optical technology offers a new opportunity for invasive, real time and bedside
      assessment of brain function biomarkers, including CBF.

      However, whether CBF monitoring can identify patients who are most likely to benefit from
      therapies is unclear. The results of AVERT trial suggested that the benefit of early
      mobilization (EM) after stroke on functional outcome may be outweighed by a hypothetical
      deleterious effect on cerebral perfusion if cerebral autoregulation (CA) is impaired. EM
      could improve recovery outcomes after stroke in selected patients based on the status of CA
      function.

      Objectives: 1) to investigate if EM leads to superior motor and functional outcome after
      stroke compared to standard care (SC) in selected patients based on optical biomarkers of CA.
      2) To evaluate the feasibility of the clinical use of a novel transcranial optical monitoring
      system adapted to deliver biomarkers of CA at the bedside.

      Methodology: A randomized controlled, open-labeled trial with blinded assessment of outcome
      end-points in a stroke unit of a tertiary stroke center. Patients with an ischemic or
      hemorrhagic stroke will be randomly assigned within 24 hours after symptoms onset to receive
      SC alone or EM in addition to SC. All patients will undergo optical monitoring of CA on
      admission to the Stroke Unit. Randomization will be stratified according to stroke severity
      measured with the National institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) and type of stroke
      (ischemic or hemorrhagic). Clinical outcome will be assessed with the Postural Assessment
      Scale for Stroke (PASS) and modified Rankin scale at 90 days. Safety outcome will be assessed
      by recording the incidence of neurological deterioration, recurrence and falls.

      Expected results: to provide a new in vivo biomarker of cerebrovascular function for more
      accurate and earlier prediction of response to therapy, leading to improved clinical
      decisions and outcomes.
    
  