
    
      Setting Denver Health is an integrated healthcare system. During the time period that the
      trial was conducted, 2010 to 2012, Denver Health comprised eight federally qualified
      community health facilities serving primarily uninsured and Medicaid patients in Denver,
      Colorado, USA. The mainstay treatment for depression was antidepressant medication only, as
      access to specialty mental health counseling or psychiatric services was not readily
      available at the participating primary care facilities during the time frame of the trial.

      Randomization and Masking We recruited seven primary care facilities housing 10 independent
      care teams (clusters). Three facilities had two teams each, and four had one team. Although
      staff and providers from different facilities and teams attend role-specific training
      together and may share managers, each team has unique support staff, providers, and patient
      panels. We used a blocked design to limit the possibility of patients crossing over from a
      team assigned to one randomization group to one in the other group (contamination). Because
      of a negative association between minority race/ ethnicity and depression diagnosis and
      treatment receipt, we stratified the teams by the race/ ethnicity of the respective patient
      populations at each facility (plurality Hispanic, non-Hispanic black, or non-Hispanic white).
      Prior to randomization, we blocked eight of 10 teams into four pairs within strata because
      they: (a) shared the same facility (three facilities with two teams each); or (b) were from
      closely located neighborhoods (two facilities with one team each).

      Outcome assessors who obtained written consent, conducted the baseline depression assessment,
      and collected clinical outcomes were blinded to cluster allocation and were not involved in
      other study procedures. Patient participants were blinded to group assignment. Participating
      providers were not blinded.

      Protocol Change Prior to recruiting patients into the intention-to-treat (ITT) groups, we
      changed the primary outcome at the trial registration site on 4/29/10 from the outcome
      specified in the original 2008 protocol, "adherence to antidepressant medication", to
      "remission from depression." However, detecting remission, defined as an event where
      depressive symptoms fall below a clinically significant level for a prolonged period, entails
      weekly or bi-weekly outcome assessments (Nierenberg, 2001; Rush et al., 2006). Limited study
      resources precluded closely spaced outcome assessments over 36 weeks. Therefore, to better
      understand trajectories of clinical outcome for the primary care patients assigned to teams
      staffed by providers trained to discuss depression with Motivational Interviewing versus
      those patients assigned to teams staffed by untrained providers, measures of both continuous
      depressive symptoms and a binary outcome measure (Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9)
      score < 5) were calculated for each group at 6, 12, and 36 weeks.

      Primary Care Providers In May 2009, the research team emailed 53 providers from 13 primary
      care teams (eligible clusters) in eight facilities with an invitation to participate in a
      study of "training for a new counseling method for treating depression." Inclusion criteria
      included working at least 1.5 days per week in outpatient care, previous experience treating
      depression, and availability for a one-day baseline MI training on 7/25/09. We obtained
      consent from providers prior to randomization.

      Patients During the recruitment phase, the research team called sequential eligible patients
      2 to 3 days prior to scheduled visits with participating providers. The team assessed for
      initial exclusion criteria and invited those not excluded to complete an audio-recorded
      partial waiver of consent and stage-I depression screen, the Patient Health Questionnaire-2
      (PHQ-2). Prior to the visit, a recruiter met patients scoring 2 or higher on either item of
      the PHQ-2, described the study, obtained written informed consent, and invited consenting
      patients to complete the PHQ-9.

      Patients were excluded if they were attending a one-time disability qualification
      examination, had no personal phone, were homeless, were treated for depression with
      antidepressant medication within the previous 3 months, were currently in therapy provided by
      a mental health specialist, had impaired memory, had a life-threatening physical disease,
      expressed severe suicidal ideation, were pregnant or breastfeeding, or exhibited alcohol/
      drug dependence, bipolar disorder or current psychosis assessed with a diagnostic schedule.

      The recruiter notified the provider and patient prior to the clinical encounter when patients
      scored 10 or higher on the PHQ-9, signifying 'probable major depression' . A board-certified
      psychiatrist, blinded to patient allocation, diagnosed depression and determined additional
      exclusion criteria. Patients diagnosed with a major depressive episode, not excluded for
      other reasons, and completing a subsequent baseline telephone interview within 8 days, were
      enrolled as the Intention-To-Treat (ITT) sample.

      Intervention - MI with Standard Management of Depression The MI training approach included
      interactive learning for the core MI skills. An 8-hour classroom training on 7/25/09
      consisted of a brief overview of MI, videos and discussion of core MI skills and "MI Spirit,"
      as well as skill-building practice. Providers learned how to use "OARS" and summaries to
      elicit change talk, how to implement the elicit-provide-elicit technique, and how to craft
      action plans with patients. Providers practiced using 0-10 Ruler questions to assess and
      increase patient importance and confidence in changing.

      The training was designed according to Arkowitz and Burkes' (2008) recommendation for a
      three-component framework when using MI to discuss depression. In this framework, the
      provider first helps explore the patient's negative emotions through reflective listening.
      Second, the provider uncovers contributors to the negative emotions. Third, the patient's own
      ideas about how to handle their negative emotions are elicited.

      To optimize treatment integrity, 4-hour refresher sessions were offered after 4 and 12
      months. Over the first 14 months, feedback was provided via email and face-to face regarding
      audio-taped encounters (total two to four feedbacks per provider).

      Control - Standard Management of Depression Alone All providers randomized to either
      intervention or to control received a 1-hour slideshow and the "American Psychiatric
      Association Practice Guideline for the Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder" (APA
      depression guideline) (2010). The resources recommended antidepressant medications and
      psychotherapy as evidence-based treatments for depression.

      Measurements Baseline Descriptors. In addition to demographics, provider information included
      training (M.D. versus mid-level) and certification (Family Practitioner, General Internist,
      Physician's Assistant, or Nurse Practitioner), and years of clinical experience. Patient
      descriptors included generalized anxiety disorder (past 6 months), federal poverty level, and
      previous suicidal behavior.

      Treatment Variables. Time spent discussing depression at the index visit was assessed from
      audio-recorded encounters. Two measures of follow-up over 36 weeks, total primary care visits
      dichotomized at the median and at least three or more visits with documented discussion of
      mental health were abstracted from the electronic medical record. Receipt of antidepressant
      medication and specialty mental health counseling was also determined.

      Statistical Analysis Missing Data. Total missingness and whether missingness was differential
      by group or cluster was assessed. Little's likelihood ratio test was used to test the
      hypothesis that data is Missing Completely at Random (MCAR). To determine plausibility of
      Missing at Random (MAR), correlations between baseline or auxiliary variables and missingness
      by group at each time point were calculated.

      Prior to performing the ITT analyses, Multiple Imputation through Chained Equations (MICE)
      was conducted to deal with missing data. The Fully Conditional Specification algorithm in the
      SAS MI procedure was used to generate 30 imputed datasets. The effects of the intervention on
      depressive symptoms and on remission were determined on each imputed data set. MI repetition
      results were combined to generate final estimates of parameters and confidence intervals for
      depressive symptoms. Rubin's rules were used to combine the parameter estimates and errors
      into a single set of results.

      Treatment Outcomes. Analyses of treatment outcomes were run by ITT. Generalized linear mixed
      effects models, adjusted for clustering of patients within care team, were used to examine
      differences in outcomes by randomization group. Whereas randomization was stratified by class
      (race/ ethnicity), the interaction between class and treatment group as well as class itself
      were included in all multivariate analyses.

      Main Effects. Main outcome analyses were run by ITT utilizing imputed datasets. General
      linear mixed effects models, or generalized models for a binary outcome, were used to examine
      whether the group x time interactions for outcomes depressive symptoms and remission were
      significant. The general linear mixed model assumed unstructured variance-covariance
      matrices, maximum likelihood (method = ML) estimation, and adjusted for clustering of
      patients within care teams and repeated measures within patients. Whereas the random effect
      of clustering patients within care teams on remission in the adjusted model was zero,
      patients were not clustered within care teams in the generalized model for the binary
      outcome.

      Moderator hypothesis: A hypothesis concerning moderator variables was included in the
      Colorado Multiple Institutional Review Board (COMIRB) protocol for the trial. In the protocol
      approved with a COMIRB stamp on 2/3/10, specific aim #2 was "ii. Specific Aim #2: Aim 2 is to
      explore for moderators and mediators of the effect of AMI-TAD on adherence and outcome. We
      hypothesize that higher baseline patient self-efficacy will differentially increase the
      effect of AMI-TAD with SCD." AMI-TAD is an earlier abbreviated name for the the MI training
      intervention.
    
  