
    
      This study is a pilot quasi experimental study which consists of two groups namely the
      intervention and control group. The experimental group will be implementing the suggested
      home modifications as well as education for functional performance in the homes. In addition,
      this study is a pilot study, therefore the feasibility of the intervention to be implemented
      in practice will be investigated. Other than that, this study also focuses on the outcomes
      from the results in which to analyse the effect of home assessment and modifications on rate
      of falls and fear of falling. The study location is at Hospital Sg Buloh, and Hospital Shah
      Alam. However, the intervention will be conducted at selected participants homes.

      Convenient sampling will be conducted as the sampling method for this study. Any participants
      that fulfil the inclusion criteria will be approach for participation. Information of
      potential participants will be retrieved from the appointment book or online appointment
      system as well as their medical records. The screening and recruitment of participants will
      occur on the same day as their appointment. Prior to participating, all participants are
      required to fill up a written consent form. The researcher will approach the participants and
      explain in detail about the study. Information regarding the study, the risk and benefits,
      confidentiality, withdrawal from the study and questionnaires will also be conveyed.
      Participants will also be informed that they will not be paid for their participation, but
      they will receive a certificate of appreciation. Potential participants will be allowed
      sufficient time to consider their participation in the study. Consented participants will be
      screened using the Modified Rankin Scale during their outpatient occupational therapy
      department appointment and be invited to take part in the study.

      The participants will be conveniently located into two different groups, namely the
      intervention group and the control group. All participants will be given an appointment for a
      home visit according to the participants appropriate time. A falls diary will also be given
      to participants to take home and record any falls they will encounter within 3 months after
      the initial assessment. The participants will then be given a new date for appointment for
      the follow up. During the 3 months follow up, the participants are re-assessed using the same
      initial baseline questionnaires. The falls dairy will also be collected for analysis.
      Recruitment of participants during the initial baseline assessment will stop once it has
      reached 40 participants. Hospital Sg Buloh is conveniently chosen as the hospital for the
      intervention group while Hospital Shah Alam is chosen for the control group. These hospitals
      are chosen because of its accessibility for the researchers.

      On the day of appointment, an independent assessor will come to the participants home and
      conduct the baseline assessments. Initially, the assessor will go through the questionnaires
      with the participant and explain about each of the questionnaires. The administration of the
      questionnaires will take approximately 20 minutes. As the Stroke Impact Scale as well as the
      Falls Efficacy Scale-I are both self-administered, the assessor will give the questionnaires
      to the participants for them to answer. However, the assessor will be there to answer any
      questions. For the HOMEFAST assessment, a manual in-house home assessment will be conducted,
      and it will take approximately 20 minutes. A falls diary will be given to participants to
      keep record of falls within the 3 months after the initial baseline assessment. The
      participants must tick their status for each day, it being no fall or having a fall. The
      participant will also be reminded every 2 weeks via a telephone call by the assessor during
      the 3 months duration to call, text via messaging or whatsapp application if they had a fall
      and to submit their falls diary monthly. At the end of each month the participants must email
      or whatsapp their fall's diary to the assessor.

      For the intervention group, after the baseline assessments have been conducted, the
      researcher will implement the home hazard management program. The intervention group will be
      given up to 2 weeks to proceed and implement the suggested home modifications. The
      participants of the intervention group will be given a logbook to document all executed
      interventions as well as the training and techniques conducted throughout the 3 months. After
      three months from the initial baseline assessments, the assessor will visit all the
      participants' homes (both the control and intervention group) and conduct the re-assessments
      of all the baseline questionnaires. This assessor will also collect the participants' falls
      diary. Another independent assessor will be recruited for data entry and analysis.
    
  