
    
      The objective of the outreach village initiative is to capture in more detail the dominance
      of the risky behaviors as well as the level of behavior development and putting adaptive
      motivational strategies aiming at behavior change. In addition, the initiative set public
      health approaches for HCV elimination and evaluate its efficacy in changing behaviors.

      Methodology The initiative was interventional evaluation study which was conducted along 24
      months starting from May 2015 to October 2017.

      Phases of the study:

      The study passed through three phases; first phase pre-interventional assessment of level of
      the recommended behavior development towards eradication of HCV, dominance of current risky
      behaviors and the wrong believes regarding HCV . The second phase included: community based
      interventions and the setting of the educational activation plan for HCV elimination in the
      village and the third was post-intervention evaluation of the change of level of community
      behaviors adoption according to a preset indicators.

      Indicators are the following:

      Awareness:

        1. Using previously used syringes

        2. Sharing shaving equipment, nail cutters or through needle stick injury

        3. Defect in infection control process during sessions for teeth treatment

        4. sharing tooth brush with other family members

        5. It is better for HCV patients to get vaccinated with Hepatitis B vaccines

        6. Using new syringes/sharp instruments which are not used before could reduce the risk of
           becoming infected with HCV

        7. Awareness by the recommended behaviors can limit the complication and propagation of HCV
           infection

      Perception:

        1. HCV is a serious disease

        2. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a complication of HCV

        3. Cirrhosis is a complication of HCV

        4. Early diagnosis could make a change in patients' health

        5. Fatigue from least effort is symptom of HCV

      The Attitude:

        1. Asking the barber: to change the shaving tools in front of them

        2. to use their own shaving machine

        3. Checking for sterilized tools at dentist clinic

        4. Telling the dentist if they have/ had HCV

      The tried out / rejected or adopted : Not sharing:

        1. nail cutters and scissors between family members

        2. loofah and sponge for personal cleaning

        3. the use of scarves' pins by the veiled females in the same family

        4. other's shaving tools

        5. others tooth brushes
    
  