
    
      Musculoskeletal disorders constitute an heterogeneous group of diseases which represent one
      of the major causes of disability. These include degenerative, traumatic, genetic, metabolic
      and primitive and secondary tumor illnesses. Among the pathologies of the musculoskeletal
      system are extremely widespread and rare. Among the earliest can be illnesses such as
      osteoarthritis and osteoporosis which, due to their high frequency in the population, have a
      high impact not only at the personal but also at social level. The study of these pathologies
      to identify new therapeutic targets is therefore a goal of great strategic importance. In the
      oncological field, the skeleton is also one of the most common metastatic sites along with
      lung, brain and liver. Bone metastases have devastating effects on the quality of life of
      affected patients and result from the activation of extremely complex molecular mechanisms
      whose comprehension would allow identification of targets for their prevention and treatment,
      a key goal to date still reached. Unlike secondary bone tumors, primary tumors are a rare
      group of tumors. As such, research into these types of pathologies has often been limited by
      the low availability of human samples. Further characterization of these tumors is still
      necessary to promote proper recognition and improve treatment.

      Considering the importance of studying these pathologies, it is necessary to establish a
      biobank of highly valuable biological material that would be the fundamental basis for the
      subsequent setting up and activation of research projects. The establishment of biobanks has
      been a fundamental support for the development of many research projects in a wide variety of
      fields. Currently there isn't a biobank at IRCCS Galeazzi Orthopedic Institute. The purpose
      of this project is therefore the creation of a biobank to investigate relevant aspects
      related to musculoskeletal disorders through subsequent bio-molecular characterization
      studies.
    
  