
    
      Controlling patient's body temperature, and in particular, reducing body temperature in a
      treatment referred to as targeted temperature management, has been shown to improve outcomes
      for many conditions, including neonatal hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy, cardiac arrest, and
      traumatic brain injury. However, available modalities for inducing targeted temperature
      management have a number of technical, logistical, and financial barriers. The Esophageal
      Cooling Device is a multi-chambered silicone tube placed in the esophagus that provides a
      highly efficient heat transfer to or from a patient.

      Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a major cause of death and severe disability throughout the
      world. Current methods of traumatic brain injury treatment include reduction of brain
      swelling and edema, both by surgical means, as well as by reduction of temperature and
      avoidance of fever. Methods used to reduce temperature and control fever include surface
      devices, such as ice packs and water circulating blankets, and intravascular catheters, which
      are placed into a blood vessel.

      The esophagus is in close proximity to blood flow from the heart and great vessels, and the
      Esophageal Cooling Device (ECD) is designed to take advantage of this heat exchange
      environment. The ECD's ability to decompress the stomach and avoid distention of the
      esophagus away from the device ensures good contact with the esophageal mucosa, and thus
      maximizes heat transfer from the patient. The ECD replaces the standard gastric tube which is
      placed in the target patient population as a routine standard of care, is made of standard
      medical-grade silicone, and is generally similar in size and shape to the gastric tubes
      currently used. Initial mathematical, animal, and human data have shown strong support for
      the efficacy and safety of the ECD.

      The aim of this prospective, interventional study is to assess the feasibility and safety of
      the Esophageal Cooling Device in patients from suffering from traumatic brain injury who the
      treating physician is treating with targeted temperature management. Comparison of outcomes
      will be made to historical controls. The primary outcome is the feasibility of inducing,
      maintaining, and rewarming patients from targeted temperature management using the Esophageal
      Cooling Device (cooling rate, rewarming rate, and the percent of time within goal temperature
      during the goal-temperature maintenance period). Evaluation of adverse events (including
      cardiac arrhythmias, severe bradycardia, myocardial infarction/re-infarction, dysphagia,
      odynophagia, aspiration pneumonia, non-aspiration pneumonia, reflux, esophageal injury, and
      esophagitis) will be closely monitored during the whole period of targeted temperature
      management (secondary endpoint).
    
  