
    
      The current pilot study will first demonstrate the safety and feasibility of converting
      maintenance transplant recipients to a once daily regimen, while measure of patient
      satisfaction and adherence are secondary outcomes. The purpose of this study is to determine
      the safety and feasibility of converting maintenance kidney transplant recipients (i.e. those
      more than one year post transplantation) to a once daily drug regimen (including
      immunosuppressant and non-immunosuppressant drugs). We believe that conversion to a once
      daily (O.D.) medication regimen for both immunosuppressive and non-immunosuppressive
      medications will be associated with increased patient adherence and satisfaction.

      Immunosuppressant non-adherence is considered the leading potentially avoidable cause of
      allograft failure, with non-adherent patients having a seven fold higher odds of graft
      failure than adherent patients. Although medication non-adherence is multi-factorial,
      simplification of medication requirements has been associated with improved adherence in the
      non-transplant setting.

      There are few prospective studies examining strategies to improve immunosuppressant
      adherence. The proposed study has significant potential to improve medication adherence and
      satisfaction in kidney transplant recipients which may ultimately lead to an improvement in
      long-term outcomes.

      The major barrier to establishing a once daily medication regimen in maintenance kidney
      transplant recipients (i.e. patients ≥ 12 months post transplantation) was related to the
      requirement to prescribe calcineurin inhibitors twice daily. The development of Advagraf
      (tacrolimus extended release capsules), which is approved for prevention of rejection in
      kidney transplant recipients, now provides an opportunity to convert patients to a once daily
      immunosuppressant medication regimen.

      The other maintenance immunosuppressant medications used in kidney transplantation are
      Mycophenolic acid (MPA), azathioprine and prednisone.

      Mycophenolic acid (MPA) was first made available for use in kidney transplantation in 1995 in
      the form of the prodrug mycophenolate mofetil (MMF); this was later followed by the
      introduction of mycophenolate sodium (Myfortic).

      The recommended dose of MMF and Myfortic are 2g/day and 1440 mg/day respectively in de novo
      transplant recipients. In clinical practice, maintenance patients (i.e. those who are more
      than 1 year post transplantation) are often not maintained on the recommended initial (see
      below). In studies involving patients prescribed the recommended initial daily dose, MPA
      exposure is highly variable: The 12 hour area under the curve (AUC) ranges anywhere between
      15 and 115 mg*h/L. In the first post transplant year, a 12 hour AUC of 30 -60 mg*h/l is
      recommended based on studies showing an increased incidence of rejection when the AUC < 30
      mg*h/l, and no additional efficacy benefit with AUC > 60 mg*h/l in cyclosporine treated
      patients.

      A relationship between MPA exposure and acute rejection beyond 3 months has not been
      demonstrated. There is a paucity of studies examining the concentration-effect relationship
      beyond the first post transplant year and thus there are no established recommendations for
      MPA exposure after the first post-transplant year. In clinical practice a significant
      proportion of long-term (≥ 1 year post transplant) MPA treated patients will be prescribed
      less than the recommended dose of MPA due to a variety of reasons including patient
      intolerance (usually gastrointestinal or hematological). Most reductions in MPA dose are
      undertaken in the first few months after transplantation when renal allograft dysfunction or
      hypoalbuminemia may have increased free MPA exposure and possibly increased drug related side
      effects. Importantly recent controlled studies in both de novo and maintenance transplant
      patients have demonstrated the safety of once daily MPA dosing using less than the initial
      recommended daily dose.

      Prednisone may or may not be prescribed in maintenance transplant recipients. Maintenance
      prednisone dose varies between 5 -10 mg once daily or every other day.

      Azathioprine is an established once daily medication.

      A significant criticism of one daily immunosuppressant regimens has been that patients will
      still be required to take other medications multiple times per day. Uniquely the proposed
      study will convert all medications (immunosuppressant and non-immunosuppressants) to a once
      daily regimen.

      In summary, advances in immunosuppressant drugs now make it possible to consider a once daily
      immunosuppressant regimen in maintenance kidney transplant recipients.

      Eligible patients will be screened and consented at the hospital by the study team. The
      conversion to a once daily dosing regimen will be accomplished in three phases: 1) conversion
      to Advagraf; 2) conversion of non-immunosuppressant drugs and; 3) conversion of patients
      taking twice daily MPA to once daily MPA.
    
  