
    
      Degenerative shoulder pathologies associated with a functional rotator cuff are currently
      treated by hemi-arthroplasty or total prosthesis replacement. The choice of surgery process
      is mainly made according to the status of the glenoid.

      Concerning hemi-arthroplasty, two types of humeral prosthesis are usually used: anatomical
      stems or resurfacing head implants. Both provide good results. Nevertheless with these
      prostheses, patient can present with post-operative pains due to glenoid erosion, linked to
      the metallic compounds used in such a prostheses. To face this issue, it was decided to
      modify the metallic compounds, and in order to mimic the tribological properties of the
      cartilage, Pyrocarbon (PyC) was found to be the best material.

      First application of PyC in a medical device was for cardiac valves in 1969. Currently more
      than 2 million people live with PyC cardiac valves. Mechanical and physical properties of PyC
      are in favor of its use in orthopedic surgery; furthermore, its biocompatibility plays an
      important role in its good acceptability.

      As very good results were observed when used in hand and wrist, interposition PyC implant was
      suggested for shoulder. Another advantage was that such interposition device allowed
      performing less invasive surgery, a particularly important criteria for young patients.

      INSPYRE shoulder prosthesis was then designed as a shoulder interposition implant intended
      for partial replacement of the gleno-humeral joint. This implant is inserted between the
      glenoid cartilage and the humeral metaphyseal cavity. It is indicated in primary surgery to
      relieve severe pain or significant disability caused by degenerative pathologies, e.g.,
      osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, post-traumatic arthritis, primary and secondary
      necrosis of the humeral head. The rotator cuff must be functional.
    
  