
    
      Subjects who enroll and meet the inclusion and none of the exclusion criteria will first
      undergo baseline testing including recording of demographic, medical, dialysis and exercise
      history, taking surveys to assess quality of life and overall mood, measurement of vital
      signs and anthropomorphic measurements (height, weight, thigh circumference), have blood
      collected to assess insulin resistance and cytokine levels, measurement of distance walked in
      6 minutes and testing of thigh muscle strength.

      Subjects will then undergo a 1 month observation period to monitor and optimize their
      dialysis treatment.

      After 1 month the subjects will undergo a repeat assessment of all the baseline testing. They
      will also undergo a standardized exercise stress test and measurement of body fat and lean
      body mass with a dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scan.

      Subjects then initiate passive electrical muscle stimulation (EMS) delivered by a
      commercially available FDA approved neuromuscular stimulator ("EMPI 300PV" or its
      replacement, EMPI Continuum device obtained from EMPI, Inc., St Paul MN) 3 times a week to
      the quadriceps muscle groups (15 minutes on each side, 30 minutes total) while on
      hemodialysis. The duration of training will last for 4 months. Subjects will be monitored at
      regular intervals during the training to make sure they are doing the training correctly and
      they are not experiencing any problems.

      At 2 and 4 months the subjects will undergo again have repeat assessment of the baseline
      testing as well as undergoing the standardized exercise stress test and a DXA scan.

      At 4 months the subjects will all stop the passive exercise training and then will be
      followed up 1 month later to repeat assessment of all the baseline testing but will not
      undergoing the standardized exercise stress test and a DXA scan.

      For subjects who agree the investigators will also perform a muscle biopsy under local
      anesthesia before and 4 hours after the first exercise training session and again at 2 and 4
      months. This is used to measure messenger RNA response (gene expression testing) to tell what
      genes are activated during training.

      The efficacy of the exercise training will be assessed by change in aerobic capacity measured
      by maximal oxygen consumption (peak VO2) and quadriceps muscle strength measured

      The primary outcome measure will be whether exercise training improves measures of insulin
      resistance The investigators will also assess whether there is improvement in other
      inflammatory and oxidative stress cytokines in the blood stream and whether the training
      improved their physical performance or overall quality of life.

      The total duration of the study for any patient is expected to be 6 months.
    
  