
    
      The overall goal of this study is to develop and test the COVID-19 Responsive Intervention:
      Systems Improvement Simulations (CRI:SIS), a simulation-based training and quality
      improvement intervention that will minimize physician stress and improve system
      responsiveness. To accomplish this goal, the investigators will conduct a two-site randomized
      clinical trial to test the efficacy of CRI:SIS as a simulation-based preparedness
      intervention on decreasing emergency physician stress and anxiety during the care of COVID-19
      patients in the ED through on-shift measurements of heart rate variability as a physiologic
      marker of stress and responses to the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory post-shift. The
      investigators will rapidly disseminate CRI:SIS as two simulation interventions, one on
      clinician preparedness and the other on system improvement, through interactive virtual
      tele-simulations, webinars, and virtual workshops providing mentorship and shared learning
      for other institutions facing similar challenges. If proven successful, the simulation-based
      CRI:SIS intervention to rapidly prepare clinicians and improve system responsiveness can be
      widely disseminated to other institutions to combat the anticipated lengthy response to
      COVID-19 safety challenges.

      Participants randomized to the intervention arm will receive CRI:SIS as a three-hour
      simulation session. This session will include three scenarios focused on three critical areas
      of COVID-19 patient care:

        1. airway management procedures in patients with COVID-19 given increased risk of viral
           transmission to personnel and rapid respiratory deterioration in infected patients

        2. new presenting symptoms and associated complications of COVID-19 (e.g.,
           hypercoagulability, cardiovascular morbidity), making accurate diagnosis and treatment
           of patients with suspected infection difficult

        3. caring for patients presenting with severe illness and poor prognosis adding emotional
           and cognitive strain to physicians as they initiate palliative care, discuss goals of
           care, or withdraw care in the ED.

      In addition, all three scenarios will address negative effects on team performance during
      COVID-19 care from social distancing and personal protective equipment (PPE) requirements
      through interactions with nursing and ancillary staff confederates during each scenario. Each
      participant will complete all three scenarios within a three-hour block between one to five
      days prior to a clinical shift.

      Participants randomized to the control arm will participate in four shift data collections,
      with no additional intervention. These participants will have access to the routinely
      distributed COVID-19 Task Force updates, guidelines, weekly town hall meetings, and any
      in-service support that would routinely be available to all clinical staff as per standard
      operational practice in our local departments. Once enrollment for Aim 2 is complete, all
      participants randomized to the control arm will be offered the opportunity to complete the
      simulation intervention.
    
  