
    
      The main aim of the project is the assessment of the effects of 3 weeks supplementation with
      two doses of betaine (2.5 g∙d-1 and 5 g∙d-1) on anaerobic capacity, CrossFit performance,
      body composition, and betaine metabolism in a group of male speed-strength trained athletes.

      The study is designed as a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled crossover trial. 80
      male participants will be divided randomly into two parallel groups: one receiving 2.5 g·d-1
      betaine and the second receiving 5 g·d-1 betaine. In both experimental groups participants
      will receive both betaine supplement or placebo in a random order. The supplementation
      periods (betaine and placebo) will last for three weeks each and will be separated by a
      3-week washout. The participants will attend four study meetings at the Institute of Human
      Nutrition and Dietetics, Poznan University of Life Sciences, Poland. Food intake before and
      during the intervention will be assessed with the use of food diary and intakes of macro- and
      micronutrients will be calculated with the use of Dieta 5.0 software. On each visit Wingate
      ergocycling test will be performed, body composition will be measured and blood samples will
      be taken. The same day in the afternoon/evening hours the Fight Gone Bad (FGB) test will be
      performed. Body composition will be assessed based on air displacement plethysmography
      technology using the Bod Pod®. Moreover, total body water content will be analyzed by
      bioelectric impedance with the use of a BIA 101S analyzer. Anaerobic capacity will be
      assessed using the classical Wingate test on a cycloergometer. In order to assess CrossFit
      performance the FGB test will be performed. In blood samples the investigators plan to
      analyze concentrations of: lipoproteins and triglycerides (biochemical analyzer), betaine
      (LC-MS method), amino acid profile (LC-MS method), and testosterone (ELISA). MTHFR genotype
      will be analyzed with using a PCR-RFLP method. Data will be analyzed using the STATISTICA 12
      software program.
    
  