
    
      This is a randomized, multi-center, open label pilot study. The primary goal of this study is
      to determine the safety of TA-CIN vaccine as adjuvant therapy, and to assess evidence of
      induction of HPV antigen-specific immunologic response when administered at different
      locations (arm or thigh). In this pilot study, a single dose level (100µg) assessment of the
      safety and tolerability of administering TA-CIN vaccine three times to either the arm versus
      the thigh of patients who have previously been treated for HPV16-related cervical cancer in
      the past year and are documented to have no evidence of disease recurrence based on
      standard-of-care imaging and/or clinical assessment upon eligibility.

      A total of 14 patients will be enrolled to assess the safety of TA-CIN vaccine via different
      injection sites as adjuvant therapy. Safety assessments will continue for a period for 1
      month after the last vaccination. Few or no serious adverse events (SAEs) are expected from
      this regimen and routes of administration. The motivation for the design is to confirm that
      the dose and site of injection implemented here has minimal or no systemic toxicity, as well
      as determining the preferred injection site that can elicit more potent immune response.

      The study will consist of the following parts:

        -  Screening evaluation

        -  Dosing period and response assessments

        -  Follow-up visits after last dose

      Screening Evaluation:

      The screening visit will be performed within 60 days of the first study drug administration
      visit. The study team will check the results of these screening tests to see if patient
      qualifies to participate.

      Dosing Period:

      Those who meet the study requirements during the screening period will then begin the dosing
      phase of this study. TA-CIN will be given as a single intramuscular injection every 4 weeks
      for a maximum of 3 times. The location of the injection (arm or thigh) will depend on
      randomization. Patients will be assessed for safety and response to treatment during this
      period.

      Follow-Up Period:

      Four follow-up evaluations will be performed during a clinic visit after the last dose of the
      vaccine. These will take place at the following time points: (1) 1-3 weeks after the last
      dose of the study drug, (2) about 6 months after the last dose of the study drug, (3) about
      12 months after the last dose of the study drug, and (4) about 24 months after the last dose
      of the study drug.
    
  