
    
      Shoulder capsulitis or frozen shoulder is a painful condition causing limitations of shoulder
      movements. Its incidence is about 2%, comprising mostly women. There is a need for more
      controlled trials on frozen shoulder preferably in general practice, without using technical
      guiding instruments for injections as MRI or computer tomography, because the condition is
      routinely treated in general practice. It was therefore important to conduct this study as
      similar as possible to current practice. The procedure should be simple, safe and less time
      consuming.

      Patients will be allocated to the study groups by computerized block-randomization with three
      permutations per block. Group 1 consists of patients receiving Triamcinolone 20 mg
      intraarticular injection with Lidocaine 10mg/ml 3 ml and a total of 4 ml solution. Group 2
      patients will receive intraarticular Triamcinolone 20 mg, 3 ml Lidocaine and the rest with
      physiological natrium chloride 9 mg/ml, comprising a total volume from 8 ml and upwards up to
      20 ml. Group 3 will serve as a control group and patients in this group could receive any
      other treatment other than corticosteroid injections or per oral corticosteroid medication.
      The control group will remain without treatment with corticosteroids, in injection or tablet
      form till 61 days, which is also the last day of the outcome measurements. The time interval
      between the 1st and 2nd treatment will be 7 days, between the 2nd and 3rd treatment 10 days,
      and between the 3rd and 4th treatment 14 days. Patients will also receive a follow-up by mail
      6 and 12 months after the inclusion, where pain and function (SPADI) is investigated.

      The patients will be explained and instructed in filling out schema for SPADI, NPRS, pain
      figure, for sleep Bergen Insomnia Scale (BIS), EPQ-N to measure neuroticism, and Subjective
      Health Complaints (SHC).
    
  