
    
      This 5-year proposal responds to PAS-03-168, "Enrolling Women and Minorities in HIV/AIDS
      Research Trials." This study seeks to evaluate persuasive message interventions to increase
      HIV testing rates and improve acceptability of participation in a phase 3 HIV vaccine
      clinical trial among African-American, Latina, and White women. We plan to evaluate 1-sided
      messages, which mention only the benefits of an action, versus 2-sided messages, which
      mention negative aspects of the action, followed by positive counterarguments. The Health
      Belief Model, Inoculation and Attribution Theories will guide the research. Participants will
      be women attending urban community health clinics in Indianapolis, IN. Specific Aim 1 is to
      identify obstacles to HIV testing and to participation in a HIV vaccine clinical trial. This
      aim will be accomplished in years 1 and 2 through individual semi-structured interviews. We
      will analyze data via thematic content analysis and will use interview findings to assist in
      the development of measures and interventions employed in the intervention phase (years 3-5).
      Specific Aim 2 is to evaluate the effects of 2-sided versus 1-sided persuasive messages on
      rates of acceptance of rapid HIV testing. Demographic, behavioral, and attitudinal measures
      will be administered via audio computer-assisted self-interview (A-CASI). Participants will
      be randomized to the intervention groups via A-CASI as well. The outcome will be
      acceptance/rejection of free rapid HIV testing. This Aim will be evaluated via binary
      logistic regression. Specific Aim 3 is to evaluate the effects of 2-sided versus 1-sided
      messages on willingness to participate in phase 3 clinical trials for a preventive HIV
      vaccine. Participants will complete this 2nd A-CASI survey and will again be randomized to
      intervention groups. The outcome will be a scale measuring acceptability of clinical trial
      participation. This Aim will be evaluated via one-way Analysis of Variance. This study is
      relevant to public health in that the results may help us to understand how to improve
      enrollment of women and minorities into preventive HIV vaccine clinical trials and how to
      encourage women and minorities to get tested for HIV.
    
  