
    
      The typical patterns of cognitive deficits in HIV reflect degraded brain network functioning,
      likely due to a combination of brain health insults: some generic (aging), some HIV-specific
      (inflammation, diffuse demyelination and inherent vulnerability that varies across
      individuals). Consistent with this view, the cognitive domains most affected are those that
      rely on extended networks (e.g. attention and executive functions relying on fronto-parietal
      and fronto-striatal circuits), exquisite timing (psychomotor function), or both. These
      network-based cognitive functions are vulnerable, but they are also resilient: there is a
      high degree of learning-dependent plasticity in networks involving the frontal lobes. This
      argues that the cognitive deficits in HIV may be amenable to remediation through cognitive
      training, and suggests mechanisms by which this might occur. There are many forms of
      cognitive rehabilitation; approaches that take advantage of advances in our understanding of
      the mechanisms of neuroplasticity and the neural systems supporting human cognition are
      likely to be highest yield. In this study, we will make use of Plasticity-based Adaptive
      Cognitive Remediation (PACR), a powerful method for harnessing this plastic potential.
      Conceptually, PACR applies well-understood techniques derived from brain plasticity and
      implicit/procedural/perceptual learning to improve the speed and accuracy of information
      processing, with exercises that are designed to drive generalized improvements.
      Simultaneously, these exercises heavily engage neuromodulatory systems to re-establish their
      normal control over learning and memory. As an individual restores these degraded abilities
      through intensive procedural learning, the encoding of naturalistic information significantly
      improves, and all resulting declarative memory and cognitive functions based on the quality
      of that incoming information necessarily improve as well, leading to improvement that
      generalizes beyond the trained tasks. Multiple randomized controlled studies have now
      demonstrated that PACR improves cognitive and functional abilities in patient populations
      with cognitive dysfunction similar in type and magnitude to patients with cognitive deficits
      due to HIV.

      PACR runs in a web browser on any Internet connected computer and is implemented in an
      engaging game-like format. The participant selects one of the cognitive exercises scheduled
      for the day, and performs that exercise for fifteen minutes. The exercise itself contains the
      core science stimuli and task built into a game-like experience. Participants perform tens to
      hundreds of trials over the course of the fifteen-minute session, with each trial providing
      auditory and visual feedback and rewards to indicate if the trial was performed correctly or
      incorrectly. After each trial, the difficulty of the next trial is updated to ensure that
      within a session, the participant gets ~85% of trials correct. Thus, training is individually
      tailored to maximize its effectiveness. Summary screens including game metrics (points,
      levels) and exercise metrics (usage, progress) are shown to the participant at the end of
      each session. The scheduling mechanism ensures that a patient progresses through the
      exercises in a defined order, generally moving from more simple (early sensory processing)
      exercises to more complex (multimodal, cognitive control) exercises over the course of the 8
      weeks experience. At any point in time, the participant only has access to a subset
      (typically six) of these exercises, four of which are performed per day.

      Each exercise has specific criteria for completion, and after those criteria are met the
      exercise is removed from the active set and the next exercise added. This mechanism ensures
      both ongoing novelty and engagement for the participant, and that the participant progresses
      smoothly through the complete set of exercises over the program use period.

      Free access will be provided to the PACR program, and a tailored cognitive training program
      will be developed in both French and English, specifically targeting domains and mechanisms
      that are most affected in HIV. This will include selection of the most suitable training
      modules (12 are planned), and optimization of the Web-based presentation and feedback to
      ensure acceptability to this target group.

      The treatment goal will be use of the assigned program in 30 minutes sessions, five sessions
      per week, for 8 weeks after randomization; program use will be any mix of at home (or
      community Internet resource) or in-clinic sessions.

      The outcome will be responder status (defined as improvement of >0.5 logits) on the B-CAM.
      With the assumption that the outcome is drawn from a binomial distribution with an expected
      probability of response of 10% (n=3) with no intervention, 30 subjects in the immediate
      training group will allow detection of a positive response at P<0.05 if 7 or more persons
      respond. The observed responses in both groups will provide more accurate estimates to plan
      for a scale up of this work to a full trial. An exploratory analysis will evaluate response
      in only those who completed at least 60% of the training sessions, recognizing that power
      here will be reduced, but the information nonetheless important.

      Participants from both groups will also be compared to all those eligible for randomization
      to this intervention in the platform as a whole. Generalized estimating equations (GEE) will
      be applied as a secondary, more general approach here that permits other time points to be
      modeled, and consideration of other outcomes. This accommodates either binary (responder
      status) or continuous (scores on cognitive tests) outcomes. This analysis uses a regression
      model, but clustering of outcomes within time is controlled. For binary outcomes, the effect
      of group (immediate or control) is expressed as an odds ratio; for continuous outcomes the
      parameter is an effect size equivalent to an adjusted paired-t-test. An interaction term
      tests whether the effect differed by group (i.e. was larger in the immediate training group
      as hypothesized).

      Additional analyses will be used to explain changes in B-CAM score as a function of changes
      expected from the intervention. As the intervention cohort is small, we will use concordance
      parameters, rather than a regression model, to quantify the degree to which changes in
      hypothesized mechanisms by which the interventions operate are concordant (at the individual
      level) with changes in the outcomes (cognitive ability).
    
  