
    
      cUTIs are mostly caused by gram-negative bacteria, including Enterobacteriaceae (particularly
      Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae and Proteus mirabilis) and Pseudomonas aeruginosa,
      and often possess mechanisms leading to multidrug resistance. These mechanisms primarily
      consist of ESBLs (extended-spectrum beta-lactamases) that can hydrolyse cephalosporins,
      penicillins and aztreonam, and are encoded on mobile genes. This has led to increased risk of
      failure with first-line antibiotics and increased the usage of last line drugs like
      carbapenems. However, over the past decade, with the emergence of carbapenem-resistant
      infections caused by gram-negative pathogens like CRE (carbapenem-resistant
      Enterobacteriaceae), CRAB (carbapenem-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii) and CRPA
      (carbapenem-resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa), there is a major threat looming on the
      effectiveness of these last resort drugs, warranting the discovery of newer and alternate
      agents.

      To this end, the concept of using Antibiotic Resistance Breakers (ARBs) to revive the potency
      of existing antibiotics has been widely discussed in the recent literature. ARBs, sometimes
      referred as antibiotic adjuvants, are non-antibiotic moieties which do not have any
      antimicrobial activity on its own, but, in combination with antibiotics enhance their
      antimicrobial activity and help overcome resistance barriers. Most beta lactamase inhibitors
      (BLIs) can be thought of as ARBs that do not have any significant antimicrobial activity when
      used alone, but in combination with a beta-lactam antibiotic, help restore the activity
      against beta-lactamase producing organisms.

      CSE-1034 is a novel combination of Ceftriaxone (third generation beta-lactam cephalosporin),
      Sulbactam (beta-lactamase inhibitor) and Disodium EDTA (Class 1 Antibiotic Resistance
      Breaker), and it restores the in vitro activity of Ceftriaxone against ESBL/MBL producing
      gram-negative bacteria, including enzyme families that belong to Ambler class A (TEM, SHV,
      CTX-M), class B (NDM, VIM, IMP), class C (some variants of AmpC), and class D (OXA ESBLs); it
      is not active against serine carbapenemases (higher variants of KPC, OXA carbapenemases).
      CSE-1034 also has proven in vitro activity against multiple resistance mechanisms including
      efflux pumps, bacterial biofilms, membrane permeability, and transfer of resistance by means
      of conjugation.

      Since CSE-1034 has shown its efficacy in ESBL producing Escherichia coli, Klebsiella species,
      Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Acinetobacter species in various in vitro and in vivo studies,
      therefore, to meet regulatory expectations, non-inferiority of CSE-1034 in comparison to
      Meropenem (drug of choice in ESBL producing pathogens) is under study in this phase-3
      clinical trial.
    
  