
    
      Patients who will be undergoing controlled ovarian stimulation and who have a diagnosis of
      diminished ovarian reserve will be considered for this trial, and enrolled if meeting all
      inclusion and no exclusion criteria. Patients will be randomized to one of two possible
      stimulation cycles as will be described.

      Luteal Phase Ovarian Stimulation (LPOS)

      Patients will present for an appointment on approximately day 15-18 of her menstrual cycle.
      If serum progesterone >3 ng/mL, and bHCG < 5 mIU/mL, the patient will begin 450 IU of daily
      injectable gonadotropins: 150 IU of hMG (Menopur®, Ferring Pharmaceuticals) and 300 IU of
      recombinant FSH (rFSH) (Gonal F®,Serono; or Follitropin beta (Follistim®, Organo)). The
      specific rFSH chosen will be based on the individual patient's insurance coverage. The
      patient will perform daily injections during the course of her stimulation, and will also
      take oral Clomiphene citrate 100mg daily for the first five days of the stimulation. FSH dose
      will be titrated during the stimulation (per physician discretion) based on serum estradiol
      levels and ovarian response to a minimum of no gonadotropins and a maximum of 600 IU daily.
      She will present for follicular monitoring ultrasound and serum blood tests on stimulation
      day 3-4, 5-6, and 7-8-~15. Gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist (Ganirelix,
      Organon; and cetrorelix, Serono) will be started daily once either (1) serum estradiol level
      reaches > 400 pg/mL, lead follicle size > 13mm, or (2) on stimulation day 6. Once patient are
      ready for ovulation trigger as determine by physician, 5-10,000 units of human chorionic
      gonadotropin (Novarel®: Ferring Pharmaceuticals; or Pregnyl®: Schering-Plough) will be
      administered. A patient's trigger shot could be changed to include a GnRH agonist (i.e
      Luprolide acetate 40 IU) if deemed clinically necessary for ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome
      prevention. On the morning after hCG administration, patients' blood will be drawn and serum
      analyzed for hCG concentration to ensure adequate absorption (mean time 8-10 hours).
      Transvaginal oocyte retrieval will be performed 35 to 37 hours after hCG trigger. All
      metaphase II oocytes will be fertilized with intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) or IVF
      per patient request and laboratory protocol. Embryos will be cultured to the blastocyst stage
      and vitrified on day 5-7. If patient requests preimplantation genetic testing for aneuploidy
      (PGT-A), an embryo biopsy will be performed on day 5-7 of development prior to vitrification,
      and biopsy specimen will be sent to an outside laboratory for chromosome analysis.

      Luteal Estradiol priming protocol (E2 prime)

      Patients will present for an appointment on approximately day 18-21 of her menstrual cycle.
      If serum progesterone >3 ng/mL, and bHCG < 5 mIU/mL, the patient will begin Estradiol patches
      (Vivelle Dot 0.1mg, Novartis Pharmaceuticals; or Climara, Bayer) and change them every other
      day. She will also take daily Gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist (Ganirelix,
      Organon; and cetrorelix, Serono) for the following three days.

      Patients will then present for a baseline appointment with onset of her menses. If serum
      progesterone < 1.0 ng/mL, and bHCG < 5 mIU/mL, on cycle day 2-3 the patient will stop her
      estrogen patches and start 450 IU of daily injectable gonadotropins: 150 IU of hMG (Menopur®,
      Ferring Pharmaceuticals) and 300 IU of recombinant FSH (rFSH) (Gonal F®,Serono; or
      Follitropin beta (Follistim®, Organo)). The specific rFSH chosen will be based on the
      individual patient's insurance coverage. Estrogen patch will be removed the day of starting
      gonadotropin injections. The patient will perform daily injections during the course of her
      stimulation, and will also take oral Clomiphene citrate 100mg daily for the first five days
      of the stimulation. FSH dose will be titrated during the stimulation (per physician
      discretion) based on serum estradiol levels and ovarian response to a minimum of no
      gonadotropins and a maximum of 600 IU daily. She will present for follicular monitoring
      ultrasound and serum blood tests on stimulation day 3-4, 5-6, and 7-8-~15. Gonadotropin
      releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist (Ganirelix, Organon; and cetrorelix, Serono) will be
      started daily once either (1) serum estradiol level reaches > 400 pg/mL, lead follicle size >
      13mm, or (2) on stimulation day 6. Once patient are ready for ovulation trigger as determine
      by physician, 5-10,000 units of human chorionic gonadotropin (Novarel®: Ferring
      Pharmaceuticals; or Pregnyl®: Schering-Plough) will be administered. A patient's trigger shot
      could be changed to include a GnRH agonist (i.e Luprolide acetate 40 IU) if deemed clinically
      necessary for ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome prevention. On the morning after hCG
      administration, patients' blood will be drawn and serum analyzed for hCG concentration to
      ensure adequate absorption (mean time 8-10 hours). Transvaginal oocyte retrieval will be
      performed 35 to 37 hours after hCG trigger. All metaphase II oocytes will be fertilized with
      intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) or IVF per patient request and laboratory protocol.
      Embryos will be cultured to the blastocyst stage and vitrified on day 5-7. If patient
      requests preimplantation genetic testing for aneuploidy (PGT-A), an embryo biopsy will be
      performed on day 5-7 of development prior to vitrification, and biopsy specimen will be sent
      to an outside laboratory for chromosomal analysis.

      Outcomes between the two stimulation protocols will be compared.
    
  