
    
      eRAPID is an online system for patients to self-report symptoms and side effects (known as
      adverse events or AE) during and after cancer treatments. eRAPID allows AE reporting from
      home or hospital and enables patient reported data to be integrated into existing Electronic
      Patient Records (EPR) to allow for the reports to be used in routine care. In addition the
      system is capable of generating alerts for severe AE to the relevant clinical team and
      providing patient advice on managing mild and moderate AE.

      The investigators have developed the eRAPID system as a complex intervention by for use in
      patients undergoing pelvic RT specifically for prostate, cervical, vulval, anal, endometrial
      and rectal cancers. The investigators have done this by:

        1. Integrating QTool questionnaire data with the Christie Manchester EPR; Clinical Web
           Portal (CWP) and in MOSAIQ (RT delivery system) in Leeds;

        2. Developing tumour specific AE questionnaires and treatment algorithms for online
           reporting from home;

        3. Mapping the current RT treatment pathways for these tumour groups via semi-structured
           interviews with staff and patients.

      The overall aims of the eRAPID system are to improve the safe delivery of cancer treatments,
      enhance patient care and standardise documentation of AE within the clinical datasets.

      AIMS AND OBJECTIVES In this feasibility pilot study, the investigators plan to test the
      complete eRAPID RT platform including patient and clinician interface. The investigators aim
      to examine feasibility, acceptability, and adherence to the intervention from the perspective
      of cancer patients and health professionals and explore the impact on patient care and
      quality of life. In addition, the investigators aim to determine effect sizes to inform the
      design and recruitment targets for a future randomised control trial.

      STUDY SAMPLE AND RESEARCH DESIGN Adult patients attending St James' University Hospital
      Bexley Wing and the Christie Hospital Manchester starting radical treatment with RT for
      prostate cancer or chemo-RT for anal, rectal, cervical, endometrial and vulval cancer will be
      eligible to take part in this study.

      This will be a prospective randomised parallel group design feasibility study with repeated
      measures and mixed methods. Participants will be randomised (following a 1:1 randomisation
      strategy) to receive the eRAPID intervention or usual care. The investigators aim to recruit
      a maximum of 168 patients to the study.

      Participants in the intervention arm will receive training in using the eRAPID system to
      report their symptoms and side effects (at least on a weekly basis) from home via the
      internet whilst they are receiving treatment online and weekly for 6 weeks post treatment (a
      total of 12 weeks) and then at 18 & 24 weeks. Hospital staff will be able to review eRAPID
      reports and use the information during the consultation in clinic, when attending RT or
      answering phone calls. Alerts will also be sent to the relevant clinical team when severe
      symptoms are reported by patients. All patients will complete a paper-based quality of life
      questionnaire at baseline and then 6, 12 and 24 weeks after.

      STUDY MEASURES

      This study will use several outcomes to compare the eRAPID intervention with usual care:

      Clinical outcomes and process of care measures For example the number of hospital contacts
      including admissions, clinic appointments, phone calls with hospital staff and changes to
      supportive medications and adjuvant chemotherapy dose change).

      Patient-reported outcomes: Overall quality of life will be assessed using validated
      questionnaires and appropriate subscales (for example FACT-G 1 & EORTC-QLQ-C30 2 and Social
      function and symptoms scales and the EQ-5D 3).

      Costs to patients and the NHS: Resource use will be assessed using patient questionnaires
      detailing contacts with GPs/community services, hospital visits and patient incurred costs,
      and others identified from use of resource forms.

      Patient and staff interviews: Semi-structured staff, patients and carer interviews will be
      conducted to explore experiences of using the eRAPID intervention and any recommendations for
      improvement.

      FINDINGS Overall findings will determine the value of the eRAPID intervention for supporting
      the care of patients receiving RT with or without concurrent chemotherapy as primary cancer
      treatment.
    
  