
    
      Helsinki Birth Cohort 2018-2022 (HeBiCo) study is designed to find evidence between various
      intrauterine exposures and offspring adiposity and later health. It will be examined how
      different maternal (e.g. chronic diseases, ethnicity, BMI), and obstetric factors (e.g.
      gestational weight gain, diagnoses during pregnancy) as well as parental lifestyle and
      psychological aspects (e.g. diet quality, physical activity, depression and anxiety) are
      associated with newborn body composition and later health (e.g. obesity and neurocognitive
      health).

      In the first phase of the study the participants are recruited on postnatal ward after
      delivery. The umbilical cord blood sample will be collected of all the neonates. After a
      consent the participants fill in the digital background, food frequency, depression and
      physical activity questionnaires. If the parents do not give their consent, the umbilical
      cord blood sample will be destroyed. Body composition of offspring will be assessed within 72
      hours after birth. Registry data will be collected.

      The second phase of the HeBiCo study is based on the HUS WomensHub treatment path and/or
      Apotti platform. The second phase of the HeBiCo constitutes of the mother-child pairs (and
      fathers/spouses) whose pregnancy can be followed from the early pregnancy to the end of the
      pregnancy through treatment path. Body composition of offspring born in Helsinki Women's
      Hospital will be assessed within 72 hours after birth.

      The future studies will include 1) the intervention studies with digital service concept
      through WomensHub platform, and 2) the follow-up studies of offspring and parents in later
      life (to establish e.g. growth trajectories and later metabolic health of offspring).

      The first phase of the HeBiCo study was registered 3/2018.

      The second phase will be registered now.
    
  