
    
      Probiotics (health-promoting bacteria) are often considered "functional ingredients" that act
      independently of the matrix used to deliver them to the human host. This thinking ignores the
      impact the delivery matrix (food or dietary supplement) may have on both the physiology of
      the probiotic organism and on the human host and is likely not true.

      Historically the most common "probiotic foods" have been fermented dairy products,
      particularly yogurts. Since yogurts are commonly understood to contain live "good" bacteria
      they are well accepted by consumers. However, increasingly over the last decade, probiotics
      are being added to non-dairy-based foods (juice, chocolate, cookies, etc) or consumed as
      supplements (tablets/capsules). While this expands the options for people to obtain probiotic
      organism, it is not clear whether probiotics delivered in these products are as efficacious
      as when delivered in a dairy food. In fact, the buffering capacity and nutrient composition
      of milk products may directly influence efficacy of the probiotic by increasing survival
      during passage through the gastrointestinal tract (GIT) and by modifying the physiology of
      the probiotic organism. In addition, fermentation products produced by the probiotic during
      manufacture of yogurt may also have an influence on the efficacy of probiotic bacteria.

      Our hypotheses are:

        1. The vehicle used to deliver probiotic bacteria into the body influences the performance
           of the probiotic in vivo. Specifically, consumption of yogurt-based smoothie containing
           probiotic bacteria will result in greater decrease in fecal transit time, and have a
           greater effect on the composition of the fecal microbiota and on markers of immune
           status than the same probiotic bacteria delivered at the same level in the form of a
           dietary supplement (tablet).

        2. Timing of the addition of probiotic organism to the yogurt smoothie (pre or post
           fermentation) will not change the efficacy of the probiotic with respect to the outcomes
           being assessed.
    
  