
    
      Shoulder surgery is one of the most common orthopedic operations, with 1.4 million procedures
      performed worldwide. Advances in surgical technology now allow the majority of these
      procedures to be performed arthroscopically. A growing number of shoulder arthroscopic
      procedures are now conducted on an outpatient basis. Effective pain control is therefore
      essential if a patient is to be sent home on the same day as the operation. This management
      strategy presents an important challenge to anesthesiologists, surgeons, and postanesthesia
      care unit (PACU) nurses. The pain of a shoulder arthroscopic procedure is equivalent to an
      open procedure during the first 24-48 hours, and up to 30% of patients report pain of a
      severe intensity on the first postoperative day. Poor pain control after surgery is
      associated with lower patient satisfaction scores, adverse events, and the development of
      chronic postsurgical pain. A variety of therapeutic strategies have been developed to more
      effectively control this early postoperative pain. However, there are a number of important
      limitations to each of these approaches.

      There are three general approaches that anesthesiologists use to provide anesthesia and
      analgesia for shoulder arthroscopic surgery. Traditionally, shoulder surgery has been
      performed with a general anesthetic and a breathing tube (oral endotracheal intubation).
      Although this provides effective analgesia for the duration of the operation, the patient
      will experience pain once the intraoperative anesthetic has worn off. In this setting, the
      anesthesia care provider administers an opioid through the intravenous line so that the
      patient will awaken in less pain. In the PACU, the nursing staff continues to administer an
      intravenous opioid until pain is effectively controlled. There are important limitations to
      this anesthetic management strategy. Anesthesia care providers must estimate the amount of
      opioid to administer intraoperatively. Since the individual responses to opioids may vary
      widely, it is possible that patients may awaken in pain or may difficult to extubate (remove
      the breathing tube) due opioid-induced respiratory depression. Once admitted to the PACU, the
      patients' pain can be effectively controlled by the careful titration of opioids by nursing
      staff (pain of less than 3 on a scale of 0 to 10). However, the duration of the effectiveness
      of commonly-used opioids is only 3-4 hours. Therefore, the patient may have little pain at
      the time of hospital discharge, but may experience severe pain several hours later. Oral
      analgesic agents are used to control pain in the home setting. The use of oral opioids
      results in variability in the level of pain that each patient experiences. This variability
      is related to the slow onset time and short duration of effect of these oral agents (results
      in "peaks and troughs" of postoperative pain).

      A second anesthetic technique involves the use of a general anesthetic with an interscalene
      nerve block (ISB). Over 40 years ago, Winnie et al. described the use of a single
      interscalene brachial plexus block to provide analgesia following shoulder surgery. This
      practice involves the injection of a large volume of local anesthetic agent near the nerves
      of the brachial plexus. An ISB or brachial plexus block is a regional anesthetic technique
      that blocks the nerves that supply the shoulder, arm, and forearm. The block is typically
      administered in the preoperative holding area before a general anesthetic is performed. When
      the patient awakens from the general anesthetic and arrives in the PACU, the nerve block
      provides pain relief which persists for several hours. The risk of nausea and vomiting is
      also reduced with an ISB block. In addition, most studies have demonstrated that patients
      randomized to receive an ISB have shorter PACU and hospital length of stays. The advantages
      of the ISB block have prompted many clinicians to introduce this regional anesthesia
      technique into their clinical practices. Although an ISB is a very effective postoperative
      pain management technique, there are several important limitations. The block is usually
      performed before entering the operating room and may delay the start of the case. In
      addition, the needle placement for the block is in the neck, and improper placement may
      result in a pneumothorax (lung collapse). Approximately 5% of ISBs fail, even in experienced
      hands. Block failure necessitates the use of opioids to control pain. Temporary phrenic nerve
      palsy or diaphragm paralysis is common after the ISB is performed. This results in a
      significant decrement in pulmonary function in many patients, including those with normal
      baseline respiratory muscle strength. Most importantly, clinical investigations, cadaveric
      studies, and retrospective reviews have suggested that the nerve roots of the brachial plexus
      may be particularly susceptible to nerve injury from the local anesthetic used for the nerve
      block. Studies have demonstrated that the ISB is associated with a higher risk of transient
      and long-term neurologic complications when compared to other peripheral nerve blocks.
      Furthermore, it is now recognized that the ISB may result in delayed onset phrenic nerve
      damage and permanent unilateral diaphragmatic paralysis. Finally, the analgesic effects of
      the ISB may resolve abruptly, resulting in the sudden perception of severe pain. In light of
      these risks, some experts have questioned the routine use of ISBs for shoulder surgery.

      The third strategy for anesthetic and postoperative pain management involves the use an ISB
      not only as a postoperative analgesic but also as a primary anesthetic. With this approach,
      an ISB is performed in the preoperative holding area. Once clinicians are assured that the
      block is functioning, the patient is transported to the operating room, sedation is
      administered, and the shoulder surgery performed with a combination of sedation and the
      regional block. Advantages of this technique include the avoidance of general anesthesia (and
      associated complications), and a better maintenance of blood flow to the brain. A
      disadvantage of the technique is that a profound nerve block must be present in order for the
      procedure to be completed successfully. Careful patient selection is also essential when
      performing shoulder surgery in a sedated patient in the sitting position (anesthesiologists
      do not have easy access to the patients' airway). Finally, the patient is at risk for all of
      the complications of ISB listed previously.

      When deciding on the appropriate anesthetic for the patient undergoing arthroscopic shoulder
      surgery, clinicians must weigh the risks and benefits of each technique. As noted above, each
      anesthetic approach has important limitations. At Evanston hospital, approximately 75% of
      shoulder surgery patients have an ISB for their procedure. There is a higher utilization of
      this block at Glenbrook Hospital and at the orthopedic surgery center.

      The most important benefit of the ISB is that it provides long-lasting pain relief in the
      postoperative period. Previous studies have suggested that the analgesic effect of the ISB
      lasts up to 12 to 24 hours. However, other clinical trials have demonstrated that an ISB
      provides pain relief for approximately 6 hours, and that pain may be worse after the block
      has resolved (compared to intravenous opioids). Recently, Abdallah et al. performed a
      meta-analysis of 23 randomized trials examining 1090 patients to assess the effect of ISBs on
      pain after shoulder surgery (compared to those not given a block). The authors observed that
      the duration of pain relief for patients in the ISB group was only 8 hours at rest and 6
      hours with movement. There was no further benefit beyond this time. Pain was actually worse
      at 24 hours in patients given an ISB. These important findings suggest that the effects of
      the ISB last for a much shorter period of time than estimated by most clinicians, and may
      impact the evaluation of the risk / benefit ratio of the ISB.

      As described previously, an important limitation of the intravenous and oral opioid approach
      to pain management is that the duration of effect of these agents is only typically 3 to 4
      hours. This results in periods of effective pain relief, followed by periods of
      moderate-to-severe pain in the postoperative period. An alternative strategy for opioid
      utilization may involve the administration of a very long-acting opioid in the operating room
      that would provide effective analgesia for the first 24 postoperative hours (which
      corresponds with the period of the most severe pain after surgery). At the present time,
      intravenous methadone is the only long-acting opioid available to clinicians. Methadone was
      developed in 1939 and approved by the FDA for clinical use in 1947. A primary advantage of
      methadone is its long half-life, which ranges from 25-52 hours when given intravenously in
      larger doses. This unique property of methadone means that single daily doses can often be
      used in patients with moderate-to-severe acute or chronic pain. A number of recent
      investigations have demonstrated that methadone is effective in treating a variety of acute
      and chronic pain conditions. Although it is best known as a drug used to treat narcotic
      addiction, methadone is also being used with increasing frequency as an analgesic agent in
      the operating room to provide prolonged postoperative analgesia. A calculated half-life of 35
      hours was observed when methadone was administered intravenously to surgical patients,
      resulting in a median duration of analgesia lasting 26 hours. In patients undergoing
      abdominal, orthopedic, cardiac, or gynecologic surgery, the use of a single dose of methadone
      (20 mg or 0.2-0.3 mg/kg) at induction of anesthesia resulted in improved analgesia for the
      first 24 hours after surgery, when compared to other intraoperative opioids. In these
      investigations, patients in the methadone groups required significantly less postoperative
      pain medication and reported lower pain scores during the first postoperative day. Up to 39%
      of patients required no additional pain medications, despite undergoing major surgery
      associated with moderate-to- severe levels of postoperative pain. In a randomized,
      double-blinded investigation in cardiac surgical patients completed at Evanston Hospital,
      subjects randomized to the methadone group reported less pain, required reduced postoperative
      pain medications, and described increased satisfaction with overall pain management when
      compared to subjects administered a standard opioid (fentanyl). No adverse events directly
      attributable to methadone were reported in any of these clinical trials.

      The use of methadone may be advantageous in the setting of shoulder arthroscopic surgery. The
      investigators hypothesize that a single dose administered at the start of surgery may provide
      pain relief throughout the procedure and PACU recovery and for the first 24 hours (or more)
      after hospital discharge to home. The aim of this clinical trial is to compare analgesia
      provided by an ISB to that from a pain management strategy using intravenous methadone. Pain
      scores will be collected from both groups for the first 72 hours after surgery. The
      requirements for pain medications will also be recorded. Overall satisfaction with pain
      management will be assessed, and all postoperative complications noted.
    
  