
    
      This is a Phase II, single-center, single-arm, study of Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy boost
      for stage IB-IVB cervical cancer.

      The primary objective of the study is to test the hypothesis that stereotactic body radiation
      therapy (SBRT) leads to an improvement in treatment-related symptoms of post traumatic stress
      compared to brachytherapy (historical control) according to the Impact of Event
      Scale-Revision (IES-R).

      Study participants will be recruited within the UCSD Health System. For those patients under
      the clinical management of the recruiting investigator, the investigator will review the
      patient's medical records and determine if they would be a candidate for the study. The
      investigator will approach the subject and offer participation in the trial. If the patient
      chooses to participate, they will undergo pretreatment evaluations to determine if they are a
      good candidate to participate further in the study. Depending on when the patient last had
      these tests and procedures performed, some of them may not need to be repeated.

      Upon confirmation of all eligibility criteria, the subject will be enrolled. Each enrolled
      subject will receive radiation therapy consisting of 30 to 35 treatments. The patient will
      first undergo Whole Pelvis Radiation Therapy 40 - 50.4 Gy in 1.8 - 2.0 Gy daily fractions
      over 4.5 - 5.5 weeks, followed by Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy 5.5 - 8.0 Gy per fraction x
      5 fractions using arc therapy. Concurrent chemotherapy may be given with radiation therapy
      according to the discretion of the treating oncology team. No chemotherapy will be given
      during the SBRT phase of treatment. During radiation therapy, the patient will have a weekly
      physical exam, vital signs collected, evaluation for pain, and review any side effects.

      Subjects will undergo a post treatment follow-up period after completion of their radiation
      therapy. During this follow-up period, subjects will return for a medical and history review
      with a complete physical examination, review of any side effects, evaluation for outcomes and
      toxicity, and evaluations for stress, anxiety, and pain.
    
  