
    
      Rationale:

      Left ventricular mural thrombus (LVT) remains a common complication after anterior
      ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) with a reported incidence ranging from 12- 17%.
      Previous studies from the pre-thrombolytic era have shown that warfarin therapy significantly
      reduces the incidence of LVT and embolic events in patients post anterior STEMI. However, the
      risk/benefit ratio of warfarin therapy in the setting of early revascularization and dual
      antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel remains unknown.

      Purpose:

      To compare the incidence of death, MI, stroke, embolic events, LVT, and bleeding
      complications at 3 months in patients with an anterior STEMI and ejection fraction less than
      40% treated with ASA and clopidogrel alone versus those treated with aspirin, clopidogrel,
      and warfarin (triple therapy group).

      Sample Size:

      This is a pilot project to help establish the feasibility of conducting a full scale
      externally funded study. As such sample size calculations are not applicable. The primary aim
      of the study is to determine the safety and feasibility of conducting a large-scale trial,
      and this pilot project in not expected to reveal a statistically significant difference
      between the 2 groups.

      Design/Methodology:

      All patients will be randomized to either aspirin and clopidogrel alone or to triple therapy
      with aspirin, clopidogrel and warfarin. The randomization process will be centralized and
      computer generated. Patients with a clear indication for oral anticoagulation such as atrial
      fibrillation, LV thrombus, mechanical heart valve, or DVT/PE will not undergo randomization
      but will be followed as part of a registry of patients on triple therapy. All patients will
      remain on the allocated therapy for 3 months at which time outcomes will be determined.

      Study interventions:

      Patients will be treated with either ASA and clopidogrel alone (dual therapy) or with
      aspirin, clopidogrel and warfarin (triple therapy) in combination for 3 months. Patients in
      the triple therapy arm will be bridged with intravenous unfractionated heparin, low molecular
      weight heparin, or fondaparinux until their INR is therapeutic, and will be followed by the
      thrombosis service for the duration of the study.
    
  