
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if the acute toxicity of an autologous stem cell transplant with a
      busulfan-melphalan (BuMel) based regimen is tolerable when given as consolidation therapy for
      high-risk neuroblastoma.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the incidence of non-hematologic organ toxicity (grade 3 and higher) and all
      cause mortality in patients undergoing autologous stem cell transplant with a BuMel based
      regimen followed by local radiotherapy for the treatment of high-risk neuroblastoma.

      II. To describe response rates, event-free survival (EFS), and overall survival (OS) for
      patients undergoing induction therapy followed by consolidation with myeloablative BuMel
      preparative regimen and local radiotherapy for the treatment of high-risk neuroblastoma.

      III. To correlate busulfan pharmacokinetics with non-hematologic toxicity following a BuMel
      based autologous transplant regimen and event-free survival and overall survival.

      IV. To determine the feasibility of performing Curie scores in "real time," as assessed by
      central scan committee review of a 123 I-meta-iodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) scan obtained after
      cycle 4 of induction therapy.

      V. To examine the concordance between central reviewers and institutional reviewers in
      performing Curie scoring at diagnosis and after cycle 4 of induction therapy.

      VI. To determine the feasibility of detecting aberrations in the anaplastic lymphoma kinase
      (ALK) gene in tumors obtained at the time of diagnosis in patients with high-risk
      neuroblastoma.

      VII. To determine the feasibility of performing molecular profiling of neuroblastoma tumors
      obtained at the time of diagnosis in patients with high-risk neuroblastoma.

      VIII. To correlate melphalan pharmacokinetics with non-hematologic toxicity following a BuMel
      based autologous transplant regimen and event-free survival and overall survival.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION THERAPY:

      COURSES 1-2: Patients receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) over 15-30 minutes,
      topotecan hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5 and filgrastim subcutaneously (SC) or
      IV once daily (QD) beginning on day 6 or pegfilgrastim SQ once on day 6. Treatment repeats
      every 3 weeks for 2 courses.

      COURSES 3 AND 5: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1-4 and etoposide IV over
      1-2 hours on days 1-3 and filgrastim subcutaneously (SC) or IV once daily (QD) beginning on
      day 6 or pegfilgrastim SQ once on day 6. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 2 courses.

      COURSE 4: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 1-6 hours on days 1-2, vincristine
      sulfate IV over 1 minute on days 1-3, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 24 hours on days 1-3
      and mesna IV over 15-30 minutes on days 1-2 and filgrastim subcutaneously (SC) or IV once
      daily (QD) beginning on day 6 or pegfilgrastim SQ once on day 6. Treatment repeats every 3
      weeks for 1 course.

      Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Beginning 4-8 weeks following the 5th course of induction therapy,
      patients receive busulfan IV over 3 hours on days -6 to -3 and melphalan IV on day -1.
      Patients undergo autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) on day 0 and filgrastim SC or IV
      beginning on day 0 until recovery.

      Some patients also undergo external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) after induction and
      consolidation.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, and
      then every 6 months for 4 years.
    
  