
    
      The main objective of the present study is to combine two lines of research investigating the
      interaction between emotional processing and memory performance and its modulation by
      beta-blockade. As has been suggested by aforementioned lesion, pharmacological and
      neuroimaging evidence, emotional stimuli are better remembered because they are better
      encoded.

      In the ERP literature, there are a number of studies on emotion and memory, but few of them
      have investigated the modulatory effects of emotion on memory, focusing on either during
      stages of encoding (Palomba, Angrilli & Mini, 1997; Dolcos & Cabeza, 2002) or during memory
      retrieval of emotional and neutral material (Maratos & Rugg, 2001; Windmann & Kutas, 2001).
      It is assumed that emotionally arousing information gains privileged access to processing
      resources. This means that emotional arousing stimuli guide attention for more elaborated
      processing, leading to better memory formation.

      Concerning pharmacological manipulations with ß-blockers, there is no existing ERP study that
      shows the effect of ß-blockade on encoding processes and memory retrieval of emotional
      pictures. Therefore, the current investigation was designed to test whether recall and
      recognition of emotional pictures can be reduced by administration of propranolol and whether
      this reduction in memory performance is correlated with changes in event-related potentials
      or peripheral physiological parameters (heart rate variability, heart rate, blood pressure
      and electrodermal response). As a surrogate for sympathetic activity and/or activation by
      noradrenaline, a salivary sample to measure activity of the alpha-amylase will be employed
      (van Stegeren, Rohleder, Everaerd & Wolf, 2006) In conclusion, we hypothesize (1) a memory
      advantage for emotionally arousing stimuli but not for emotionally neutral pictures. (2) ERP
      components associated with emotional effects and memory effects are pronounced for emotional
      stimuli. (3) Peripheral physiological parameters should also be pronounced for emotionally
      arousing stimuli. (4) Emotional processing and emotional memory will be impaired by the
      beta-blocker propranolol as indicated by behavioral data and psycho-physiological parameters.
    
  