
    
      This open label study evaluated whether a reduction in acitretin dose from 25 mg/day to 17.5
      mg/day in patients with severe plaque-type psoriasis undergoing phototherapy treatment
      improved tolerability while maintaining comparable efficacy.

      At baseline, subjects were switched from 25 to 17.5 mg acitretin daily and followed for 12
      weeks.

      Efficacy evaluations were performed through week 12. The psoriasis area-and severity index
      (termed PASI) combines assessments of the extent of body-surface involvement in four
      anatomical regions (head, trunk, arms, and legs) and the severity of desquamation, erythema,
      and plaque induration (thickness) in each region, yielding an overall score of 0 (no
      psoriasis) to 72 (severe disease). The physician's global assessment rates the patient's
      psoriasis overall relative to baseline as 1 (clear), 2 (excellent), 3 (good), 4 (fair), 5
      (poor), or 6 (worse) and considers involvement of body surface area (BSA), induration,
      scaling, and erythema. The 10-item Dermatology Life Quality Index questionnaire, completed by
      the subject, measures whether psoriasis has an effect on the subject's quality of life, with
      scores ranging from 0 ("no effect") to 30 ("extremely large effect"). The 15-item Psoriasis
      Disability Index (PDI), completed by the subject, measures the level of impairment psoriasis
      has on quality of life, with scores ranging from 0 ("no effect") to 45 ("extremely
      impaired"). Subjects also completed a subjective assessment of efficacy of the reduced dose
      of acitretin at week 12 of the study by answering the question "How was your psoriasis over
      the last 3 months?", with answers ranging from better than before, the same as before, or
      worse than before.

      The safety and tolerability was assessed for the reduced acitretin dose by monitoring adverse
      events and routine laboratory values through week 12. Serum samples collected at baseline and
      week 12 were tested for LFTs, lipids, CBC, and chemistry panel. Subjects also completed a
      subjective assessment of tolerability of the lower dose at week 12 of the study by answering
      the question, "Did your symptoms from the medicine you noted above improve over the last 3
      months?", with answers ranging from better than before, the same as before, or worse than
      before.
    
  