
    
      Opioid use disorders (OUD) are the second most common type of drug use disorder in the US,
      with nearly 2 million reporting prescription opioid (PO) use and ~570,000 reporting heroin
      use consistent with an OUD. Further, drug overdose (OD) has become the leading cause of
      accidental death in the US, with opioid-involved OD driving this epidemic. The recent
      escalation in OUD has been most pronounced among youth, with nearly 1/3 of youth reporting PO
      misuse by age 21, and studies have documented the trajectory from PO misuse to injection drug
      use (IDU) in youth. An ongoing study conducted by the current investigators documented an
      alarming trajectory, wherein these youth progress from nonmedical PO use in adolescence
      (first PO use M=16.7 y/o), to oral / intranasal heroin use in young adulthood (M=19.1 y/o),
      with 64% progressing to injection drug use (IDU), within a year of heroin initiation (first
      injection M=20.1 y/o. This progression to IDU is characterized by uniquely high levels of
      risk for youth, including higher rates of injection risk behaviors and OD, and higher
      incidence of HIV and HCV within the first few years of transitioning to injection, compared
      to older peers. Thus, young opioid users are at uniquely high risk for a number of negative
      outcomes during the critical period of transitioning to injection. This rapid progression
      from PO use to IDU and the extreme risk associated with new injection status among youth
      indicate that there is a brief, but critical, period during which we may intervene to prevent
      progression to injection and its associated risk behaviors and negative health outcomes.
      Several robust predictors have been found for progression to IDU, including psychosocial
      factors (i.e., homelessness, physical abuse), OUD severity (i.e., dependence severity,
      polydrug use), and IDU norms and behaviors within one's social network. While there is some
      understanding of the mechanisms that promote IDU, there is virtually no research on
      strategies to prevent this transition. Only one intervention has been examined targeting
      intranasal heroin users in an attempt to prevent progression to IDU. This "sniffers"
      intervention found potent effects; half as many intervention participants progressed to
      injection (33% vs. 16%), compared to the control condition (who received HIV/AIDS education),
      indicating that direct intervention with opioid users may be an effective way to prevent
      progression to IDU and its associated harms. It is unclear why so few interventions have
      targeted this population, although young opioid users face a number of unique barriers,
      including social, economic, and motivational, that may prevent them from seeking and
      receiving treatment. Given the paucity of interventions available to the large and vulnerable
      group of opioid-using young adults, there is an urgent need to develop and evaluate
      innovative, engaging approaches to prevent young opioid users from transitioning to IDU.

      The current application is being submitted in response to PA 16-073, "Behavioral and
      Integrative Treatment Development Program." The proposed project is a Stage Ib study that
      will adapt a mobile, evidence-based psychosocial intervention for opioid dependence (Check-In
      App) to prevent progression to injection in young opioid users (18-29 y/o) who have not
      progressed to regular injection.

      Aim 1: During months 1-12, we will adapt the Check-In App to target reducing opioid use and
      preventing progression to injection among young oral / intranasal opioid users. We will
      tailor our existing mHealth intervention (including daily text messages plus key components
      of evidence-based cognitive behavioral interventions, Functional Analysis of Drug Use,
      Self-Management, and Social / Recreational Counseling), for young opioid users. New
      components specific to youth will focus on the role of peers in opioid use / IDU, and OD
      prevention / response training including use of naloxone. Our iterative development process
      will include focus groups with opioid-using youth (n=24), interviews with important
      stakeholders (e.g., youth treatment providers; n=6), and feedback and usability data from
      opioid-using youth (n=30).

      Aim 2: During months 13-31, we will conduct a small randomized, controlled trial of the newly
      tailored mHealth intervention with young opioid users (18-29 y/o) who have not transitioned
      to regular injection (n=64) and compare (1) assessment plus in-person OD prevention /
      response training (including naloxone) versus (2) assessment plus in-person OD prevention /
      response training (including naloxone) plus the Preventing Injection Application. We will
      evaluate the intervention's feasibility, acceptability, diffusion, and preliminary
      effectiveness. Feasibility and acceptability will be assessed via participant feedback,
      retention, and app usage data. Diffusion will be defined as the number of participants' peers
      who download the intervention app for their own use. Preliminary effectiveness will be
      measured via reductions in opioid use (TLFB, urine and hair toxicology) and self-reported
      injection status at 4, 8, and 12 weeks, and 3 and 6 month follow-up. Secondary outcomes
      include HIV/HCV risk behavior, OD episodes, opioid-related problems (e.g., withdrawal
      episodes), and social network IDU-related norms and behaviors.

      If results are promising, this intervention will be evaluated in a large-scale efficacy /
      effectiveness trial. This intervention may have tremendous impact on improving access,
      acceptability, and potency of opioid use interventions for youth, given the extremely
      widespread use of mobile apps among young adults (98% of 18-29 y/o own mobile phones and
      spend ~3 hr/day using mobile apps).
    
  