
    
      We will enroll patients with esophageal cancer, patients who are at risk for developing
      esophageal cancer, and patients who have a non-cancerous esophageal disorder. All patients
      will be asked to fill out a questionnaire about their general health and personal habits, and
      about their relatives' medical history; this will be done during the preoperative clinic
      visit. Prior to or at the time of the surgical procedure(s), and at the time of routine
      follow-up visits, a sample of blood (about 3 tablespoons) will be drawn for research.

      For patients undergoing an endoscopy after the normal biopsies are taken, several small
      samples will be taken from the esophagus and stomach. These should total no more than eight
      samples.

      For patients undergoing an anti-reflux procedure with or without a Collis gastroplasty a
      lymph node is normally removed. We will receive a small piece of that lymph node after the
      pathologist has done the routine pathological evaluation of that node.

      If the collis procedure is done, a new esophagus is formed and a small piece of stomach
      tissue is discarded. We will study the ordinarily discarded tissue for the transformation of
      cells from a normal to an abnormal state. The lymph node and stomach tissue will be collected
      only once for the study.

      For patients undergoing an esophagectomy (removal of the esophagus) or a staging procedure
      (performed to determine size, exact location, and spread of tumor to nearby areas) prior to
      an esophagectomy small pieces of tissue will be collected (from tumor, adjacent normal
      esophageal lining, parts of lymph nodes, and any other tissues removed as a part of the
      normal procedure) from your esophagectomy or staging specimens. This tissue will be collected
      only once for the study. The samples collected will be analyzed for genetic changes in the
      DNA and the RNA. The samples will be stored in a locked laboratory at the Hillman Cancer
      Center Research Pavilion indefinitely or until the samples are depleted.

      You may be contacted in the future to learn the results of any cancer screening tests you had
      undergone and whether anyone else in your family had developed cancer. This information will
      be entered in a computer data base for future study.

      We may continue to collect additional biopsies during your routine clinical surveillance
      endoscopies. Again biopsies for normal patient management will be obtained first.
    
  