
    
      Objectives:

      Primary Objective of Phase I:

      • Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of CB839 in combination with panitumumab and
      irinotecan

      Primary Objective of Phase II:

      • Determine the efficacy of CB-839 in combination with panitumumab as measured by the
      objective response rate (RR) in patients with previously EGFR treated RAS wildtype colorectal
      adenocarcinoma.

      Secondary Objectives of Phase II:

        -  Determine the disease control rate, progression-free survival, and overall survival
           (phase II).

        -  Correlate radiological features of pre- and post-treatment carbon C 11 glutamine
           (11C-glutamine) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) and fluorine
           F 18 L-glutamate derivative BAY94-9392 (18F-FSPG) PET/CT with clinical outcome and
           biological correlates (tissue gene signature, plasma glutamate levels, exosomes). (Phase
           II).

        -  Collect pre-treatment biopsy tissue and prospectively correlate clinical outcome with a
           glutamate-biased gene set. (Phase II)

        -  Quantify exosomal content in the plasma (Phase II).

        -  Collect blood samples during each radiotracer injection to assess pharmacokinetics

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

        -  Correlate radiological features of pre- and post-treatment 11C-Glutamine PET/CT and
           18F-FSPG PET/CT with clinical outcome. (Phase I)

        -  Correlate radiological features of pre- and post-treatment 11C-Acetate PET/CT with
           clinical outcome (Phase II).

      OUTLINE: Phase I is a dose-escalation study of glutaminase inhibitor CB-839 in combination
      with standard doses of panitumumab and irinotecan hydrochloride. Phase II will study efficacy
      of glutaminase inhibitor CB-839 in combination with standard doses of panitumumab.

      Patients receive glutaminase inhibitor CB-839 orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28,
      panitumumab intravenously (IV) over 60-90 minutes on days 1 and 15, and irinotecan
      hydrochloride IV over 90 minutes on day 1 and 15 (Phase I only). Courses repeat every 28 days
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 28 days and then every 3 months
      for up to 1 year.
    
  