
    
      1. Recruitment efforts will be made in the community via advertisements, online
           advertisements (e.g., Craigslist, Facebook), and in-person at various clinics and health
           fairs in the geographic area.

        2. Prospective participants will contact the investigators via email or by calling the
           study phone number listed on the advertisements or verbally expressing interest
           in-person.

        3. Once a participant indicates interest by contacting study personnel, a 5-minute
           screening interview will be conducted with the prospective participant using the
           screening questionnaire to ensure eligibility criteria are met. For those who do not
           qualify or agree to participate, the age and reason for non-qualification or declination
           to participate will be recorded; any other data will be destroyed by shredding or
           electronic shredding. For those who do qualify, name and contact information will be
           kept confidential and maintained in a locked room.

        4. Participants will be asked to rate on a scale of -10 to +10 about their certainty that
           they will provide exclusive breastmilk to their babies for first six months. Responses
           from this item will be used as the covariate in the covariate adaptive randomization
           technique.

        5. Eligible subjects will be invited to participate in the study, either in an exam room at
           West Virginia University's Family Medicine's clinic, participant's home, private room in
           the Quin Curtis Center for Psychological Services, or in another agreed-upon community
           location (e.g., church). The location of the study procedures is chosen by the
           participant.

        6. At the start of this session, participants will be given an overview of the study, and
           the researcher will go over the consent form with them.

        7. Following consent procedures, video-recording will begin, and all participants will
           complete the prenatal interview. After this interview, participants will complete five
           self-report measures, which include the Infant Feeding Knowledge Form, the Iowa Infant
           Feeding Attitudes Scale, Brief Breastfeeding Attitudes Questions, Perinatal Anxiety
           Screening Scale, and the Knowledge of Infant Development Inventory.

        8. Intervention

             1. Participants assigned to the MI condition will receive an approximately 45 minute
                intervention provided a masters-level supervised psychologist with training in
                Motivational Interviewing.

             2. Participants who have been randomly assigned to participate in the
                attention-control group session will receive approximately 45 minutes of
                psychoeducation on typical developmental stages and infant feeding methods.
    
  