
    
      In a 4-week crossover study in 38 patients with COPD, roflumilast 500μg daily significantly
      reduced sputum absolute neutrophil count, IL-8 and neutrophil elastase compared with placebo
      treatment. Interestingly, the mechanism of anti-neutrophilic inflammation with roflumilast
      treatment in patients with COPD was recently found to be mediated through decreasing prolyl
      endopeptidase activity and acetyl-proline-glycine-proline (AcPGP), thus providing a clear
      biological plausibility for clinical activity of roflumilast. The clinical benefits of
      roflumilast treatment in COPD were subsequently demonstrated in 2 identical RCTs involving
      3,096 patients with COPD having severe airflow limitation and history of exacerbations.
      Treatment with roflumilast 500μg daily resulted in better prebronchodilator FEV1 (by 48 ml in
      52 weeks) and lower rate of exacerbations (reduction by 17%) compared with placebo treatment.
      The benefit of roflumilast on lung function has also been confirmed in another 2 identical
      RCTs among those patients with moderate to severe COPD already treated with long-acting
      bronchodilators (salmeterol or tiotropium). The mean pre-bronchodilator FEV1 was
      significantly improved with roflumilast compared to placebo treatment for 24 weeks by 49ml
      and 80ml respectively in patients with COPD already treated with salmeterol and tiotropium
      respectively. More recently, among patients with more severe COPD requiring combination
      ICS/long-acting β2 agonist, roflumilast treatment for 52 weeks significantly reduced the rate
      of moderate-to-severe exacerbations by 13.2% compared to placebo group. The safety and
      adverse effects of roflumilast have been well-tolerated, resulting in worldwide (including
      Hong Kong) approval for clinical use in COPD. The common adverse effects of roflumilast
      treatment include weight reduction (>10% loss in 7% subjects), decreased appetite (2%),
      insomnia (2%), headache (4%), diarrhea (10%) and nausea (5%).

      Our group has previously embarked on various clinical studies in non-CF bronchiectasis: a
      4-week treatment of inhaled fluticasone (ICS) compared with placebo (1), a subsequent 52-week
      randomized controlled trial of inhaled fluticasone in 86 patients (4), and a separate study
      on sputum elastase in 30 patients (2). These support the feasibility of conducting similar
      clinical trials, like the current proposal, on non-CF bronchiectasis in our unit. To prepare
      for the current study proposal, we have conducted a pilot and feasibility study of 4-week
      treatment of roflumilast in stable-state non-CF bronchiectasis with the exact
      inclusion/exclusion criteria as the current proposal (HKU/HA HKW IRB approval no. UW 17-444)
      since March 2018. Up to January 2019, we have successfully recruited 15 eligible study
      subjects. The initial study protocol mandated the starting dose of roflumilast at 500
      microgram daily. The first two study subjects experienced intolerable gastrointestinal side
      effects within 1-2 weeks of treatment, leading to premature treatment cessation. An amended
      study protocol (HKU/HA HKW IRB approval dated 24 July 2018) was approved that allowed a lower
      initiating dose of 250 microgram daily, which is in line with the current recommended
      prescription in COPD patients. Nine out of the subsequent 13 subjects (including the most
      recent 8 subjects consecutively) were able to complete roflumilast 250 microgram daily
      treatment for a total of 4 weeks, with less than grade 1 toxicities. The characteristics of
      the nine per-protocol study subjects include: M:F=4:5, age of 69.9 ± 9.1 years (mean ± SD)
      and baseline 24-h sputum volume of 30.00 ± 26.93 ml (for all 15 subjects: 27.47 ± 22.59 ml).
      The preliminary results showed insignificant change in sputum volume and a trend of reduced
      sputum IL-1β (pre- vs post-treatment: 10.84 vs 2.63 ng/ml, p=0.102). This indicates a
      possible anti-inflammatory effect of roflumilast in non-CF bronchiectasis with just 4 weeks
      of treatment, though this pilot was meant for feasibility study and not powered to detect
      significant change. The true benefit will likely require a longer duration of treatment (thus
      proposing 12 weeks in this study) with sufficient sample size.

      This study aims to investigate the effect of 12-week treatment with roflumilast on
      neutrophilic airway inflammation in stable-state non-CF bronchiectasis. The primary outcome
      measure is 24-h sputum volume. The extent of airway inflammation in non-CF bronchiectasis is
      indicated by sputum leukocyte density, pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-8, TNF-alpha,
      LTB4 and IL-17) and neutrophil elastase. Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) is a key
      secondary outcome. We hypothesize that 12-week treatment of roflumilast in stable-state
      non-CF bronchiectasis can result in: (1) reduction in 24-h sputum volume (primary
      hypothesis); (2) reduction in sputum leukocyte density; (3) reduction in sputum
      pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-8, TNF-alpha, and IL-17) and LTB4; (4) reduction in
      sputum neutrophil elastase; (5) no change in sputum bacterial colonization and load; (6)
      improvement in HRQoL.
    
  