
    
      Hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) is a rare group of heterogeneous disorders characterized by
      marked peripheral eosinophilia (>1500/(micro)L) and evidence of eosinophil-associated tissue
      damage. Although a high proportion of patients respond initially to corticosteroid therapy,
      high doses are often necessary to control the eosinophilia and clinical symptoms, and many
      patients become relatively refractory to therapy and/or develop serious side effects. IL-5
      receptor (alpha) (IL-5R (alpha) expression in humans is restricted to eosinophils, basophils,
      mast cells and their precursors and is, therefore, an ideal target for the therapy of HES. To
      date, there have been no safety concerns with benralizumab (anti-IL-5R(alpha)) in phase 1, 2
      and 3 trials in asthma and efficacy data is promising. In order to explore the safety and
      efficacy of benralizumab in the treatment of HES, 20 adults (men and non-pregnant women,
      18-75 years of age) with HES who are symptomatic with AEC >1000/(micro)L on stable HES
      therapy for at least 1 month will be recruited for this randomized, placebo-controlled,
      double-blind phase 2 trial. Benralizumab (30 mg) or placebo will be administered sc at weeks
      0, 4, and 8. Eosinophil counts will be blinded for a subject and background HES therapy will
      not be tapered until that subject has been on study for 13 weeks. At weeks 12, 16, and 20,
      all subjects will receive a sc injection of benralizumab. Subjects demonstrating a response
      at the 24 week visit (eosinophil count <1000/(alpha) L and stable or improved clinical
      symptoms without an increase in background HES therapy) will continue to receive additional
      30 mg sc injections every 4 weeks. Following the initial dose of benralizumab or placebo and
      the first open-label dose of benralizumab, subjects will be followed daily for 3 days, weekly
      for 4 weeks, and every 2 weeks for 8 weeks. Subsequent visits will be at 4 weeks intervals
      for responders and 12 weeks intervals for non-responders for a minimum of two years. Subjects
      with stable and complete response for greater than or equal to 2 years may be eligible to
      receive benralizumab at a dosing interval of every 8 weeks. Subjects will receive
      diphtheria-tetanus-acellular pertussis (TdaP) booster immunization at the 22 week visit.
      Titers will be measured 6 weeks after immunization.The primary endpoint of the study is a 50%
      reduction in peripheral blood eosinophilia on stable background therapy at 12 weeks
      post-initiation of study drug. Secondary endpoints will include absolute eosinophil count,
      the frequency and severity of adverse events, reduction in signs and symptoms of HES, tissue
      eosinophilia, numbers of eosinophils, mast cells and their precursors in bone marrow, levels
      of markers of eosinophil and mast cell activation, eosinophil count and background HES
      therapy at 1 year, pharmacokinetics and anti-drug antibody (ADA) levels and eosinophil count
      after 24 weeks of every 8 week dosing. Exploratory endpoints will address predictors of
      response to benralizumab and the impact of eosinophil depletion on vaccine responses and
      glucose homeostasis. Subjects who complete the study and for whom benralizumab provides
      sustained clinical benefit, may be eligible to receive drug on an open-label extension
      protocol until regulatory approval and commercial availability of the marketed drug to
      prescribing physicians (for any indication), or until development of benralizumab is
      discontinued by MedImmune.
    
  