
    
      Intramedullary hip screw devices can be inserted with and without locking of the set screw,
      with the purpose of the set screw to minimize shortening of the femoral neck by rigidly
      positioning the head screw that inserts into the femoral head. Rigid locking of the lag screw
      may also limit the ability of the fracture fragments to compress against each other gradually
      with weight bearing and this potentially could reduce healing at the fracture site.
      Alternatively, more settling at the fracture site may allow more reliable healing while
      allowing more shortening of the femoral neck at the fracture site. Shortening of the femoral
      neck fracture can result in gait disturbances and poor hip function, while delay in healing
      can contribute to hardware failure and need for revision surgery. The benefit of placing the
      set screw in intramedullary hip screw fixation has not been clearly established in the
      literature. To date, there has been no study addressing this question, and the decision to
      lock, or not lock the screw is based on individual surgeon discretion. This study will help
      to clarify this decision point in the treatment of intertrochanteric hip fractures with the
      Intertan (Smith and Nephew, Memphis, Tn) intramedullary nail. This will lead to better
      patient outcomes, and help clarify the standard of care in these very common fracture
      patterns.

      Subjects who have sustained an intertrochanteric hip fracture (OTA classification A2 and A3)
      will be randomized to undergo fixation with an intramedullary hip screw with and without
      locking of the set screw. These subjects will be blinded to the study group and will be
      treated as per standard of care after fixation of a hip fracture with xrays immediately after
      surgery, at 1-2 weeks, 6 weeks, and then 3 and 6 months post operatively. As per standard
      care additional xrays would be indicated until union of the fracture if there is delayed
      healing. Femoral neck shortening will be measured radiographically with femoral neck offset
      and the femoral neck shaft angle to be measured radiographically based on standardized
      computerized measurements from the xray images. TraumaCad software (Voyanthealth,
      Westchester, Il) will be utilized to obtain standardized measurements. A blinded
      subinvestigator will review the participants' x-rays and make the measurements required to
      determine the study outcomes. Time to radiographic union and any occurrence of hardware
      failure, nonunion and malunion will be noted. Demographic data including age, gender, smoking
      history, and medical comorbidities will be collected based on chart review. Subjective
      outcome scores (modified Harris hip score) will be collected at 3 and 6 months after surgery.
    
  