
    
      The investigators propose to perform a randomized implementation trial to evaluate the
      efficacy of various implementation methods of the TMW-Newborn educational intervention. The
      study will be conducted in temporal proximity to the administration of the universal newborn
      hearing screen.

      After routine delivery, postpartum mothers are admitted to the mother-baby unit for 48-72
      hours. A hearing screening technician of the Sacred Heart Hospital will deliver the tablet
      that houses the intervention to every mother whose child is receiving the hearing screening.
      The technician will give each mother a tablet set up to the HIPAA Compliant TMW-Newborn Web
      Platform that houses the randomization tool, the welcome video, the tablet based consent
      passage, the surveys, and the educational intervention videos. First, the participant will
      watch the welcome video and complete the tablet based consent. Then, the participant will be
      randomized into one of four conditions: 15 minute version of the TMW-Newborn intervention
      video without questions interspersed, the 15 minute version of the TMW-Newborn intervention
      video with questions interspersed, the 7 minute version of the TMW-Newborn intervention video
      without questions interspersed, or the 7 minute version of the TMW-Newborn intervention video
      with questions interspersed.

      After randomization, the participant will be brought to the screen with the SPEAK III to
      complete. Then, they will answer a few non-identifying demographics questions. These surveys
      takes approximately 10 minutes to complete will be followed by either a 15-minute or 7-minute
      video.

      After watching their assigned video, all participants will repeat the SPEAK questionnaire for
      a second time. Then, the hearing screener will pick up the tablet from the participant. No
      identifying information is being collected within the TMW-Newborn web platform, and the
      hearing screening technicians will not be able to see or access any of the participants'
      responses.

      After all surveys are complete, the hearing screening technician will pick up the tablet from
      the participant and answer any remaining questions.

      This study protocol will only be used at Sacred Heart Hospital, Baptist Hospital, and
      University of Chicago Hospital.
    
  