
    
      Muscle protein is generally diminished in cancer patients, with an effect on outcome.
      Research has shown that recurrence in treated patients is directly related to the extent of
      muscle loss. The effects of nutritional supplements; however, is still controversial.
      Anorexia due to metabolic changes in cancer patients can lead to reduced food intake and
      supplementation orally has often failed to show weight gain in these patients. These
      observations have led to the conclusion that even though food intake should be increased in
      order to gain lean body mass, this is difficult to achieve unless specific metabolic
      abnormalities are targeted.

      This study is a comparison of two supplements on muscle protein synthesis. Approximately 40
      patients with radiographic evidence of cancer, ages 40 and older will be enrolled.

      Participation will require a screening procedure, including a history of medical problems and
      a physical exam, which may include blood testing for HIV or hepatitis as well as possibly for
      various basic diagnostic parameters. There may also be a urine-based drug screen or pregnancy
      test (if female). Participants should be in general good health and not have a variety of
      exclusion criteria.

      There will be three days of diet stabilization, during which all meals will come from the
      Reynolds Institute of Aging. If subjects cannot comply with the diet, dietary recording will
      be substituted. Following these three days, there will be one day of main study activities.
      There will be catheters placed in both arms and blood samples will be taken from one of
      these. Stable amino acid isotopes will be infused into the bloodstream through the other.
      There will be three muscle biopsies taken from the thigh muscle throughout the day. Two doses
      of a nutritional supplements will be consumed 20 minutes apart during the main study day.
    
  