
    
      The worldwide HIV/AIDS epidemic may only be controlled through development and utilization of
      a safe and effective vaccine that will prevent HIV infection. Due to the high prevalence of
      HIV-1 subtype C in southern Africa, the South African AIDS Vaccine Initiative (SAAVI), the
      HIV Vaccine Trials Network (HVTN) and the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
      Diseases (NIAID) are evaluating two subtype C HIV vaccines, SAAVI DNA-C2 and SAAVI MVA-C
      through this study . These two vaccines will be used together in a prime-boost regimen. The
      SAAVI DNA-C2 vaccine is a multigene DNA vaccine consisting of two DNA plasmids in equal
      amounts that express an HIV-1 subtype C polyprotein comprising of Gag-Reverse
      Transcriptase-Tat-Nef and an HIV-1 subtype C truncated Env. SAAVI MVA-C is a recombinant MVA
      vaccine expressing the same immunogens as the SAAVI DNA-C2 vaccine. MVA is a highly
      attenuated vaccinia virus. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and
      immunogenicity of an experimental DNA HIV vaccine, SAAVI DNA C2, followed by boosting with an
      experimental recombinant MVA HIV vaccine, SAAVI MVA-C, in HIV uninfected adults.

      Participants will actively participate in this study for 12 months and will then be contacted
      and asked questions about their health once annually for 3 years following initial study
      injection. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either the SAAVI prime-boost
      preventive vaccine regimen or placebo. Vaccination with the SAAVI DNA-C2 vaccine will occur
      at Months 0, 1, and 2; boost vaccinations with the SAAVI MVA-C vaccine will occur at Months 4
      and 5. Additional study visits will occur at Weeks 2, 6, 10, 16, 18, and 20 and Days 147,
      154, 273, and 364.

      Study procedures include physical exams, blood and urine collection, HIV testing, an
      electrocardiogram, and questionnaire. Some blood collected from participants will be stored
      and used in future research. Risk-reduction counseling will be conducted at all study visits.
    
  