
    
      1. Objectives The project aims the integration for the first time in Romania of modern
           monitoring equipment for pro-oxidative, pro-inflammatory status and the
           energetic-metabolic necessary specific to the departments of anesthesia and intensive
           care, the clinical and laboratory data, genetic / epigenetic analyzes and existing
           information for the modulation and optimization of the intensive care for polytrauma
           patients. This way, the prospect of developing a decision support module for doctors to
           improve indices of mortality and morbidity in this area will be created. Reducing
           mortality and increasing quality of care is possible by providing a modern and complex
           monitoring system for critically ill polytrauma patient followed essentially by the
           acquisition, interpretation and synthesis in time of these biological signals and
           correlation with other clinical and laboratory data useful in modulating intensive care.

           The general objectives are to develop new areas of research in accordance with the
           trends of international research and with the economic and social romanian and european
           requirements by creating a integrated, innovative protocol with the improvement in the
           indices of mortality and morbidity in the intensive care of trauma patient through
           multimodality monitoring procedures and modulating intensive care management
           continuously in order to improve the public health system.

           The specific objectives of the study are the integration of modern methods for
           monitoring and optimizing therapeutic management depending on the individual patient
           (individualized management of intensive care); calculating severity and risk scores,
           both in the first 24 hours and continuously, providing medical decision support tools in
           real time; developing in an ergonomic, dynamic and standardized for viewing local and
           remote way the intensive care protocol modulated after modern techniques for
           non-invasive monitoring and cost-effective in the long term.

           Advantages of multimodal monitoring of pro-oxidative, pro-inflammatory and
           energetic-metabolic status through conventional laboratory analyzes, genetic /
           epigenetic analyzes and indirect calorimetry is represented by the particularly low time
           for obtaining the results, but also the pool of information brought on regarding the
           clinical status of these patients. Moreover, secondary it is possible to implement an
           intensive care that is modulated individually that reflects both on clinical outcome of
           the patient and the costs. Not least by obtaining a genetic array of specific
           pathophysiology's polymorphisms (SIRS, sepsis, ARDS, MODS) early and targeted therapies
           can be implemented that can significantly reduce mortality rates.

        2. Impact The direct beneficiaries of the study are represented by physicians Department of
           Anesthesia and Intensive Care County Hospital Emergency "Pius Brinzeu" Timisoara that
           will have a very useful tool in clinical practice and research with direct impact on
           patient outcomes (approx. 3000 patients / year). Also, the entire local medical and
           scientific community: doctors, medical researchers and teachers. Through
           interdisciplinary nature of the specialty of anesthesia and intensive care, direct
           beneficiaries of research results in this area are represented by physicians from a wide
           range of medical specialties: surgery, neurosurgery, cardiology, infectious diseases,
           orthopedics and traumatology, clinical biology, genetics and so on. They will retrieve
           new information brought by research, will implement and apply it themselves on a new
           target groups of patients, thus expanding the distribution area of potential
           beneficiaries. Lastly, the economic environment through technology transfer from
           research results to other clinical and experimental centers.

           The indirect beneficiaries are represented by patients who will benefit directly from
           the implementation of the clinical trial results of research in anesthesia and intensive
           care: patients from clinics in the country and possibly abroad. Local and regional
           community - by improving the quality of medical services for the community, increased
           quality of life and level of economic and social reintegration of former patients. Local
           administration by savings from the local budget allocated to health with the
           implementation of new techniques and thus through reducing hospitalization time in the
           intensive care unit of these patients.

        3. Statistical analysis Statistical analyzes will be carried out with specially designed
           computer equipment such as Prism 6 for Mac OSX v.6.0 (GraphPad Software, Inc., San
           Diego, CA) and Microsoft Office Excel (Microsoft Corporation, Bucharest, Romania).
           Statistical analysis of data recorded in the database will be to calculate frequencies
           and percentages for quantitative variables. Also, for the quantitative variables, the
           results will be expressed as the mean and standard deviation. Statistical comparisons
           used for test environments will be calculated with the unpaired t-test and for
           statistical comparisons used percentages using Chi square test. Statistical significance
           will be defined at p <0.05.
    
  