
    
      In this prospective, observational, multicentric study, after ethics committee approval and
      patients informed consent, 20 patients for each center undergoing elective multi-level spine
      surgery procedures will be enrolled. A total of 80 patients will be enrolled. No
      randomization or concealment is planned.

      Inclusion criteria are: adults (age> 18), American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) I-III,
      undergoing elective multi-level spinal surgery intervention. Patients with significant
      comorbidities such as severe liver disease, severe renal disease (stage III-IV), heart
      disease with organ failure, severe preoperative anemia requiring blood transfusions, severe
      pneumopathy with high probability of postoperative prolonged mechanical ventilation are
      excluded. Other exclusion criteria are: emergency intervention, known coagulopathy and
      chronic preoperative anemia.

      Temperature will be measured with tympanic, anal or esophageal probe according to the
      availability and means of the department. Variables related to the patient (such as sex, age,
      BMI, smoke, anticoagulant or antiplatelet therapy in progress, presence of mild chronic
      hepatopathy / cardiopathy / pneumopathy / renal failure, hemoglobin and the preoperative
      hematocrit) will be compared with type and length of intervention, estimated blood loss,
      intraoperative variables (such as diuresis, minimum temperature and its variations, blood
      transfusions, ventilation mode) and post- operative hemoglobin level (the day after
      operation) to assess patient prognosis in terms of need for transfusion and infectious and
      respiratory complications incidence 7 days after surgery.

      For each patient will be measured initial intraoperative temperature (T0) and minimum
      temperature (Tmin) with esophageal, anal or tympanic probe every 30 minutes during surgery.
      The temperature delta will be calculated as T0 - Tmin.

      the investigators will compare intraoperative reduction of basal body temperature with Hb
      level reduction (preoperative Hb compared to Hb of the following day of intervention)
      considering as significant a temperature reduction of at least 1 ° C and Hb reduction of at
      least 1 g/dl, net of variables recognized correlated with increased bleeding in vertebral
      surgery (age, sex, diabetes mellitus, smoking, arterial hypertension, ASA class, intervention
      time, preoperative Ht) and liquid volume infused during intervention (hemodilution).

      The continuous variables will be presented as mean and standard deviation while the
      categorical ones as frequency (percentage frequency, %).

      Univariate logistic regression analysis will be applied to evaluate the effect of patients
      variables, surgical intervention with anesthesia management on patients prognosis in terms of
      need for transfusion and presence / absence of infectious and respiratory complications 7
      days after surgery Variables associated with the need for transfusion and 7-day complications
      with p value <0.10 on univariate analysis will be considered in a multivariate logistic
      regression analysis model. The area under the receiver ROC curve (AUC) will be used as a
      measure of the model's prediction capacity.
    
  