
    
      Details of Radiation Therapy: Both breast conserving surgery and IORT will be delivered as
      per standard practice. Lumpectomy and sentinel lymph node biopsy will be performed by the
      breast surgeon using standard techniques and as per standard of care. IORT with Xoft Axxent
      System will be given at the time of lumpectomy for early stage breast cancer. During the same
      operative procedure, a single fraction of radiation will be given to the lumpectomy bed with
      IORT. The Xoft Axxent treatment device size will be customized to the patient's anatomy based
      on the volume of lumpectomy cavity. The prescription dose will be 20 Gy prescribed to the
      surface of the lumpectomy cavity. Postoperative, external beam, whole breast radiation
      therapy will be given that the discretion of the treating physician based on the presence of
      high risk clinicopathologic features. Based on data from existing, published, clinical
      trials, it is estimated that 15% of patients will require postoperative radiation in addition
      to IORT. As with standard practice, all patients planned for IORT will be discussed pre- and
      post-surgery at the breast cancer multidisciplinary conference for pathology and radiology
      review.

      Study outline: After patients complete lumpectomy and IORT, their acute and late toxicities
      and cosmetic outcome will be monitored on protocol. Patients will complete clinical follow up
      in radiation oncology at 4-6 weeks, 6 months, 1 year, 18 months, 2 years and then yearly for
      a total of 5 years. In accordance with standard clinical practice, patients will have
      toxicity assessment, physical exam, and cosmetic scoring by the physician. Physician toxicity
      assessment will be performed with Common Terminology Criteriae for Adverse Events (CTCAE)
      version 5.0, Late Effects Normal Tissue Task Force-Subjective, Objective, Management,
      Analytic (LENT-SOMA), and Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) skin and toxicity scales.
      Physician cosmetic assessment will be performed with the Harvard Cosmetic Scale. Patients
      will also be asked to complete Breast Cancer Treatment Outcome Scale (BCTOS) self-assessment
      for patient reported cosmetic, functional and pain symptoms. Breast-Q version 2.0 will also
      be used to evaluate patient-reported cosmetic outcome, physical well being and adverse
      events.

      A prospective database will be created and maintained. Patient data will be deidentified in
      the database with patients assigned unique study codes. Their assigned study code will be
      kept in a single encrypted file by the principal investigator.

      This is an observational prospective study. To reduce selection bias, all eligible
      consecutive patients will be enrolled. The investigators expect the sample size to be around
      20 per year with a total of 60 in three years. Multiple adverse radiation outcomes (including
      breast pain, radiation dermatitis, breast edema, seroma, infection) will be evaluated and
      compared with historical controls to detect if prevalence differs by 20% and 16% in two- and
      three-years accrual, respectively (n=40 in two years and n=60 in three years) at alpha=0.05
      and power =80%.

      Descriptive statistics (mean, median, standard deviation, minimum and maximum for continuous
      measures, and frequency and percentages for ordinal measures) related to participant
      characteristics, treatment and risk factors will be produced for the entire cohort and
      subsets of cohort. Differences in adverse radiation effects in the IORT protocol participants
      and historic controls will be assessed using the Cochran-Armitage test for trend or
      chi-squared test, as appropriate. Univariate analysis will be used to detect associations
      between cosmetic outcome and patient-specific and treatment-related factors by use of either
      a chi-squared test (categorical variables) or t-test (continuous variables). The freedom from
      ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence, progression free survival {PFS) and overall survival
      (OS) will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. Differences in survival between the
      protocol cohort and historic controls will be evaluated through the estimated hazard rates
      using the unweighted log-rank tests. PFS and OS will be estimated along with 95% precise
      confidence intervals. In order to examine the significant factors, Cox proportional hazards
      regression models will be used in both uni-variable and multi-variable settings. Other
      factors to be analyzed are ethnicity, gender, age, and pathological subtype. The various
      factors will be placed into categorical variables. Simple logistic regression will be used to
      study association between a dichotomous outcome measure and any predictor. Once again, for
      any dichotomous outcome measure, the effect of other covariates (as listed above) will also
      be explored in addition to primary predictor using a multiple logistic regression analysis.

      All results will be declared significant at significance level of 5%. Since there are
      multiple outcomes compared, the investigators will adjust significance level for multiple
      comparisons.

      The investigators will maintain a prospectively collected database of patients who undergo
      treatment, the details of which are kept in their electronic medical record. This EMR is
      managed in the usual and customary manner throughout treatment and follow-up. An excel
      spreadsheet of patients' MRN and their assigned study code will be kept in a single encrypted
      file by the principal investigator. This encrypted file will remain on campus, secured in the
      principal investigator's office, and held under lock and key.
    
  