
    
      Cardiac allograft vasculopathy (CAV) or acute cellular rejection (ACR) are a leading cause of
      mortality and morbidity in heart transplant recipients. Most of the cases occur within 5
      years after transplant and later incidence was known to be infrequent.

      Mechanisms of CAV or ACR are thought to be multi-factorial involving both immunologic and
      non-immunologic factors that leads to injury of coronary endothelium and intimal hyperplasia.
      This unique mechanism results in long, diffuse and concentric stenosis of coronary arteries,
      different from those with conventional coronary atherosclerosis.

      Due to lack of typical ischemic symptoms by denervated heart, diagnosis of CAV depends on
      routine screening tests rather than symptom based investigation. International Society for
      Heart and Lung Transplantation (ISHLT) guideline recommends annual or biannual coronary
      angiography screening until 5 years after transplant, but sensitivity of coronary angiography
      is limited because of diffuse involvement of all segments of coronary arteries.
      Alternatively, Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) is a current standard for diagnosis and
      prognostication of CAV. It is well studied that progressive intimal thickening during the
      first year after transplant predicts future incidence of CAV and poor prognosis. However, the
      use of IVUS in the diagnosis of CAV is not generalized due to technical issues, high cost,
      procedure complications and ISHLT guideline states it is an option to exclude donor coronary
      artery disease, to detect rapidly progressive CAV, and provide prognostic information.

      Recent development of single guidewire thermodilution technique enabled simple way to measure
      microvascular indices such as FFR, CFR, IMR. Our previous study shows, in patients with
      ischemic heart disease, presence of microvascular disease defined by low CFR and high IMR,
      predicts poor prognosis even without apparent epicardial disease. Considering its mechanism
      to involve diffuse coronary vasculature, CAV is believed to affect microvascular circulation
      in the early phase and spread to epicardial disease in its course. For this reason, by
      evaluating coronary physiology early after transplant, it may be possible to predict future
      progression of CAV.

      There were previous studies which evaluated microvascular dysfunction in heart transplant
      patients. These studies indicated microvascular dysfunction at time of transplantation is
      related to progression of epicardial disease during first year after transplant, but lack of
      follow up prohibited from drawing any conclusion on occurrence of CAV later on. Another study
      by the same group evaluated microvascular dysfunction at 1 year after transplant and revealed
      it was associated with allograft vasculopathy at 5 years after transplant. However, this
      study did not evaluate impact of earlier assessments of microvascular dysfunction at time of
      transplantation on occurrence of CAV.

      Therefore the current study will perform early physiologic assessments including fractional
      flow reserve, coronary flow reserve, and index of microcirculatory resistance in patients who
      received heart transplant and evaluate the impact of initial microvascular dysfunction on
      future occurrence of CAV or ACR during 6 years of follow up. The investigators hope to
      develop strong predictors of CAV or ACR that can be evaluated early after heart transplant
      and to improve outcome by preemptive therapy before overt development of the disease.

      This study will be a pilot study and target sample size will be 200 consecutive patients to
      receive heart transplant.
    
  