
    
      The investigators will link community pharmacy and primary care practices via a shared
      electronic health record to improve medication therapy management for older patients taking
      complex prescription (Rx) regimens. The Technology-Enabled Alliance for Medication Therapy
      Management (TEAM) intervention will link a major, national community pharmacy chain
      (Walgreens) to primary care practices (ACCESS community health network) via a shared
      electronic health record (EHR) platform (Epic, Verona WI). Through shared access to patients'
      medical records, pharmacists can perform comprehensive medication therapy management
      services, document and communicate patients' Rx challenges for review and action by primary
      care providers.

      The investigators will conduct a 2-arm pilot to evaluate the efficacy of the TEAM
      intervention compared to enhanced usual care. The investigators will enroll a total of 120
      English and Spanish-speaking patients prescribed five or more chronic medications. Enrolled
      patients will complete a follow-up interview two months after their baseline interview.

      The TEAM intervention enables a pharmacist to help patients on complex Rx regimens via
      medication reviews by telephone and clinical decision support. Pharmacists will call patients
      to conduct a Comprehensive Medication Review (CMR). Pharmacists will be able to document and
      communicate patients' medication challenges for review and action by primary care providers.
      A CMR will:

        1. Ensure the primary care physician knows all medications the patient is taking
           (reconciliation)

        2. Investigate if patients are taking medication as prescribed, in a safe manner (proper
           use)

        3. Monitor and detect any drug-related adverse effects (ADEs) (surveillance)

        4. Address any questions or concerns patients may have about their medicine (e.g. side
           effects, treatment alternatives, dietary restrictions, cost, 90 vs. 30 day scripts;
           education)

        5. Inquire about patients' adherence to regimens, what barriers they may experience (e.g.
           cost, forgetfulness) and if they need assistance (e.g. synchronization requests, pill
           box or reminder tools, etc.; adherence).

      After performing the CMR, the pharmacist will provide timely notifications via secure,
      EHR-based messaging direct to prescribers of any medication concerns, based on either 1)
      pharmacy information (e.g. medications ordered by other prescribers, fill data), 2) patient
      report of problems during phone-based encounters, or 3) pharmacist review of the patient
      record.

      The aims of this investigation are to:

        1. Evaluate the fidelity and efficacy of the TEAM intervention to promote healthcare
           provider counseling, medication reconciliation, and safe regimen use among adults taking
           complex Rx regimens.

        2. Explore patient, healthcare provider (pharmacist, prescriber), community pharmacy and/or
           primary care practice barriers to implementation.

        3. Determine the costs of the TEAM intervention from both a community pharmacy and primary
           care practice perspective.
    
  