
    
      For children with epilepsy that have failed pharmacological and alternative treatments
      (drug-resistant epilepsy; [DRE]), surgical interventions may be considered. This includes
      vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) and deep brain stimulation (DBS). VNS for the treatment of DRE
      in children is an established and widely used treatment. Unfortunately, the positive response
      to VNS rate (>50% reduction in seizures) is not consistent, ranging from 26-55% in pediatric
      epilepsy patients. In children with failed VNS, defined as no improvement in seizure control
      after at least 1 year of treatment, they may undergo DBS as a recommended therapy. DBS is a
      safe and established treatment for various childhood neurological conditions and the
      indications for DBS in children continue to expand. It is currently unknown which children
      may benefit from DBS after failed VNS.

      As a patient-preference randomized trial, patients and their parents will be introduced to
      the options of continuing with current VNS management (control arm) or trialing DBS
      (treatment arm). Patients and their parents will fall into three possible groups according to
      preference and willingness for randomization.

      i) Patients with no strong preferences and consent to randomization ii) Patients with a
      preference, yet still consent to randomization iii) Patients who refuse randomization and opt
      for enrollment in a specific arm

      Patients in the treatment arm will receive DBS of the centromedian nucleus. The centromedian
      nucleus is believed to reduce electrocortical activity in generalized epilepsy. The
      investigators hypothesize that stimulating this target will lead to a decrease in seizure
      severity and frequency in patients who have failed VNS; in comparison with patients who will
      have continued VNS treatment and optimization. Patients in the control arm will continue to
      be observed for 12 months with no change to their treatment.
    
  