
    
      Concern over worsening cognitive functioning has been shown to significantly impact patients'
      lives. More than half of all MS patients demonstrate clinically significant cognitive
      dysfunction, making it one of the leading causes of disability in MS. Cognitive deficits
      often manifest in areas associated with information processing speed, memory, and executive
      functioning. Resulting sequela can have profound implications on employment, interpersonal
      relationships, and activities of daily living. Despite the prevalence of cognitive
      dysfunction in MS, most studies find little to no relationship between perceived and
      objective cognition in MS. Research shows that some patients overestimate the extent of their
      cognitive deficits. PCI is associated with poor self-efficacy, social, and occupational
      difficulties. Evidence suggests that negative emotional states may contribute to
      overestimated PCI in MS. Exaggerated perceptions of impaired cognition may be intensified by
      the presence of other MS symptoms, which can affect the way patients report disease activity
      to healthcare providers and complicate detection of relevant disease symptomatology.

      Overestimating cognitive impairment has been observed in other patient populations, but it is
      especially problematic in MS and can provide an opportunity to inform patients about
      discrepancies between perceived and objective cognitive functioning. Since physicians spend
      significant amounts of time negating unsubstantiated healthcare concerns, an intervention
      aimed at decreasing PCI in MS may improve long-term healthcare outcomes as well as the
      quality of time that physicians spend with patients. Neuropsychological test results can be
      used as objective evidence against perceived cognitive impairment to change patients
      perceptions, if conveyed in an appropriate and nonthreatening manner.

      Educating patients about the influence of emotional dysfunction and misattribution as it
      relates to PCI may also decrease concern regarding cognitive decline and MS. Specifically,
      internal processes such as emotional dysfunction, including a globally negative world view
      can increase dissociative experiences that cause patients to misattribute normal cognitive
      errors as MS-related cognitive decline. This model may inform patients understanding of
      medically unsubstantiated PCI, allowing them to consider alternative factors associated with
      common cognitive errors aside from MS.

      Although many studies have aimed to improve cognition in MS through pharmacological
      treatments, cognitive rehabilitation, and psychotherapy, to the investigators knowledge, this
      is the first study to examine a psychoeducational intervention to decrease exaggerated
      perceptions of cognitive impairment in MS. For the present study, the investigators will
      develop a brief computer-based intervention for MS patients who perceive cognitive decline
      incongruent with objective measures of cognition. The proposed intervention will incorporate
      feedback from neuropsychological tests, including comparisons of perceived and objective
      performance. The intervention will also introduce psychoeducation about causes of PCI, such
      as emotional distress, attention, and misattribution. It is hoped that by combining
      neuropsychological test feedback and psychoeducation, patients may better understand
      differences between perceived and objective cognition, which in turn, may reduce concern and
      offer alternative explanations for PCI.

      Goals and Hypotheses

      For the current study, the investigators will develop a brief computer-based intervention for
      MS patients who perceive cognitive decline that is incongruent with objective measures of
      cognitive functioning. The project will accomplish the following specific aims:

        1. Develop and assess the feasibility and acceptability of a brief, single-session,
           computerized intervention (cognitive feedback and psychoeducation; CFP) as part of a
           randomized controlled pilot trial to reduce perceived cognitive impairment and distress
           associated with perceived cognitive impairment that is incongruent with objective
           measures of cognition in MS patients.

        2. Examine whether the intervention reduces distress related to perceived cognitive
           deficits. The investigators hypothesize that patients in the CFP group will report less
           distress over perceived cognitive impairment compared to the control group immediately
           after and one week following the intervention.

        3. Examine patients understanding of factors that contribute to perceived and objective
           cognitive impairment in MS. The investigators hypothesize that patients in the CFP group
           will have an increased understanding of the role that negative emotion, misattribution,
           and other secondary factors play in the formation of perceived cognitive deficits when
           compared to patients assigned to the HEH group.
    
  