
    
      Objectives:

      The objectives of the study are to characterise the differences in sensory perception, and
      oral processing behaviours (i.e. eating rate, bite size, chew per bite, oral exposure time
      etc.) of foods and meals that differ in their degree of processing, and to further
      investigate how texture-based differences in oral processing behaviour influence ad-libitum
      energy intake. In addition, this study is also aimed to see how is the texture-based
      differences in oral processing behaviour modified by degree of food processing (i.e. un-,
      minimally-processed, processed and ultra-processed foods).

      Study Design:

      The study involves 2 parts. A maximum of 30 participants will be recruited to complete Part 1
      (1 screening session & 3 test sessions); and a maximum of 50 participants will be recruited
      to completed Part 2 (4 test sessions) of the study.

      Part 1) Sensory perception and health behaviour for foods varying in degree of processing and
      nutrient source will be evaluated using a Health Behaviour Questionnaire and food perception
      and health behaviour task. Perceived sensory and oral processing behaviour differences
      between a series of commercially available and commonly consumed foods (e.g. carrot, apple,
      meatball, etc.) will be assessed using sensory descriptive analysis on 100mm Visual Analogue
      Scale (VAS), and video recording, respectively.

      Part 2) In addition, the sensory and oral processing behaviour, satiety and ad-libitum energy
      intake across different meals (e.g. rice with meat and vegetable, meat with potato and salad,
      etc.) will be assessed using video recording, sensory and appetite assessment on 100mm VAS,
      and a weighing food balance.

      The current study will require participants to attend either 4.5 hours (Screening and Part
      1), 9.5 hours (Screening and Part 2) or 12.5 hours (Screening, Parts 1 and 2). All
      participants will be required to join for one-time screening prior to the study. Participants
      will require to fast for three-hour (Part 1) and at least one hour (Part 2) before their
      scheduled lunch-time test sessions. Each session will last for approximately one hour
      (Screening, Part 1), or two hours (Part 2), as indicated accordingly.

      In the situation of participant dropout, the data that have been collected until the time of
      withdrawal will be kept and analysed. The reason is to enable a complete and comprehensive
      evaluation of the study.

      Test Foods:

      Part 1) Commercially available and commonly consumed foods (e.g. carrot, apple, meatball,
      etc.) Part 2) Consist of components previously tested in Part 1 and comprise foods that are
      commercially available, safe for human consumption and prepared in line with safe hygienic
      food preparation (e.g. rice with meat and vegetable, meat with potato and salad, etc.)

      Screening (Session 1, 1- 1.5 hour):

      All potential participants will be asked to give informed consent before taking part in any
      of the research activities. Participants are to complete a screening questionnaire and to
      taste five different basic taste solutions (sweet [sucrose, 3.2-100 mmol/L], salty [sodium
      chloride, 3.2-100 mmol/L], bitter [caffeine, 0.25-0.79 mmol/L], sour [citric acid, 0.63-5
      mmol/L] and umami[monosodium glutamate, 1-31.6 mmol/L]) to assess their taste discrimination
      ability. Basic anthropometric measurements such as height, weight, skinfold measurements and
      percentage body fat using a Bioelectrical Impedance Analyser will be taken.

      Successfully screened participants will proceed to complete a Health Behaviour Questionnaire
      and taste no more than 16 samples to rate and evaluate their perception and health behaviour
      for the foods varying in degree of processing and nutrient sources at the remaining of the
      screening session.

      Part 1 (3 test sessions, 1 hour each):

      Sensory and oral processing behaviour of commercially available food samples will be
      assessed. A maximum of 30 participants will be recruited for this part of the study.
      Participants will taste no more than 16 samples in each session.

      Participants will be asked to taste each food sample and evaluate on liking, familiarity and
      the sensory attributes such as overall flavour intensity, firmness, crunchiness, chewiness,
      saltiness and sweetness. A mandatory inter-stimulus break of one minute will be enforced
      between each sample to reduce possible fatigue and allow time to cleanse your palate with
      water and crackers provided. All evaluations will be administrated and collected using a
      computer. Participants will also be video-recorded during the sessions for collection of oral
      processing data (i.e. eating rate, bite number, bite size etc). In addition, Participants
      will be asked to wear a wrist worn accelerometer (M5StickC ESP32-PICO Mini loT Development
      Kit, China) on the hand they eat with to track the wrist movement while eating.

      Part 2 (4 test sessions, 2 hour each):

      The sensory, oral processing characteristics and ad libitum energy intake for different meals
      will be assessed in this part. A maximum of 50 participants will be recruited for this part
      of the study. Participants who completed Part 1 will be invited to join the Part 2, however
      the participation is not mandatory. Participants will attend 1 session per week for four
      consecutive weeks to evaluate up to 4 ad libitum test meal across for lunch-time sessions,
      i.e. 1 ad libitum test meal per session.

      Participant will be required to fast from 11.00 pm the evening before and refrain from
      engaging in vigorous physical activities.

      On each test day, participants will be asked to arrive at CNRC between 8.00-9.00am and
      complete a set of appetite ratings disguised as "Mood Questions" (pre-breakfast rating).
      Following the pre-breakfast rating, participants will receive a standardised, fixed portion
      breakfast and mid-morning drink/snack to take away with them and consume at fixed intervals
      during the morning (before the lunch). The purpose is to equilibrate their appetite need
      state ahead of the ad-libitum test meal at lunch session.

      Participants will consume the breakfast within 15 minutes, after which complete a second set
      of appetite ratings (post-breakfast ratings). Participants will refrain from consuming
      anything except water and continue to complete the appetite rating at 15 or 30 minutes'
      intervals, prompted with reminder set on their mobile device.

      After approximately 2 hours, participants will consume the mid-morning drink/ snack within 15
      minutes. Participants will then continue to rate their appetite at 15 minute intervals before
      coming to CNRC for their lunch.

      The lunch session will be scheduled from midday onwards and will begin with a set of appetite
      rating (pre-lunch rating). Participants will be served an ad libitum test meal (~800g to
      1000g) along with a glass of water, and instructed to taste a mouthful of the meal and rate
      its sensory characteristics. Participants will then be asked to consume the ad libitum test
      meal in their normal way and to eat until comfortably full. Participants' eating behaviour at
      lunch will be recorded in order to analyse and behaviourally code their oral processing
      behaviour (i.e. eating rate, bite number, bite size etc). In addition, Participants will be
      asked to wear a wrist worn accelerometer on the hand they eat with to track the wrist
      movement while eating. After completed eating, participants will be required to complete
      post-lunch appetite ratings at 15minutes interval for 90minutes, and bring a food diary home
      for recording their food and beverage intake for the rest of the test day.
    
  