
    
      Laparoscopy is the gold standard in colorectal surgery with many benefits in term of
      morbidity, post-operative pain and analgesic consumption. However the pneumoperitoneum
      created for the laparoscopy has several negatives impact and limits (specific pain following
      abdominal distension, visibility, physiological repercussion).

      To improve recovery after colorectal laparoscopic surgery it was realized a first study
      (PAROS) which showed that low-pressure laparoscopic colectomy for benign or malign disease
      was feasible and safe with shorter length of stay and decrease post-operative pain with
      reduction of analgesic consumption.

      Minimally invasive technics like microlaparoscopic surgery, developed last years had also an
      impact by decreasing post operative pain. The Low Impact Laparoscopy concept was developed in
      colo-rectal surgery with the association of low-pressure pneumoperitoneum and
      microlaparoscopic surgery.

      The aim of the study is to assess the impact of low-pressure pneumoperitoneum with
      microlaparoscopic instruments on post-operative pain without taking opioids, compared with
      low-pressure laparoscopy with classical laparoscopic instruments in patients undergoing
      colorectal surgeries.

      The design of this study is a phase III double-blind, prospective, randomized, controlled,
      multi-centric trial. The primary endpoint is the rate of patients with postoperative pain
      defined 24h after the end of the intervention by visual analog scale (VAS) ≤ 3 without taking
      opioids (analgesics level II or III). Secondary outcomes are operating time, conversion rate
      in normal pressure laparoscopy or in laparotomy, morbidity at 3 months, quality of
      oncological surgery, length of stay, impact of microlaparoscopic instruments of aesthetic
      appearance at 3 months.

      The primary end point will be assessed at 24h after the end of the surgery by a blind nurse
      evaluating the pain intensity. After discharge of the hospital, patients will be followed
      with postoperative consultation at 1 month and 3 month.
    
  