
    
      Multiple Myeloma (MM) is a clonal B cell disorder characterised by a monoclonal plasma cell
      population in bone marrow, with bone pain, anaemia, hypercalcaemia, and kidney dysfunction as
      clinically presenting symptoms. Osseous involvement is one of the most predominant features
      of patients with MM; 90% of the patients develop lytic bone lesions. Lytic bone lesions are
      the result of increased bone resorption and reduced bone formation. The regular method to
      detect bone lesions is skeletal survey. This technique can only detect lesions that have lost
      30% or more of the trabecular bone. Another weakness is the fact that lesions persist after
      treatment with chemotherapy or radiotherapy and no clear distinction can be made whether
      vital tumour cells persist in these lesions. New bone lesions are a sign of disease
      progression. Furthermore they give clinical signs as bone pain and in the worse case scenario
      pathological fractures. Alternative scanning methods have been developed to visualize the
      malignant plasma for example by making use of enhanced metabolic activity of the plasma cells
      defined by the uptake of 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose -Positron Emission tomography (FDG-PET. The
      use of FDG-PET in newly diagnosed MM patients is well studied.

      The increased FDG-uptake by the tumour is related to a high metabolic activity. This might be
      a consequence of tumour hypoxia causing new vessel formation. There seems to be a
      relationship between MM and angiogenesis, the formation of new blood vessels from exciting
      blood vessels. There is an increased microvessel density (MVD) of the affected bone marrow in
      patients with active MM. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is an important mediator
      of angiogenesis. MM cell lines were found to express VEGF mRNA and secrete the protein in the
      extracellular environment thereby stimulating angiogenesis.

      Inhibition of the process of angiogenesis is used in the treatment of MM, for instance by
      means of thalidomide and lenalidomide. Blocking VEGF itself can be obtained by means of
      bevacizumab, a recombinant, humanised monoclonal antibody that binds to all isoforms of human
      VEGF with high affinity. Treatment with bevacizumab is well established in solid tumours,
      like colon cancers and renal cell carcinomas and is currently tested in acute myeloid
      leukaemia and MM.

      VEGF imaging with radiolabeled bevacizumab has been developed. Bevacizumab binds VEGF and can
      be labeled with the PET isotope Zirconium-89 (89Zr) while preserving VEGF binding properties.
      In a human ovarian tumor xenograft, PET imaging 24 hours after injection of 89Zr-bevacizumab
      showed high uptake in well perfused organs and in the tumor.

      The high VEGF production by myeloma cells makes VEGF a very interesting target for tumor
      visualization. 89Zr-bevacizumab PET imaging could be more sensitive for myeloma lesions.

      So, in conclusion, VEGF is expressed by MM plasma cells, thereby providing a rationale that
      the assessment of VEGF-levels in the micro-environment of MM tumors could potentially be used
      as a diagnostic tool to see if there is disease activity. Especially in the relapsed setting
      this is of invaluable importance, since conventional skeletal survey has limitations in this
      setting. Furthermore, 89Zr-bevacizumab PET imaging could provide information about treatment
      options and treatment response.
    
  