
    
      This is a randomized controlled trial investigating whether self-learning versus
      instructor-led learning results in the same BLS skills in first year medical students
      directly after training and three months later.

      When participants attend the "Erweiterte Erste Hilfe für Studierende der Humanmedizin" they
      will receive a short introduction about the study. The investigators will invite all first
      year students to participate in the study. As the study is voluntarily, participants need to
      sign a written informed consent. After that, the investigators will randomize the students to
      either group A or Group B. Group A will train their technical CPR-skills with supervision by
      a tutor (either general practitioner or medical student, all trained in CPR teaching) and
      group B will train without supervision. The participants in group B will not be allowed to
      communicate with each other during the training and they will be prevented from watching each
      other. The training will take about 30 minutes for each group. Directly after the training
      each group will be tested and the printed report form from the Laerdal Skill Reporter will be
      obtained for each participant. In the test the students will perform CPR in a simulated
      scenario as a first responder. The scenario is: "A male person has collapsed at the railway
      station." The participant should start CPR as learned in the training. During the CPR a
      departmental research fellow will observe the study participants and record BLS/AED actions
      on a scoring sheet.

      The investigators will record three cycles of two minutes CPR (with five times 30:2
      compression : ventilation intervals, as recommended by the current international
      resuscitation guidelines). During the three cycles an AED will be delivered and the study
      participant has to apply the AED and deliver a shock - after three cycles the study
      terminates.

      After the BLS/AED competence testing, both groups will continue the rest of their first aid
      course together and the first part of the study ends. Three months later, the investigators
      will repeat the same scenario over the same time interval and record the same parameters. At
      the end of the second testing, a short feedback will be provided on the BLS/AED competence
      and further practice will be provided to the students to improve their CPR competence. From
      this point forward no further data will be collected.
    
  