
    
      Globally 4 million neonates die each year, the most common cause of death is sepsis. Causes
      of neonatal sepsis in low and middle income countries are reported to differ from those in
      the developed world. Gram negative organisms are thought to be more common. Despite group B
      streptococcus (GBS) carriage rates being apparently similar to the developed world, GBS
      sepsis is rarely reported in developing countries: our hypothesis is that GBS is an under
      recognized neonatal pathogen in the developing world. There are many possible explanations
      why GBS infection may be under reported including wider, less discriminating use of
      antibiotics in the period just before the onset of labour and inadequate microbiological
      diagnostic services.

      The proposed study, to be conducted at Maela Refugee Camp Thailand, has two components, both
      being prospective descriptive cohort studies which will be run concurrently:

        1. Contribution of GBS to early onset neonatal sepsis at Maela refugee camp

        2. GBS carriage, seroepidemiology and GBS antibody study. Infants with neonatal sepsis will
           be identified clinically. They will be assessed and, after informed consent is taken
           from their mother, they will have a full septic screen including a complete blood count,
           serum C-reactive protein, blood culture, lumbar puncture and a deep swab taken from
           their ear canal. If the ear swab is positive for GBS, and the blood culture is negative
           for other pathogens, a presumptive diagnosis of EO GBS sepsis will be made. The mother
           will have 5ml blood sample for GBS serotype-specific antibody testing and a vaginal
           rectal swab obtained (if this has not been performed already).

      Women who consent to take part in the GBS carriage study will, during labour, have a low
      vaginal and rectal swab taken which will be processed using the CDC Group B streptococcus
      guideline. Additionally, a GBS-specific PCR of the swab will be used to identify
      culture-negative cases of GBS carriage. 5ml of venous blood will be taken from the mother and
      5ml of blood taken, after delivery, from the placenta (from the umbilical vein) for GBS
      antibody studies.

      This study will establish the burden of clinical early onset neonatal sepsis in our
      population. Additionally this study will establish the prevalence of maternal GBS carriage
      and assess the potential for intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis for reducing the burden of
      neonatal sepsis in this setting. It will also define the serotypes and antibiotic
      susceptibility profile of carried and invasive GBS strains.
    
  