
    
      Preterm Premature Rupture Of Membranes (pPROM) complicates 2-3% of all pregnancies and is
      responsible for one-third of preterm birth. Since the membranes generally form a barrier to
      ascending infection, the second major complication (10-36%) of pPROM is the development of
      intrauterine infection, called chorioamnionitis. It involves infection/inflammation of the
      fetus and increases neonatal morbidity and mortality. Indeed, histological chorioamnionitis
      (microscopic evidence of polynuclear neutrophils on examination of the placenta), regardless
      the prematurity, creates an inflammatory fetal syndrome which is responsible for an increase
      rate of cerebral palsy, intracranial hemorrhage, sepsis, pneumonia, respiratory distress
      syndrome and necrotizing enterocolitis at birth.

      During hospitalization, management of women who develop pPROM requires an individual
      assessment of the benefits and risks of continuing pregnancy versus immediate delivery to
      avoid chorioamnionitis. Numerous studies in recent years have failed to identify a
      satisfactory prenatal marker of infection to predict chorioamnionitis. It is now clearly
      recognized that new markers are needed to improve prediction of infection in cases of pPROM.

      A retrospective study (under submission) based on 23 pregnant women with pPROM was performed
      in the University Hospital of Rennes between 2007 and 2012. For all the patients included, a
      computerized analysis of the fetal heart rate (Sonicaïd FetalCare Oxford 8002®) has been
      performed daily during the last six days before delivery and the last recording was made less
      than 24 hours before the delivery. This study found significant differences of fetal heart
      rate patterns from pPROM complicated by histological chorioamnionitis compared with pPROM
      without histological chorioamnionitis. Short term variation (p=0,003) and high variation
      episodes (p<0,001) decreased significantly in pPROM complicated by histological
      chorioamnionitis. An index based on the high variations episodes was performed and seems a
      promising tool for the early detection of chorioamnionitis during pPROM (sensitivity 90%,
      specificity 84.6%, positive predictive value 71.5%, negative predictive value 95.2%, AUC =
      0.88, IC 95% 0.73 to 100).

      These data are consistent with those observed in neonatology for the assessment of
      early-onset sepsis and the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms (decreased fetal heart
      rate variability and adaptability in response to the placental infection/inflammation).
      Therefore, fetal heart rate (FHR) characteristics could be a potential way of research still
      unexploited for the early detection of chorioamnionitis in cases of pPROM.
    
  