
    
      -  The patient will be admitted to the hospital once a good donor is found for chemotherapy
           and stem cell transplant. The patient will remain in the hospital for 8 days and will
           receive two chemotherapy drugs (fludarabine and Busulfex) intravenously once each day
           for 4 days.

        -  On the third day after the patient has finished chemotherapy, the donor cells should
           arrive at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and the lab will remove CD8 cells. Then the
           product will be given to the patient through a central line. If there are not enough
           stem cells in the donor product, then the CD8 cells will not be taken out, and the
           patient will get the whole product.

        -  Just before and after the transplant, the patient will also take tacrolimus and
           methotrexate to help prevent GVHD. Tacrolimus is a pill that will be taken orally two
           times a day. Methotrexate is a chemotherapy drug that is given intravenously on days 1,
           3 and 6 after the transplant. In addition to the these drugs, participants will also
           take antibiotics to prevent infection and Filgrastim (G-CSF, neupogen) until their white
           blood cell counts are better.

        -  After the stem cell infusion, check-ups and blood tests will be performed at least once
           a week for 1 month. At about one month, a bone marrow biopsy to look for the donor's
           cells in the participants bone marrow will be performed. After the 1-month evaluation,
           the patient will be seen at least every 2 weeks with another bone marrow biopsy at 3-4
           months after the transplant.

        -  After the patient is past 100 days since transplant, they will be followed in the clinic
           and have blood work done at least once a month until 6 months post transplant.

        -  The trial will end at 6 months after the transplant, but patients will be tracked for
           the rest of their life to look at long-term effects of this transplant.
    
  