
    
      AAD and catheter ablation have been shown to reduce the incidence of recurrent AICD shocks.
      The disadvantages of AAD include side effects from medications and the lack of compliance
      during long-term therapy. Previous trials have demonstrated the feasibility, safety and
      efficacy of catheter ablation as "first-line" treatment for reducing recurrent ventricular
      arrhythmia and AICD shocks in this subject population. However, these catheter ablation
      trials did not systematically compare the efficacy of catheter ablation with AAD therapy.
      While both treatment strategies have been shown to be effective in this setting it is unclear
      how they compare with each other in preventing AICD shocks.

      This is a single centre, parallel group, two-arm, unblinded randomized vanguard pilot trial
      comparing catheter ablation with AAD therapy for preventing recurrent AICD shocks.

      Eligible and consenting subjects will be equally randomized to receive either AAD therapy or
      a catheter ablation procedure.

      A 30-day treatment period will be provided to allow for adequate time to implement the two
      treatments.

      Subjects randomized to the antiarrhythmic therapy arm will receive clinically effective
      loading doses of either sotalol, mexiletine, procainamide or amiodarone (oral or IV) alone or
      in combination, as chosen by the study investigator.

      Subjects randomized to the catheter ablation arm will undergo the procedure within the 30
      treatment period. Concomitant antiarrhythmic therapy with amiodarone or other AAD will be
      avoided if possible in the ablation group. However, AAD may be used to suppress ventricular
      arrhythmia resulting in AICD shocks or anti-tachycardia pacing (ATP) while waiting for the
      catheter ablation procedure.

      Subjects will be seen for a baseline randomization visit, then at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after
      enrollment and every 3 months thereafter until the end of the study. Subjects will be
      followed up for a minimum of 12 months and a maximum of 24 months.

      Quality of life questionnaires will be done at each visit. Standard of care blood work, chest
      x-ray, and ECG will be done in the AAD arm depending on the AAD chosen as treatment. ICD
      programming will be standardized for all subjects.
    
  