
    
      Retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) is an abnormal growth of the blood vessels in the eye that
      occurs primarily in very premature infants. Eye development occurs normally in the womb; in
      infants born prematurely, however, the blood vessels must finish developing outside the
      protective environment of the uterus. Retinopathy of prematurity (also known as retrolental
      fibroplasia) is a leading cause of blindness and other vision impairments (myopia,
      strabismus, and amblyopia) in children, both in developed and developing countries.

      Inositol is a naturally-occurring sugar alcohol produced by the fetus and placenta and is
      present in high levels in fetal blood throughout pregnancy in humans and other animals. Serum
      levels fall rapidly after birth, although this fall is moderated in infants who receive
      breast milk or fortified formula. Two randomized trials have shown that intravenous inositol
      supplementation in the first week significantly reduced death, bronchopulmonary dysplasia
      (BPD), and retinopathy. One study of enteral supplements (given orally or via feeding tube)
      was less convincing, but also supported reduction of retinopathy.

      This pilot study will evaluate changes in blood and urine inositol levels (half-life
      pharmacokinetics) of multiple doses of myo-inositol (provided by Abbott Laboratories, Abbott
      Nutrition Division) given to very low birth weight infants. The premise is that maintaining
      inositol concentrations similar to those occurring naturally in utero will reduce the rates
      of retinopathy and bronchopulmonary dysplasia in premature infants. Results from this study
      will be used to select the dose for a large multi-center trial.

      In this study, 17 NICHD Neonatal Research Network sites will enroll approximately 96 infants
      at 12-72 hours of age. Enrolled infants will be randomly assigned to receive either 10mg/kg
      of 5% inositol, 40 mg/kg of 5% inositol, 80 mg/kg of 5% inositol, or 5% glucose given in the
      same volumes and timings as the inositol dosage to maintain masking. Inositol will be
      administered intravenously until babies are feeding normally, at which time the same dose and
      formulation will be administered enterally (orally or via feeding tube). Concentrations of
      inositol will be measured in blood, urine, and milk received.

      Stratification: Recruitment will be stratified by gestational age into infants born at 23 0/7
      to 26 6/7 weeks gestational age and infants born at 27 0/7 to 29 6/7 weeks gestational age.
    
  