
    
      Chronic myeloid neoplasms (CMPN) consists of three main entities, polycythemia vera (PV),
      essential thrombocythemia (ET) and primary myelofibrosis (PMF). These three disorders have
      many overlapping clinical features. The diseases are clonal stem cell disorders characterized
      by a chronic excess production of mainly mature myeloid cells. The excess production of
      clonal red cells (in PV), platelets (in PV, ET and PMF) and leukocytes (mainly PV and
      PMF)leads to a highly increased risk of thrombosis. Patients may also suffer from
      constitutional symptoms, pruritus and splenomegaly. An inherent feature of these diseases are
      the risk of ET and PV of transformation to myelofibrosis and a risk of both ET, PV and PMF of
      leukemic transformation.

      In 2005 major breakthrough in our understanding of the molecular pathophysiology was achieved
      with the identification of the JAK2 V617F mutation which is present in almost all patients
      with PV (98%) and about half of patients with ET and PMF. This somatic gain-of-function point
      mutation in the JAK2 tyrosine kinase leads to constitutive activation of the kinase. By this
      mechanism a clonal non-growth factor dependent myeloproliferation is established.

      Traditionally the excess platelet and white cell production in ET, PV and PMF has been
      treated with cytoreductive agents such as hydroxyurea and busulfan in order to normalize the
      blood counts and thereby reducing the risk of thrombosis. However, in younger patients there
      is a concern of the leukemogenic potential of these agents. In younger patients an
      alternative treatment option is recombinant pegylated interferon alpha (IFN-alpha), which has
      demonstrated high clinical efficacy and has no leukemogenic potential. Within recent years
      IFN-alpha has demonstrated a capacity of inducing deep molecular remission (evaluated by JAK2
      V617F qPCR) and normalisation of bone marrow morphology. These remissions have been sustained
      for up to 3 years after discontinuation of IFN-alpha therapy. Accordingly a perspective of
      changing the natural history of these disorders towards myelofibrosis and ultimately acute
      leukemia has emerged. However toxicity has been a major issue and drop-of rates have been
      reported consistently around 25 %.

      It is well known from other diseases (e.g multiple sclerosis and hepatitis) that some
      patients develop neutralizing antibodies against IFN-alpha. This issue is however only
      scarcely investigated in CMPN and has never been tested in a prospective design.

      The purpose of this study is to compare the efficacy (hematological and molecular) and
      toxicity profile of two different recombinant interferon alpha products, IFN-alpha2a and
      IFN-alpha2b in a prospective randomized design. In patients over the age of 60 there will be
      a third study arm with hydroxyurea.

      In order to decrease drop out rates and thereby increasing response rates patients will be
      started of at a low-dose of IFN-alpha. If patients fail to respond or looses their response
      and develops neutralizing antibodies against IFN-alpha therapy will be stopped. If patients
      have a sustained deep molecular response (below 1 % JAK2 V617F mutated alleles for 12 months)
      therapy will be stopped to asses the sustainability of the remission off therapy.Patients
      over the age of 75 and intolerant or resistant to hydroxyurea will be offered rescue
      treatment with orally busulfan (Myleran). As an important part of the study quality of life
      will be investigated.
    
  