
    
      Many cancer clinical trials are designed to evaluate the benefits of experimental anticancer
      drugs against best supportive care (BSC); many drugs have been registered based on very
      modest survival advantages when compared with BSC.

      Universally across these studies, however, BSC control arms have not been standardized across
      sites in the way that trialists strive to standardize other interventions in clinical trials;
      are not consistent with contemporary palliative care practice; are not based on the extensive
      best available evidence; and are not described in any detail in most cases and certainly not
      sufficient detail to reproduce in subsequent studies. When reporting of BSC in trials is
      incomplete, the resulting data have uncertain internal and external validity.

      Such poorly defined interventions and variation between sites is unacceptable for other
      aspects of a clinical trial. Furthermore, a poorly delivered BSC arm might systematically
      overestimate the performance of the intervention arm(s) in the study leading to poor decision
      making by clinicians and funders. With mounting evidence that early use of
      supportive/palliative care can improve patient outcomes, incomplete delivery of BSC might
      deprive patients of considerable benefit, potentially in the setting of far less toxicity.

      In line with the CONSORT statement on reporting of clinical trials, our proposed study would
      seek to generate consensus-based standards for BSC definition (allowing this to be updated as
      new evidence becomes available), operationalize and measure outcomes in a clinical trial
      setting. In doing so, we intend to demonstrate: 1) the feasibility of thorough documentation
      of BSC, its delivery and measurement in a clinical trial; and 2) improved quality of life
      over standardized BSC. Specifically in terms of PCEOL research objectives, this study will
      develop an intervention designed to mitigate adverse physical and psychological symptoms and
      outcomes that focus especially on the beginning of the end-of-life phase.

      This will be a prospective, single arm before and after consecutive cohort study of
      oncologists and patients. Initially, individual and institutional best practice in terms of
      supportive/palliative care delivery will be recorded across all sites (control period). Two
      months into study initiation, patients will complete pre-intervention patient ESAS and
      PNPC-sv assessment to measure their baseline care experience. At that point, all sites will
      simultaneously switch to the behavioral modification intervention (BSC checklist;
      experimental period). From that time forward, documentation of supportive care delivery will
      be documented via the BSC checklist and medical record review. At month four, physician
      acceptability and patient experience will be evaluated.
    
  