
    
      Primary Endpoint: Whole gut transit time

      The primary endpoint of this clinical trial is whole gut transit time, which will be assessed
      using abdominal x-rays (supine anteroposterior kidney-ureter-bladder, KUB) on days 0 and 42.
      Each subject will ingest 24 radiopaque Sitz markers each day for 6 consecutive days at the
      same time of the day prior to abdominal x-rays on days 0 and 42, also taken at the same time
      of the day that the markers were taken. The number of markers present in the right, left, and
      rectosigmoid colon will be summed to yield a total marker count. Whole gut transit time will
      be calculated using the classic film estimate as described in the following formula:

      WGTT = ni x (t/N) 19, 20

      where ni is the number of markers observed on x-ray, t is the time between marker ingestions
      in hours, and N is the total number of markers ingested each day. Thus, in this study, t/N
      equals 1 (24 markers per capsule/24 hours between marker ingestions), and WGTT is, therefore,
      equal to the total marker count 19, 20.

      Marker counts will be identified by a single radiologist at each site who will remain blinded
      to subject treatment assignment.

      The methodology above is safe, noninvasive, and the two abdominal x-rays required for this
      study collectively expose each subject to radiation doses of approximately 140 millirem
      (equivalent to 1.4 millisievert). The overall lifetime risk that this radiation dosage may
      cause cancer is approximately 1 in 4,000 for women aged 18 years, 1 in 6,000 for men aged 18
      years, 1 in 20,000 for women aged 70 years, and 1 in 25,000 for men aged 70 years. Similar
      abdominal x-ray methodology has been utilized in similar studies in adults aged 18 years and
      older 21, 22.

      Secondary Endpoint: Patient Assessment of Constipation Quality of Life (PAC-QoL) The PAC-QoL
      (Appendix A) is a 28-question survey that measures the impact that constipation has on daily
      life over the past 2 weeks. The questions are comprised of four subscales (worries and
      concerns, physical discomfort, psychosocial discomfort, and satisfaction) and an overall
      scale. Multinational studies have demonstrated that the PAC-QoL is internally consistent,
      reproducible, valid, and responsive to improvements over time 23. Subjects will complete the
      PAC-QoL at days 0 and 42.

      Secondary Endpoint: Wexner Constipation Score (WCS) The Wexner Constipation Score (WCS)
      (Appendix B) is an 8-question survey that assesses frequency of bowel movements, straining,
      incomplete evacuation, abdominal pain, time needed for defecation, assistance for defecation,
      unsuccessful attempts, and duration of constipation. The WCS is a validated questionnaire
      since WCS scores correlate well with objective physiologic findings in constipated patients
      24. Subjects will complete the WCS at days 0 and 42.

      Secondary Endpoint: Gastrointestinal Symptom Rating Scale (GSRS) The GSRS (Appendix C) is a
      15-item instrument designed to assess common GI symptoms 25. It has five subscales (reflux,
      diarrhea, constipation, indigestion, and abdominal pain) with subscale scores ranging from 1
      (no discomfort) to 7 (severe discomfort). Higher scores represent higher symptom burden.
      Subjects will complete the GSRS at days 0 and 42.

      Secondary Endpoint: Stool frequency Throughout the study, subjects will record the number of
      defecations per day in a diary throughout the study. The stool frequency endpoint will be the
      absolute change in weekly stools in each group from the second week of the run-in period to
      the sixth study week.

      Secondary Endpoint: Stool Consistency Stool consistency will be rated with the Bristol Stool
      Scale Form 26 (Appendix D). Subjects will grade each stool using a daily diary throughout the
      study. The stool consistency endpoint will be the mean change in each group from the second
      week of the run-in period to the sixth study week.

      Secondary Endpoint: Fecal Probiotic Count Stool samples will be collected at baseline and end
      of study to assess fecal probiotic count via live culture, which will include total
      lactobacillis count and total bifidobacterium count. At the Day 0 visit following
      randomization, subjects will be provided two separate stool collection kits-one to be used at
      baseline and one to be used at the end of the supplementation period.

      After receipt of the kits, subjects must provide the first stool sample before taking the
      first dose of study product, regardless of the length of time needed to have a bowel
      movement. The stool sample can be provided at the study site on Day 0 or the subject may
      collect their first stool thereafter and ship the sample in a provided refrigerated container
      to the laboratory for analysis. Once the first stool sample is provided, the subject may then
      begin consuming study product.

      During the final 3 days of the supplementation period (i.e. Day 40, 41, or 42), subjects must
      provide another stool sample and ship the sample in a provided refrigerated container to the
      laboratory for analysis. This must be completed before returning to the site for the Day 42
      assessments.

      Secondary Endpoint: Adverse Events Adverse events (AEs) will be assessed throughout this
      clinical study. The main safety endpoint will be the proportion of subjects in each group
      that report one of more AEs at any time during the study. Please see Section 6 for additional
      details on the AE assessment.

      Ancillary Outcome: International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ)-short version The
      International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ)-short version is a validated
      questionnaire suitable for quantifying physical activity levels in adults (Appendix E) 27.

      Ancillary Outcome: 24-hour Food Recall A 24-hour food recall will be completed in order to
      quantify total calories, carbohydrate (g), fat (g), protein (g), fiber (g), and liquid intake
      (ml). The food recall must take place on a weekday (Monday through Thursday). Subjects must
      record all foods and beverages consumed as well as the quantity of each (recorded as weight
      or volume).

      Ancillary Outcome: Concomitant medication use Throughout the study, subjects will record use
      of any concomitant medication and, if required, the need for rescue medication each day in a
      diary.
    
  