
    
      Taekwondo (TKD) means "fight with foot and fist" is a very energetic, quick sport. Kicks and
      punches are used with full force by the athletes to knock down their opponents. Taekwondo
      (TKD) is one of the most systematic traditional combat practice and fighting sports in Korea
      that has high status in the world. Taekwondo originated from Korea and has been playing as an
      Olympic sports since 2000. Presently, it is practiced in 2 methods under International
      Taekwondo Federation (ITF) and World Taekwondo Federation (WTF). Games are organized on the
      basis of age, weight, height and gender at national and international level.

      In beginning, basic skills are taught to athletes which consist of strikes, blocks, kicking
      techniques, stances and different form. Taekwondo (TKD) is recognized by using very fast and
      high kicks. For this, athletes should be physically fit and active. Muscle strength, power,
      endurance, flexibility, agility, speed and cardiopulmonary endurance are the main components
      of physical fitness. Ability of muscle to generate maximum pressure voluntarily is called
      muscle strength. The force generated in a particular motion is called power. Capability of
      muscle to produce force against maximal resistance is known as endurance. Agility is ability
      to change direction while maintaining body balance. Speed is described as the shortest time
      requisite for an object to travel along a fixed distance. Flexibility is defined as an
      ability of a joint to move freely. In taekwondo sports both aerobic and anaerobic fitness are
      required but anaerobic energy contributes a lot during the fight.

      Taekwondo is a contact sport and as compared to other martial arts, rate of injuries in
      taekwondo is very high. During kick, the knee is always in extended position. Quadriceps,
      hamstrings and calf muscles are activated at different times. Gluteal work as stabilizers
      during kick. Injuries may occur during fight (54%) as well as during training (36%). Lower
      limb injuries most common (46%) and upper limb injuries are (18%). Less injuries occur in
      vertebral areas (10%) and skull area (3%). Agility, flexibility, reactivity, endurance,
      strength and speed are the main factors related to physical fitness and are important in
      taekwondo (TKD).

      Rope jumping training is very effective in improving muscle work, physical fitness and
      cardiorespiratory endurance. For many sports activities along with kick boxing, fighting,
      badminton, and combat sports, skipping rope training is a major training tool. Along with
      rope jump training, weighted rope jumping protocol has also gain importance in improving
      physical fitness and athletes' performance. Weighted ropes are made up of hard plastic or
      steel material having different weights in handle and rope portion. Weighted ropes are
      usually utilized in 2 specific ways. If weight is only present in handles then its mean it
      will improve lower limb strength, coordination, speed, response and flexibility. If weight is
      present in both handles and rope portion, the training will show better results for both
      upper and lower limb strength and coordination. So, in most of the trainings, weighted rope
      jumping (WRJ) is recommended in order to achieve its useful effects for both upper limb and
      lower limb.

      In 2018, conducted a research work to see the effects of neuromuscular weighted rope jumping
      training on lower extremity reaction time. Pre and post training visual and auditory response
      time of both dominant and non-dominant leg was assessed by Opto Jump System and the result
      indicated that the weighted rope training program is effective in decreasing the reaction
      time.

      In 2017, investigated the effect of simple rope jumping and weighted rope jumping exercise
      protocol on body structure and strength performance of young women volleyball athletes. The
      result showed significant improvement in strength and endurance of both upper and lower limb
      in weighted rope training group.

      In 2016, compared the effects of 12-week normal rope jumping protocol with weighted rope
      jumping training on physical health assessments along with anaerobic efficency, speed,
      agility and flexibility in girls adolescent volleyball athletes and in the end anaerobic
      fitness and agility was significantly improved in experimental group.

      In 2011 conducted a study to know the outcomes of simple rope skipping or weighted rope
      skipping training on strength, coordination and proprioception in girls volleyball
      participants in which results showed that the weighted rope jump protocol group was the most
      improved group.

      In 2015, Speed and Jumping-rope training protocol on fine motor skills of female school
      population.SO, it was suggested that rope skipping method can be used as a right program for
      the development of fine motor skills.

      In 2013, the study done, it aim to analyze results of weighted rope jumping training (WRJT)
      performed by repetition procedure on physical fitness and response time of basketball
      athletes and weighted rope had improved results of heart rate and anaerobic fitness.
    
  