
    
      Study population:

      Patients who are admitted to the acute Stroke Unit of the University Hospital Ghent will be
      recruited.

      Study course:

      The study has a prospective, observational design, with each participant receiving regular
      standard of care as follows: patients will undergo a clinical examination by a staff
      neurologists or the present attending in the emergency room. Tailored medical treatment will
      be given to each patient considering the type of stroke etc. as is standard of care (e.g.
      thrombolysis and/or thrombectomy for patients with ischemic stroke). Patients that are stable
      enough are transferred to the Stroke Unit where the neurologist or attending of the unit will
      reassess all stroke patients. NIHSS scores will be reported at least at day 2 +/- 1. A
      dysphagia screening is performed by the Stroke Unit nurses when the patient arrives at the
      Stroke Unit. The scores of the sub-items language and speech of the NIHSS and the dysphagia
      screening combined with a general screening by a speech language pathologist will be used to
      confirm or discard aphasia, dysphagia and dysarthria (incidence). When aphasia, dysarthria
      and/or dysphagia is confirmed, standardized tests will be performed. For this study, data of
      the following tests will be included for analysis: ScreeLing and/or BNT (aphasia), NSVO-Z and
      a perceptual assessment (dysarthria), MASA and/or the FOIS (dysphagia). At day 7 +/- 1, NIHSS
      scores will be reassessed (recovery in time). The diagnostic assessments and the NIHSS
      sub-items speech/language will be used to investigate the severity and recovery of the
      symptoms in time. Reports of the neurological clinical examination at follow-up will be
      retrospectively investigated if possible for additional information about recovery in time.

      The total duration of data collection will be approximately 1 week and if possible three
      months follow-up.
    
  