
    
      Design

      In this exploratory qualitative study, neurology outpatients with ongoing Idiopathic Drop
      Attacks (IDAs) will undergo psychological assessment and complete written diaries for eight
      weeks. Throughout the study, participants will receive treatment as usual from a neurologist.

      Procedure

      Participants will be recruited from a neurology outpatient clinic at the Department of
      Clinical Neurosciences in Edinburgh where they will be approached by their consultant who
      will give them a participant information sheet. If they are interested in taking part, a
      meeting will be set up with the researcher to discuss the study further and obtain written
      informed consent.

      Participants will then meet with the researcher to complete an initial psychological
      interview which will be audio recorded. This interview will follow a standard initial
      psychological interview structure and will aim to gain information about the person's
      experiences of IDAs, along with relevant personal and social history.

      Following this initial interview, participants will be asked to record written accounts of
      any IDA, detailing their thoughts, physical arousal, feelings and behaviour, as close to the
      event as possible. They will be encouraged to record detailed accounts, outlining the period
      before, during and after the episode, in order to identify any potential triggers. They will
      be shown an example of a completed diary in order to help them to understand what they need
      to do. Participants will be asked to record such events over a period of eight weeks during
      which the researcher will contact them fortnightly to discuss any difficulties or concerns.
      If participants do not experience any drop attacks during this period, they will be asked if
      they want to continue recording diaries for an additional two to four weeks.

      Following completion of this period, participants will meet again with the researcher to
      return the diaries and discuss any patterns noticed in the interview and diaries. The
      researcher will also answer any further questions that the participant has about the study.
    
  