
    
      This longitudinal prospective cohort study is recruiting children and adolescents aged 7-18
      years with newly diagnosed primary hypertension over a 2-year period from the Hypertension
      Clinic at Brenner Children's Hospital, which sees over 300 new patients per year, who will be
      treated with the first-line drug lisinopril, an ACE inhibitor, per standard of care
      (Hypertension Cohort). Also recruiting healthy control participants aged 7-18 years with
      normal blood pressure from local primary care practices (Control Cohort). Collecting blood
      and urine to analyze Ang-(1-7), ACE2, Ang II, ACE, uric acid, and klotho and measuring
      pediatric-specific outcomes (blood pressure (casual and ambulatory monitoring), indices of
      heart structure and function on echocardiogram (left ventricular systolic and diastolic
      function, left ventricular hypertrophy, etc.), kidney function (creatinine, estimated
      glomerular filtration rate, albuminuria, proteinuria, urine sodium/potassium), autonomic
      function (heart rate variability, blood pressure variability, baroreflex sensitivity), and
      vascular function (arterial stiffness, augmentation index)) at baseline and year 1
      (Hypertension Cohort and Control Cohort) and year 2 (Hypertension Cohort). The objectives are
      to investigate if Ang-(1-7), ACE2, Ang II, and ACE identify phenotypic and treatment response
      variability and to causally infer if Ang-(1-7), ACE2, Ang II, ACE, uric acid, and klotho
      contribute to target organ injury, with these Specific Aims:

      Aim 1:

      (1) Determine if plasma Ang-(1-7) or urine Ang-(1-7)/creatinine differ between the
      Hypertension vs. Control Cohorts and (2) assess if plasma Ang-(1-7) or urine
      Ang-(1-7)/creatinine mediate the effect of lisinopril-induced blood pressure reduction on the
      outcomes (change in heart function and structure, autonomic function, vascular function, and
      kidney function).

      Hypothesis 1a: Baseline Ang-(1-7) is lower in the Hypertension vs. Control Cohort.

      Hypothesis 1b: Increased Ang-(1-7) levels over time mediate the effect of lisinopril-induced
      decreased blood pressure on improved outcomes over 2 years in the Hypertension Cohort.

      Aim 2:

      (1) Evaluate if plasma Ang-(1-7) or urine Ang-(1-7)/creatinine predict treatment response in
      participants in the Hypertension Cohort (change in casual blood pressure, ambulatory blood
      pressure, heart function/structure, autonomic function, vascular function, and kidney
      function); (2) compare to plasma renin activity and aldosterone; and (3) employ sensitivity
      analyses to quantify the impact of unmeasured confounding.

      Hypothesis 2: Lower baseline Ang-(1-7) predicts greater outcome improvements in the
      Hypertension Cohort with lower unmeasured confounding and with greater predictive ability
      compared to plasma renin activity and aldosterone.

      Aim 3:

      Determine if plasma Ang-(1-7) or urine Ang-(1-7)/creatinine mediate the effects of uric acid
      and klotho on the outcomes in participants in the Hypertension Cohort. (1) Apply causal
      mediation to estimate if plasma Ang-(1-7) mediates the effects of uric acid on the outcomes
      (change in casual blood pressure, ambulatory blood pressure, heart function/structure,
      autonomic function, and vascular function). (2) Apply causal mediation to estimate if urine
      Ang-(1-7)/creatinine mediates the effects of klotho on the outcomes (change in casual blood
      pressure, ambulatory blood pressure, and kidney function).

      Hypothesis 3a: Lower plasma Ang-(1-7) mediates the effect of high uric acid on the outcomes
      in the Hypertension Cohort.

      Hypothesis 3b: Lower urine Ang-(1-7)/creatinine mediates the effect of low klotho on the
      outcomes in the Hypertension Cohort.

      Anticipated results have great potential to impact patient care by establishing Ang-(1-7),
      ACE2, Ang II, and ACE as biomarkers of treatment response, by establishing how Ang-(1-7) and
      other components of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system change in response to an ACE
      inhibitor, by indicating which patients would benefit most from ACE inhibitors, by
      identifying novel etiologies of hypertension centered on alterations to the
      renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, uric acid, and klotho, and by leading to novel
      treatments. Indeed, these have been questions of great interest during the COVID-19 pandemic,
      as ACE2 is the binding site for Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)-CoV-2. Ultimately,
      the results from this study will improve patient outcomes by promoting cardiovascular health
      and preventing cardiovascular disease across the lifecourse.
    
  