
    
      Specific Aims/Objectives To date, OA has not been evaluated in pediatric chronic pain
      disorders. In the current study, the investigators plan to measure OA responses in a
      population of common pediatric pain disorders. The primary objective of this study is to
      determine if OA paradigm can detect impairment of central inhibitory modulation pathways in
      subgroups of chronic pain disorders in children and adolescents. The investigators
      hypothesize that chronic pain in children and adolescents results from central sensitization
      and impaired central inhibitory modulation of pain and thus children with chronic pain
      disorders will have a decreased OA response compared with healthy controls. If the results of
      this study are positive, this testing paradigm could be a valuable objective marker in
      examining the efficacy of pharmacological and/or rehabilitative treatment modalities in
      reversing or alleviating central sensitization-induced pain in children with chronic pain
      disorders. Additionally, if existing self-report questionnaires, Pain Sensitivity
      Questionnaire (PSQ) and Central Sensitivity Inventory, correlate with the magnitude of offset
      analgesia observed, they could be used to screen for central sensitization in high volume and
      busy clinical settings.

      Aim 1: To determine if children with common chronic pain disorders, including musculoskeletal
      pain, complex regional pain syndrome, functional abdominal pain and chronic headaches
      demonstrate impaired ability to actuate central descending inhibitory function as measured by
      a test of offset analgesia.

      To accomplish this aim, the investigators will compare 30 children with common chronic pain
      disorders with 30 age and sex matched controls. Power will be 80% to detect a 20% or larger
      difference in the change in self-reported pain scores as a result of the dynamic heat pain
      test stimulus between the two groups using a Student t-test (nQuery Advisor version 7.0,
      Statistical Solutions, Cork, Ireland).

      Aim 2: To determine if the Pain Sensitivity Questionnaire (PSQ) and/or Central Sensitization
      Inventory (CSI) can serve as screening tools for assessment of central sensitization i.e.,
      impairment of central descending inhibitory function in children with common chronic pain
      disorders.

      To accomplish this aim investigators will correlate scores on the above scales with the
      magnitude of offset analgesia using Pearson correlations in 30 children with chronic pain
      disorders and 30 healthy age and sex-matched controls. The investigators hypothesize that the
      magnitude of OA will correlate with either PSQ, CSI or both thus these questionnaires would
      serve as assessment tools for central sensitization in children with common chronic pain
      disorders in clinical setting. The Mann-Whitney U-test will be applied to compare medians and
      interquartile ranges on the PSQ and CSI between the chronic pain and healthy control groups.
      In addition, investigators will identify individuals who show a decrease in VAS pain scores
      after the dynamic test stimulus of at least 20% (responders) and will assess whether PSQ and
      CSI can predict responders and non-responders using a receiver operating characteristic (ROC)
      curve approach with area under the curve (AUC) to measure how well pain perception and
      central sensitization assessment tools can help to identify responders and non-responders.
    
  