
    
      All Emergency Department physicians willing to participate in the study will be trained on
      the Battlefield Acupuncture Protocol through a weekend workshop and training. The acupuncture
      protocol and training will be taught by consulting expert acupuncturists with extensive
      training and clinical experience with the protocol. The acupuncturists will be available
      throughout the duration of the study as consultants for the physicians at any time if they
      have questions about the treatment and/or protocol.

      Patients presenting to the Emergency Department that meet all inclusion and exclusion
      criteria and are willing to participate in the study, have been screened and triaged
      appropriately, meet all of the inclusion and exclusion criteria for the study, and have given
      proper informed consent will be randomized into three separate groups:

        1. Standard medical group (tape on ear + standard medical drug)

        2. Standard medical group plus auricular acupuncture (acupuncture + standard medical drug)

        3. Auricular acupuncture group (acupuncture + placebo pill)

      Each group will have the appearance of getting the same treatment, and all participants will
      be informed prior to treatment of each group they could possibly be in.

      This is a single blind study with additional considerations to better limit bias. Prior to
      treatment, the physician will inform each patient of all of the steps utilized in the
      procedure. In an attempt to limit bias as much as possible, the physician will not know what
      treatment group the patient will be placed in until just prior to performing the treatment.

      The standard medical drug that will be used for this study is hydrocodone / acetaminophen
      5mg/325mg (Norco generic).

      This is a single-blind study with extra considerations to limit bias. After informing the
      patient of the procedure and just prior to performing the treatment, the physician will be
      presented with a box containing all of the supplies needed for the application of the
      treatment. Each box will contain the supplies for one of the three groups listed above, and
      once opening the box, the physician will then perform the appropriate treatment. The
      physician will not know whether or not the patient will be receiving the standard medical
      drug or the placebo pill. The physician will only know which type of acupuncture procedure
      will be performed on the patient.

      Richard C. Niemtzow, MD, PhD, MPH is the originator and developer of the Battlefield
      Acupuncture protocol and technique, and he initiated the use of this protocol with great
      success in the military. Dr. Niemtzow has also proven great success in treating pain with
      this protocol in other similar research studies in the past.

      The investigational protocol and device that will be tested in this study is The Battlefield
      Acupuncture Protocol, which uses Gold or Titanium French Aiguille Semi-Permanent (ASP)
      needles. The French ASP速 needles are small, single-use, disposable needles that are designed
      to stay in the ear for several days and will fall out on their own. The ASP needle is a small
      needle housed within a small plastic injector that allows the acupuncturist to insert a
      needle in a rapid manner to decrease discomfort. ASP needles are intended for single use and
      are manufactured in a sterile environment. After all of the appropriate needles have been
      placed, the ASP needles will be covered with a small adhesive patch to keep the needles
      securely in place and to prevent contamination. The needles usually remain in the ear for
      approximately 4 to 6 days before they fall out on their own.

      Following the Battlefield Acupuncture Protocol, patients in the acupuncture group will
      receive auricular acupuncture by medical acupuncturists using sterile ASP速 needles
      (SEDATELEC; Lyon, France bilaterally in the sequence outlined below:

        1. Cingulate Gyrus

        2. Thalamus

        3. Omega 2

        4. Point Zero

        5. Shen Men

      Appropriate asepsis technique will be used to clean the acupuncture points prior to
      treatment. After the placement of each needle and before the placement of the next needle,
      the patient will be instructed to walk thirty feet. If the patient is unable to walk, they
      will be instructed to move their arms for thirty seconds. If the patient experiences a
      significant drop in their pain level (down to 0 or 1) after the placement of a needle at a
      specific point and the subsequent movement, no more needles are inserted. If the patient is
      still in pain, the procedure is repeated until all of the appropriate acupuncture sites are
      utilized.

      Here is a quick breakdown of the steps for performing the Battlefield Acupuncture Protocol:

        1. Assess patient's pain level using the VAS score (0-10).

        2. Insert one needle into Point 1 (cingulate gyrus)

        3. Instruct patient to walk for 30 seconds. If the patient is unable to walk, instruct them
           to move their arms for 30 seconds.

        4. Reassess patient's pain level. If the patient experiences a significant drop in pain
           (down to 0 or 1), no more needles will be inserted.

        5. If pain does not significantly drop, the next needle will be inserted into the same
           point in the opposite ear and Step 3 will be repeated.

        6. If after the insertion of a needle and completion of Step 3 and the patient does
           experience a drop in pain but it is not significant (down to 0-1), then the sequence of
           needles will be continued on that same ear that the patient had the drop in pain until
           the pain level is down to 0-1. This is called the "dominant ear".

      Gold ASP速 needles are the preferred needles of choice for the protocol, however, if the
      patient will be having a MRI performed on them within the next week, titanium ASP速 needles
      will be used instead as they will not interfere with the MRI scan.

      The patients will then be instructed to leave the needles and tape on their ear for the next
      48 hours, not touch them, and allow the needles to fall out on their own. Prior to leaving
      the Emergency Department after treatment, the patient will schedule a follow-up appointment
      48 hours later that will be conducted at the Loma Linda University Clinical Trial Center
      where the acupuncture needles will be removed, the last pain assessment will be performed,
      and the patient will fill out the past trauma history questionnaire.

      The patients will be asked a series of short questions regarding their pain level and recent
      painkiller use and asked to fill out a questionnaire about their past trauma history:

      Questionnaires:

      Patients pain level (utilizing the VAS pain score on a scale of 0-10) and recent painkiller
      use will be assessed four times during the study, and prior to leaving, patients will be
      given a medication diary to track their use of painkillers for the following 48 hours after
      treatment.

        1. Prior to treatment (in person at time of triage)

        2. Immediately after treatment (patient will fill out an form and drop it in a box prior to
           leaving)

        3. 24 hours after treatment (by phone call)

        4. 48 hours after treatment (by in person interview at Loma Linda University Clinical Trial
           Center)

      Patients will also be asked to fill out a questionnaire regarding their past trauma history
      (see attached questionnaire).

      The data collected from this study is as follows: 1. Demographic information, 2. Pain
      medication use, 3. Pain level, 4. Number of acupuncture needles used for treatment
      (acupuncture groups), 5. Past trauma history questionnaire.

        1. The patient will fill out a form providing their demographic data during the initial
           screening.

        2. During the initial analysis, the patient will be asked how much pain medication they
           typically use per day. After treatment, the patient will be given a medication diary for
           them to record their pain medication use over the next two days. The medication use data
           from the diary will be collected during an over the phone interview performed by the
           study collaborators.

        3. The pain level scoring system that will be used for this study is the Visual Analog
           Scale (VAS) pain score on a scale of 1-10. The triage nurse will perform the initial
           recording at time of triage. The patient will do the second recording immediately after
           treatment as they will fill out a form and drop it in a box prior to leaving the
           treatment area. The third and fourth pain recordings will be performed by one of the
           study collaborators who will contact the patients through a follow up interview over the
           phone.

        4. For the patients in the acupuncture groups, the physician will record the number and
           location of the acupuncture needles used to illicit a positive response in each patient
           in the patient's chart.

      Data Analysis We will compare baseline characteristics between the four treatment groups
      using X2 tests for categorical variables and independent t test analyses for continuous
      variables. We will perform a series of these tests to look for differences between groups on
      a number of relevant baseline variables, including demographic information, intensity of
      pain, and number of needles used (for acupuncture groups). If the distribution of the four
      individual pain scores is fairly normal, we will assess changes in pain levels between
      baseline and follow-ups using independent t tests. We will run nonparametric Kruskal-Wallis
      tests as well to see whether consistent results will be reached as with the independent,
      parametric t test. If the same conclusions are reached with both tests, we will assess all
      outcome measures of pain administered at baseline, immediately after treatment, 24-hours
      after treatment, and 48-hours after treatment using the independent t test analysis and the
      intention-to-treat principle. We will calculate effect sizes by taking the difference between
      the mean changes in pain in the intervention groups and those in the standard care group and
      dividing it by the SD of the change score in the total population.

      Risks and Benefits This is not the first study that has been conducted testing the use of ASP
      needles for the treatment and management of pain, and ASP needles are approved for use by the
      FDA.

      The potential minor risks and measures to minimize those risks are as follow:

        1. There is a minor risk that patients in the placebo group will not experience any relief
           of pain. Subjects will be made aware of this potential risk prior to giving informed
           consent. This risk is minor as all subjects will be hemodynamically stable as a part of
           the inclusion criteria, they will have the opportunity to withdraw from the study at any
           time if they wish to do so, the physician or nurse can pull the patient from the study
           if they deem medically necessary, and the study is only 48 hours in duration so as to
           not cause long-term pain or suffering on any person in the placebo group.

        2. Side effects: The most common serious side effect of acupuncture is needle site pain and
           infection. Acupuncturists will use proper asepsis technique prior to each treatment, and
           only sterile needles will be used. In case of infection or pain, patients will have the
           opportunity to come back to the hospital to have the needles removed and to be treated
           for the infection.

        3. Minor confidentiality risk: All subject data will be kept confidential and will be
           managed with high security. Only the study collaborators will have access to the patient
           data, and all data will remain locked in files and shredded once used.

      Auricular Acupuncture has the potential to provide safe, fast, and effective treatment for
      the millions of people suffering from pain worldwide. This study has the potential to prove
      that auricular acupuncture is an acceptable alternative and/or adjunct treatment tool that
      healthcare providers can use to ease the suffering of people in pain. This study also has the
      potential to prove auricular acupuncture as an effective tool to reduce the use and
      dependency on narcotic pain medications.

      There are no benefits that will be utilized in this study. All subjects will give informed
      consent in order to participate in the study.

      The training/consulting acupuncturists will be reimbursed for the exact cost of their
      training and travel expenses.
    
  