
    
      In this retrospective cohort study, we plan to include all patients presenting with a
      community-acquired pneumococcal pneumonia at the University Hospital of Zurich between
      January 1, 2006 and June 30, 2012 (6½ years). The patients will be identified either with one
      or more blood culture pairs positive for S. pneumoniae or with a positive pneumococcal urine
      antigen assay in combination with the clinical diagnosis of CAP, which was based on the
      presence of select clinical features (e.g., cough, fever, sputum production, and pleuritic
      chest pain) and is supported by imaging of the lung, usually by chest radiography according
      to Infectious Diseases Society of America/American Thoracic Society consensus guidelines on
      the management of CAP in adults [11].

      CAP is not considered if the patient is discharged from a hospital less than 7 days before
      the current hospital admission, if the first blood culture or urinary antigen assay is
      obtained more than 1 week after hospital admission, or if the patient has no clinical
      diagnosis of CAP at the time of admission. Patients referred from or transferred to another
      hospital are excluded.

      After identification of eligible patients upon microbiological results, medical records are
      reviewed using a standardized data collection questionnaire. Comorbidity is determined using
      the Charlson comorbidity index [10]. Additionally, all patients are classified according to
      the multimorbidity patterns proposed by Holden et al. [12]. These are:

        1. arthritis, osteoporosis, other chronic pain, bladder problems, and irritable bowel;

        2. asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and allergies;

        3. back/neck pain, migraine, other chronic pain, and arthritis;

        4. high blood pressure, high cholesterol, obesity, diabetes, and fatigue;

        5. cardiovascular disease, diabetes, fatigue, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and
           arthritis; and

        6. irritable bowel, ulcer, heartburn, and other chronic pain.

      Time calculation is based upon the moment of emergency room (ER) admission.
    
  