
    
      Before induction of anesthesia, an arterial line will be inserted to the patient radial
      artery using a designated short, stiff tubing kit according to catheter IFU (Instructions for
      Use), preferably under US guidance. Removal of air bubbles from the catheter-transducer
      system is mandatory prior to connecting the tubing to the catheter.

      Study nurse will connect a Sensifree laptop with designated data acquisition software
      (Medicollector BEDSIDE) to the multi-parameter monitor communication port and start the
      recording of invasive blood pressure and pulse oximeter pleth (PPG sensor) per software IFU.
      Prior to connecting the arterial line system to the patient, a calibration (flush test) will
      be done and recorded. During the study, any deterioration in the waveform recorded by the
      intra-arterial catheter will be noted and appropriate corrective measures will be taken as
      soon as possible (e.g., flushing or adjusting the position of the catheter).

      Preferable NIBP (Non Invasive Blood Pressure) measurement rate will be every 10 minutes,
      unless the medical procedure requires otherwise.

      Calibration procedure will be repeated every 60 +/- 5 minutes and at the end of the surgery.
      Recording will take place for the duration of the surgery.

      NIBP cuff will be placed over the arterial-line arm, NIBP air hose will be replaced with an
      air hose supplied by Sensifree and the pressure gauge in it will be connected to Sensifree
      laptop via analog to digital converter in order to capture the data.

      Medication used during the surgery will be listed and documented in the CRF (Case Report
      Form) including drugs name, dose, time and method of administration.

      Offline data analysis will compare the blood pressure values as calculated by the Sensifree's
      algorithm based on the PPG signal, to the values obtained from the arterial line. The
      comparison results will be measured against the accuracy performance requirements per ISO
      81060-2.
    
  