
    
      Later-line therapies after failure of standard treatments for metastatic colorectal cancer
      patients are limited; regorafenib and TAS-102 have shown clinical activity for these
      patients, however, efficacy outcomes seemed not to be sufficient although there have been
      rather higher frequencies of adverse events.

      Mismatch repair (MMR) deficiency or microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) played a role of
      negative predictive factor for adjuvant fluorouracil-based chemotherapy in patients with
      resected colorectal cancer. In the metastatic setting, deficient MMR or MSI-H represented
      poor prognosis; however, their predictive role has been documented after the pembrolizumab
      trial was reported. The results of the pembrolizumab trial demonstrated that the PD-1
      blockade with pembrolizumab monotherapy showed 40% of confirmed immune-related objective
      response rates in patients with MMR deficient metastatic colorectal cancers; hence there was
      no objective response in those with MMR proficient tumors. The progression-free rates at 20
      weeks were 78% versus 11%, respectively, also favouring those with MMR deficient tumors.
      However, the MMR deficiency of MSI-H is found in only about 5% in patients with metastatic
      colorectal cancer, which is too small to expand potential candidate of immunotherapy.

      One of the proposed mechanism of promising efficacy from pembrolizumab for MMR deficient
      colorectal cancer is that MMR deficient or MSI-H colorectal cancers harbour higher somatic
      mutation loads than MMR proficient colorectal cancer (a mean of 1782 somatic mutations per
      tumor in the MMR deficient tumors versus 73 in the MMR proficient tumors in the results of
      pembrolizumab trial); somatic mutations have the potential to encode non-self immunogenic
      antigens; therefore, immunotherapy enhancing immune surveillance produced promising treatment
      efficacy in the MMR deficient tumors.

      The POLE gene encodes the catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase epsilon, and it involves DNA
      repair and chromosomal replication. The POLE mutations are located in the exonuclease domain,
      and their presence has already been reported in the various cancers including colorectal and
      endometrial cancer.

      The POLE mutations represent high somatic mutation loads in patients with colorectal cancer,
      especially in those with MMR proficient or MSS, therefore, tumors harbouring POLE mutations
      might be susceptible to immune checkpoint blockade.

      Based on these reasons, Investigator planned a phase II study of avelumab monotherapy in
      patients with previously treated, metastatic, MMR deficient (MSI-H) or POLE mutated
      colorectal cancer.
    
  