
    
      Cardiac surgery is a recommended therapeutic option as a form of secondary prevention for the
      treatment of cardiovascular diseases, but may present postoperative alterations such as
      reduction of pulmonary volumes and flows, impairment in gas exchange and increase in the rate
      of pulmonary complications. The use of positive pressure may reduce these complications.
      Objective: To evaluate the efficacy of positive expiratory pressure (PEP) in the blow-bottle
      device compared to expiratory positive airway pressure (EPAP), both associated with
      conventional physiotherapy, and conventional physiotherapy in the pulmonary function in
      postoperative cardiac patients. Methods:This is a randomized clinical trial, with patients in
      postoperative cardiac surgery. On the first day of postoperative, the patients will be
      randomized into three groups: 1 group that will receive positive expiratory pressure with
      blow-bottle device associated with conventional physiotherapy; 2- group that will receive
      positive expiratory pressure in the airways with valve unidirectional therapy associated with
      conventional physiotherapy; 3- group that will only receive conventional physiotherapy. The
      intervention of the positive expiratory pressure with blow-bottle device group will consist
      of exercise with a blow-bottle device of 10 cm high; the positive expiratory pressure in the
      airways group, exercise with unidirectional positive expiratory pressure valve (10cmH2O).
      Both the groups will perform three sets of 10 repetitions per day, by the third day of PO.
      The third group will receive conventional physiotherapy of intensive care unit. The outcomes
      evaluated will be: pulmonary function (primary), respiratory muscle strength, pulmonary
      complications, radiological changes and length of stay (at the Intensive CareUnit - ICU - and
      hospital). Assessment of pulmonary function, muscle strength and radiological changes will be
      performed in the preoperative period, prior to the interventions and on the third
      postoperative day, immediately prior to discharge of cardiac intensive care unit. Pulmonary
      complications and ICU length of stay will be recorded after discharge from intensive care
      unit cardiac. The length of hospital stay was recorded after hospital discharge.
    
  