
    
      This study is a sub-study to the international multicenter Targeted Hypothermia Versus
      Targeted Normothermia After Out-of-hospital Cardiac Arrest (TTM-2) Trial (ClinicalTrials.gov
      Identifier: NCT02908308).

      All patients from participating centers still unconscious 48 hours after cardiac arrest will
      be routinely examined with CT. All other inclusion and exclusion criteria as well as
      treatment, neurological prognostication, withdrawal of life-sustaining therapy or follow-up
      will be handled according to TTM-2- protocol. Ethical approval for the main trial and this
      sub-study have been obtained from the Swedish Ethical Review Authority at Lund University
      (2015/228 and 2017/36). Both a patients´ next of kind or conscious patients have the
      opportunity to withdraw patients from the trial.

      Pseudonymized original CT images will be uploaded to a two-way secured digital platform from
      Lund University (LUSEC). Two study radiologists blinded from clinical data will perform
      analyses according to protocol. Various methods of diagnosing generalized oedema will be
      investigated including eye-balling (oedema "yes"/"no"), as well as manual and automated
      measurements of the differentiation between the grey and white matter (GWR) by placing
      circular regions of interest (ROI). Primary outcome is the neurological outcome at 6 months
      after cardiac arrest using the modified Rankin Scale (mRS).

      Secondary outcomes include neurocognitive outcomes such as the Glasgow Outcome Score-Extended
      version (GOS-E), Symbol-Digit-Modalities-Test (SDMT) and the Montreal Cognitive Assessment
      Score (MoCA).

      The results of the radiological evaluations will also be correlated with other markers of
      neuronal injury such as biomarkers, clinical neurological information or neurophysiological
      examinations.

      Additional analyses include evaluation of all available CT images of participating patients
      to investigate if there is any progression or regression of cerebral oedema.
    
  