
    
      The question to be answered through the proposed ARTS-REHAB Project Research Study is: how
      can meaningful engagement in a creative arts program impact the personal and social wellness
      of patients in rehabilitation? The ARTS-REHAB Project is a random control trial study that
      aims to describe and interpret the expectations and experiences of patients' evolving sense
      of self in recovery as informed by their participation in The Royal Conservatory's Living
      Through the Arts program. Living Through the Arts is an inter-arts program designed to
      empower individuals and communities through artistic self-expression and creativity. For
      those patients receiving this arts intervention in addition to their rehabilitation
      activities, we expect to see a difference in the following primary measures of their evolving
      sense of self in recovery compared to patients in a control group. That is, we expect to find
      an increased sense of hope and optimism; increased sense of future purpose; as well as
      increased engagement in their rehabilitation. In addition, we will also explore potential
      attending benefit of functional improvements through a measure of an anticipated decrease in
      patients' length of hospital stay. Given the complexity of the ARTS-REHAB Project, the study
      is being conducted in two phases: Phase 1 (now completed) was an 8-week pilot study,
      conducted at West Park Healthcare Centre and Bridgepoint Active Healthcare between July and
      October 2014. This pilot evaluated strictly the operational feasibility of implementing an
      arts program and collecting data with a slow-stream rehabilitation patient population. Phase
      2 expands on the learning from the pilot study and involves a two-and-a-half-year Random
      Control Trial (RTC) study with a total of 8 hospitals (including St. Peter's Hospital in
      Hamilton, four Toronto hospitals, and 3 other hospitals from across the province). Unlike the
      pilot study of feasibility, the focus of the two-and-a-half-year study is on the research
      measures of personal and social wellness described above.

      As an extension of a growing literature on arts and healthcare, the proposed research
      contributes to the knowledge of the transformative potential of creative arts programs /
      interventions in healthcare settings. Perceptual psychologist Rudolph Arnheim wrote that, "by
      demonstrating what it can do for the distressed, art reminds us what it is meant to do for
      everybody" (Arnheim,1986, p. 257). Arnheim's observation aptly captures the spirit of the
      literature on the contributions of creative arts to the health of individuals with illness
      and disability (Daykin, Byrne, Soteriou, & Sullivan-Marx, 2006 for review; McNiff, 2009;
      Malchiodi, ed., 2000; Moon, 2008). However, much of this literature focuses on specific art
      forms as medical therapy for specific illnesses (e.g., dementia, schizophrenia) and specific
      demographics (seniors, children). There appears to be a need for studies that examine more
      broadly how engagement in a creative process serves the whole person and not strictly the
      disability during recovery / treatment. The ARTS-REHAB Project Research Study takes up this
      approach by exploring recovery not only in terms of patients' physical needs, but also in
      terms of their emotional and psychological needs for healing and returning to their daily
      lives and communities.

      Given the "whole person" approach of this study, the degree of a patient's engagement in
      their recovery must be considered. A diverse literature on patient motivation and compliance
      has shown that patient engagement can play a role in determining the success of their
      treatment (O'Gorman, 1975; Meichenbaum & Turk, 1987 for review; McClean & Pound, 2000;
      Skolasky, et al., 2008). Building on this literature, the proposed study will examine the
      influence of participation in the arts intervention on patients' motivation and perseverance
      in their rehabilitation treatment.

      A third body of literature relevant to this study explores psycho-social indicators of
      wellbeing in illness/recovery. Within that broad literature, the concept of optimism emerges
      as playing an important role in coping with stressful life events. Optimism is characterized
      by an orientation toward the future where positive explanations are offered even for negative
      outcomes. Simply put, it is the general expectation that good rather than bad will happen
      (Sheier & Carver, 1985). According to the literature, optimism has been associated with
      improved quality of life in the form of lower anxiety/depression for cancer patients (Carver,
      Pozo, Harris, 1993; Applebaum et al, 2014) and patients with traumatic brain injury (Peleg,
      et al., 2009), greater satisfaction with a treatment regime for patients suffering myocardial
      infarction (Barry, et al., 2007), and lower suicidal ideation for university students (Range
      & Penton, 1994). Much of the optimism literature, however, tends to focus on patients with
      traumatic chronic illness or mental illness (Eisner, et al., 2009; Johnson, et al., 2009).
      There is room to build on the evidence with a different patient population, namely, patients
      undergoing physical rehabilitation. Furthermore, there is room to explore optimism in the
      context of a specifically arts-based intervention, over and above the prescribed medical
      treatment.

      For the past ten years, the Living Through the Arts program has successfully served different
      demographic communities (e.g. seniors with dementia, homeless or low income individuals,
      people with mental illnesses or intellectual disabilities) across Ontario. In keeping with
      the Living Through the Arts program, the ARTS-REHAB Project will use a variety of art forms
      and a curriculum of storytelling to help patients in rehabilitation imagine and creatively
      express their path to recovery in a manner that promotes a strong sense of personal capacity
      and meaning. More specifically, the curriculum for the ARTS-REHAB Project arts program will
      consist of themes of health, recovery, and new identities that enable patients to create new
      stories, shape their sense of purpose, and generate positive images of the future.

      The expected outcomes for participants in the arts program of the study include generating: a
      greater increase in optimism for their recovery; a positive outlook for the future; and a
      shorter length of stay in hospital when compared to patients who were not involved in the
      arts program.
    
  