
    
      During wakefulness pharyngeal dilator muscles (dilators) provide the necessary force to
      permit an adequate flow in all subjects regardless of how collapsible their passive pharynx
      is. This dilator activity is substantially lost at sleep onset. Subjects in whom the passive
      pharynx cannot permit adequate ventilation must recruit dilators through reflex mechanisms if
      they are to remain asleep. Dilators can be recruited reflexly via changes in blood gas
      tensions and in afferent activity of pharyngeal mechanoreceptors.

      Patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) develop repetitive obstructive events during
      which air flow decreases substantially (hypopneas) or ceases altogether (apneas). These last
      from 10 to >60 seconds following which there is a substantial increase in ventilation
      (hyperventilatory phase) that lasts for several breaths. The cycle then repeats. Arousal from
      sleep occurs at some point during the hyperventilatory phase in the vast majority of
      obstructive respiratory events. However it has been shown that in the majority of OSA
      patients, the reflex mechanisms are competent and can deal with the obstruction without
      arousal. The respiratory drive must increase a finite amount before the upper airway muscles
      begin responding to increasing respiratory drive, and often the patient wakes up first. Thus,
      when a subject with a narrowed or more compliant pharynx falls asleep and obstructs his/her
      airway, blood gas tensions must deteriorate a threshold amount before the pharyngeal dilators
      begin responding. Once this threshold is reached, the dilators respond briskly to further
      changes in blood gas tensions and open the airway. This threshold was termed the Effective
      Recruitment Threshold (TER).

      The basis for this research project is that if respiratory drive can be maintained at or near
      the threshold, the dilators would respond promptly to any obstruction and there would be
      little further increase in respiratory drive during obstruction.We estimate that the required
      increase in drive can be attained by simply raising carbon dioxide pressure (PCO2) 2-3 mmHg,
      a highly tolerable increase. We intend to increase respiratory drive on a continuous basis,
      beginning before sleep by asking the participants to breath through a regular continuous
      positive airway pressure (CPAP) mask with added dead space.

      To increase dead-space we will modify commercial rebreathing bags used for oxygen therapy so
      that the amount of rebreathing can be adjustable. This should raise arterial carbon dioxide
      pressure (PaCO2) a few millimetres of mercury (mmHg) in the steady state. Upon sleep, the
      respiratory drive would be at or above TER in nearly half the patients. Should the airway
      obstruct, the dilator muscles would be in a position to respond promptly, preventing an acute
      further rise in respiratory drive. This will reduce the frequency of obstructive respiratory
      events by >50% in at least half the patients, and improve sleep quality and nocturnal oxygen
      saturation.
    
  