
    
      Patients undergoing pancreatic surgery, even treated in high-volume centers, still experience
      significant postoperative morbidity and full recovery after surgery takes longer than
      expected, delaying access to adjuvant oncologic treatment and influencing disease prognosis
      and patient quality of life. Patient health status at the time of surgery represents a major
      determinant of postoperative recovery. However, it is often evaluated with traditional
      measures such as performance status and comorbidity indices, which are frequently inaccurate
      and fail to capture the multiple dimensions of health and the patients' perspective.

      Recent literature promotes the adoption of patient reported outcome measures (PROMs) to
      assess health across different domains (e.g. symptoms, functional status, well-being). These
      measures generally take the form of questionnaires and allow a more holistic understanding of
      patient's health and how surgery can affect different aspects of it. Thus, PROMs could be
      used as tools to identify patients at higher risk for postoperative adverse events or
      prolonged recovery.

      Once higher risk profile patients have been identified, they could be referred to a for a
      personalized optimization program before surgery (i.e. prehabilitation). In fact, a few
      studies have recently enrolled high-risk patients candidate for major elective abdominal
      surgery in preoperative programs including multimodal interventions (e.g. physical activity,
      nutrition, mental exercise) resulting in decreased postoperative complications and earlier
      return of function. Optimizing preoperative status may reduce postoperative complications,
      enhance postoperative functional recovery and lead to shorter hospital stay, fewer
      readmissions, less time off work and improve patient perceived health-related quality of
      life.

      Since high-risk patients benefit more from preoperative optimization strategies, and the
      implementation of a prehabilitation program is costly and resource-intensive, identifying
      patients at higher risk for postoperative poor outcomes is a key aspect. Unfortunately, there
      is no consensus on the best method to define these patients in the context of pancreatic
      surgery.

      The main objective of this project is to identify specific subgroups of patients planned for
      pancreatic resection, at high risk for postoperative morbidity and impaired recovery through
      preoperative screening of physical, functional, nutritional and psychological risk factors
      using patient reported questionnaires and performance tests. The findings of the present
      study will enable researchers to identify specific risk categories to plan personalized
      prehabilitation programs and modulate oncologic treatment strategies in cancer patients
      planned for pancreatic surgery.

      PRO-PANC1 is a prospective single-center observational study including consecutive patients
      planned for pancreatic resection to screen for physical, functional, nutritional and
      psychological risk factors.

      Patients will be enrolled for 24 months and evaluated at the pre-admission visit (usually 1-2
      weeks before surgery), at time of admission (i.e. the day before surgery), during hospital
      stay and trough a follow-up at 30 and 90 days, 6 and 12 monts after surgery. A navigator
      nurse who is already involved in patient follow-up after surgery will prompt patients to
      complete the questionnaires. There will be no additional visits or costs for patients and
      healthcare personnel in this activity.

      PROMS (PATIENT REPORTED OUTCOMES MEASURES)

      At their pre-admission visit, within 4 weeks before surgery, enrolled patients after signing
      the informed consent, will be asked to fill the following self-reported questionnaires:

        -  "Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) 29+2 Profile v2.1
           (PROPr)", which is a flexible set of tools designed to measure self-reported physical,
           mental and social health and wellbeing which has been constructed and validated
           rigorously. It contains items from the following domains: depression, anxiety, physical
           function, pain interference, fatigue, sleep disturbance and ability to participate in
           social roles and activities.

        -  Duke Activity Status Index (DASI) to evaluate patient physical status.

        -  Risk Analysis Index (RAI-C) to evaluate frailty, comorbidities and performance status.

        -  Patient Health Engagement scale (PHE-s) to assess patient engagement in their process of
           care based on their emotional and cognitive status.

        -  World Health Organization Disability Assessment Schedule 2.0 (WHODAS 2.0) - 12 items, a
           generic instrument to measure health and disability covering 6 domains of functioning.

      PHYSICAL EVALUATION Physical performance testing will only be performed for a subgroup of
      patients in accordance with the availability of the physiotherapist and of the involved
      physician. Physical status will be evaluated by performace tests at the time of hospital
      admission (i.e. the day before surgery) for the baseline evaluation and at 30- days after
      surgery during the routine outpatient follow- up visit. The patient, either already admitted
      to the surgical ward, or during the outpatient evaluation will undergo testing with the
      physiotherapist in a dedicated area within the hospital (i.e. rehabilitation gym).

      Performance tests will include: six-minute walk test, time up and go test, strength tests
      (target muscles will be the quadriceps and the handrip muscles: in both cases a specific
      dynamometer will be utilized) and the Modified Iowa Level of Assistance Scale (MILAS)
      evaluation.

      In a subgroup of 100 cancer patients undergoing major pancreatic resection
      (pancreaticoduodenectomy and total pancreatectomy), preoperative cardiopulmonary exercise
      testing (CPET) will be administered. CPET is a non-invasive, dynamic test that provides a
      global assessment of the integrative responses to exercise.

      NUTRITIONAL EVALUATION A baseline nutritional assessment will be performed at the
      pre-admission office visit or at the time of hospital admission (i.e. the day before surgery)
      by a study investigator. If the patient is already hospitalized, the evaluation will be
      performed at the patient bedside. The evaluation will include a nutrition history (e.g.
      weight loss, daily intake), measurement of anthropometric parameters including body weight
      (kg), height (cm), and body mass index (kg/m2). The Mini Nutritional Assessment (MNA) tool
      will be used to screen patients for nutrition risk. Standard biochemical markers of
      malnutrition and inflammation, including albumin, total proteins, total lymphocyte count, and
      C-reactive protein will be measured in all patients as part of the routine preoperative
      testing.

      In a subgroup of patients, in accordance with the availability of the nutritionist,
      multi-frequency bioelectrical impedance vector analysis (BIVA) will be used to estimate total
      body water (TBW), extra-cellular water (ECW), fat free mass (FFM), fat mass (FM), body cell
      mass (BCM) and phase angle (PhA). This analysis will be performed at the time of the patient
      pre-admission visit or when the patient is admitted to the ward.

      RADIOLOGIC EVALUATION Preoperative imaging (i.e. CT scan, MRI) performed within 30 days
      before surgery will be reviewed by a radiologist to evaluate pancreatic parenchyma
      morphological parameters with a potential impact on postoperative outcomes such as pancreatic
      duct size, pancreatic gland diameter, and fatty infiltration. Body composition parameters
      will also be evaluated including quantification of skeletal muscle area, visceral fat area,
      and subcutaneous fat area.

      RISK SCORE ASSESSMENT Using a digital ecosystem platform, all information will be
      automatically captured and stored in the pancreatic disease institutional registry, in
      addition to other clinical information including laboratory tests, diagnostic imaging,
      pathology, and clinical history.

      PROMS validity will be assessed in the context of pancreatic surgery according to the COSMIN
      recommendations for the design of the studiesy on measurement properties.

      After evaluating the performance of each screening test, a practical risk scoring system for
      postoperative outcomes will then be developed based on regression models.

      The newly developed score will then be released on a web page and app to allow researchers
      and clinicians to individually compute the score preoperatively to both inform patients of
      risks and to modify perioperative treatment strategies.

      SAMPLE SIZE AND ANALYSIS The number of pancreatic resections at the San Raffaele Hospital
      Division of Pancreatic Surgery is around 330 per year. The rate of patients at high risk to
      develop severe postoperative complications is assumed to be about 30%. Considering an overall
      rate of patients' refusal/not satisfying inclusion criteria of 10%, 445 patients are expected
      to be enrolled in 18 months, to have a hypothetical overall number of high risk patients of
      148.

      A score will be calculated for each test and questionnaire. After evaluating the performance
      of each screening test, a practical risk scoring system for postoperative outcomes will then
      be developed based on regression models.
    
  