
    
      Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is an endocrine disorder that affects 6-12% of
      reproductive-aged women within the general population. Currently, there is limited knowledge
      on the current lifestyles of women with PCOS and the psychosocial factors associated with
      PCOS.

      The researchers plan to examine potential lifestyle differences and psychosocial factors
      between PCOS and healthy women. The Research Team is also interested in the relationships
      between biological markers and lifestyle endpoints in women with and without PCOS. Previous
      literature has shown there are biological marker differences between those with and without
      PCOS. By examining these relationships, researchers may further understand whether PCOS
      status is associated with lifestyle parameters.

      To accomplish these objectives, 360 women (120 women with PCOS, 120 women without PCOS and
      with normal menstrual cycles, and 120 women without PCOS and with irregular menstrual cycles)
      will be included in this study. An equal number of lean and overweight/obese women will be
      recruited within each group based on body mass index (BMI; Lean = 18 - 24 kg/m2 and
      overweight/obese ≥ 25 kg/m2). Women will be included in the PCOS group if they have a
      confirmed PCOS diagnosis from their primary care provider. Participants will complete a food
      frequency questionnaire, a sleep questionnaire, and a physical activity questionnaire. A
      researcher may also provide participants with a waist-worn accelerometer to monitor physical
      activity and a wrist-worn accelerometer to monitor sleep for a week. Ultrasound scans of the
      ovaries will be assessed and the following metabolic parameters will be assessed: (1) 75-gram
      oral glucose tolerance test; (2) dual X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scan; (3) vitals and
      anthropometry assessment to measure waist and hip circumference, height, weight, blood
      pressure, and heart rate; (4) fasting blood tests to detect androgens (i.e., total
      testosterone, androstenedione, free androgen index); and (5) an (optional) subcutaneous fat
      biopsy. Women with and without PCOS will also be asked to complete a questionnaire that will
      assess the psychosocial factors (e.g., health beliefs). This can be conducted online, in
      person, or through phone.
    
  