
    
      Negative symptoms of schizophrenia are enduring and detrimental. The underlying
      pathophysiology of negative symptoms is yet to be understood. Previous clinical trials of
      antidepressants as add-on therapy for negative symptoms in schizophrenia patients usually
      found merely a trend favoring augmentation strategy. Since schizophrenia is a heterogeneous
      disorder, clinical studies are often unable to reveal conclusive results. Thus efforts have
      been made to classify relatively homogeneous groups of patients by different approaches.
      Here, we proposed a translational study originating from our novel results of animal study
      and genetic study describe as the follows.We studied the neurobiological difference of the
      mice with the heterozygous deletion of NRG1(NRG1+/-mice)in comparison with their wild-type
      littermates. It was found that the antidepressant effect of desipramine for the
      immobilization was markedly increased in NRG1+/-mice assessed by two models, forced swimming
      test and tail suspension test. Furthermore, the expression of serotonin transporter (SERT)
      was up-regulated in most brain regions in NRG1+/-mice, indicating that the basal activity of
      serotonin was reduced because of higher uptake rate in NRG1+/-mice. Our data indicate that
      serotonin hypo-function may be involved in the immobilization symptom of schizophrenia with
      NRG1 defect. Increased immobility of forced swimming test in mice was suggested to be an
      animal model of negative symptoms. Thus our study implied that serotonin transporter blockers
      may be beneficial for the treatment of negative symptoms in some subtypes of schizophrenia,
      especially for the patients with NRG1 defect, which could be tested by examining specific
      polymorphism of NRG1 gene.We have identified a novel promoter variant (TC), named NRG1-P3,
      located on the promoter region of type V NRG1, from a direct sequencing study in Taiwanese
      schizophrenic patients and found it was significantly associated with schizophrenia in a
      large case-control sample. Through the luciferase reporter assay, we found the promoter
      construct with the risk genetic variant (T allele) of NRG1-P3 has significant lower
      luciferase reporter activity than that with the protected allele (C allele). It implied the
      schizophrenic patients with the T allele of NRG1-P3 might have lower NRG1 expression than
      those with the C allele. It is hypothesized that the negative symptoms of the schizophrenic
      patients with the T allele of NRG1-P3 will be more responsive to the SSRI or SNRI
      treatment.The project is a double-blind, randomized, placebo controlled clinical trial
      comparing 3 groups of schizophrenic subjects, who have no less than moderate degree of
      negative symptoms and carry the homozygous risk genotype (TT) of NRG1-P3, each group having
      30 individuals, treated by add-on with escitalopram 10-20 mg/day, duloxetine 30-60 mg/day,
      and placebo. The treatment duration is 8 week. We will evaluate the Positive and Negative
      Symptom Scale (PANSS) at baseline, Day 14, Day 28, Day 42, and Day 56. The primary outcome of
      interest will be the differences of averaged reduction of negative symptom scores among 3
      groups and an average decrease of 2 or more in the negative symptoms will be indicated as
      improvement.The project is novel and feasible because (1) it is the first clinical trial for
      the treatment of negative symptoms according to different genotypes of the patients and helps
      fulfill the prospect of individualized medication. (2) the research findings the
      translational study based upon are novel and unique and comes from our research team. (3) our
      research team mastered in clinical studies and has many clinical resources to recruit enough
      patients.
    
  