
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare the sensitivity and specificity for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) of
      two screening approaches:

        -  Novel approach: every 3 years high risk-human papillomavirus (HR-HPV) testing of (at
           home) self-collected samples with in-clinic cytology of HR-HPV positive women and
           referral to colposcopy of women with cytology > atypical squamous cells of uncertain
           significance (ASCUS); repeat HPV testing of HR-HPV positive but cytology negative women
           at one year;

        -  Currently recommended approach: for women < 30: every 3 years in-clinic cytology
           screening, with HPV based triage of women with ASCUS and referral to colposcopy of all
           women with squamous intraepithelial lesion (SIL) and/or HPV+ ASCUS; for women 30+,
           screening by Papanicolaou (Pap) and HPV, every 2-3 year (depending on previous history)
           with referral to colposcopy of those who are HPV 16/18+ or with cytology > ASCUS;
           retesting of those who are positive for other HR-HPV at one year.

      II. Compare these two approaches with respect to overall cost-effectiveness and
      acceptability.

      III. Determine the performance and cost-effectiveness of each approach in vaccinated and
      unvaccinated women < 30.

      OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      GROUP I (home-based HPV screening): Participants collect 2 vaginal specimens using polyester
      swabs. Participants with a positive HPV test result will have a Pap test. Participants with
      an abnormal Pap test will undergo standard of care as in Group II.

      GROUP II (clinic-based standard of care screening): Participants undergo Pap testing.
      Participants with a positive Pap test undergo standard of care, including colposcopy, HPV
      testing, cervical biopsy and/or endocervical curettage (ECC). Participants with cervical
      biopsies showing precancerous changes requiring treatment may undergo loop electrosurgical
      excision procedure (LEEP) or are referred to appropriate care.
    
  