
    
      Sintilimab monoclonal antibody (IBI308) is a recombinant human IgG4 PD-1 monoclonal antibody.
      It has been proved in many preclinical and in vitro trials that the effect of blocking PD-1
      pathway with Sintilimab monoclonal antibody on. The results of preclinical pharmacodynamics,
      animal pharmacokinetics and toxicology all indicated that Sintilimab monoclonal antibody has
      clear targets, reliable cell lines and drug stability. It has considerable characteristics
      and has shown good activity in various preclinical studies.

      Hepatocellular carcinoma patients are mostly diagnosed in advanced stage, and hepatic artery
      interventional therapy and/or systemic therapy are the main treatments options for these
      patients. In recent years, some researchers have reported that chemotherapy plays a critical
      role in transcatheter arterial intervention (Shi et al. JNCI, 2012, 105: 59). Compared with
      traditional transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE), hepatic arterial infusion
      chemotherapy (TAI) provides a more stable and long-lasting local control rate, which promised
      better outcomes. However, the effectiveness of TAI varies greatly depending on the
      chemotherapy drug used, with an efficiency ranging from 7-81% and OS ranging from 6-15.9
      months.

      The single-drug treatment of PD-1 inhibitor in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma has a tumor
      response rate of 17%, the disease control rate exceeds 60%, and the overall survival time
      exceeds 12 months. And it has good tolerance and less adverse events. In studies in other
      cancers, combined with traditional chemotherapy can further improve the efficacy of PD-1
      inhibitors. Our study is a prospective, single-arm, phase II clinical study for patients with
      locally advanced, potentially resectable advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (tumor confined to
      the hepatic stenosis with one or more branches of the portal vein). Progressive survival
      (PFS) is the primary end point of the present study. The overall survival rate, degrading
      resection rate, pathological response, and safety are the secondary endpoints. The efficacy
      and safety of TAI combined with PD-1 inhibitor in the treatment of advanced hepatocellular
      carcinoma will be discussed.

      According to the criteria of our center for the Single Disease of Hepatocellular Carcinoma,
      every 2 courses of treatment (6-8 weeks) were reviewed during the treatment period. The
      patients were followed up every 3 months within 2 years and every 6 months after the
      treatment. The recurrence, metastasis sites, detection methods, adjuvant treatment and
      accurate survival time were recorded in detail.

      The Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate progression-free survival and overall survival;
      the Log-rank method was used for single factor analysis; the Cox model was analyzed by
      multivariate analysis; and the intergroup rates were compared using chi-square test. Both
      tests were performed, and P < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.

      As for sample size estimation, combined with historical data from similar patients in the
      department, the median PFS for patients who met the inclusion criteria was approximately 6
      months. The median PFS for TAI combined with Sintilimab mAb was estimated to be 9 months,
      with α = 0.1, β = 0.2, and 12 months of enrollment period, the sample volume is 34 patients.
      Given a 15% shedding rate, a total of 40 patients are required.
    
  