
    
      In severely resource-limited rural settings, scale-up of services to eliminate
      mother-to-child transmission of HIV (EMTCT) has failed to provide effective HIV testing and
      antiretroviral therapy (ART) coverage for women in highest prevalence southern African
      regions. All HIV-infected pregnant women are now eligible for life-long antiretroviral
      therapy (ART) (Option B+), but retention among women enrolled through Option B+ programs
      remains sub-optimal. In sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) it is common for women to require male
      partner approval to access and remain engaged in HIV-related health services. Despite the
      likelihood that male involvement would improve program coverage and adherence, the evidence
      base for effective interventions to involve male partners in HIV testing and treatment
      through antenatal care (ANC) point of care is very limited. Furthermore, whether such
      strategies are indeed cost-effective for improving outcomes of HIV-diagnosis and treatment in
      pregnancy is unknown. This proposal seeks to address these key gaps in the evidence base and
      guide scale-up by evaluating a promising male engagement intervention ("Homens para Saúde"
      (HoPS)+ [Men for Health]) targeting EMTCT in Mozambique through a clinic-randomized trial.
      This study will engage 24 ANC clinics; 12 intervention and 12 standard of care, with 45
      HIV-infected couples per clinic where currently >60% of couples attend their first ANC visit
      together. The planned intervention addresses social-structural and cultural factors
      influencing EMTCT through the creation of couples-centered integrated HIV services,
      including: (1) ANC-based couples HIV testing, ART enrollment, and care for sero-concordant
      HIV+ expectant couples; (2) Couple-based treatment in the post-partum period; (3)
      Couple-based education and skills building; and (4) Treatment continuity with the support of
      expert-patient (peer) supporters from couples who have successfully navigated EMTCT. Given
      that 8.0% of all pregnant women and 7.2% of their partners tested HIV-positive during ANC
      visits in 2015 (FGH monitoring and evaluation [M&E] data), the investigators pioneering work
      in Mozambique's rural Zambézia province suggests that innovative strategies are essential to
      engaging HIV-infected male partners in antenatal care (ANC) in order to achieve EMTCT and to
      improve substantially the health of the mothers. This team of Mozambican and U.S.
      investigators has a proven record of international HIV research success and they have
      specific recent experience with EMTCT cluster randomized trials, male-engagement in ANC
      services, and cost-effectiveness analysis of HIV programs. The specific aims of this study
      are: (1) To implement and evaluate the impact of male-engaged, couples-centered services on
      retention in care, adherence to ART, and early infant diagnosis among HIV+ pregnant women and
      their HIV+ male partners through a cluster-randomized control trial (RCT); (2) To investigate
      the impact of HoPS+ on hypothesized mechanisms of change; and (3) To use validated simulation
      models to evaluate cost-effectiveness of the HoPS+ intervention with the use of programmatic
      provincial monitoring and evaluation data and data from the trial results.
    
  