
    
      This is a multicentre national, comparative, randomized, uncontrolled, non-inferiority,
      unblinded (open). Two groups of patients are compared (postoperative antibiotics versus no
      antibiotics postoperatively) in a ratio (1:1), intention to treat.

      The international consensus conference held in Tokyo, has defined precisely the ALC(acute
      lithiasic cholecystis)and distinguished several stages of severity. For this study, this
      definition of degrees of severity will be used.

      ALC is defined by the association of local signs:

        -  Murphy's sign

        -  mass

        -  pain

        -  defense of the right upper quadrant

        -  systemic signs (fever, leukocytosis, elevated C-reactive protein).

      When the diagnosis of ALC is clinically suspected, an imaging procedure (ultrasound, a CT or
      MRI) is needed to confirm the diagnosis.

      The morphological evidence for the diagnosis of ALC are:

        -  thickened gallbladder wall (> 4 mm)

        -  gallbladder distention (> 8cm by 4cm long axis and minor axis)

        -  presence of stones or debris bile (sludge)

        -  infiltration of fat perivesicular

        -  presence of an effusion perivesicular.

      In this work, early ALC was defined by a disease duration of symptoms less than 5 days. This
      period is defined by the early onset of abdominal pain and / or fever. These criteria will be
      collected in case report forms.

      Because the events of the ALC may range from a mild disease and confined to the gallbladder
      disease, to a fulminant life-threatening, a new classification of the severity of ALC has
      been established.

      This classification has 3 levels:

        -  ALC mild,

        -  ALC moderately severe

        -  ALC severe.

        -  ALC mild (Grade I) ALC mild (Grade I) corresponds to a ALC in a patient in good general
           condition, without organ dysfunction, with mild inflammatory signs. At this stage there
           are no criteria higher stages (Grade II and III).

        -  ALC moderately severe (Grade II)

      ALC moderately severe comprises at least one of the following criteria:

        -  Leukocytosis greater than 18,000 leucocytes/mm3

        -  Tense palpable mass on clinical examination at the right hypochondrium

        -  Duration of symptoms exceeding 72 hours

        -  Presence of local signs of inflammation (biliary peritonitis, perivesicular abscess,
           liver abscess, gangrenous cholecystitis, emphysematous cholecystitis)

        -  ALC severe (Grade III) (non-inclusion criteria of the study ABCAL)

      ALC(Grade III) is accompanied by dysfunction of one of the following:

        -  Dysfunction Cardiovascular: hypotension requiring treatment with dopamine ≥ 5μg/kg per
           minute or whatever dobutamine dose.

        -  Neurological dysfunction: alteration of consciousness

        -  Respiratory dysfunction: report PaO2/FiO2 <300

        -  Renal dysfunction: oliguria, creatinine> 176μmol / l

        -  Hepatocellular dysfunction: INR> 1.5

        -  Hematologic dysfunction: platelet count <100 000/mm3

      Patients will be included age and suffering from:

        -  acute lithiasic cholecystitis confirmed by morphological examination

        -  low and moderately severe (confined to the gallbladder)

        -  requiring early cholecystectomy (progression of symptoms <5 days)

        -  signed consent for participation

      The patient will be informed of the existence of the protocol during the consultation asking
      the indication of cholecystectomy for acute cholecystitis.

      The medical examination and imaging procedure prior to the study correspond to a routine
      practice (no additional cost):

      A clinical examination with collection of demographic data (gender, age, weight, size) will
      be noted. All co-morbidities as well as situations of potential risk of infection (diabetes
      type 2 steroids ongoing chronic renal failure, body mass index above 30, age over 65 years,
      recent surgery, serum albumin less than 35 , chronic obstructive bronchitis, tobacco weaned
      or unweaned? coronary insufficiency) will be noted (CRF).

      A review of imaging vesicular confirming the diagnosis of acute cholecystitis, which may be
      based on habits and ultrasound or CT and / or MRI.

      All patients then selecting checking the inclusion criteria and non-inclusion will be offered
      to participate in the study. They will be orally informed of the progress of the study and
      the various examinations, an information form will be issued.

      The day of surgery, after a period of reflection varies with the date and result of surgery,
      the inclusion visit will be conducted and include:

        -  The verification of inclusion criteria and non-inclusion

        -  A clinical examination

        -  The organization's planning examinations specific to the study. When the inclusion of a
           patient, the investigator will inform the proponent of a fax that inclusion by
           submitting the Form of Inclusion form (see report forms).

      Patient monitoring

        -  Preoperative support Preoperative prescription of antibiotics will be systematic when
           the patient will be included in the study. The preoperative antibiotic association
           include: amoxicillin-clavulanate (Augmentin ® 2gx3/jour or generic with dosage
           equivalent). In case of allergy to beta-lactam antibiotics, the patient will be excluded
           from the study. Patients will be included in the study, either before hospitalization
           (through the use of emergency shelter), either when the patient will be hospitalized in
           a department (gastroenterology, geriatrics, internal medicine, etc..). A proportion of
           patients will have already started antibiotics (prescribed by the physician, or by the
           department where the patient is hospitalized). The history of antibiotics received by
           patients will be collected in case report forms and analyzed. For these patients, after
           inclusion in the study and prior cholecystectomy, antibiotic being arrested and will be
           replaced by amoxicillin - clavulanic acid at a dose of 2gx3/jour, in the absence of
           beta-lactam antibiotics allergies . The total duration of preoperative antibiotic will
           depend on the time of surgery and should last, in all cases, less than 5 days (inclusion
           criteria). The total duration of antibiotic therapy by amoxicillin - clavulanate is
           analyzed.

        -  Postoperative support The intraoperative antibiotics will be identical to the antibiotic
           started in preoperative(amoxicillin and clavulanic acid).

      A skin preparation before surgery (antiseptic shower) and surgical (debridement and
      antisepsis of the operative field) will be performed. The intervention will begin with a
      thorough exploration of the entire peritoneal cavity and gallbladder to confirm the
      macroscopic diagnosis of CAL. The treatment consists of cholecystectomy with complete choice
      of surgical approach is left to the discretion of the operator. The laparoscopic route is
      preferred. The realization of a systematic sampling biliary be to compare the germs found in
      the gallbladder and any germs found in postoperative complications. The achievement of
      intraoperative cholangiography will be left to the discretion of the surgical team. The need
      for surgical drainage (aspiration or not) will be left to local conditions and customs of the
      service. The operating time will be recorded and analyzed. These variables will be collected
      for statistical analysis (CRF).

      In the waning of the intervention, patients with bile peritonitis and those with stones in
      the bile duct discovered on intraoperative cholangiography can not be included in the study.

        -  Randomization

      Randomization will be performed in the operating theater immediately after surgery. The
      randomization will be done by drawing lots at the patient's statement via the Internet. It
      will be stratified by center and to ensure a better balance, blocks of equal size with as
      many patients randomized to either treatment, will be used at each center.

        -  Postoperative management - Monitoring Visits

        -  Choice of postoperative antibiotic Prescription or not postoperative antibiotic, will be
           determined by randomization. Before administration of the antibiotic, the patients
           included will be questioned on the existence of a possible allergy to beta-lactam
           antibiotics (CRF). The postoperative antibiotic therapy will be identical to the
           preoperative antibiotic therapy and include the following antibiotics: amoxicillin -
           clavulanate (Augmentin ® 2gx3/jour). Antibiotic treatment will be issued by pharmacies
           centers investigators.

      The combination of a nitro-imidazole is not allowed in this study. The route of
      administration (intravenous or oral) and the date of the relay orally depend on the clinical
      and biological postoperative patient are collected in case report forms. The introduction of
      the antibiotic will be performed in hospitals with surveillance of tolerance to the drug.

      The duration of postoperative antibiotic treatment will be 5 days.

        -  Support during postoperative hospitalization Patients will be clinically monitored daily
           by the surgical team. All patients have a blood test with a blood count the day after
           the operation (CRF). Other blood tests may be performed according to clinical and
           biological patient evolution. Patients may leave the service when the surgeon deems
           necessary, from the 2nd postoperative day. The antibiotic treatment Augmentin ® is
           issued by the pharmacy at each center investigator. Antibiotics will be stored and
           dispensed by pharmacies in each center. Antibiotics will be issued to the patient (1
           gram packets) at its output for the entire duration of 5 days.
    
  