
    
      The project will be conducted as a two-armed randomized controlled clinical trial of 5-year
      duration in three clinical centers. 80 systemically healthy patients diagnosed with
      moderate/severe peri-implantitis at ≥1 implant will be enrolled.

      Upon enrolment, all patients will receive instructions in oral hygiene measures until
      adequate plaque control has been established (Plaque Index ≤20%). If required,
      supraconstructions will be adjusted to facilitate adequate oral hygiene measures. Thereafter,
      study participants will be randomized into two groups, stratified for smoking (yes/no) and
      number of implants in need of treatment (single/multiple).

      The control group will be subjected to professionally administered mechanical infection
      control including the use of hand instruments and polishing cups aiming at the removal of all
      supra-mucosal soft and hard deposits from the target sites. In the test group the
      aforementioned treatment will be supplemented by the use of an air-polishing device (AirFlow
      Master, EMS, Nyon, Switzerland) with a specially designed nozzle for sub-mucosal application
      (PerioFlow Handpiece, EMS, Nyon, Switzerland). Following local anesthesia, the instrument
      will be used sub-mucosally at all aspects (ie mesial, distal, buccal, lingual) of the
      affected implant(s) at a power setting reduced to 60% and with a erythritol powder (14
      mikrometer, AirFlow Plus Powder, EMS, Nyon, Switzerland). The handpiece will be guided in a
      circular motion in a corono-apical direction not in contact with the implant surface.
      Instrumentation time will be limited to 5 seconds at each aspect. Implant-supported
      supraconstructions will not be removed for the non-surgical treatment. Patients are recalled
      two weeks later for assessment of patient-experienced outcomes, professional supramucosal
      cleaning and reinforcement of oral hygiene.

      Peri-implant soft tissues will be evaluated at three months. Implant sites with remaining
      signs of pathology (PPD ≥6 mm and presence of BOP at ≥3 aspects per implant will be subjected
      to re-treatment according to the initial allocation. The clinical evaluation will be repeated
      at 6 months. In case of residual signs of pathology, affected sites will be subjected to
      surgical therapy of peri-implantitis within the subsequent 4 weeks. Full thickness flaps will
      be elevated and inflamed tissues will be removed. Mineralized deposits on the implant
      surfaces will be removed with titanium-coated curettes. Following a second randomization,
      stratified for smoking, surface decontamination will be performed using gauzes soaked in
      saline in the control group. In the test group, this treatment will be supplemented by
      air-polishing (AirFlow Handpiece, EMS, Nyon, Switzerland) with erythritol powder (14
      mikrometer, AirFlow Plus Powder, EMS, Nyon, Switzerland) at a power setting reduced to 60%
      and followed by careful irrigation with saline. Air polishing will be limited to 60 seconds
      per implant. No bone recontouring of bony walls is intended. Flaps will be sutured to the
      level of the bone and sutures will be removed after 2 weeks. Implant-supported
      supraconstructions will be removed for the surgical intervention, if possible.

      Maintenance therapy will be provided at 9 and 12 months and based on individual needs during
      the subsequent follow-up. A renewed evaluation will be performed at 12 and 18 months.
      Long-term assessments will be carried out annually from years 3 to 5. Should any implant site
      present with signs of disease progression (increase of PPD >2 mm and additional bone loss >1
      mm compared to baseline) at any of the follow-up examinations, the implant will be exited
      from the study and appropriate additional therapy will be provided.
    
  