
    
      According to the WHO (2016), almost 1.1 million of Europeans suffer a stroke each year (17
      million worldwide), which adds to a pool of 33 million stroke survivors. The case fatality
      rates are about 15% by 1 month, 25% by 1 year, and 50% by 5 years. Over one third of
      survivors are left disabled (modified Rankin Scale score 3-5) 5 years after stroke due to
      physical, cognitive, and/or emotional deficits. These deficiencies are often addressed in the
      hospital's acute care and/or during inpatient rehabilitation. Much of the scientific efforts
      to date have focused on medical programs involving acute care and hospital-based inpatient
      rehabilitation. However, many patients continue to experience difficulties beyond this period
      of recovery and long-term disability often occurs. In such cases, dealing with impairment is
      frequently ineffective, and when it is beneficial, the functional bases for recovery are
      mainly unclear.

      Stroke is a brutal event in the course of a lifetime. It is a break in reality affecting the
      body and the psyche, not only for the individual but also for the family. It disrupts the
      many foundations that a person has built over the course of his or her life. Acceptance of
      the disease, medical care and its effects on daily life, global impairment, limitation of
      activity and restriction of participation, are a set of factors that the psyche cannot
      integrate at once. Following this event, the person and their caregivers must take the time
      to accept and rebuild themselves. A new sense of temporality is an essential factor in the
      management of a post-stroke patient and a question that must be addressed by the caregiver.

      A body of scientific evidence has gradually emerged in recent years, reflecting the benefits
      of hippotherapy in various disabling neurological conditions. During hippotherapy, specific
      execution and repetition of a task are key elements of learning/strengthening/promoting a
      function and a robust backbone of neurorehabilitation through neural plasticity mechanisms.
      Hippotherapy is therefore slowly emerging as a cutting-edge method of neurorehabilitation.
      The post-injury experience is a powerful modulator of functional recovery following
      neurological disorders. Our method of hippotherapy has powerful effects on brain plasticity
      and neurological outcome. Beneficial results have been observed in a wide variety of brain
      disorders and include sensorimotor enhancement, cognitive enhancement, mental well-being, and
      delayed disease progression. Such an environment most likely promotes the synthesis of
      different neuroactive substances (e.g., BDNF, norepinephrine, acetylcholine, dopamine,
      serotonin), which reflect the level of arousal, motivation, attention, affection and emotion
      of a subject or directly drive the action (e.g., glutamate, or GABA). These endogenous
      molecules are strongly involved in the induction and maintenance of synaptic plasticity,
      namely long-lasting stable molecular, anatomical and functional modifications.

      In this randomized interventional study, the effectiveness of neurological rehabilitation by
      hippotherapy will be studied and its scope compared in terms of functional recovery, autonomy
      and quality of life. Stroke patients will be included and treated from the end of the
      inpatient rehabilitation phase (starting 3-6 months post-stroke). They will be compared to a
      control group of patients undergoing conventional outpatient rehabilitation. Both groups will
      undergo the same qualitative and quantitative clinical tests. We will also compare the
      quality of life of the respective caregivers before and after the end of the program.
    
  