
    
      Alemtuzumab is a drug that can specifically attack some types of leukemia and lymphoma cells.
      In addition, it suppresses the patients' immune system, therefore helps preventing the
      rejection of donor marrow or stem cells.

      Before treatment starts, patients will have a physical exam, including blood tests (between
      100 - 120 cc) and urine tests. Women who are able to have children will have a pregnancy
      test. Bone marrow samples will be taken. Patients will have a chest x-ray, CT scans and EKG,
      and tests of lung function.

      Blood tests (between 100 - 120 cc) marrow sampling, and x-rays will be done as needed to
      track the effects of the transplant. For bone marrow sampling, a large needle is placed into
      the numbed hipbone. The bone marrow is then withdrawn through the needle. Patients will have
      transfusions of blood and platelets as needed. Blood tests (between 100 - 120 cc) will be
      done daily while patients are in the hospital.

      Alemtuzumab will be injected into the patient's vein. This will be done 3 days in a row (days
      1 to 3). The drugs diphenhydramine (Benadryl) and acetaminophen (Tylenol) will be given in to
      prevent or ease side effects.

      Patients will also receive fludarabine and cyclophosphamide daily for 3 days. They will be
      given on the same days as alemtuzumab. Rituximab will be given (to some patients only, based
      on the subtypes of lymphomas) eight days before the transplant and then weekly for a total of
      4 doses.

      All of the chemotherapy drugs will be given through a catheter (plastic tube) that extends
      into the large chest vein. The catheter will be left in place throughout treatment. When
      chemotherapy is finished, blood stem cells from a donor will be given through the catheter.
      G-CSF, a growth factor that promotes the production of blood cells, will be injected under
      the skin once a day until the neutrophil counts recover in the blood.

      A "boost" of donor cells (lymphocytes) will be given at 3 months after transplant if the
      disease is getting worse or if DNA tests from the blood shows that not all lymphocytes in the
      blood are from the donor. These cells will be given through the vein, without chemotherapy,
      in the clinic.

      Treatment will be given in the hospital at M. D. Anderson. Patients will need to stay in the
      hospital for about 3 to 4 weeks. Patients will be taken off study if their disease
      progresses.

      Patients must stay in the Houston area for about 100 days after the transplant. After that,
      patients will need to return to Houston from time to time for blood tests, urine tests, and
      other exams.

      This is an investigational study. The FDA has approved the drugs used in this study. Their
      use together in this study is investigational. About 100 patients will take part in this
      study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  