
    
      It is widely recognised that patient-reported outcomes give a measure of overall effect of
      clinicians' actions on patients and that they can be used to guide the management of the
      patient's condition. They can also have an empowering effect as the patient may feel that
      they are agents, and not just subjects, in their treatment pathway. In the case of advanced
      and metastatic prostate cancer (i.e. cancer which has spread from the prostate to distant
      sites), the clinical means of assessing how the patient's disease is responding to treatment
      (radiological/magnetic scans) are somewhat imperfect as they do not take into account the
      impact on the patient's life and his response and reaction. Patient-reported outcomes, such
      as WATapp, allow a way to measure the impact of clinicians' actions on patients' lives. They
      offer an assessment of how well treatments are working and this is critical in the management
      of patients with advanced or metastatic prostate cancer. Failure to recognise how the patient
      responds to treatment can lead to effective treatment being stopped inappropriately;
      progression of the disease may not always be recognised; and the patient may have unnecessary
      side effects that go unchecked. Ignoring the patient-reported outcomes, such as WATapp, can
      reduce the opportunity to use alternative treatments. WATapp has been developed as an
      objective and reproducible clinical assessment tool by using questions from these validated
      clinical study tools:

      The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Prostate; The Brief Pain Inventory; The
      Karnofsky Performance Scale

      WATapp was refined with patient and clinician input to produced the present 5-item
      questionnaire.

      This is a mixed-method study, incorporating both quantitative and qualitative elements. As
      such, it is both objective and subjective:

        1. It is subjective in that, in using the WATapp, the patient selects his response to each
           question on the basis of how he feels normally

        2. It is objective in that the tools to be used in the analysis of the quantitative data
           [i.e. statistical tests such as Mann Whitney-U, Spearman Rank Correlation etc.] are
           independent of the person using them

        3. Determining clinically the patient's disease status employs objective measures such as
           PSA, size, distribution and type of metastasis, frequency of night-time urination etc.
           as well as the clinician's professional judgment which contains both objective and
           subjective elements

        4. The researchers are not mirrors but rather prisms and hence the entire study from
           conception to analysis and report is a refraction of their experiences

      Phase 1 The main outcome of the first phase will be to refine, as necessary, both the WATapp
      and the research instruments as well as to establish proof of principle of the clinical
      utility of WATapp. This will entail a full pilot of the WATapp in New Cross Hospital,
      Wolverhampton. Patients who agree to use the WATapp to self-monitor aspects of their health
      will be invited to consent to share with the researchers their anonymised data from it as
      well as linked, anonymised clinical data. The frequency of collection of data will be at the
      discretion of the clinician. Participating patients and clinicians will be invited to take
      part in a short, semi-structured interview on their experience of using WATapp. All patient
      data will be treated anonymously, and none linked back to the patient or to their
      clinician/s. Clinicians will be asked to record any reasons given by patients who decline to
      use the WATapp. Whether a patient chooses or not to use WATapp or chooses or not to take part
      in this study will have no bearing on their clinical care.

      The clinical data sought on patients will include:

        1. Age

        2. Stage of cancer at diagnosis in terms of the primary tumour, and any presence of disease
           in lymph nodes and bones

        3. Current stage of cancer in terms of the primary tumour, and any presence of disease in
           lymph nodes and bones

        4. Level of PSA - prostate specific antigen, produced normally in the prostate but also
           produced in prostate cancer cells, testosterone and other blood results which are
           routinely measured

        5. Any other illnesses the patient may have

        6. Current and previous treatments

      Phase 2 The second phase is to invite oncologists across the West Midlands of England, many
      of whom have already expressed an interest, to join the study and to send the researchers
      anonymised, linked patient data (as in Phase 1) and that from the WATapp.
    
  