
    
      Malaria in pregnancy (MiP) due to Plasmodium falciparum infection is a major cause of
      maternal morbidity and poor birth outcomes. Pregnant women are at increased risk of more
      frequent and severe malaria infections than are non-pregnant women. Intermittent preventive
      treatment in pregnancy (IPTp), the administration of treatment doses of an antimalarial at
      predefined intervals in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy irrespective of the
      presence of malaria parasitemia, is currently recommended for HIV-negative women in all areas
      with stable moderate to high transmission of malaria. The strategy is thought to work by
      providing intermittent clearance or suppression of parasites in the placenta, and preventing
      new infections from occurring through the prophylactic effect of the recommended drug for
      IPTp, sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP).

      SP is the only drug currently used for IPTp. Due to increasing resistance to SP, it is no
      longer used as a treatment for symptomatic malaria, however, IPTp with SP remains effective
      even in areas where SP resistance in children under five (determined by in vivo efficacy
      studies) is up to 26%. SP therefore continues to be used for IPTp in many countries where it
      is no longer used for treatment of symptomatic malaria. However, more recent data from
      northern Tanzania and Malawi indicate that at higher rates of resistance, IPTp-SP may no
      longer be effective, and could potentially be harmful.

      In view of this data, a search for alternatives to IPTp-SP is warranted. One strategy would
      be to choose a different drug for IPTp. Of the available combinations,
      Dihydroartemisinin-Piperaquine (DP) remains one of the most attractive options because of the
      long half-life of piperaquine (PQ) and the demonstrated efficacy and safety in pregnancy.
      Another strategy to consider is intermittent screening and treatment in pregnancy (ISTp),
      whereby there is increased screening at time of focused antenatal care (FANC) with treatment
      of women who screen positive. The same properties (long half-life, tolerability, safety, once
      daily dosing) which make DP a good choice for IPTp also make it one of the best available
      options for ISTp.

      This study aims to compare the efficacy of IPTp-SP against that of IPTp-DP and ISTp-DP to
      determine if these alternate strategies are associated with a reduction in malaria infection
      at delivery among HIV(-) women in an area with decreasing malaria transmission and high
      levels of SP resistance in Kenya.
    
  