
    
      Patients ASA I-III, aged between 35 and 79 years old, with BMI ≤ 35, scheduled for abdominal
      surgery, thus gynecological, urological and general surgery procedures will be recruited for
      the study. All patients will be scheduled in the morning list, informed for the study and
      will be asked to give written informed consent.

      Exclusion Criteria will be patients on analgesic, antidepressive, or sedative consumption
      during the previous one month, mental impairment, not speaking Greek or refusing to give
      written informed consent, diabetics, patients receiving antihypertensive treatment other than
      angiotensin type II receptor (AT2R) antagonists.

      Two groups of patients will be stydied: Patients hypertensive (the hypertensive group)
      receiving treatment for blood pressure control with angiotensin II receptor antagonists for
      at least three months preoperatively and a normotensive group.

      Measurements

        -  Pain intensity (visual analogue scale: VAS) from 0 to 100 will be reported 2, 4, 8, and
           24 hours postoperatively with 0 representing no pain and 100 excruciate worst pain. Pain
           will be recorded at rest and subsequently patients will be asked to cough for three
           times.

        -  Analgesics consumed at the same time points will be recorded.

        -  Patient satisfaction (VAS 0-100) 24 h postoperatively (with special reference to pain)

        -  Three months postoperatively patients will be contacted by phone and will be asked if
           they experience pain related to surgery or not. If yes pain characteristics, thus
           burning, pricking etc. will be recorded.

        -  Three months postoperatively patients will be asked whether they used analgesics after
           discharge from the hospital for the postoperative pain.

      Statistics Primary outcome of the study: Pain intensity 24 hours postoperatively after cough
      in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or no antihypertensive therapy.
      Secondary outcomes of the study are pain intensity 2, 4, 8 and 24 hours postoperatively at
      rest, 2, 4 and 8 hours after cough, analgesic consumption , 2, 4, 8 and 24 hours
      postoperatively, patient satisfaction regarding pain, presence of pain three months after
      surgery and if present its characteristics. Also, analgesic consumption during the first
      three months postoperatively due to surgery.

      Statistics Power analysis: A 30% difference in pain intensity after cough 24 hours
      postoperatively between the angiotensin II receptor antagonists treated group compared and
      the treated group.

      Acute pain at rest and after cough all the time points as defined by the study design will be
      compared between patients receiving antihypertensive treatment (angiotensin II receptors
      antagonists) and the controls.

      Cumulative analgesics consumed 2, 4, 8 and 24 hours after surgery will be compared between
      the two groups.

      The presence of chronic postsurgical pain and the need or not of analgesic intake due to
      chronic pain three months after surgery will be also compared between the hypertensive
      treated and normotensive patients.

      Parametric or non-parametric tests will be used for normal and no normal distributions
      respectively.
    
  