
    
      Long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFAs), such as docosahexaenoic (DHA, 22:6 n-3) and
      arachidonic acid (AA, 20:4 n-6), are major building blocks for the lipid bilayer of neuronal
      and retinal membranes. Brain maturation and visual development start during pregnancy and
      continue throughout the first year of life; hence, the role of LCPUFAs is greatest during
      this period.

      Like all mammals, humans lack enzymes for the synthesis of n-3 and n-6 precursors of DHA and
      AA, which are therefore essential fatty acids and need to be provided by dietary sources.

      Breast milk (BM) is the first nutritional choice in term and preterm neonates, and is
      considered an appropriate and natural source of essential fatty acids in this population.
      Among LCPUFAs, the role of DHA in the early phases of life has gained increased attention
      over the last 20 years. Several studies have proved the beneficial effects of DHA on visual
      acuity and learning skills in neonates; some of these trials have also underpinned the
      importance of dietary DHA sources, showing improved visual acuity in breastfed term neonates
      or preterm neonates fed LCPUFA-supplemented formula.

      The amount of LCPUFAs excreted in BM, however, is significantly influenced by the related
      maternal dietary intakes, and this is particularly evident for mothers with extremely high
      fish consumption or on a vegetarian diet.

      Sherry et al. have demonstrated that a 6-week supplementation with low or high dose of DHA in
      lactating women significantly increases DHA concentration in BM and maternal plasma compared
      with placebo; consistently, breastfed infants of supplemented mothers showed higher plasma
      DHA levels.

      Antarctic krill, a small crustacean belonging to the order Euphausiacea, is by far the most
      dominant member of the Antarctic zooplankton community, and also represents a rich source of
      n-3 LCPUFAs, such as DHA and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA). Compared to fish oil, krill oil has
      similar DHA contents, but provides higher amounts of EPA. In addition, fish oil fatty acids
      are mainly stored as triglycerides (TG), whereas in krill oil are predominantly incorporated
      to phospholipids (PL), with significantly enhanced bioavailability. To date, the effects of
      maternal supplementation with krill oil during lactation on BM LCPUFAs composition is still
      an issue for discussion/has not been investigated.

      The aim of this pilot study is to evaluate whether oral maternal supplementation with krill
      oil combined to fish oil in breastfeeding mothers increases BM concentration of DHA.

      Breastfeeding mothers of infants admitted to the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit of
      Sant'Orsola-Malpighi University Hospital, Bologna, Italy, will be consecutively enrolled if a
      written informed consent to participate in the present study is obtained.

      Women enrolled will undergo open randomization to 2 groups. Group 1 will receive 2 gelatin
      soft capsules per day of a combined krill and fish oil supplement (Krilling D®, Italchimici
      S.P.A., Milan, Italy), providing 250 mg/day of DHA and 70 mg/day of EPA, for overall 30 days,
      whereas group 2 will serve as control. Ten ml of fresh mid-BM samples will be collected at
      baseline (T0) and at day 30 (T1) of supplementation in both groups.

      After collection, DHA, AA and EPA contents of BM samples will be analyzed at the laboratory
      of the Center for Applied Biomedical Research (CRBA) of Sant'Orsola-Malpighi University
      Hospital, Bologna, Italy, using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry.
    
  