
    
      Lower eyelid retraction is a common eyelid malposition, typically caused by thyroid eye
      disease, excessive resection of skin in a cosmetic lower eyelid blepharoplasty, vertical
      rectus muscle recession, facial nerve paralysis, or a normal anatomical variant.[1] When the
      lower eyelid is displaced inferiorly, exposing sclera between the limbus and the eyelid
      margin, symptoms can vary from ocular irritation and discomfort to vision threatening corneal
      decompensation. If medical management does not suffice, surgery is indicated.

      Although lower eyelid retractor lysis alone has been described, supporting material (spacer
      graft) placed to augment the posterior lamella is generally required for more effective
      elevation of the eyelid.[2] Various materials have been utilized, including autologous
      auricular cartilage, bovine acellular dermal matrix, porcine acellular dermal matrix, hard
      palate mucosa, dermis and dermis fat grafts. Previous studies on acellular dermal matrix use
      in lower eyelid retraction repair consist of retrospective efficacy studies with only 2
      comparative studies. However, conflicting results raised doubt as to which material was
      superior. In addition, a prospective, randomized comparative study of spacer grafts used for
      lower eyelid retraction repair was done comparing autologous auricular cartilage, porcine
      acellular dermal matrix, and bovine acellular dermal matrix. The results yielded no
      statistically significant difference in surgical outcomes and complications.[3]. As of now,
      surgery with any of the spacer grafts, including autologous hard palate, is accepted as
      standard of care. [4] This study is designed to determine whether using hard palate as a
      spacer graft will have statistically significant different surgical outcomes and
      complications as compared to autologous ear cartilage and porcine acellular dermal matrix
      spacer grafts. Although studied separately, this has not been studied before in a prospective
      randomized manner and may prove to demonstrate improved surgical results and decreased
      complications. This can guide future choice of spacer graft used in lower eyelid retraction
      repair surgery.
    
  