
    
      Non-ischemic cardiomyopathy (NICM) comprises almost one half of the congestive heart failure
      (CHF) population NICM portends an increased risk for hospitalizations due to CHF as well as
      death. This population is also at high risk for the occurrence of tachyarrhythmias and has a
      high incidence of sudden cardiac death (SCD). The risk of SCD can be lowered by the placement
      of an (intercardioverter defibrillator) ICD. The implantation of an ICD significantly reduces
      the risk of SCD in patients with NICM and a left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of 35
      percent or less. However the implantation of an ICD has short term as well as long term risk
      associated with it. Many patients receive an ICD who never go on to have appropriate therapy.
      Current American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) guidelines state
      that "ICD therapy is recommended for primary prevention of SCD to reduce total mortality in
      selected patients with nonischemic dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) or ischemic heart disease at
      least 40 days post-myocardial infarction(MI) with LVEF of 35% or less and New York Heart
      Association (NYHA) class II or III symptoms on chronic guideline-directed medical
      therapy(GDMT), who have reasonable expectation of meaningful survival for more than 1 year."
      There is a need for new criteria for ICD placement in patients with NICM that are more
      sensitive and specific than current guidelines.

      Delayed enhancement imaging on cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR) has become the gold
      standard for myocardial scar/necrosis detection. The presence of late gadolinium enhancement
      (LGE) on CMR which corresponds to myocardial scarring or fibrosis has been shown to be a
      predictor of adverse outcomes in ischemic cardiomyopathy. There have been few studies
      evaluating the significance of LGE in patients with NICM, however the results are promising.
      The presence of LGE has been associated with the incidence of inducible tachycardia by
      electrophysiology (EP) testing in patients with NICM. LGE has also been associated with an
      increased risk of morbidity and mortality in a general NICM population.

      The investigators plan to enroll patients with NICM with an EF ≤ 40% who have been referred
      for CMR and follow them for the composite endpoint of sudden cardiac death or an appropriate
      ICD therapy (Antitachycardic pacing or shock).
    
  