
    
      Objectives:

      Schizophrenia and related psychoses are chronic brain disorders whose prognosis is often poor
      and whose pathophysiology remains obscure. Neuroimaging technologies such as PET (positron
      emission tomography), fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging), DTI (diffusion tensor
      imaging) and MRSI (magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging) offer opportunities to elucidate
      the pathophysiology by studying brain function in living research subjects. The use of these
      techniques to study psychotic disorders is severely limited, however, by a critical
      methodological confound: antipsychotic treatment. The purpose of this protocol is to admit
      research subjects with schizophrenia and other related disorders to the Clinical Center,
      carefully evaluate their neuropsychiatric status, and discontinue psychotropic medications
      for a brief period so research subjects can be studied without the confound of antipsychotic
      treatment.

      Study Population:

      700 participants

      The study will include research subjects with schizophrenia.

      Study Design:

      There are several phases to this protocol. The first phase is the Screening Evaluation and
      Stabilization Phase ( Standard part of the protocol) and includes gathering historical data,
      structured diagnostic interviews, general physical and laboratory assessments, basic
      physiological monitoring, neuropsychological testing, limited collection of blood and urine
      samples, and serial behavioral ratings. In the second phase (Coded Medication Phase or Coded
      part of the protocol), research subjects will receive blinded compounds that will contain
      inactive placebo or active antipsychotic administered in a crossover fashion. Patients and
      unit clinical nursing staff evaluating and caring for the patient will be blind to arm
      status. Each arm normally lasts 4 to 6 weeks. The total duration of this phase is 8 to 12
      weeks. During the Coded Medication Phase, research subjects are enrolled in a series of
      neuroimaging and other approved studies designed to elucidate the neurobiology of these
      disorders. These include studies using neuropsychological testing, MEG, PET, fMRI, DTI, and
      MRSI. The antipsychotic free period is essential to distinguish the effects of illness versus
      medication.

      Outcome Measures:

      Parameters under investigation include traits that are candidate phenotypes for genetic
      studies and state-dependent aspects of brain function. The combined use of many neuroimaging
      modalities will allow us to look at the functional relationship between a variety of brain
      abnormalities hypothesized to play a role in schizophrenia. These include hippocampal
      neurochemical abnormalities, deficits in prefrontal cortical activation, and dysregulation of
      subcortical dopamine in a single research subject.
    
  