
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine the feasibility of and adherence to all parts of
      version 2 of the ICOUGH app, incorporating user feedback and repairing "bugs" discovered
      during the previous trial. It will also compare postoperative complications and length of
      stay in participants who used and those who did not use the ICOUGH app. Eligible participants
      who have a smartphone will decide whether they want to download and use the ICOUGH app or
      not. Those who choose not to use the app and participants who do not have a smartphone, will
      receive the postoperative standard of care ICOUGH pamphlet which lists the activities that
      patients are encouraged to do following surgery to prevent lung complications.

      The app incorporates a number of functionalities that encourage subject accountability to the
      ICOUGH protocol. The participant will be given the option to choose one person from his/her
      smartphone contact list (friend or family member) to be his/her "care coach." The care coach
      will first receive an initial text regarding the role of a care coach, which is to help the
      subject adhere to the ICOUGH protocol. Should the care coach accept this role, he/she will
      also receive text message updates on the subject's level of adherence to the ICOUGH protocol
      three times during the day. The care coach is encouraged to help the subject comply with the
      treatment plan, which he/she can easily do through texting, phone calls, and hospital visits.
      The patient will be informed of the role and expectations for a care coach during their
      initial pre-operative assessment clinic visit, prior to consenting. The app will not transmit
      any private data pertaining to the selected care coach (e.g., name, phone number, etc.) to
      the back-end server. The concept and function of a care coach is unique to the app and is not
      ordinarily part of the standard of care.

      The app also has pre-set auditory, visual reminders-in the form of push notifications-that
      remind the subject to use the incentive spirometer and ambulate around the hospital at time
      intervals recommended by the ICOUGH protocol. Every time the subject interacts with the app,
      whether by touching its push notifications or interacting with a tablet computer at the
      nursing station, these interactions can be visualized on the main screen via an intuitive
      dashboard. Lastly, the app conveniently benchmarks the subject's level of adherence to that
      of other subjects involved in the study via the "My Summary" page, and this visual comparison
      is meant to be a form of friendly competition against other (anonymous) patients to further
      motivate adherence to the protocol.

      Following discharge, the research team will perform a retrospective chart review to record
      participants' length of stay (LOS), development of postoperative pulmonary complications, and
      other objective data. for participants used and those who did not use the ICOUGH Recovery
      app.
    
  