
    
      Surgical conditions in laparoscopic surgery are largely determined by the depth of
      neuromuscular relaxation during surgery. This is especially true in procedures which are
      confined to a narrow working field such as retroperitoneal laparoscopic surgery (eg. renal
      and prostatic surgery). In the previous study (BLISS study) deep neuromuscular block (NMB)
      has shown to provide superior surgical conditions compared to moderate NMB. Moreover, rapid
      reversal of a deep NMB at the end of surgery was possible with Sugammadex (4mg/kg). The deep
      NMB did not lead to any delay in extubation time and did not cause any prolongation of stay
      in the recovery room when the block was reversed with Sugammadex

      Rapid, safe and complete reversal of profound NMB blockade was not possible until the
      discovery of Sugammadex. Sugammadex is a modified γ-cyclodextrin. It was developed to
      selectively bind free plasma rocuronium, a non-depolarizing steroidal neuromuscular blocking
      agent. The BLISS study was the first study in which the effect of deep NMB on surgical
      conditions was assessed. Surgical conditions in this study were scored by one surgeon on a
      newly applied surgical rating scale which ranges from one to five.

      Although the BLISS study showed that a deep NMB provided better surgical conditions than a
      moderately deep NMB overall, there was a high variability in surgical rating scores. More
      over, even at the deep NMB, SRS scores of 3 (moderate, but acceptable conditions) were noted.
      This indicates that surgical conditions are influenced by other factors as well. Involuntary
      movement of the diaphragm is possibly such a major disturbant of the surgical field. Previous
      studies have shown a relative resistance to neuromuscular blocking agents of the diaphragm
      compared to the musclus adductor pollicis on which neuromuscular block is generally
      monitored. Hence contractions of the diaphragm may occure despite a deep NMB. This may be due
      to (high) arterial carbon dioxide (CO2) concentrations, which stimulate the respiratory
      neuronal pool in the brainstem and consequently activate the phrenic nerve. In normal
      circumstances, the respiratory centers try to maintain an arterial CO2 pressure of 40 mmHg.
      With intentional hyperventilation, the arterial CO2 pressure may be lowered to 10-20 mmHg. A
      low arterial CO2 pressure diminishes the respiratory drive and consequently phrenic nerve
      activity. This is supported by previous observations which showed increased abdominal muscle
      relaxation produced by hyperventilation. We therefore designed this study to evaluate the
      effect of arterial CO2 variation with concurrent deep NMB on the surgical conditions.
      Arterial CO2 tensions may be altered by adjusting the ventilator settings. Eg. by increasing
      minute ventilation volume, arterial CO2 concentration will lower. Regular arterial blood
      samples will be drawn to monitor arterial CO2 concentration.

      We hypothesize that a Deep NMB combined with hypocapnia will result in a significant
      improvement of surgical conditions as rated on the surgical rating scale by one surgeon
      compared to deep NMB and normocapnia

      Additional secondary end-points of the study include the effect of arterial CO2 variation on:

        -  economic parameters (time to spontaneous breathing, time to extubation, duration of
           surgery, and time in the post-anesthesia care unit)

        -  perioperative hemodynamics, abdominal pressure

        -  postoperative conditions (respiratory conditions, hemodynamics, arterial oxygen
           saturation, pain, sedation, nausea and vomiting)

        -  To assess the ability of anesthesiologists and surgeons to rate the surgical field using
           video snippets of the surgical field.
    
  