
    
      Acute postoperative pain control remains a major challenge in healthcare, with a need to
      balance analgesic effectiveness, patient safety, and cost. Excellent analgesia is a universal
      clinical imperative, but our current approaches are often inadequate. Epidural opioids can be
      useful tools, but each carries its own strengths and limitations. Bolus morphine is long
      lasting but exhibits rostral spread in the cerebrospinal fluid, which raises risks of adverse
      effects, particularly late-onset respiratory depression. Lipophilic opioids such as fentanyl
      and sufentanil exhibit selective segmental analgesia but are of short duration due to
      systemic absorption. As such, they require continuous epidural administration via an
      indwelling epidural catheter and a pump (patient-controlled or continuous infusion), which
      has implications for nursing, pain management services, and hospital cost. Methadone's
      physico-chemical properties suggest that epidural methadone administration would be ideal in
      providing long-duration analgesia with fewer of the adverse effects seen with medications
      like morphine.

      The aim of this study is to compare the effects of two medications given epidurally: morphine
      and methadone. We will do so using a randomized, double-blinded, crossover design study.
      During each of two study visits, participants will receive a single epidural bolus of either
      morphine or methadone. We will examine the ability of the medication to blunt pain from heat
      or pressure using quantitative sensory testing at both the dermatome of injection (leg) and a
      distant dermatome (face); in doing so, we will demonstrate relative segmental versus
      supraspinal or systemic opioid activity. Additionally, we will assess signs and symptoms of
      supraspinal opioid activity, which may predispose to adverse effects, and blood
      concentrations of each medication. Each of the aforementioned measurements will be conducted
      at multiple points over a 24 hour period. Following a washout period, patients will return
      for a second visit, at which time the protocol will be repeated using the other medication.
    
  