
    
      Background:

      Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is an aggressive biliary tract malignancy that remains a clinical
      challenge with limited treatment options and poor survival. Combination chemotherapy with
      gemcitabine and cisplatin is the most validated first-line treatment, but the response rate
      approaches only 22% and median progression free survival is 8 months.

      Cytoplasmic accumulation of the nuclear export protein exportin 7, XPO7, portends poor
      outcomes for patients with cholangiocarcinoma. Using pre-clinical models, we established XPO7
      as an oncogenic driver in CCA cells and determined that this biology is driven by the
      interaction between XPO7 and a hitherto incompletely studied kinase, Ste-20 like kinase
      (SLK).

      XPO7 binds to and promotes cytoplasmic localization and stabilization of SLK, which in turn
      activates oncogenic AKT signaling. Targeting SLK expression via short hairpin RNA abrogates
      tumor formation in 3D culture and mice models, and leads to robust inhibition of AKT Ser 473
      phosphorylation, establishing SLK as a novel, bona fide target in cholangiocarcinoma.

      The pan-vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR) inhibitor tivozanib, which also
      demonstrated activity against SLK in our in vitro screen, reduced AKT phosphorylation and
      abrogated growth of CCA tumorspheres and in a murine xenograft model. Additionally, we
      evaluated tivozanib in our ex vivo tumor platform using a liver metastasis from a patient
      with XPO7-expressing cholangiocarcinoma and documented effective tumor cell degeneration and
      death.

      As reliable, molecular-targeted regimens either for first- or second-line therapy for
      cholangiocarcinoma have remained elusive, these results support evaluation of tivozanib as a
      treatment option for patients with cholangiocarcinoma.

      Objectives:

      Phase I: To determine safety and establish the recommended Phase II dose (RP2D) of tivozanib
      in patients with cholangiocarcinoma who were previously treated with first-line chemotherapy.

      Phase II: To determine the overall response rate (RECIST) of tivozanib in patients with
      cholangiocarcinoma who were previously treated with first-line therapy.

      Eligibility:

      Patients with histologically or cytologically confirmed cholangiocarcinoma not amenable to
      resection

      Previous treatment with 1st line chemotherapy

      Age >= 18 years of age

      ECOG performance status of <=1

      Preserved hepatic function

      Adequate organ and marrow function

      Life expectancy >= 3 months

      Design:

      Open-label, single-center, non-randomized Phase I/II study

      Trial will begin with enrollment in a Phase I two dose-level, intra-patient dose escalation
      and possible dose de-escalation phase to determine safety and RP2D, followed by a Simon
      minimax two-stage Phase II trial design to determine efficacy.

      Treatment is in cycles of 28 days, 3 weeks on, 1 week off (except for patients in DL-1, with
      every other day dosing). Treatment evaluations for efficacy will be every 2 months (8 weeks).

      Accrual ceiling will be set at 30 patients
    
  