
    
      Bloodstream infections are a common and serious problem, and are associated with increased
      morbidity and mortality. At the same time, antibiotic overuse is also a common and serious
      problem, in that 30-50% of antibiotic use is unnecessary or inappropriate, and results in
      avoidable drug side effects such as kidney failure, Clostridium difficile infection,
      increased costs, and spiraling antibiotic resistance rates. The greatest contributor to
      antibiotic overuse is excessive durations of treatment.

      Extensive research has demonstrated that shorter duration antibiotic treatment (less or equal
      to 7 days) is as effective as longer duration treatment for a variety of infectious diseases,
      but this question has not been directly studied in the setting of bloodstream infection. Our
      team's systematic review of the medical literature, national survey of Canadian infectious
      diseases and critical care physicians, and multicentre retrospective study all support the
      need for a randomized controlled trial comparing shorter (7 days) versus longer (14 days)
      antibiotic therapy for bloodstream infections.

      Prior to performing the main trial, our pilot RCT in critically ill patients is
      near-completion.

      In order to increase the generalizability to non-critically ill patients, Investigators want
      to conduct a similar pilot RCT in non-critically ill patients (BALANCE on the Wards) to
      establish the feasibility of the research design, and to optimize the definitive trial.

      Investigators will conduct a randomized concealed allocation trial of shorter duration (7
      days) versus longer duration (14 days) antibiotic treatment for patients with bloodstream
      infections across all non-ICU hospital wards in Sunnybrook Hospital (BALANCE on the Wards).
      Our ongoing BALANCE pilot RCT in ICU is approved by the Sunnybrook REB (PIN: 187-2014). The
      BALANCE on Wards pilot trial will use the same protocol, informed consent form and the case
      report forms that are approved by the Sunnybrook REB with minimal changes to make it ward
      specific. If the investigators are able to achieve the primary outcome of this trial in
      Sunnybrook hospital, the main BALANCE trial will potentially involve enrolment of non-ICU
      patients at all (or a subset of) participating sites.

      If eligibility criteria and study procedures are substantially unchanged, results of the both
      the pilot BALANCE RCTs will be rolled into the dataset for the main BALANCE RCT.
    
  