
    
      The investigator will make certain that the appropriate informed consent process is in place
      to ensure that potential research subjects, or their authorized representatives, are fully
      informed about the nature and objectives of the study, the potential risk and benefits of
      study participation, and their right as research subjects.

      All laboratory specimens, evaluation forms, reports, video recordings, and other records that
      leave the site will not include unique personal data to maintain subject confidentiality.

      All patients provided an informed written consent after they were fully instructed about the
      investigation.The study was approved by ethical committee of Ain Shams University.

      All recruited women were observed at the 1st trimester screening at antenatal clinic and
      assessed for baseline demographic and obstetric data including age, parity, body mass index
      (BMI) and past medical events. Smoking, alcohol and drug use were also determined.

      At second and third trimester (15-20 and 30-34 weeks of gestation respectively), the maternal
      weight, weight gain, BMI, BMI gain and data of ultrasound examination were recorded. At the
      time of delivery after assessment of maternal weight as mentioned above, the birth weight (in
      grams), fetal sex, and mode of delivery were taken.

      All pregnant women underwent ultrasound evaluation of placental thickness at the time of
      second trimester (15-20 weeks of gestation) as well as third trimester (30-34 weeks of
      gestation).

      All sonographic examinations were performed trans-abdominal using a Medison X4 ultrasound
      machine Trans abdominal4.0 megahertz (MHz) probe at The Special Care Center for Fetus Unit at
      Ain Shams University Maternity Hospital.

      The placental thickness was measured by placing the ultrasound transducer perpendicularly to
      the plane of the placenta, in the area of the cord insertion, near the mid-placental portion
      as described by Hoddick et al

      Each evaluation was performed by one of two experienced sonographers of our hospital with
      minimum inter- and intra-observer variability.

      After delivery, the placenta was weighed in grams as previously described by Azpurua et al.

      Fetal weight (primary objective) and neonatal status and morbidity including baby Apgar
      scores, fetal distress or fetal death and admission to the neonatal intensive care unit were
      also determined. All the examinations and data recording were performed by two senior
      resident physicians.(secondary objective)
    
  