
    
      Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and oppositional defiant disorder (ODD) are
      common childhood behavior disorders. Children with ADHD experience hyperactivity,
      distractibility, poor concentration, and impulsivity. If left untreated, ADHD can continue
      into adulthood, and can cause problems in family, social, and work environments. Children
      with ODD exhibit an ongoing pattern of uncooperative, defiant, and hostile behavior toward
      authority figures. Symptoms of ODD, including frequent temper tantrums, anger, resentment,
      and vindictiveness, may interfere with a child's everyday functioning. The Incredible Years
      parent training program has been shown to be effective in multiple settings at training
      parents to manage their child's behavior. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of the
      Incredible Years training program within a pediatric office setting at improving parenting
      skills and reducing behavioral symptoms in young children who are at risk for developing
      childhood behavior disorders.

      Participants in this open-label study will be randomly assigned to the Incredible Years
      training program or a waitlist condition, in which they will begin the program after a 1-year
      waiting period. Parent training sessions will take place once per week for 10 weeks, and will
      last approximately 2 hours each. Sessions will focus on teaching positive parenting skills,
      such as appropriate play and use of praise and rewards, as well as limit-setting techniques,
      such as ignoring, allowing children to experience the natural consequences of their actions,
      and assigning time-outs. Self-report assessments and phone interviews will be used to assess
      outcomes. Additionally, follow-up visits will occur immediately post-intervention and 6 and
      12 months post-intervention. Children will attend one visit before the program begins, as
      well as the follow-ups held immediately post-intervention and 12 months post-intervention.
      These visits will include videotaped observations of children and their primary caregivers.
    
  