
    
      Multidetector Computed Tomography (MDCT) is the mainstay of imaging for patients with acute
      or chronic pancreatitis, suspected pancreatic neoplasms and post-pancreatic surgery
      evaluation. The use of multidetector row helical CT scanners and sub-second gantry rotations,
      have dramatically reduced scan acquisition time with resultant improvement in patient
      compliance and image quality. The improved Z-axis (isotropic) resolution permits excellent
      image reconstructions, which play a critical role in diagnosis and staging of pancreatic
      pathologies, due to the anatomic layout of the pancreas and its vasculature. Fast scanning
      time enables the acquisition of multiple phases of enhancement, which is of paramount
      importance in imaging the pancreas [1].

      Until relatively recently, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) was the
      primary diagnostic and therapeutic modality for assessing patients with suspected pancreatic
      disease or abnormalities. However, this invasive procedure carries with it a significant
      potential for complications including acute pancreatitis, hemorrhage and infection, as well
      as reactions to contrast material or premedications and exposure to radiation. In addition,
      the success of such procedures - both from the standpoint of safety and efficacy - is highly
      dependent on the skill of the endoscopist [2], and the cost of ERCP is relatively high.

      Secretin enhanced MRCP (S-MRCP) has been extensively used in assessment of suspected
      pancreatic diseases. Likewise, administration of secretin intravenously to patients
      undergoing MDCT for the pancreas will result in improved distension of the pancreatic duct.
      The potential benefits of this would be a non-invasive evaluation of the pancreatic duct
      morphology. In patients with suspected abnormality involving the main duct or its side
      branches, the improved distension of the duct is likely to improve diagnostic yield for
      conditions such as intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms (IPMNs) and cystic pancreatic
      neoplasms.

      This study is being undertaken to prospectively assess the effectiveness of RG1068-enhanced
      MDCT relative to unenhanced MDCT. RG1068 is a synthetic human secretin with a pharmacological
      profile very similar to that of biological and synthetic porcine secretins. Secretin is a
      27-amino acid gastrointestinal peptide hormone that is produced by S-cells in the duodenum in
      response to the pH decrease caused by the passage of partially digested food from the stomach
      into the intestine. RG1068 is identical in amino acid sequence to naturally occurring human
      secretin and differs from porcine secretin in 2 amino acids.
    
  