
    
      In recent years advances in diagnosis/ therapy in patients with acute coronary syndromes
      heart failure / and renal insufficiency patients could be made. However, these diseases still
      associated with an increased mortality rate. The diseases affecting at the same time as the
      heart and the kidney contribute to the deterioration in the course of the disease. An acute
      or chronic functional impairment of an organ, e.g. the heart, is connected to another
      functional impairment, such as the kidneys. In the past, different scores to the risk and
      prognosis assessment have been introduced measuring many different diagnostic parameters such
      as E.g. age, pre-existing conditions, kidney function, heart function, and laboratory values.
      The scores can be used for risk assessment and treatment.

      For determining the prognosis of heart and kidney-failure patients, biomarkers are analyzed.
      Biomarkers in the blood or urine which can provide early information on a specific course of
      disease are called prognostic biomarkers. In this study, prognostically relevant biomarkers
      for cardiovascular / renal insufficiencies will be clinically evaluated, to improve the
      course of assessment of such disease and to gain new insights into the typical course of
      congestive heart failure. This is a prerequisite to allow patients to appropriate treatment
      as soon as possible. An important role in heart and vascular disease can be awarded the
      Fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF) 23. The height of FGF23 in the blood plasma is linked with
      the risk of cardiovascular events occur and the beginning of dialysis patients. FGF23 goes
      hand in hand with the development of heart failure or with a hospitalization as a result of
      heart failure.

      The clinical utility of biomarkers will be examined in relation to established risk scores
      calculated from clinical parameters, to determine whether this biomarker of bone-heart-kidney
      axis can extend the forecast evaluation of patients.
    
  