
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Investigate whether the addition of oxaliplatin to neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy and
           adjuvant chemotherapy comprising capecitabine improves disease-free survival in patients
           with locally advanced rectal cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients with locally advanced rectal cancer treated
           with neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy and adjuvant chemotherapy comprising capecitabine
           with versus without oxaliplatin.

        -  Determine the loco-regional failure and distant failure of patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Determine the pathological down-staging (ypT0-2N0) of patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Determine the pathological complete remission (yp T0N0) rate of patients treated with
           these regimens.

        -  Determine the tumor progression grade and histopathological R0 resection of patients
           treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the sphincter preservation rate of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the perioperative complication rate of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Determine the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to treating center,
      clinical T category (T1-3 vs T4), clinical nodal status (Nx vs NO vs N1-2), distance from the
      tumor to the anal verge (≤ 5 cm vs > 5 cm) and method of locoregional staging (EUS+MRI vs
      EUS+CTscan vs MRI alone). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (control):

             -  Neoadjuvant therapy: Patients receive oral capecitabine twice daily on days 1-35.
                Patients also undergo concurrent 3-dimensional conformal radiotherapy 5 days a week
                on days 1-33 followed by surgery. Patients may receive additional chemoradiotherapy
                on days 36-38.

             -  Adjuvant therapy: Beginning 4-8 weeks after surgery, patients receive oral
                capecitabine twice daily on days 1-15. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 6
                courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II (investigational):

             -  Neoadjuvant therapy: Patients receive oral capecitabine twice daily and undergo
                concurrent 3-dimensional conformal radiotherapy 5 days a week on days 1-33.
                Patients also receive oxaliplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, 15, 22, and 29 prior
                to radiotherapy followed by surgery. Patients may receive additional
                chemoradiotherapy on days 36-38.

             -  Adjuvant therapy: Beginning 4-8 weeks after surgery, patients receive oxaliplatin
                IV over 2 hours on day 1 and oral capecitabine twice daily on days 1-15. Treatment
                repeats every 3 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
                unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for 3 years, and then
      every 6 months for 2 years.
    
  