
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To establish the safety of durvalumab and tremelimumab following radioembolization with
      Yttrium-90 selective internal radiation (SIR)-spheres in patients with locally advanced
      hepatocellular carcinoma without extra-hepatic disease.

      II. If the combination of durvalumab and tremelimumab is deemed unsafe, to establish the
      safety of single agent durvalumab and explore all endpoints with durvalumab alone.

      III. To evaluate the overall response rate in patients treated with durvalumab and
      tremelimumab following radioembolization with Yttrium-90 SIR-Spheres using Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, modified (m) RECIST and immune modified
      RECIST criteria.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the rate of 6-month progression-free survival in patients treated with
      durvalumab and tremelimumab following radioembolization with Yttrium-90 SIR-spheres.

      II. To evaluate median progression-free survival and overall survival in patients treated
      with durvalumab and tremelimumab following radioembolization with Yttrium-90 SIR-spheres.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the association of response and survival outcomes with PD-L1 expression of
      baseline tumor biopsies.

      II. To explore the association of response and survival outcomes with next generation
      sequencing results including tumor mutational burden of baseline tumor biopsies.

      III. To explore genomic alterations/evolutions in tumor tissue following Yttrium-90
      SIR-spheres and durvalumab plus tremelimumab through comparison of baseline and
      post-combination immunotherapy treatment tumor biopsies.

      IV. To explore the association of response and survival outcomes with gene expression
      signatures.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo standard of care radioembolization with Yttrium-90 SIR-spheres
      intra-arterially over 60-90 minutes on day -14. Patients then receive durvalumab
      intravenously (IV) over 1 hour and tremelimumab IV over 1 hour on day 1. Cycles with
      durvalumab repeat every 4 weeks for 12 months in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 90 days, and then every 12
      weeks thereafter.
    
  