
    
      Patients admitted to Intensive Care Units (ICU) often require respiratory support.
      Orotracheal intubation is one of the most frequent procedures performed in ICU. When
      performed in emergency settings, intubation is a challenging issue as it may be associated
      with life-threatening complications in up to one third of cases.Severe hypoxaemia occurring
      during intubation procedure can result in cardiac arrest,cerebral anoxia, and death.Difficult
      intubation is known to be associated with life-threatening complications both in operating
      room and in emergent conditions.ICU intubation conditions are worse than intubation
      conditions in operative rooms.A non-planned and urgent intubation procedure, severity of
      patient disease and ergonomic issues explain the morbidity associated with intubation in
      ICU.To prevent and limit the incidence of severe hypoxemia following intubation and its
      complications, several intubation algorithms have been developed ,and specific risk factors
      for difficult intubation in ICU have been identified.

      In 2018, a large multicenter study reported first-attempt intubation success rates using
      direct laryngoscopy of 70% and videolaryngoscopy of 67%. In 2019, a multicentre randomized
      trial,assessing whether positive-pressure ventilation with a bag-mask device (bag-mask
      ventilation) during tracheal intubation of critically ill adults prevents hypoxemia, reported
      a first-attempt success rate of 81%. Other authors reported an overall first-attempt
      intubation success rate of 74%. The 20% to 40% first-attempt failure rates throughout studies
      highlight the opportunity to improve the safety and efficiency of this critical procedure.
      Using a preshaped endotracheal tube plus stylet may have potential advantages over
      endotracheal tube alone without stylet. The stylet is a rigid but malleable introducer which
      fits inside the endotracheal tube and allows for manipulation of the tube shape; usually into
      a hockey stick shape, to facilitate passage of the tube through the laryngeal inlet. The
      stylet can help to increase success of intubation in operating rooms.

      However, some complications from intubating stylets have been reported including mucosal
      bleeding, perforation of the trachea or esophagus, and sore throat. In 2018, one study has
      assessed the effect of adding a stylet in case of difficult intubation in prehospital
      setting.However, in ICU, the systematic use of a stylet is still debated and recent
      recommendations do not recommend to use or not to use such devices for first-pass intubation.
      The device chosen for intubation may therefore be a confounding factor between the relation
      of stylet use and first-attempt success.The routine use of a stylet for first-pass intubation
      using laryngoscopes in ICU has never been assessed and benefit remains to be established.

      The investigators hypothesis that adding stylet to endotracheal tube will increase the
      frequency of successful first-pass intubation compared with use endotracheal tube alone (i.e,
      without stylet) in ICU patients needing mechanical ventilation.
    
  