
    
      Infections with Clostridium difficile is considered to be the most frequent health care
      associated bacterial infection. Almost all cases are connected to the use of antibiotics.

      The spectra of symptoms of infection reaches from loose stools to sepsis and death. It is
      estimated that about 5% of the population are carriers without symptoms.

      Elderly people are more likely to be diagnosed with C. difficile infections and as about 50 %
      of ICU admissions (at least in Sweden) are patients aged 64 years or older C. difficile is
      also an ICU issue.

      Probiotic bacteria given to antibiotic treated patients results in fever cases of infection
      with C. difficile as we and others have shown in some small studies. Due to a low statistical
      power in our former study this multicentre study is calculated to be large enough to fulfil
      statistical requirements.

      Adult patients with an expected length of stay in intensive care for three days or more can
      be included.

      Primary objective is to find emerging cases of colonisation with C. difficile and consequent
      symptoms of infection such as diarrhoea.

      Cultures and toxin analyses will be taken at inclusion and every second day till day 13 and
      then every third or fourth day depending on length of ICU stay. Positive cases will be given
      antibiotics according to normal routines.

      No other cultures are collected per protocol but all cultures will be recorded and results
      will be analysed in order to find any connection between treatment and reduction of secondary
      infections.

      In our earlier small study we found an improved and normalised gut barrier function for those
      patients that were given probiotic bacteria compared to a worsened, scattered pattern for the
      placebo group. This is probably why we found that inflammatory parameters improved for the
      probiotics group while those parameters remained elevated for the control patients. The same
      goes for creatinine, urea and lactate. This is why we will record those parameters together
      with blood gas analyses in this expanded study.

      Antibiotics and medication with corticosteroids, proton pump inhibitors or other acid
      reducing preparations, All nutritive prescriptions (enteral formulas and IV solutions as well
      as medical preparations containing glucose or fat) will be recorded and compared to actually
      given nutrients.

      Bowel movements frequency and consistency will be recorded and compared between groups.
    
  