
    
      Reduced energy intake and increased physical activity have profound effects on
      cardiometabolic health as assessed by insulin sensitivity, β-cell function, serum lipids,
      intra-abdominal fat mass, intrahepatic triglyceride content, and blood pressure, and is the
      cornerstone of treatment for people with obesity. However, the specific additional
      therapeutic effects of regular exercise in conjunction with diet-induced weight loss are not
      clear. In addition, the optimal dietary macronutrient composition needed to reduce
      cardiometabolic risk is not known. The use of a very low fat, plant-based (PB) diet is
      becoming increasingly popular to treat people with obesity and is the only diet therapy that
      is reimbursed by Medicare in the treatment of people with coronary heart disease.

      Participants will undergo nutritional counseling and have supervised exercise training 4 days
      per week until 7-10% weight loss is achieved. Meals will be provided and food diaries will be
      kept during weight loss. Tests before and after the intervention will include muscular
      strength and aerobic fitness, cardiovascular assessments, glucose tolerance tests,
      hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp test for insulin sensitivity, heavy water metabolism,
      resting energy expenditure/metabolic rate, muscle and fat biopsies, body composition scans,
      blood tests, and urine and stool collection.

      The overarching goal of this project is to conduct a comprehensive characterization of weight
      loss induced by using a PB diet with regular exercise in people with MAO, followed by a
      comparison of the effects of this study with those from another study that is evaluating the
      effect of the same amount of weight loss induced by using a PB diet alone, without exercise.
      Specifically, we will evaluate changes in body composition, body fat distribution,
      cardiopulmonary function, muscle strength, the plasma metabolome, insulin sensitivity,
      beta-cell function, systemic and adipose tissue inflammation and immune system function,
      adipose tissue and muscle cellular metabolic pathways, and the gut microbiome to determine
      cellular, multiorgan, and whole-body effects of PB diet alone and PB diet plus exercise.
      Accordingly, this study will fill two important gaps in our knowledge that have considerable
      physiological and clinical significance; the data from this study will provide: 1) a better
      understanding of the effects of a PB diet plus exercise on a series of key outcome measures,
      and 2) the potential additional benefit of adding regular exercise to a PB diet.
    
  