
    
      Nonimmune hydrops (NIH) and severe symmetrical intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR)
      represent two obstetrical circumstances that occur with relative frequency yet often escape
      adequate etiology assessment and diagnosis prior to and after birth. Both of these conditions
      have high perinatal and neonatal mortality rates. While antepartum ultrasound and amniotic
      fluid evaluations of fetal karyotype and viral DNA studies diagnose some etiologies for NIH
      and severe symmetrical IUGR, large percentages of NIH (30-40%) and IUGR (20-30%) cases are
      attributed to idiopathic causes. Because of this uncertainty in diagnosis, many cases are
      subjected to prolonged antepartum hospitalization with intensive fetal monitoring and urgent
      delivery by Cesarean section for non-reassuring fetal status, only to succumb to a neonatal
      demise in the nursery. A small percentage (1-2%) of these cases are found to be due to inborn
      errors of metabolism by neonatal and/or postmortem evaluation; however, when combined
      together, greater than 50% of NIH and IUGR cases have no identifiable etiology. Therefore,
      any new test that may make a diagnosis for NIH or severe symmetrical IUGR prior to delivery
      would be extremely important to the management of both the mother and the infant. Tandem mass
      spectrometry for inborn errors of metabolism may represent a new tool for assessing,
      identifying, and treating currently unexplained cases of NIH and severe symmetrical IUGR.

      This is a prospective pilot cohort study of all pregnancies complicated by NIH and severe
      symmetrical IUGR within the Pediatrix-Obstetrix network. This network encompasses several
      perinatal sites throughout the United States with corresponding neonatal intensive care units
      utilizing a computerized patient database (RDS). The objective of this study is to
      prospectively evaluate amniotic fluid of pregnancies complicated by NIH and severe
      symmetrical IUGR by a method called tandem mass spectrometry for inborn errors of metabolism.
    
  