
    
      Economic disadvantage has been found to be associated with delayed cognitive and language
      development, and mental health symptoms such as aggression, anxiety of children. Chronic
      cumulative stressors of poverty disrupt their attention, emotional and behavioural
      regulation, that would further lead to negative impact in early development. As their parents
      are also affected by stress, they often become unresponsive, harsh and inconsistent in child
      discipline, resulting in a chronic stress to their children. Mindfulness is defined as paying
      attention purposefully and non-judgmentally to the present moment. It has been shown to
      improve attention, promote exposure to unpleasant experiences, facilitate cognitive change,
      and enhance the ability to cope with life stress. Mindfulness training has been established
      as an evidence-based intervention for people suffering from various chronic conditions. Its
      application in a family context, including parents and children, is just beginning. The
      purpose of this study is to assess the effectiveness of a family-based mindfulness
      intervention (FBMI) in reducing parental stress and promoting child adjustment. Intervention
      effectiveness will be tested by conducting a randomized controlled trial comparing a group
      receiving FBMI to a wait-list control group. Children aged five and their parents will be
      recruited to participate in the study. Eligible families will be recruited, stratified by
      level of economically disadvantage, behaviour problem scores, and parental stress, and then
      randomly assigned to the two groups. Intervention groups will be conducted by instructors
      with professional training. Children in the intervention group are expected to show
      improvements in cognitive and language development, behaviour problems, attention and
      emotional/behavior regulation, and physiological stress (reduced cortisol and heart rate
      variability), compared with the waitlist control group. Parents are expected to show
      improvements in physiological and psychological stress, and mindfulness, compared with the
      waitlist control group. The proposed project will be the first of its kind to use mindfulness
      training in a family context in Hong Kong. It is also unique as it examines the effectiveness
      of a mindfulness-based intervention with multiple outcome measures related to stress,
      combining self-reported measures with biomarkers, and psychological tests. For model building
      and theory development, this study may shed light on assessing the change mechanisms for
      promoting child learning, emotional and behavioural regulation, particularly in relation to
      studies of stress physiology and economically disadvantaged families. The results may not
      only benefit in Hong Kong but also those in other Chinese societies and countries.
    
  