
    
      The specific aims of the M2Q2 study are:

      Aim 1: In collaboration with the Institute of Population, Health, and Development (PHAD) in
      Vietnam, adapt a current, effective messaging system to Vietnam. The messaging system will:

        1. Motivate smokers to quit smoking, using tailored messages adapted to be culturally
           relevant.

        2. Encourage smokers to accept counseling services from the Quitline, and take advantage of
           nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) that will be provided by the Quitline to those
           willing to quit.

      Aim 2: To engage with the Quitline, providing additional training in tobacco cessation
      counseling for those ready to quit, and motivational interventions for those not yet ready to
      quit.

      Aim 3: To evaluate the impact of the messaging system on: access to the Quitline, use of
      nicotine replacement therapy, increase in self-efficacy, and six-month biochemically verified
      smoking cessation.

      The study will be conducted in the Red River Delta Region, an agriculturally rich and densely
      populated area in northern Vietnam. Four communes (Viet Hung, Binh Minh, Tan Viet and Bach
      Sam) located in four different districts in the Hung Yen province will be included in the
      M2Q2 study, based on their general representativeness to the rural northern Vietnamese
      population and because the investigators have developed infrastructure to support
      technology-assisted behavioral interventions through community health centers (CHCs) in these
      communes. Each of the selected communes satisfy the following criteria: (1) have a community
      health center with a medical doctor; (2) are not currently participating in other studies for
      smoking cessation; and (3) have a minimum geographic separation of 12 kilometers (7 miles)
      from all other study communes to minimize possible contamination.

      Recruitment and retention of study participants will be conducted by both CHC staff and
      community health workers. The investigators will recruit men and women, and plan for
      recruiting 15% women. The investigators will plan to recruit smokers regardless of their
      readiness to quit. Participants will not be compensated, other than being provided a
      cellphone if they currently do not own one.

      The duration of an individual subject's participation in the study is 6 months (baseline
      survey, texting system, quitline data, and the 6-month follow-up survey). The duration
      anticipated to enroll all study subjects is 2 years, 2 months. The estimated date for the
      investigators to complete this study with primary analyses is the middle of year 5.

      The main dependent variable is patient tobacco cessation rate (quit rate) at six months. The
      investigators will biochemically verify smoking status at baseline and at six months. The
      secondary outcome measure is self-efficacy. The investigators will administer an 12-item
      questionnaire (SEQ-12) to measure self-efficacy at baseline and at six months.
    
  