
    
      This study proposes to recruit 120 patients who are undergoing open shoulder surgery.
      Patients will be identified preoperatively by means of the surgical schedule at each
      participating location. Randomization will be generated by a web-based system and stratified
      by hospital. The attending physician will be blinded to the contents of the supplied
      syringes. Treatment assignments consist of three groups:

        -  Ropivacaine: 30 ml 0.5% ropivacaine plus 2 ml 0.9% saline (local placebo) for
           interscalene block and 0.9% saline 2 ml (systemic placebo) for intravenous injection
           with sedation for the block;

        -  Ropivacaine and local steroid: 30 ml 0.5% ropivacaine plus dexamethasone 8 mg (2 ml)
           mixed with the local anesthetic and 0.9% saline 2ml (systemic placebo) for intravenous
           injection with sedation for the block;

        -  bupivacaine and systemic steroid: 30 ml 0.5% ropivacaine plus 2 ml 0.9% saline (local
           placebo) for interscalene block plus dexamethasone 8 mg (2 ml) administered
           intravenously with sedation administered for the block.

        -  bupivacaine and local steroid: 30 ml 0.5% ropivacaine plus dexamethasone 8 mg (2 ml)
           mixed with the local anesthetic and 0.9% saline 2ml (systemic placebo) for intravenous
           injection with sedation for the block;

      All solutions for interscalene block will contain epinephrine 1:400,000 as a marker for
      intravascular injection. Insulated needles with nerve stimulation will be used. Motor
      response in the surgical limb at a current of < 0.4 mA at 0.1 msec duration will be
      considered evidence of adequate needle position.

      Patients will be evaluated at 5-minute intervals for 15 minutes for development of sensory
      and motor block. Sensory block will be assessed by loss of sensation to pinprick over the
      deltoid muscle. Motor block will be assessed by evaluation of ability to abduct the shoulder,
      the so-called "deltoid sign". During surgery, patients will receive either general anesthesia
      or sedation at the discretion of the attending anesthesiologist.

      Demographic variables, morphometric measurements, and the specific type of procedure will be
      recorded. The intraoperative management strategy (i.e. general anesthesia versus sedation)
      and the total doses of fentanyl, midazolam, morphine, and propofol administered
      perioperatively will be recorded. Finger-stick blood glucose will be measured upon arrival in
      the postanesthesia care unit (PACU). The primary outcome will be the duration of the
      interscalene nerve block, which will be measured by time from onset of sensory block until
      first administration of analgesic medication.

      The severity of postoperative pain will be assessed by a blinded observer using a verbal
      response score (VRS) at 10-minute intervals for 30 minutes in the PACU. Patients reporting
      pain scores greater than 2 will be given intravenous morphine (1-2 mg) every 5 minutes until
      they are comfortable. After discharge from the PACU pain unrelieved by oral medication (VRS
      persistently greater than 4) will be treated with intravenous morphine. Outpatients will
      receive a prescription for oral acetaminophen with oxycodone.

      A blinded observer will interview patients each morning for three days postoperatively. Data
      collected will include time of block duration,the primary outcome; defined as time from onset
      of sensory blockade to first administration of supplemental analgesic medication after PACU
      discharge, as well as secondary outcomes: time to a significant increase in shoulder
      discomfort, time to a noticeable decrease in numbness and/or weakness, maximum VRS with rest
      and movement, and total opioid consumption.

      The times and VRS scores for secondary outcomes will be based on patient reporting of the
      corresponding events daily. A member of the study staff will contact patients at 14 days
      postoperatively to assess for any late or persistent complications such as residual sensory
      or motor block.
    
  