
    
      Interventions

      The local exercise therapy group will focus on strengthening knee and hip muscles three times
      a week for 6 weeks following the recommendations of Kooiker et al. (2014). Once a week,
      patients will train with the support of a physiotherapist. The physiotherapist gradually
      increases the intensity of the exercises improving muscle endurance. The exercises will be
      supplemented with mobilisations of the patellofemoral joint. Twice a week, patients train at
      home following a prescribed exercise program writing down their work-out in an exercise
      journal.

      The spinal manual therapy group will be treated one a week for 6 weeks. Before the first
      intervention an experienced manual therapist performed a clinical examination of the lower
      back, SIJ, hip and knee according to the guidelines of van der El (2009). Anatomical maps
      showing innervation areas of spinal nerve roots will be used to explain the regional
      interdependence model in the treatment of anterior knee pain (Suter et al. 2000, Wainner et
      al., 2007; Sueki et al., 2013). Manual therapy treatment will include manipulations of the
      thoracolumbar (T12-L3) region or SIJ as well as hip joint. Manipulation will be conducted if
      a restriction of range of motion will be found in any of the regions. Patients will also be
      asked to do home exercises focusing on mobilizing the thoracolumbar region and to write down
      their performance in an exercise journal.

      The allocation of the patients to their treatment group will be concealed from the researcher
      that assesses the outcome measures.

      Outcome measures The following baseline characteristics will be self-reported: age (in
      years), weight (in kg), height (in cm), duration of symptoms (in months), weekly
      participation in sport (yes/no), previously receiving exercise therapy treatment for the knee
      (yes/no). Patellofemoral chondral lesions will be graded using the Kellgren and Lawrence
      system for classification of osteoarthritis (grade 0 = definite absence of X-ray changes of
      osteoarthritis, grade 1 = doubtful joint space narrowing and possible osteophytic lipping,
      grade 2 = definite osteophytes and possible joint space narrowing).

      Knee pain, functionality and force will be measured using validated measurement instruments.
      Pain and functionality will be our primary outcomes. Maximum, minimum and current pain
      intensity will be indicated on a 0-100 mm VAS line. Functionality will be measured using the
      Dutch version of the anterior knee pain scale (AKPS). The AKPS questionnaire consists of 13
      items assessing subjective symptoms and functional limitations totalling a maximum score of
      100. Our secondary outcome, maximum voluntary peak force (MVPF) of the quadriceps, will be
      measured using a Biodex system 3 isokinetic dynamometer (Biodex Medical Systems, Inc.,
      Shirley, NY, USA), following the same procedures as described by Hillermann et al. (2006).
      This system has shown sufficient reliability and validity for position, torque and velocity
      measurements in clinical and research settings (Drouin et al., 2004; Almosnino et al., 2012).
      Patients will be assessed before intervention (=baseline), at 6 weeks (=immediately after the
      last intervention) and at 12 weeks (=6 weeks after the last intervention).
    
  