
    
      Preemptive analgesia is based on the concept of treating pain before inflicting the painful
      stimulus. One suggested mechanism is that transmission of pain signals is altered when the
      patient is treated before infliction of noxious stimulation. That prevents changes from
      happening in the nervous system, making transformation from acute to chronic pain ("central
      sensitization") less likely, and thus reducing post operative pain.

      Clinically, good post operative pain control has been shown to be an effective method for
      hastening patient convalescence and discharge. It makes part of a general approach aiming to
      accelerate surgical recovery through earlier enteric feeding and ambulation

      OxyContin tablets deliver Oxycodone at a controlled release manner, over 12 hours. After oral
      administration oral bioavailability is 60-87%.

      A biphasic absorption pattern is observed, describing the initial (0.6 hours) and prolonged
      (6.9 hours) release of Oxycodone from the OxyContin tablets. Clinical analgesia is observed
      within 1 hour of administration.

      We believe that this mode of oral drug release is more appropriate for the perioperative pain
      treatment of patients undergoing short to medium term operations: with timely administration,
      the first absorbed part of the drug reaches the plasma before infliction of the noxious
      stimuli, possibly counteracting primary sensitization, and the second part absorbed, acts on
      post operative ongoing pain, possibly counteracting more advanced stages of neuronal
      plasticity.

      Study Hypothesis:

      Our hypothesis is that post operative pain will be lowered by pre-operative administration of
      OxyContin. When comparing the two groups we will look for differences in observed parameters,
      especially VAS numbers, time to first analgesic request, post operative analgesic
      requirements, time to first oral intake and length of hospitalization, to confirm or deny our
      hypothesis.
    
  