
    
      The overarching aim of the programme 'Stimulating evidence based, personalized and tailored
      information provision to improve decision making after oesophagogastric cancer diagnosis'
      (SOURCE) is to provide oesophagogastric cancer patients at all disease stages with evidence
      based and personalized information about survival, treatment-related side-effects and/or
      complications and health related quality of life, tailored to patients' specific information
      needs, to facilitate informed decision making about treatment and thereby optimize personal
      care and outcomes.

      For this purpose the Source tool and training were designed. The Source tool is a prediction
      model based website to be used by care givers for informing patients about the outcomes of
      treatment. The Source training for care givers is designed to learn care givers how to inform
      patients effectively, especially about the outcomes of treatment.

      The primary aim of the SOURCE trial is to investigate the effect of the tool and training on
      the (numerical) precision of information about outcomes of treatment in the treatment
      information consultation. Secondary outcomes include: patients' satisfaction, evaluation and
      knowledge of the information provided by the health care provider, evaluation of the decision
      made and health related quality of life.

      A pragmatic stepped wedge design will be used to test the effect of intervention. 21 health
      care providers will include 3 patients as control measurements (before intervention) and 3
      patients as intervention measurements (after intervention). Participating centers will be
      divided into geographical subgroups, in which the transition period (in which the
      intervention will take place) will be spread across time.

      All oesophageal and gastric cancer patients scheduled for a treatment information
      consultation with a participating health care provider are suitable for inclusion and will be
      approached for participation in the SOURCE study. Measurements include audio recordings of
      the treatment information consultation and questionnaires filled in by patients and health
      care providers at different moments in time. Audio recordings will be scored and analyzed
      based on a study specific coding scheme.

      The investigators estimate the physical burden/risk of this study to be negligible.
    
  