
    
      The authors prospectively studied patients with sacrococcygeal pilonidal disease (SPD) at
      Mansoura University Hospital, Mansoura, Egypt, .Patients were randomly assigned to undergo
      either Limberg rhomboid flap or Karydakis flap reconstruction . The follow-up period ranged
      from 8 months to two years, with the mean follow-up period about 18 months. Surgical
      findings, complications, recurrence rate and degree of patient satisfaction were compared.
      This a randomized controlled study to evaluate both rhomboid excision and limberg flap
      closure versus Karydakis flap for treatment of chronic pilonidal disease.

      Karydakis flap reconstruction was performed in conformity with the original procedure
      described by Karydakis. The technique consisted of a vertical eccentric elliptical incision
      carried down to the post sacral fascia, complete removal of unhealthy tissue with the normal
      tissue around the cyst and sinus tracts, mobilization of the medial wound edge by
      undercutting the adipose tissue at a depth of 1 cm, the advancement of the flap across the
      midline to the post sacral fascia and suturing of its edge to the lateral one.

      Lamberg flap technique: the area to be excised was mapped on the skin in a rhomboid form .
      The skin incision was deepened to the presacral fascia centrally and to the gluteal fascia
      laterally. After removing the specimen, the Limberg fasciocutaneous flap was prepared by
      extending the incision down to and through the right gluteus maximus fascia (Fig3a). The size
      of the prepared flap was equal to that of the rhomboid area. Meticulous hemostasis was
      accomplished by electrocauterization. The fasciocutaneous flap was transposed medially so
      that the defect would be covered without any tension. Sutures were placed between gluteus
      fascia of the flap and presacral fascia with 2/0 polyglactin to prevent dead space
    
  