
    
      Patient preparation:

      History taking, physical examination, provocation tests (Gaenslen's test, Patrick's test, and
      Compression & distraction test), and investigations will be done according to the local
      protocol designed to evaluate these patients. This includes complete blood count, random
      blood glucose, serum creatinine & electrolytes, liver function tests, coagulation profile,
      and electrocardiogram (ECG).

      Before the intervention, the participants will be informed about the visual analog scale
      (VAS) pain score (0-100 mm) (where 0=no pain and 100 = worst comprehensible pain) and the
      details of the procedures.

      The patient will receive Midazolam 2 mg intravenous (IV) as a premedication. Intravenous
      access will be obtained with a 20-gauge intravenous (IV) cannula and monitors (pulse
      oximeter, electrocardiography, non-invasive blood pressure) will be applied.

      We will use a high-frequency ultrasound probe .and a 22-gauge, 50 mm echogenic needle for
      performing the injection.

      Injectable platelet-rich fibrin (iPRF) preparation:

      blood collection will be done from the patient on the day of intervention in a 9 ml blank
      tube. Within maximum 2:3minutes from sampling, it will be placed in the horizontal centrifuge
      for a low-speed centrifuge for 8 minutes at 600 rpm 44 g. Upon termination of this process,
      the Orange color area in the tube (i-PRF) and the remaining blood materials below will be
      noticed. Then, the tubes will be opened cautiously to avoid remixing, 2.5 ml of i-PRF will be
      collected from the tubes using a 5ml syringe.

      Ultrasound-guided technique:

      The patient will be positioned in a prone position over a cushion and after -sterilization
      with povidone-iodine and draping, the probe will be positioned transversely over the 5th
      lumber spinous process then moving the probe downwards until sacrum can be identified. Then
      moving the probe slightly lateral till identifying the 1st posterior sacral foramina (seen as
      a break in the hyperechoic contour of the sacral wing) then moving the probe downwards till
      the 2nd posterior sacral foramina will be identified. Tilting the lateral part of the probe
      slightly upwards and visualizing lateral sacral crest, sacroiliac joint, and iliac bone.
      Using color Doppler to ensure the absence of vascularization at the injection site of the
      joint (if present moving the probe cranially or caudally until disappearance). after
      anesthetizing the skin with 2 ml of 2% lidocaine, the needle will be advanced in-plane to the
      joint and 0.1 ml of sterile water will be injected to ensure spread into sacroiliac joint by
      unidirectional flow with Color Doppler box then the 3.5 ml of 1% lidocaine and PRF mixture
      will be injected in the group (P) or 40 mg of methylprednisolone acetate (Depo-Medrol,
      Pfizer) (1 ml) and 1% lidocaine (2.5 ml) in the group (S).

      Post-procedural care:

      The Patient will be transferred to post-intervention care unit for 2 hours after the
      procedure monitoring heart rate, oxygen saturation, and any possible adverse effect then
      patients will be discharged to home with a prescription of Diclofenac potassium 50 mg tab
      three times daily (TID), diclofenac diethylamine gel topically TID and baclofen 10 mg tab
      TID.
    
  