
    
      In countries with a low incidence of tuberculosis (TB), most new, active cases have occurred
      among persons who were once infected, contained this infection, and then later developed
      active TB. Therefore, identifying persons with latent Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection
      (LTBI) followed by preventive therapy is an important strategy in public health for TB
      elimination. Until this decade, the diagnosis of LTBI had been based on contact investigation
      and tuberculin skin testing (TST). However, false-positive results are not uncommon due to
      its cross-reactivity with the bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine and some species of
      non-tuberculosis mycobacteria (NTM), and false-negative results can occur in at least 20% in
      immunocompromised hosts.

      With the application of M. tuberculosis-specific antigens, current interferon-gamma release
      assays (IGRAs) have been shown to have a better sensitivity and specificity than TST for
      detecting host response to M. tuberculosis. Therefore, current guidelines for the diagnosis
      and management of latent tuberculosis infection recommend using IGRA to replace TST. Reports
      from recent studies comparing the sensitivity, specificity and availability, as well as
      cost-effective analysis for both tests are inconclusive. The best way varies in different
      areas, cultures and facilities. Therefore, collecting local data would be very helpful for
      policy making in public health.

      Several regimens have been used in treating LTBI, including 9-month isoniazid, 4-month
      rifampin, 2-month rifampin plus pyrazinamide, and 3-month isoniazid plus rifampin. Among the
      4 regimens, 2-month rifampin plus pyrazinamide has been reported to associate with
      unacceptable hepatotoxicity and even mortality due to hepatic failure. Therefore, this
      regimen has now been abandoned in treating LTBI. The treatment completion rate, adverse
      events, and reduction in risk of developing active TB are similar in 3-month isoniazid plus
      rifampin as in 6-month Isoniazid. At present, 9-month isoniazid is still the most popular
      regimen for LTBI, because the toxicity is low, the drug interaction is seldom, and isoniazid
      has been used for many years. However, the long treatment duration seriously compromises the
      completion rate. By contrast, rifampin is safe, cheap and more acceptable. Recent studies,
      including cost-effective analysis, favor using 4-month rifampin in treating LTBI. However,
      the outcome in these studies is completion rate of preventive therapy, rather than the event
      of developing active TB. In addition, some use statistic modeling rather conducting a
      clinical trial.

      Though still an endemic area, the incidence of TB in Taiwan is decreasing in recent years.
      Further reduction in TB incidence, or even elimination should rely on treatment for LTBI.
      However, which is the cost-effective screening method or what is the cost-effective regimen
      in Taiwan is still unclear.

      Therefore, the investigators designed this prospective study to follow up adult household
      contacts with LTBI for 2 years and compare the efficacy of 9-month isoniazid and 4-month
      rifampicin).
    
  