
    
      The 5-year survival rate of breast cancer patients is decreasing in the advanced, metastatic
      stage from 99% to 26%. Therefore an optimization of the therapy of advanced breast cancer is
      urgently needed.

      To increase the echogenicity of the blood in the ultrasound, microbubbles were developed
      working as stable, biocompatible contrast agent in ultrasound. Such a clinically approved
      ultrasound contrast agent is SonoVue® (Bracco International B.V., Amsterdam). SonoVue® is
      approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) (approval number EU/1/01/177/002) for the
      visualization of focal vascularization lesions of the liver and breast within Doppler
      sonography and is applied in breast cancer patients primarily for the purpose of diagnosis as
      well as to evaluate the response to the neoadjuvant used chemotherapy.

      Animal studies using the contrast enhanced ultrasound have shown that the administration of
      this contrast agent increases the penetration and accumulation of drugs in the tumor as well
      as the permeability of the blood-brain barrier resulting in a precise and effective drug
      distribution. In the tumor animal model it could be shown that a combined treatment with
      chemotherapy and contrast enhanced ultrasound results in a decreased tumor growth and a
      prolonged survival. Patients with inoperable pancreatic cancer showed a reduced tumor growth
      and better tolerability of chemotherapy when administrating the contrast enhanced diagnostic
      ultrasound during palliative chemotherapy. This could be due to the better tumor response,
      but also due to the more targeted chemotherapy distribution.

      The purpose of this study is to examine whether the use of the contrast enhanced diagnostic
      ultrasound during neoadjuvant chemotherapy results in an increased tumor regression in
      comparison to native ultrasound. It is an Investigator Initiated Trial and is funded by
      internal means.
    
  