
    
      Breast cancer is the most frequent cancer in women and the leading cause of death in women
      under 50 years in the USA. In Italy, the Pool Airtum 2007-2010 figures confirm that breast
      cancer, excluding skin cancers, is 29% of cancers diagnosed in women and the leading cause of
      death in women, for the regions in which are active the cancer registries . Among women,
      breast cancer ranks first in all age groups: represents 29% of deaths in women aged <49
      years, 23% in women between 50 and 69 years and 16% between women aged> 70 years. The disease
      is uncommon before age 30 but the European Cancer registries have detected since 1990 an
      increased incidence of breast cancer in women before age 40. For this reason it can be
      important to start to verify the incidence of breast cancer before age 40 in the BREAST UNIT
      of the Tuscany North-West Wide Area (Versilia, Lucca and Massa-Carrara). Mammography, which
      is the reference examination for prevention in women after age 40, has not shown before this
      age evidence of efficacy. Ultrasound examination, complementary to mammography, is generally
      well tolerated but did not demonstrate efficacy in prospective studies as a screening in
      reducing mortality. MRI with intravenous contrast medium is considered the exam with higher
      sensitivity in identifying neoplastic lesions especially in young women. This study therefore
      aims to review retrospectively cases of breast cancer of the centers belonging to the BREST
      UNIT Tuscany North-West Wide Area to locate a number of cases to allow for a comparison on
      the imaging characteristics (ultrasound, mammography and mammary MRI if available) of breast
      cancer and assess whether in women <40 years the typical imaging presentation pattern of
      malignancies observed in women> 40 years are confirmed. In this study will be involved
      pathological anatomy of the BREAST UNIT Tuscany North-West Wide Area (Massa-Carrara,
      Versilia, Lucca); Radiology (Massa-Carrara, Versilia, Lucca); Clinical breast surgery /
      oncology / radiology of the three USL (Massa-Carrara, Versilia, Lucca) of the Tuscany
      North-West Wide Area. Data of patients diagnosed with breast cancer from 01/01/2009 to
      31/12/2015 will be collected starting in july 2016 and the publication of results will take
      place by December 2016.Risk factors, genetic mutations, receptors status, tumor stage,
      therapies for NHL / LH and previous breast tumors will be analyzed as well. The data will be
      stratified by: age (<30 years, 30-35 years and 35-39 years), biological parameters on
      histology, stage at diagnosis and imaging features. Patients undergoing breast biopsy
      sampling represent an already select group who may be susceptible to information bias
      inherent risk factors: to reduce this bias will recover all the information about the risk
      factors for breast cancer. 2) operator-dependent variability of ultrasound images: will be
      taken into account in the data analysis, as well as different machines used in the various
      hospitals and diversity of the reporting method. 3) The patients for which it will not be
      possible to correct analysis of the data will be excluded, but the selection bias of patients
      will still be taken into account in the analysis of the data.The statistical analysis will be
      done in 1 month, and the results will be published by December 2016.
    
  