
    
      Significant improvements have been made in the survival rates in cancer patients. Due to
      factors such as screening and earlier detection of cancer and advances in treatment, cancer
      today is a curable disease for many. However, cancer survivors are at a significantly
      increased risk of morbidity and adverse effects due to treatment exposures. Commonly reported
      consequences of cancer treatment include fatigue, pain, depression, anxiety, reduced
      performance status and decreased quality of life Hence cancer today is considered more as a
      chronic illness, and there is increasing research being carried out on cancer survivorship
      and recommendations for survivorship care pathways to include interventions to enhance both
      physical and psychosocial functioning in cancer survivors.

      Previous studies have demonstrated that both exercise and interventions such as relaxation
      have a positive effect on both physical and psychosocial complaints of cancer survivors.
      These interventions are carried out in different ways, have different requirements and
      perceptions of the two can also be very different. No trial to date has been carried out
      comparing the effects of these interventions on the quality of life in cancer survivors.
      Furthermore, majority of the above research has been carried out on the most prevalent
      cancers including breast cancer, prostate cancer and colorectal cancer, and several authors
      have called for future research to focus on other understudied survivor groups, including
      haematologic cancer sites. This study aims to compare the effect of exercise and relaxation
      interventions on quality of life in lymphoma survivors.

      The aim of the present study is to compare the effects of an Exercise Intervention Program
      with a Relaxation Intervention in a sample of lymphoma patients in remission
      post-chemotherapy.

      Eligible subjects will be randomised to one of two arms - either an exercise or a relaxation
      arm. Both arms comprise of a home programme of their intervention (either exercise or
      relaxation) for half an hour, carried out three times a week. Subjects are assessed using the
      primary and secondary outcome measures at baseline, midway (6 weeks) and at the end of the
      intervention (12 weeks). It is hypothesised that a 12 week training programme of both
      exercise and relaxation would improve the quality of life of lymphoma survivors, however the
      exercise programme would result in a significantly greater improvement than relaxation. The
      null hypothesis would state that there would be no significant difference between exercise or
      relaxation groups following a 12 week training programme in lymphoma survivors.

      The aims of the study are as follows:

      Primary aim

      To compare the effectiveness of Exercise with Relaxation in the improvement of overall
      wellbeing and quality of life using the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of
      Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC-QLQ-C30).

      Secondary aims

      To determine whether these interventions result in:

        -  Improved cardio-respiratory fitness (resting HR and BP) and pulmonary function
           (spirometry)

        -  Improved fitness and exercise tolerance using the 6 Minute Walk Test

        -  Improved emotional and functional confidence as measured by the Health related quality
           of life questionnaire Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Lymphoma version
           (FACT-Lym)

        -  Decreased anxiety and depression levels using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale
           (HADS)

        -  Changes in haematology (haemoglobin, immunoglobulins, white count) and biochemical
           (serum albumin, corrected calcium, creatinine) parameters

        -  Compare the results of the above outcome measures between the two interventions

        -  Analyse subject perceptions of interventions in focus groups
    
  