
    
      Background:

      Peripheral intravenous cannulas (PIVCs) are utilized in large scale in modern health care.
      Known complications due to a PIVC are phlebitis, thrombosis, bleeding, nerve damage and
      infection. PIVC-related infection causes morbidity, mortality and increased healthcare costs.
      In an Australian study the investigators found the presence of a PIVC the most frequent cause
      (36%) of healthcare-associated Staphylococcus aureus bacteraemia during 2012. PIVC-related
      infections can and should be prevented.

      Indwell time is a known risk factor for PIVC-related infection. Another factor potentially
      influencing the risk of developing PIVC-related infection is what type of PIVC that is being
      used. Roughly there are two types of PIVCs. One with an open injection valve and another with
      a closed injection valve. The former being far more used in Ryhov County Hospital, Sweden,
      and the latter being suggested as lowering the risk of PIVC-related infection compared to the
      open one.

      In a systematic review from 2006 Maki et al report a point incidence of blood stream
      infections of 0,5 per 1000 catheter-days in PIVCs. In 2014 Hammarskjöld reported an incidence
      of 0,6 per 1000 catheter-days regarding central venous catheters (CVC). Maki et al concludes
      "…, infection control programs must strive to consistently apply essential control measures
      and preventive technologies with all types of intravascular devices." The investigators find
      there is a gap between the large scale utilization of PIVCs and the knowledge about
      PIVC-related infections and recommendations on how to prevent them. Hammarskjöld et al has
      done research on infections related to CVCs, subcutaneous venous ports and on arterial
      cannulas but not PIVCs.

      The aim with this study is to evaluate the incidence of PIVC-colonization at Ryhov County
      Hospital, a 500-bed secondary level hospital in Sweden, as a first step in trying to
      understand what can be done to improve work regarding prevention of PIVC-related infections.

      Materials and methods

      Setting The hospital is a 500-bed general county hospital including most medical, oncological
      and surgical specialties except neurosurgery and cardiac surgery. No solid organ or stem cell
      transplantations are performed.

      Patients Patients admitted to surgical, medical or infectious wards were regularly included
      by a specifically trained nurse from June 2016 until December 2017.

      Inclusion criteria: Patients ≥ 18 years of age with a PIVC in situ for 48 hours or more
      informed verbally and in written and invited to take part in the study. Exclusion criteria:
      Patients < 18 years of age.

      Microbiological methods Intraluminal hub culturing from the two injection sites of the PIVC
      performed with sterile cotton-tipped applicators moistened with sterile sodium chloride 0,9
      %. Swabs transported in Amies medium with charcoal. Identification performed by standard
      methods at our local microbiology laboratory (www.srga.org.accessed _ http://
      www.srga.org.accessed/ _ January 1, 2007).

      Statistics Descriptive. How many positive cultures and which type of microbes were found.
    
  