
    
      Cervical cancer is the seventh most common malignancy and the sixth most common cause of
      cancer-related death in Taiwan. The development of cervical cancer is passed through cervical
      intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN), including CIN I, CIN II, and CIN III. CIN I is classified as
      low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion (LSIL), and about 57% of patients with CIN I are
      known to regress spontaneously, while patients with CIN II or CIN III is 5% and 15% to
      progress to invasive cervical cancer, respectively. Both two need active treatment and are
      classified as high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion (HSIL). Fortunately, the 5-year
      survival rate is more than 90% for patients with CINs if they receive clinical management as
      soon as possible. The immunocompetence plays an important role for prevention of cervical
      cancer. High-risk human papillomavirus (HR-HPV) infection is demonstrated as one of the vital
      risk factors of CIN and cervical cancer. Most HPV infection is known to regress spontaneously
      by cell-mediated immunity, whereas a small fraction persistant HPV infection, which increase
      the risk of CIN and promote the progression to cervical cancer. Physical activity is reported
      to increase the cell number and activity of immune cells and promote cell-mediated cytotoxic
      effect to protect against HPV and cancer cells. Also, it is found that physical activity
      decrease the risk of breast cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, colon cancer, and prostate
      cancer. Regular moderate intensity physical activity is ssociated with a decrease in the
      death from cancer. Moreover, tobacco smoke is reported to abate human immunocompetence and
      raise the risk of cervical cancer as well as to enhance the progression of CIN through the
      inhibition of cell-mediated immunity. Also, the extract of tobacco is demonstrated to enhance
      the proliferation and viral load of HPV, consequently induce carcinogenesis of cervical
      intraepithelial cells. Investigators suggest that physical activity could decrease the risk
      of CIN through promote cell-mediated immunity. Also, physical activity and abstain from
      smoking could be benefit to the regression of CIN and the decreasing of DNA viral load of
      HPV. However, the roles of physical activity and abstain from smoking on the regression of
      CIN and viral load are not fully clarified. Therefore, in this proposed project,
      investigators will 【1】estimate the effect of physical activity on decreasing the risk of
      cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. 【2】estimate the effect of physical activity on the
      regression of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. 【3】estimate the effect of abstain from
      smoking on the regression of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. 【4】estimate the additive
      effect and synergistic effect of physical activity and abstain from smoking on the regression
      of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. 【5】estimate the effect of physical activity on the
      decreasing of DNA viral load of human papillomavirus. 【6】estimate the effect of abstain from
      smoking on the decreasing of DNA viral load of human papillomavirus. 【7】estimate the additive
      effect and synergistic effect of physical activity and abstain from smoking on the decreasing
      of DNA viral load of human papillomavirus
    
  