
    
      1. Plan of Investigation Several interacting workstreams will proceed in parallel in this
           observational, analytical, 36-month study between the University of Sheffield (UoS),
           Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (STH), and our collaborators at King's
           College London (KCL).

           This protocol document outlines the methodology for clinical data collection from
           patients attending STH. These (fully anonymised) clinical data will then be used to
           validate and optimise the use of VIRTU by improving its accuracy and speed as well as
           developing a user-friendly interface. The development work will take place within the
           UoS and KCL, with no impact on NHS patient, staff or premises after the clinical data
           collection described below (these subsequent workstreams are detailed in Appendix 1).

        2. Study design A phase II, observational, analytical study of coronary angiography and
           computational fluid dynamics in 100 adults with coronary artery disease undergoing
           coronary angiography.

        3. Methodology (Workstream 1) Clinical data will be collected from the Cardiac Catheter
           Laboratory (CCL) at STH in a similar manner to which was performed in a pilot project.
           Therefore, the feasibility of recruitment targets and modelling techniques to be used in
           this study have already been demonstrated. In this current study, 100 patients with
           stable CAD of any pattern/severity, potentially suitable for PCI, will be recruited.

           Potential participants will be identified by a member of the care team from
           pre-admission clinic lists in the cardiac catheter laboratory at the time of diagnostic
           angiography or referral from another Cardiologist. These patients will be sent a patient
           information sheet. If they are interested in finding out more about the study, the
           patients will meet with the Research Nurse or Doctor to discuss the project in more
           detail and ask questions. At the pre-admission clinic the Research Nurse or Doctor will
           take informed consent from those patients willing to participate and complete the study
           recruitment log and the Clinical Details section of the Data Collection Form.

           The patients will then attend for their scheduled PCI at the Northern General Hospital
           at a later date (usually 2 -3 weeks after the pre-admission clinic). Details of the
           clinical procedure are below. During the PCI a member of the research team (Dr Gunn, Dr
           Morton, Dr Morris or Research Nurse) will record the arterial diagrams and procedure
           details on the second part of the anonymised Data Collection Form.

        4. Clinical Procedure Selected patients will be asked to undergo cardiac magnetic resonance
           imaging before and after PCI, using a standardised protocol. All clinical and
           angiographic techniques are in routine NHS clinical practice. No experimental techniques
           will be used. Pre- and post procedure care will not alter from routine elective PCI
           care.

           The PCI will proceed as normal where indicated, using best contemporary practice,
           including premedication. The study methods are in routine use for many patients
           undergoing PCI; and include rotational coronary angiography and pressure wire deployment
           to assess the physiological significance of lesions. This study merely requires that
           they be used systematically using standardised methodology.

           Rotational coronary angiography will be recorded in standard single axis rotations
           (cranial and caudal for left coronary; plane PA for right coronary). An intravenous
           bolus of 200mcg GTN will be given prior to each run. They will be done on a breath hold,
           with a rapid hand injection of 10-20mL of contrast. Also, standard, single plane,
           orthogonal, carefully selected, angiograms will be recorded to guide the procedure.
           These will be performed at baseline and after stent deployment.

           All major epicardial diseased vessels will be interrogated with a pressure wire (Volcano
           Corporation). An infusion of adenosine (140mcg/kg/min) will be set up and attached to
           the intravenous cannula in the hand/arm. The pressure wire will be calibrated against
           the guide catheter pressure, with the introducing needle removed. The wire will then be
           advanced across the lesion(s). A bolus of 200mcg GTN will be given and then the iv
           adenosine infusion started (repeated as necessary since adenosine has very short half
           life). When the pressures have stabilised, the baseline pressure and flow velocity will
           be recorded as the wire is withdrawn, while imaging, at 1cm/sec.

           Stent implantation will proceed according to the clinical judgment of the operator,
           using both the angiographic appearance and the pressure gradient (Fractional Flow
           Reserve) across any lesions of interest as arbiters. Standard criteria will be used;
           namely a stenosis that appears to be >50% diameter stenosis in 2 orthogonal projections
           by eye (or >70% in one) and/or an FFR <0.80. The choice of stent will be at the
           discretion of the operator.

           After stent deployment, the rotational angiograms and pressure wire pullback will be
           repeated, using the methods described above. In the case of multi-vessel disease, the
           pullback will be repeated for the 2nd and the 3rd vessels.

        5. Setting for the project Clinical data collection will happen over a 30 month period
           within Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Northern General Hospital.
           Cardiac Catheter Laboratory will be used for all procedures, because it possesses single
           axis rotational angiography.

        6. Patient population One hundred patients will be recruited from PCI waiting lists.
    
  