
    
      Study design; It is an experimental, triple blind, randomized controlled study in parallel
      groups.

      Study population and sample: The study population in Turkey studying at a state university of
      Health Sciences Faculty in Central Anatolia will create first-class nursing students. The
      research will be carried out within the scope of this course since the metric and drug dose
      calculation skills are explained in the subject curriculum of Basic Principles and
      Applications in Nursing II. Students who meet the criteria for inclusion in the study within
      the universe (students enrolling in the Basic Principles and Practices in Nursing II course
      for the first time and willing to participate in the study voluntarily) will be randomly
      assigned to the control and intervention groups according to their entrance points and gender
      by an independent statistician. It is expected that there will be approximately 100 students
      who meet the criteria for inclusion in the study. 50 of these will constitute the control
      group and 50 of them will constitute the intervention group. Researchers will not be informed
      about which group the students are assigned to. In the virtual classroom environment, the
      first researcher will explain the metric and drug dose calculation skills within the scope of
      the drug applications in the course curriculum to all students, and sample questions will be
      solved. After the virtual classroom training, the "Metric and Drug Dose Knowledge Test"
      consisting of 20 closed-ended questions developed by the researchers and expert opinions will
      be used in the pre-test application to evaluate the metric and drug dose calculation skills
      of the students. Before the test is applied, students will be informed that there will be a
      test for metric and drug dose calculations. The test will be provided to all students who
      will be uploaded to the university's distance education system to enter the system at the
      same time and answer 20 questions in equal time. After the pre-test application, the
      necessary introduction information will be sent to the intervention group students to watch
      the interactive videos prepared by the first researcher and uploaded to the Edpuzzle
      application by an independent researcher. Students will be able to watch interactive videos
      over and over again by entering the system with their names. Questions prepared by the
      researchers and expert opinions were placed between interactive videos. If the student
      answers the question correctly, the video will continue. Thus, active participants of the
      videos will be provided. Edpuzzle application can provide detailed documentation of the steps
      each student followed in each video. After all of the students in the intervention group
      watch the videos, all students will be informed that they will be tested for metric and drug
      dosage calculations. The "Metric and Drug Dose Calculation Knowledge Test" used in the
      pre-test application will be loaded in the virtual exam system of the university where the
      study is performed again, and each student will be able to answer the questions at the same
      time and in equal time. Thus, the final test data will be obtained. After the pre-test and
      post-test applications are completed, the list of the students will be given to the
      researchers by the researcher, who is independent of the study and who is aware of the
      intervention group students, in order to get student opinions about the Edpuzzle application.
      With the "Semi-Structured Focus Group Interview Form" prepared by the researchers and
      receiving expert opinions, the students will be divided into groups of 7 and focus group
      interviews will be held.
    
  