
    
      The last few decades have seen a dramatic rise in the use of information and communications
      technology (ICT) and Internet access. According to the World Bank, 1.33 per cent of
      individuals in the world were using the Internet in 1996; in 2006, this figure rose to 17.58
      %; by 2016, 45.91 % of individuals were using the Internet. Concurrently, there has been a
      dramatic rise in the number of mobile cellular subscriptions across the globe in the last two
      decades.

      In line with the global trend, Hong Kong had 18.25 million mobile service subscribers in
      2016. The Hong Kong Family and Health Information Trends Survey (FHinTs) under the FAMILY
      Project was conducted to monitor opinions and behaviours regarding family health, information
      use, and health communications. The investigator's results showed that ICT platforms such as
      online websites, social media, and instant messages are widely used in Hong Kong. In FHinTs
      2016 survey, 82.6% of the respondents had smartphones, and 48.8% had tablets. Similar
      findings from the Nielsen Media Index 2017 year-end report showed that 97% of all internet
      users in Hong Kong were using smartphones to access the internet. The amount of time spent
      online each day was 3.2 hours and 94% of people aged 12 to 64 were using the internet.

      With the increasing use of ICT, family information can be easily accessed. According to the
      findings from FHinTs 2016, ICT was increasingly used as a method of family information
      seeking: 66.7% of respondents sought family information from online websites, compared with
      53.6% in 2009. About 30.9% sought family information from social media such as Facebook, and
      22.8% sought family information from instant messaging platforms such as WhatApp. Family
      information such as recreation (46.6%), family heath (22.9%) and elderly-related topics
      (17.9%) were most commonly sought. Also, family information seeking was associated with
      higher levels of family health, happiness, harmony, and overall family well-being. The
      associations were observed regardless of the type of sharing methods, such as face-to-face
      sharing or sharing via ICT means.

      Alongside the growth in popularity of ICTs and its role in promoting family well-being, there
      is also a growing appreciation that ICTs such as internet-enabled devices and web-based
      applications can offer many advantages compared to traditional face-to-face approaches when
      delivering behaviour change programmes. One of the biggest challenges that face-to-face
      intervention programmes face is diminishing reach and impact due to barriers to
      accessibility, cost-efficiency, flexibility to adapt to individuals, and structured
      intervention integrity. Using ICTs can address these barriers and may thus contribute to
      improving reach. ICT also helps facilitate access to interventions from a large variety of
      settings at all times, bringing the intervention to participants at times convenient to them
      and diminishing the influence of the situational constraints on intervention participation
      rates. The rise of ICT has created promising and potential new avenues and demand for
      implementing interventions related to mental health and parenting.

      Given the increasing use of ICT and its potential advantages in public education, ICTs emerge
      as new strategies of high impact service delivery in different community public education
      activities, including community events and workshops.

      The goal of the study is to evaluate participants' satisfaction to the activities and the
      effectiveness of ICT-related activities to enhance family communication, relationship and
      happiness.

      A process evaluation will be performed to evaluate the process of each component of the
      program. Qualitative and quantitative assessments will be used to evaluate the effectiveness
      of the activities.
    
  