
    
      STUDY SYNOPSIS / Literature Review Inflammation is a local immune response to injury,
      infection and foreign molecules. Notwithstanding the provoking cause, inflammation is thought
      to have evolved as an adaptive response for restoring tissue homeostasis. The local
      inflammatory response causes acidosis and pain has been associated with induced acidosis of
      various origins - diet, injury, exercise, stress, medications, disease state or aging.

      Inflammatory and degenerative joint diseases are major causes of chronic pain. In general,
      inflammatory causes (e.g. rheumatoid arthritis, RA) are more common in younger individuals,
      while degenerative causes (e.g. osteoarthritis, OA) are more often seen in the elderly
      [Schaible et al, 2009]. Pain perception is extremely complex and a perceived connection has
      been noted between the level of pain felt by individuals and bodily fluid hydrogen ion
      concentration, i.e. pH; oral water-soluble alkaline components containing K, Ca, Mg and Cl
      salts have been used for reducing bodily fluid and tissue acid concentrations. Urine pH is
      now considered to reflect the bodily acid-base balance and is directly related to the dietary
      acid-base load [Welch et al, 2008].

      Currently, potassium citrate (Kcit, 45-60 mEq daily) has been widely used in urology for
      treatment of patients with uric acid and cystine stones [Sterrett et al, 2008; Spivacow et
      al, 2010]. Aside from the use of Kcit in the treatment of kidney stones, there have been
      isolated reports about the anti-inflammatory and hypoalgesic systems effects of Kcit.
      Alkalinization by diet alone has also been effective for removing uric acid from the body,
      though its effects on urine pH levels are weaker [Kanbara, Hakoda & Seyama, 2010]. It is
      considered that alkalinization of urine reflects body fluid alkalinization. This has the
      perceived effects of increased bone density, improved muscle function, and a speculative
      decrease in insulin resistance [Pizzorno, Frassetto & Katzinger, 2010].

      Research Project Question/Theme The investigators aim to determine causal relationship
      between regulating urine pH levels between 7.0 and 7.5 and decreasing chronic joint pain. The
      investigators hypothesize that maintenance of an alkaline urinary pH will result in a
      decrease in personally reported levels of chronic joint pain using a citrate treatment
      regimen.

      Project Design:

      Subjects will be recruited from local physician's practices, primarily at TTUHSC clinics, by
      the Principal Investigator and the Co-Investigators. Subjects who report a presence of joint
      pain for more than six months, and meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria, will be eligible
      for participation.

      Any Adverse Events (AEs) will be monitored by the Principal Investigator and
      Co-Investigators, and reported by the Study Coordinator to the IRB.

      Subjects for the study will be identified by the Principal Investigator and Co-Investigators
      from local TTUHSC clinics.

      After the subject agrees to participate and informed consent has been given, the study
      coordinator will explain the study procedures and baseline measurements will be assessed
      using diagnostic imaging and lab testing. All subjects will be asked to obtain and/or provide
      a copy of recent X-rays or an MRI of the affected joint and lab tests (CBC, liver and kidney
      panels). Images and tests must be recent and taken within the past 6 months of enrollment in
      the study.

      After the baseline measurements have been established, instructions on the urine
      alkalinization treatment regimen will be distributed to the subject and treatment solution
      will be obtained. This treatment will vary from person to person and is easily modified.

      Subjects will measure, report, and take the treatment for 6 months.

      While on the treatment, all subjects will be asked to report and/or measure the following
      values on a daily basis:

        -  Report when and how much treatment was taken that day

        -  Measure urine pH levels daily at 10 A.M. using a pH strip

        -  Rate their pain 3X daily using a modified pain rating scale

        -  Report daily food and beverage intake

        -  Visit the physician investigator for monthly a follow-up visit to review the pain
           ratings and pH values noted during the past month

      Analysis:

      Using the SAS System, the investigators calculated the minimum number of enrolled subjects
      that is required to achieve statistical results is 21. The investigators estimated that a
      minimum number of 16 subjects must complete the study in order to achieve sufficient,
      statistically powerful results. In order to ensure successful completion of the statistical
      data analysis, the investigators decided to enroll twice the minimum number of subjects
      required (16x2) and will enroll a total of 32 subjects.
    
  