
    
      The previously used fully implantable pumps have been improved by development of additional
      safety options (e.g. acoustic occlusion alarm) for use in patients with PH. In the meantime,
      the pump (manufacturer: Tricumed GmbH, Germany, exclusively marketing rights: OMT GmbH & Co
      KG, 78665 Frittlingen, Germany) is offered with an option that meets the requirements for use
      in treating PH patients. It is based on a constant flow system that consists of gas driven
      micro-infusion via a chip capillary. The medication is filled into a titanium reservoir via a
      so-called filling septum (silicon membrane). The membrane is punctured percutaneously with a
      special needle by specially trained personnel for filling under aseptic conditions. Various
      safety options ensure a continuous flow rate of the medication and signalize any
      malfunctions. If catheter occlusion is signalized, the catheter can be rinsed through a
      second septum in the pump after a percutaneous puncture without emptying the medication
      reservoir. The pump is available in two sizes (20 ml or 40 ml filling volume). The flow rate
      set for the 20 ml pump is 1.0 ml/ 24 hours, so that refilling is required every 19 to 20
      days. The flow rate set for the 40 ml pump is 2.3 ml/ 24 hours, so that refilling is required
      every 29 to 30 days. Initial experience with the use of this pump has shown good results for
      up to 3 years of use (minor complications during implantation, no pump defects in long-term
      usage, reliable filling under outpatient conditions).

      R. Ewert; M. Halank, L. Bruch; H.A. Ghofrani. The implantable pump - a new option for
      intravenous therapy in patients with severe pulmonary hypertension. Am J Respir Crit Care
      2012;186:1196-98 Steringer-Mascherbauer R., Eder V., Ebner Ch. et al. First experience with
      intravenous treprostinil delivered by an implantable pump (Lenus Pro®) with filling intervals
      of 28 days in a patient with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) - a case report. ATS
      Poster Desole S, Velik-Salchner C, Fraedrich G et al. Subcutaneous implantation of a new
      intravenous pump system for prostacyclin treatment in patients with pulmonary arterial
      hypertension. Heart Lung 2012 Aug 21. [Epub ahead of print]

      Such pumps have been implanted in more than 90 patients in various European countries during
      the past 3 years. Experience shows that most of the patients selected for implantation have
      FC II-IV under combination therapy (2-3 specific PH-medications). The previous medication was
      either regarded as insufficient in respect to cardiopulmonary stabilization or the side
      effects of the therapy were intolerable. The latter applied particularly to patients with
      subcutaneous delivery of treprostinil in fairly large doses.

      Given the previous application of the LENUS Pro® pump in the context of individualized
      healing attempts, the initiators of the planned study consider that it is necessary to
      ascertain the safety of this fully implantable pump system in a controlled prospective study.
    
  