
    
      Fractional flow reserve (FFR), coronary flow reserve (CFR) and the index of microcirculatory
      resistance (IMR) provide significant information on the conductance of coronary macro- and
      microcirculation.

      FFR-based functional assessment of coronary artery disease has proven to be superior to
      purely morphologic assessment and thereby guides therapy decision. IMR is a
      pressure-temperature derived parameter for quantifying microcirculatory resistance, which has
      been proven to be relatively independent of epicardial stenosis severity when taking
      collateral flow into account. IMR is increased in patients with acute myocardial infarction
      and microvascular obstruction (MVO) as assessed by contrast-enhanced CMR and predicts left
      ventricular function and enddiastolic volumes at 6 month independently of initial infarct
      size.

      Most interestingly, even in the absence of obstructive coronary artery disease, IMR is
      elevated in more than 20% of patients presenting with chest pain. The clinical meaning for
      this finding has to be elucidated.

      FFR, CFR and IMR can only be measured under conditions of minimal coronary resistance with
      the need for coronary hyperemia. The current "gold standard" to induce hyperemia in the
      assessment of coronary conductance is adenosine. However, adenosine is known to cause side
      effects (bronchospasm and disturbances in atrioventricular conduction) due to its unselective
      action on all adenosine receptors. Besides that, adenosine requires a body weight adapted
      dosing and continuous infusion. However, alternative routes like intracoronary injection show
      good correlation compared with the intravenous route and side effects can be reduced. In
      contrast, regadenoson, a specific A2A receptor agonist, exhibits negligible side effects. It
      can be administered intravenously as a non-body weight adapted bolus via peripheral vein
      without the need for transfemoral delivery. Thus, patients with a transradial access for
      cardiac catheterization might benefit the most from inducing hypermedia via peripheral vein.
      It has already been shown that regadenoson increases coronary blood flow yielding comparable
      values for FFR and indexes of perfusion in SPECT. However, the duration and stability of
      regadenoson-induced hyperemia might be insufficient for a simultaneous measurement of FFR,
      CFR and IMR, which has not been tested so far.

      The aim of the present study is to evaluate whether simultaneous measurement of the
      parameters FFR, CFR and IMR under regadenoson-induced hyperemia is feasible, safe and
      effective in patients with stable coronary artery disease undergoing a transradial procedure
    
  