
    
      Falls are the current leading cause of fracture and head injury in older adults in
      Saskatchewan and will continue to be a growing health concern given the aging population.
      Determining effective and feasible interventions to prevent the downward spiral of failing
      health, admission to long term care and even death following a serious fall-related injury is
      important to Saskatchewan seniors, the health care team, policy makers and the public at
      large.

      Exercise is known to decrease fall risk in community-dwelling older adults and should
      theoretically also reduce risk for injury during a fall; however, there are no clinical
      trials evaluating exercises designed specifically to enhance safe landing when a fall is
      imminent. Ideally, the health care team would like to support older adults in preventing all
      falls but in reality, this is not possible. Developing an intervention targeting both fall
      AND injury prevention (in the event a fall is inevitable) should enhance the effectiveness of
      exercise for reducing fall-related injury. This study will investigate the efficacy of novel
      Fall-Arrest Strategy Training (FAST) to improve the physical capacity to arrest a fall and
      reduce injury risk in older community-dwelling women.

      The risk of injury from falls depends on both the severity of impact and neuromuscular
      capacity such as bone and muscle strength of the affected body part. Sixty percent of all
      falls in older adults occur in a forward direction, more often in women than men. Forward
      falls are typically combined with hand contact as a protective response to prevent head, hip
      or torso injury. The effectiveness of these important protective strategies unfortunately
      decreases with aging. Evidence suggests forward fall arrest strategies can be modified to
      improve safe landing and reduce impact forces. The critically important question is whether
      older adults, in particular older women at high risk for fracture, can enhance their ability
      to efficiently utilize fall arrest strategies intended to diminish both the risk of head
      impact and the risk of wrist fracture.

      Fall Arrest Strategy Training (FAST) is a new, innovative exercise intervention the
      investigators have developed uniquely focusing on enhancing upper extremity (UE) strength,
      response time, trunk control and specific strategies to safely lower the body. The severity
      of impact with a forward fall is determined primarily by pre-impact neuromuscular factors -
      muscle strength, movement time, and kinematic placement of the upper extremity (UE) which may
      also depend on available joint range of motion (ROM). FAST uses functional exercises
      specifically targeted to address these factors and are easily incorporated into general fall
      prevention programs. Staying on Your Feet is an established and effective fall prevention
      program offered to community-dwelling older adults in the Saskatoon Health Region. The
      feasibility of implementing FAST into Staying on Your Feet was verified in a previous pilot
      study. The important extension of this work is to determine if functional improvements result
      in improved fall-specific neuromuscular capacity and ability to absorb energy. The focus of
      this project is to further advance our understanding of the effect of FAST on functional fall
      risk outcomes and fall-arrest capacity in older women.

      The goal of FAST is to increase fall-arrest capacity, defined as neuromuscular ability that
      could be utilized to prevent and minimize injury during a fall. While fall-related injury
      risk is difficult to measure directly, increases in fall-arrest capacity will likely lead to
      a reduction in that risk. Therefore, the effectiveness of injury risk reduction interventions
      such as FAST can be measured by their ability to increase fall-arrest capacity. One important
      factor recently emerging in the falls literature is energy absorption; older women absorb
      less energy in their UE during a controlled forward descent compared to younger women. The
      investigators have developed an experimental apparatus which can measure UE energy absorption
      in both controlled and unexpected forward body descents. Muscle strength, particularly
      surrounding the shoulder girdle and elbow, is another important forward fall-arrest capacity
      factor.

      The purpose of this study is to advance knowledge of this innovative and simple training
      program, FAST, integrated into fall prevention programming, to determine if it has potential
      to improve the physical capacity to arrest a fall and reduce injury risk in older
      community-dwelling women. This proposed study will use novel lab-based energy absorption and
      strength measures, combined with functional measures of mobility and fall risk. Fall-arrest
      capacity changes after an intervention such as FAST have never been examined in older women.

      Research Goals and Objectives: The principal research questions of this study are: 1) Does
      the addition of FAST training lead to improvements in UE energy absorption during controlled
      and unexpected forward descents as compared to a Standard fall prevention exercise program
      (Standard Exercise) focusing on walking, balance and lower extremity strength? 2) Does FAST
      produce greater gains in functional arm muscle strength, response time, mobility and balance
      control compared to Standard Exercise? The hypotheses are that FAST will result in greater
      improvements in energy absorption, UE strength, response time and mobility compared to
      Standard Exercise at the end of 12 weeks of training with similar gains in fall risk and
      balance control.

      Trial Design and Methodology: The proposed study is a pilot randomized trial where women, age
      60 years or older living in the community will be randomly assigned to either FAST or
      Standard Exercise. Education on fall prevention will be provided to both groups. The exercise
      groups will be offered in the community, coordinated with an existing fall prevention program
      (Staying on Your Feet; Saskatoon Health Region). Participants will be recruited via
      announcements and posters in the community. Interested participants are invited to attend an
      information session prior to the start of the program and a screening questionnaire will be
      administered in person or by telephone. Eligibility criteria is explained in detail
      elsewhere. Eligible participants will be randomly assigned to either group using a random
      allocation conducted by someone not directly involved in the study. Measures will be
      collected at the College of Kinesiology Biomechanics of Balance and Movement Lab, University
      of Saskatchewan at the start of the training (baseline), and immediately post intervention.
      An experienced physical therapist or exercise therapist will supervise FAST and Standard
      Exercise. Both exercise programs will occur twice per week, 45 minutes duration, for 12 weeks
      at a community site. FAST will include the same exercises to improve balance, walking and
      general mobility as Standard Exercise, but will also incorporate FAST training.

      Outcome Measures: Outcome measures are designed to inform five primary fall-arrest capacity
      variables: 1) energy absorption in controlled descent, 2) energy absorption in unexpected
      descent, 3) eccentric muscle strength, 4) concentric muscle strength, 5) UE response time and
      secondary measures of fall risk, joint range of motion and balance and are described in
      detail elsewhere.

      Analysis: Effect sizes for this study were estimated using variability data from our previous
      fall-arrest capacity work with young and older women and other published UE energy data. Our
      pilot data with older adults has shown a 20% higher energy absorption in adults who perform
      more UE training. A clinically meaningful increase in energy absorption is unknown. Based on
      our data, a 25% increase in the energy absorption will require 16 participants per group to
      detect differences at 80% power. Intention-to-treat analysis will be conducted using all
      participants assigned to intervention or control sites. A completer only analysis (based on
      attendance rates) will also be conducted. Repeated measures MANOVA tests will test for time
      and time*group differences across the 12 week time period for the five primary variables:
      energy absorption in controlled an unexpected descent, concentric and eccentric arm muscle
      strength and UE reaction time as well as the secondary measures of joint mobility, balance
      and fall risk. Given the exploratory nature of this study, significance will be set at p<0.05
      for omnibus tests.
    
  