
    
      Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is a chronic liver disease that causes inflammation and
      obstruction of bile ducts. It can eventually lead to liver cirrhosis due to fibrosis, liver
      failure and liver cancer. The diagnosis of PSC is challenging as there is no single
      diagnostic test and usually involves a multidisciplinary approach with MRI playing a major
      role. Assessment of disease status is important to triage patients for optimal treatment
      including liver transplantation and prevention of liver failure. There are however no
      established blood tests that can reliably track the disease progression and repeated liver
      biopsies have multiple drawbacks including complications, costs and feasibility. There is a
      dire need of an accurate non-invasive tool for longitudinal assessment of PSC. MR
      Elastography (MRE) has been recently proven to estimate liver fibrosis noninvasively and
      accurately. Estimation of liver fibrosis by MRE along with imaging derived morphological
      information (MRCP) will be utilized in this study comprehensively to provide a surrogate
      non-invasive imaging biomarker for monitoring disease status in PSC. The patients would have
      or will agree to undergo a liver FibroScan examination to grade fibrosis within 3 months of
      the MRI examination. In addition to the standard protocol liver and biliary MR examination
      including MRCP and contrast enhanced imaging, MRE will be added to the study exam following
      informed consent. A control group of non-PSC subjects with known chronic liver disease such
      as chronic viral hepatitis who have had liver biopsy and FibroScan within similar time frame
      of 3 months, to assess fibrosis grade will also undergo MR Elastography in order to validate
      the results of fibrosis by MRE. The study has significant implications for care of patients
      with PSC. Successful outcomes will provide an opportunity for optimal treatment triage
      including liver transplantation via accurate and non-invasive estimation of true disease
      status in PSC.
    
  