
    
      It is our hypothesis that a computerized dosing protocol incorporating both cinacalcet and
      vitamin D analogues can achieve significantly better control of mineral and bone parameters
      than currently observed in most dialysis facilities. This trial will test this hypothesis.

      Objectives Primary Objectives

        1. Compare the percent of patients achieving an intact parathyroid hormone (PTH) target of
           ≤ 300 pg/ml before and after the application of a computerized dosing protocol for
           management of chronic kidney diseases mineral and bone disorder (CKD-MBD).

        2. Compare the percent of patients achieving a phosphorus of ≤ 5.5 mg/dL before and after
           the application of a computerized dosing protocol for management of CKD-MBD.

      Secondary Objectives

        1. Compare the percent of patients achieving an intact PTH target of ≤ 450 pg/ml before and
           after the application of a computerized dosing protocol for management of CKD-MBD.

        2. Compare the percent of patients achieving a phosphorus of ≤ 4.5 mg/dL before and after
           the application of a computerized dosing protocol for management of CKD-MBD.

        3. Compare the percent of patients achieving a calcium ≤ 10.1 mg/dL before and after the
           application of a computerized dosing protocol for management of CKD-MBD.

        4. Compare the percent of patients on cinacalcet and vitamin D analogues at baseline and at
           6 and 12 months after the application of a computerized dosing protocol for management
           of CKD-MBD.

        5. Compare the mean and standard deviation (SD) at baseline and 6 and 12 months for PTH,
           calcium and phosphorus.

        6. Compare the total monthly and average weekly (for patients on the medication) active
           vitamin D analogue dose at baseline and at 6 and 12 months (converted to mcg per month
           of paricalcitol) after the application of a computerized dosing protocol for management
           of CKD-MBD. 1 mcg paricalcitol = 0.5 mcg doxercalciferol

        7. Compare the number of patients on calcium and non-calcium binders at baseline and at 6
           and 12 months after the application of a computerized dosing protocol for management of
           CKD-MBD.

        8. Determine the percent of patients who are non-compliant with oral cinacalcet and the
           percent that are unable to tolerate the dose required by the algorithm to achieve target
           outcomes
    
  