
    
      There are many diseases related to the dysfunction of sympathetic nerve activities in
      rehabilitation medicine. Shoulder hand syndrome, a common complication after having a
      cerebrovascular accident, is believed to combine with hyper-exciting of the sympathetic nerve
      at the lesion side. Autonomic dysfunction in spinal cord injury patients comes from the
      vicious cycle of local stimulation of the sympathetic nerve and results in the elevated blood
      pressure. Myofascial pain syndrome has been reported to have abnormal sympathetic activities
      in the late stage. Considering the above facts, accurate evaluation of sympathetic nerve
      activities is an important issue in rehabilitation practice.

      Measuring the skin temperature and the status of local sweating are the common methods in
      evaluating the sympathetic nerve activity. However, many external environment factors would
      interfere with the result, and the accuracy of the result is questionable. Sympathetic skin
      reflex is the traditional electrodiagnostic method in measuring the sympathetic nerve
      activity, but its application is limited by poor reproducibility. Microneurography can
      measure the sympathetic nerve activity along the distribution of peroneus and bronchial
      nerves by inserting the needles into the above nerves, but its application is limited because
      of the invasive nature of the test.

      When the heart is contracted, it pumps the blood into the peripheral vessels and transits a
      pulse wave along the vessel walls. The propagation velocity of the pulse wave is different
      from that of the blood flow. According to the theory of wave transmission, the speed of wave
      transmission is dependent on the nature of the transmission medium, which is the vessel wall
      for pulse wave transmission. Then, the pulse wave velocity is related to the mechanical
      property of the vessel wall. The mechanical property of the vessel wall is determined by the
      texture of the vessel wall and the contraction status of the smooth muscle within the vessel
      wall. Because the texture of the vessel wall could not be changed in a short duration, the
      sympathetic nerve activity, which controls the contractibility of the smooth muscle, becomes
      the only determinant factor of pulse wave velocity. So, pulse wave velocity may reflect the
      status of sympathetic nerve activity.

      There were limited reports regarding the pulse wave velocity measurement and lack of reports
      of clinical application. The present project plans to measure the pulse wave simultaneously
      at four limbs by pressure receptors, and use the electrocardiogram as the reference to
      synchronize the recorded pulse wave at different vessels, using the corrected data to
      calculate the pulse wave velocity. With the pulse wave velocity of different vessels, we can
      understand the local sympathetic nerve activity in different diseases and different sites.

      The first year, we will set up the equipment for measuring the pulse wave velocity, and then
      apply it to 20 healthy subjects to adjust the measurement error and ascertain the
      reproducibility of the machine. The second year, we will apply the measurement to 15 complete
      cervical cord injury individuals and 15 healthy subjects in different erected angles by a
      tilting table. This procedure will make us understand the response of sympathetic nerve
      activity to different postures in normal subjects and cervical cord injury patients. The
      third year, we will apply the measurement to 30 cerebrovascular accident patients to
      understand the change of sympathetic nerve activity after having a stroke. By comparing the
      clinical information, we hope to clear up the relationship between sympathetic nerve activity
      and pulse wave velocity.

      The study will use the self-designed pulse wave velocity (PWV) machine to measure the
      patients with cerebrovascular accident (CVA) and spinal cord injury (SCI). The CVA patients
      will be divided into two groups with or without shoulder pain. The skin temperature and range
      of motion will be recorded. We hypothesize that the patients with shoulder pain may have
      higher sympathetic activity and will have higher speed of PWV. Sixty patients will be
      included. For SCI patients, we will compare the PWV of the upper extremity and lower
      extremity. We hypothesize that the cervical cord injury patients will have lower sympathetic
      tone below the lesion, and have lower speed of PWV when compared to the upper extremity.

      Through this study, we will confirm the hypothesis that the PWV is an accurate method to
      measure the sympathetic activity and understand the change of sympathetic activity in CVA and
      SCI patients.
    
  