
    
      Globally, Low back pain (LBP) is the commonest musculoskeletal pain, for which participants
      consult general practitioners. It is defined as "pain and discomfort, localized below the
      costal margin and above the inferior gluteal fold, with or without referred leg pain". The
      LBP with specific causes are rare (<15%). Whereas, majority (>80%) of LBP cases are
      non-specific LBP (NSLBP). The traditional temporal categorization comprises as acute LBP (<6
      weeks), sub-acute LBP (≤12 weeks) or chronic LBP (>12 weeks). It is based on the duration of
      the current episode. The LBP is experienced in 60% to 80% of adults at some point in
      lifetime. There is 15% annual worldwide incidence rate of LBP and 30% point prevalence. LBP
      is one of the five leading causes of YLDS that contributes 57•6 million. The estimation
      suggests 5% to 10% of LBP cases will develop chronic. This chronicity is responsible for high
      treatment expenses, sick leave, and different sufferings.

      The evidence based guidelines for LBP diagnosis suggest to first rule out any underlying
      pathology (spinal infection, cancer and fracture of spine and cauda equina syndrome). The LBP
      without any specific pathology is labelled as NSLBP. The routine use of radiologic imaging is
      not warranted based on clinical guidelines until presence of specific pathology. The goal of
      LBP treatment includes pain relief, function improvement, reduced work leave of absence, and
      chronicity prevention. The analgesics (topic or oral), exercise, manual therapy, traction,
      transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS), back supports, acupuncture, biofeedback,
      spinal injections, and lastly, surgery may include in treatment options.Among exercise
      interventions the proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation (PNF) exercise approach is
      designed to stimulate proprioceptors in order to enhance neuromuscular mechanism responses.
      The extremity patterns of PNF have diagonal direction with combination of movements, and
      these patterns are performed in line with the topographic arrangement of the muscles being
      used. Therefore, these exercises are thought to be suitable for muscles training
      anatomical-plane or anatomical-direction training programs. Moreover, PNF often have been
      used to improve the range of movement (ROM) and endurance. Various techniques of PNF training
      are used like rhythmic initiation, rhythmic stabilization, reversal of agonists, and reversal
      of antagonists.

      In the existing literature there is little direction with mixed evidence to physiotherapists
      that what intervention is more beneficial to apply for CLPB. According to author's knowledge,
      the base to rely on PNF techniques needs evidence related to PNF patterns specification, that
      which lower limb PNF pattern is more effective. A randomized clinical trial will be conducted
      to explore the effects of bilateral, asymmetrical lower limb PNF patterns in flexion and in
      extension on multifidus in CLBP to evaluate and stabilize evidence based physical therapy
      practice in Pakistan.

      Objectives:

        1. To explore the effects of limbs PNF pattern exercises and Swiss ball exercises on
           multifidus motor activity, lumbar ROM, pain and functional disability in CLBP.

        2. To determine the frequencies and statistical association of age, gender, body mass index
           (BMI) and occupation among participants in CLBP.

        3. To determine the statistical association among multifidus motor activity, lumbar ROM,
           pain and functional disability of participants with CLBP before and after the exercise
           treatment.

        4. T determine the effects of bilateral, asymmetrical limbs PNF pattern exercises and Swiss
           ball exercises in participants with CLBP

        5. To compare the effects of bilateral, asymmetrical limbs PNF pattern exercises and Swiss
           ball exercises in participants with CLBP

      Hypothesis:

        1. Null hypothesis: There is no difference between effects of bilateral asymmetrical limbs
           proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation and Swiss ball exercises on multifidus muscle
           in chronic low back pain.

        2. Alternate Hypothesis: The effects of bilateral asymmetrical limbs proprioceptive
           neuromuscular facilitations are more beneficial than Swiss ball exercises on multifidus
           muscle in chronic low back pain.

      Methodology:

      Research design: The research design will be randomize control trial (RCT), experimental
      study.

      Sampling technique: Non probability purposive sampling technique will be used. Sample size:
      Initially, a sample size of 54 human subjects was calculated through open epi software with
      95% Confidence Interval and 80% power of test with post-test VAS mean (2.1) and standard
      deviation (0.85), in experimental group and post-test VAS mean (1.5) and standard deviation
      (0.69) in control group. Due to small sample size, it is increased to 150 with drop rate of
      20%. The 75 participants per group will be considered.

      Place of the study:

      Physiotherapy department, Institute of physical medicine and rehabilitation (IPM&R), Dow
      University of Health Sciences (DUHS), Chand Bibi road, Karachi, Pakistan.

      Data collection procedure:

      After taking consent, the objectives of study will be told to all participants.The
      participants will be randomly allocated into two groups. All the participants will be
      assessed with outcome measures before after 5 weeks of intervention.

      Interventions protocol: (half hour session, thrice a week for 5 weeks). Group A (experimental
      group) will receive, PNF rhythmic initiation with bilateral asymmetrical upper and lower limb
      pattern,

        -  The participant in supine position (on the back) with left arm in
           extension-adduction-internal rotation with right hand gripping his left wrist with right
           arm in modified extension-abduction-internal rotation. Neck will be in flexion looking
           at left hand.

        -  Therapist distal hand (hand away from head of the participant) will grip wrist of
           participant's left hand and the proximal hand (hand near to head of the participant)
           will be on top of the participant's head with fingers pointing towards the left side of
           participant neck.

        -  Participant will be asked to lift left arms and push the head back through the pattern
           of flexion -abduction-external rotation and neck in extension to the left in opposition
           of therapist hand resistance. At the end range of motion extensor muscles of back will
           start to contract.

        -  Then, participant will be asked to reverse the movement pattern to
           extension-adduction-internal rotation and neck flexion to right against the therapist
           resisting hands.

        -  It will be repeated on other side of participant.

        -  Then for lower limbs, participant's left leg will be in extension-abduction-internal
           rotation and right leg in extension-adduction-external rotation.

        -  Therapist will grasp the lateral and dorsal surfaces of both feet with distal hand.
           Proximal arm will be placed underneath the participant's thighs to hold them together.

        -  Then participant will be asked to lift both feet up, bend legs up and away towards right
           shoulder against therapist resistance.

        -  The right leg will go into flexion-abduction-internal rotation, the left leg into
           flexion-adduction-external rotation. At the end of range, the motion continues as lower
           trunk flexion with rotation and side-bending to the right.

        -  After that, participant will asked to reverse the left leg into
           extension-abduction-internal rotation and right leg in extension-adduction-external
           rotation against resistance. At end of range, the motion will carry on as trunk
           extension and elongation to the left with left rotation and side trunk flexion.

        -  It will be repeated on other side of participant.

        -  10 repetition and 3 sets for each side, 20 second rest between two sets.

      Group B (control group) will receive Swiss ball exercises :

        1. Supine position: A ball will be placed under participant neck, and will be asked to bend
           hip and knee up to 90°. 5 times, 10 seconds hold

        2. Supine position: With a ball below the pelvis, knees bent, the ball press will be done
           with pelvis. 5 times, for 10 seconds hold.

        3. Crawling position: With a ball below one knee while keeping toes away from contact with
           the floor, the participant will balance first to stabilize the posture and slowly raise
           the other lower limb. This exercise will be performed in turn for the two lower limbs 10
           times, with 10 seconds hold.

        4. Prone position: Participant will place a ball in front of pelvis and will repeatedly
           raise and lowered the two lower limbs alternately. There will be 10 repetitions, with 5
           sets, taking 15 seconds rest between each set.

      Data analysis:

      The Statistical package for the social sciences 21 version will be used for data analyzing.
      The mean and standard deviation will be calculated for quantitative variables like age. The
      qualitative variables will be shown through calculated frequencies and percentages. The
      outcome results of the study (decrease pain intensity, improve functional disability, improve
      range of movement and improve multifidus activity) taken before and after the treatment will
      be compared and analysed. The p-value of 0.05 will be considered as level of significant.
    
  