
    
      Surgery is the primary treatment of lung cancer, but surgery releases tumor cells into the
      systemic circulation. Whether this minimal residual disease results in clinical metastases is
      a function of host defense. At least three perioperative factors shift the balance toward
      initiation and progression of minimal residual disease.

        1. Surgery per se depresses cell-mediated immunity, reduces concentrations of tumor-related
           anti-angiogenic factors (e.g., angiostatin and endostatin), and increases concentrations
           of pro-angiogenic factors such as VEGF.

        2. Anesthesia impairs numerous immune functions, including neutrophil, macrophages,
           dendritic cells, T-cell, and NK-cell functions.

        3. Opioid analgesics inhibit both cellular and humoral immune function in humans, and
           promote tumor growth in rodents.

      The primary hypothesis is that disease-free survival is improved in patients undergoing
      resection for tumor thought to be stage I-III primary non-small cell lung cancer in patients
      with combined general-epidural anesthesia & analgesia as compared to patients receiving
      general anesthesia and postoperative patient-controlled opioid analgesia. Patients having
      surgery for resection of potentially curable lung cancer will be randomized to combined
      general and epidural anesthesia or general anesthesia with opioid analgesia. The primary
      outcome will be disease-free survival.

      The effect of combined epidural/general anesthesia versus general anesthesia with opioid
      analgesia on the primary outcome of disease-free survival (time to the earlier or recurrence
      or death from any cause) will be assessed uni-variably with Kaplan-Meier analyses and
      multivariably (primary analysis) with a Cox proportional hazards regression model adjusting
      for known risk factors for recurrence, including tumor stage, size of tumor, age, sex,
      receipt of chemotherapy before or after surgery, and clinical site. As usual for this type of
      analysis, stopping criteria will be based on number of outcome events rather than enrollment.
    
  