
    
      Aim 1: Assess the neurotherapeutic effects of FES-assisted treadmill and treadmill-only
      training on walking function relative to each other and to the control group.

      1.1 The FES-assisted treadmill and treadmill-only groups will demonstrate greater
      improvements in walking speed and walking distance than the control group post-training and
      at follow-up. The FES-assisted treadmill group will show greater improvements than the
      treadmill-only group.

      1.2 The FES-assisted treadmill and treadmill-only groups will demonstrate greater improvement
      in walking energy efficiency than the control group post-training and at follow-up. The
      FES-assisted treadmill group will show greater improvement than the treadmill-only group.

      1.3 The FES-assisted treadmill and treadmill-only groups will demonstrate greater
      improvements in GMFM, perceived functional mobility, quality of life and self-perception
      measures than the control group post-training and at follow-up. The FES-assisted treadmill
      group will show greater improvements than the treadmill-only group.

      Aim 2: Assess the differential neurotherapeutic effects of FES-assisted treadmill and
      treadmill-only training on walking biomechanics. The investigators will measure these effects
      using instrumented motion capture.

      2.1 The FES-assisted treadmill group will demonstrate greater improvements in gait kinematics
      in stance phase (higher peak hip and knee extension and lower peak ankle dorsiflexion) and
      swing phase (higher peak knee extension and larger knee excursion) than the treadmill only
      and non-intervention groups 2.2 The FES-assisted treadmill group will demonstrate greater
      improvements in lower extremity kinetics (lower hip and knee extensor moments and increased
      ankle plantarflexion power) than the treadmill only and non- intervention groups.

      2.3 The FES-assisted treadmill group will demonstrate greater improvements in spatiotemporal
      gait parameters (increased step length and gait velocity, decreased step width and double
      support time) than the treadmill- only and control groups.

      Aim 3: Identify predictive measures of training efficacy. 3.1 Pre-training walking speed and
      energy efficiency will correlate with improvements in walking performance measures of Aim 1.

      3.2 Increased neuroprosthetic correction of gait biomechanics measures achieved by FES will
      be positively correlated with walking performance measures of Aim 1.
    
  