
    
      Accurate diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) in patients at high risk of
      invasive fungal infection remains challenging due to difficulties in differentiating IPA from
      pulmonary infections caused by other molds or bacteria on clinical and radiological grounds.
      Therefore, culture-based microbiological diagnosis is of primary importance but requires
      semi-invasive or invasive procedures, such as bronchoalveolar Lavage (BAL) or
      computed-tomography (CT)-guided needle biopsy.

      Alternate diagnostic methods include the detection of biomarkers, such as fungal antigens
      (Aspergillus galactomannan [GM]) or DNA released by Aspergillus hyphae in host tissues. These
      biomarkers are well recognized as early IPA predictors Recently, several clinical evaluations
      to detect Aspergillus DNA, either in respiratory or in blood-based samples, have clearly
      shown the diagnostic value of this biomarker. In addition, methodological recommendations
      have been established for PCR protocols, and different standardized Aspergillus quantitative
      PCR (qPCR) kits have been commercialized. These recent advances show that PCR is now mature
      for routine use in clinical settings.

      Another issue is the emergence of aspergillosis due to azole-resistant isolates. Acquired
      azole resistance in A. fumigatus has been reported since 1997 and has emerged in many
      countries, particularly in Europe, as well as on other continents. In some instances,
      acquired resistance may be driven by antifungal selection in patients receiving long-term
      therapy. Nevertheless, it seems that many azole-resistant strains originated in the
      environment due to selection by azole fungicides used in agriculture. Azole resistance in A.
      fumigatus is associated mainly with mutations in the cyp51A gene, and among several mutations
      described, the most frequent is the mutation comprising a 34-bp tandem repeat (TR34) and the
      L98H alteration. Since azoles are the recommended first-line treatment for IPA, the emergence
      of azole resistance is worrisome and has been shown to be associated with an increased rate
      of clinical failure. For these reasons, routine antifungal susceptibility testing of clinical
      isolates has been recommended recently. Nevertheless, isolates are not always retrieved in
      culture, particularly for patients with hematological malignancies. Therefore, molecular
      detection of resistance may be a major advance for the management of patients with invasive
      aspergillosis.

      The aim of this study will be to validate the new MycoGENIE A. fumigatus real-time PCR kit
      and to evaluate its performance on clinical samples for the detection of A. fumigatus and its
      azole resistance. This multiplex assay detects DNA from the A. fumigatus species complex by
      targeting the multicopy 28S rRNA gene and specific TR34 and L98H mutations in the single-copy
      number cyp51A gene of A. fumigatus.

      The study will be performed in hematological patients with high-risk of developping IA during
      the course of chemotherapy. In these patients, bi-weekly detection of GM is routinely
      performed in all centers in France. The PCR will be performed on the samples used for GM
      detection. DNA will be extracted according to the manufacturer's protocol, using the
      MycoGENIE kit for AutoMag solution. Real-time PCR for the detection of A. fumigatus DNA will
      be performed using the MycoGENIE A. fumigatus real-time PCR kit (Ademtech, Pessac, France).

      AI will be defined as proven or probable aspergillosis, according to EORTC criteria.

      For each patient, clinical data will be collected in each center. These data include: EORTC
      classification, type and duration of antifungal treatments, results of GM tests, results of
      mycological cultures, and results of PCR tests (positivity and Ct values). For each patient a
      case report form (CRF) will be filled and transfered to the investigating center for
      analysis. Sensitivity, specificity, PPV and NPV of the PCR test will be calculated.
    
  