
    
      Liposomal bupivacaine (EXPAREL; Pacira Pharmaceuticals, San Diego, CA) is an extended release
      local anesthetic approved by the Food and Drug Administration since 2011 for the treatment of
      postsurgical pain. It is a multivesicular liposomal delivery system, consisting of a liquid
      bupivacaine core encapsulated by a phospholipid shell. This delivery technology allows for
      the slow, sustained release of bupivacaine over at least 72 hours.

      Liposomal bupivacaine has been studied extensively in the general surgery and orthopedic
      surgery literature. Specifically, infiltration of liposomal bupivacaine after excisional
      hemorrhoidectomy has been shown to significantly lower postsurgical pain scores, decrease
      total postoperative opioid requirements, increase the number of patients who do not require
      any opioids after surgery, meaningfully delay the median time to first opioid use, and
      improve patient satisfaction with overall perioperative analgesia.

      Posterior colporrhaphy and perineorrhaphy are pelvic reconstructive surgical procedures that
      are associated with significant postsurgical localized pain resulting from surgical
      incisions. Investigators hypothesize this localized postsurgical pain will benefit from
      treatment with an extended release local anesthetic formulation similar to hemorrhoidectomy.
      Intraoperative infiltration of a standard local anesthetic during posterior repair and
      perineorrhaphy has been shown to improve early analgesia and facilitate early postoperative
      recovery. These findings reiterate the need for studies investigating a slow-release,
      longer-acting local anesthetic formulation for patients undergoing posterior repair and/or
      perineorrhaphy - one that ideally can be integrated into an evidence-based, opioid-sparing
      postsurgical pain management regimen to improve perioperative care for the steadily growing
      pelvic reconstructive surgical patient population.

      The primary study objective is to evaluate the effect of intraoperative infiltration of
      liposomal bupivacaine at the time of posterior colporrhaphy and/or perineorrhaphy on
      postsurgical pain scores during the first 72 hours after surgery as measured by visual analog
      scales (VAS).

      Secondary objectives include to evaluate total opioid consumption during the first 72
      postoperative hours, to evaluate patient satisfaction with postoperative analgesia, to
      evaluate time to first opioid administration postoperatively, to evaluate hospital length of
      stay, to evaluate length of stay in post-anesthesia care unit (PACU), to evaluate total
      hospital costs, to evaluate time to first bowel movement postoperatively, to evaluate rate of
      postoperative nausea and vomiting, to evaluate time to successful voiding trial, and to
      evaluate proportion of patients discharged home with a Foley catheter.

      Patients will be approached for participation preoperatively and randomized in the operating
      room to either liposomal bupivacaine or injectable normal saline administered into the
      posterior vaginal compartment in a standardized technique. All concurrent minimally invasive
      pelvic reconstructive surgical procedures are allowed. Randomization will be stratified for
      abdominal versus purely vaginal surgery. Perioperative care is standardized. Data will be
      abstracted from the medical record. Additionally, subjects will be discharged home with a
      medication diary and pain scales. Subjects will record their pain every morning and every
      evening for the first 72 hours after surgery. Subjects will complete a satisfaction survey at
      their 2 week postoperative visit. Adverse postoperative outcomes will be collected for 30
      days after surgery.

      The study is powered to detect a 20 mm difference in a 100 mm visual analog scale for pain.
    
  