
    
      Background In patients with isolated SSS, who need pacemaker treatment, any pacemaker can be
      used to treat the symptomatic bradycardia: a single chamber atrial (AAI) pacemaker, a single
      chamber ventricular (VVI) pacemaker, or a dual chamber (DDD) pacemaker. In the USA and in
      most European countries, DDD pacing is used in most cases. It is now known from the Danish
      AAI/VVI trial, that AAI pacing is superior to VVI pacing, since VVI pacing is associated with
      a higher mortality and a higher incidence of atrial fibrillation, thromboembolic
      complications and heart failure. This confirms previous findings in observational studies.
      Therefore, VVI pacing should no longer be used in patients with SSS.

      The main argument for using DDD pacing is the concern, that the patients will develop
      symptomatic atrioventricular (AV) block. In the Danish AAI/VVI trial, the risk of AV block
      was approximately 0.6% per year, which is equivalent to the risk found in a larger meta
      analysis. This is only a little higher that the risk of atrioventricular block in the
      age-matched non-paced population. Implantation of a DDD pacemaker in all patients will
      effectively prevent development of symptomatic bradycardia in the minority of patients who
      develops AV block. However, the most important disadvantage during DDD pacing is the
      stimulation (pacing) of the ventricles by the pacemaker a large part of the time, also in
      patients without AV block. Pacing the right ventricle causes an asynchronous electrical
      activation and mechanical contraction of the ventricles as compared with the normal
      physiological contraction.

      At present time, a randomised comparison of AAI and DDD pacing in patients with SSS has never
      been conducted, and to our knowledge, such a trial is not planned anywhere else.

      Since several of the patients with SSS suffer from chronotropic incompetence, pacemakers with
      rate adaptive function are chosen for all patients included in the present trial.

      All patients, that fulfils the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria and who
      give written informed consent, are included into the study. For all other patients undergoing
      primary pacemaker implantation in the study period, an exclusion data sheet is filled in
      stating the reason for exclusion. A total of 1,900 patients are included into the study.

      Prior to the pacemaker implantation patients are randomised by lot (envelope) to either AAIR
      or DDDR pacing. The randomisation is performed after written informed consent has been
      obtained from the patient. Randomisation will ensure that all centres will randomise an equal
      number of patients into each treatment group.

      Patients randomised to AAIR pacing will have a bipolar lead implanted in their right atrium
      connected to a single chamber pacemaker with rate adaptive function. Patients randomised to
      DDDR pacing will have two leads (one bipolar lead in their right atrium and a uni- or bipolar
      lead in their right ventricle) connected to a DDDR pacemaker.

      Out of hospital follow-up The patients must attend for out of hospital follow-up after 3
      months and 12 months and then once every year.

      Criteria for closing the study

      The DANPACE study is stopped and results are analysed when all of the following three
      criteria are fulfilled:

        1. 1,900 patients have been randomised.

        2. The last randomised patient has been followed for at least 1 year.

        3. The mean follow-up for the whole study population is at least 5.5 years.
    
  