
    
      This naturalistic pre-port study tests if Dialectical Behavior Therapy (DBT) - an established
      therapy addressing emotion regulation and reduction of non-suicidal self-injury and suicidal
      ideation - result in increased emotion regulation capacity, indicated by lowered heart rate
      variability (HRV) and self-report measures. The study will also test the impact of DBT on
      lowered non-suicidal self-injury and suicidal ideation. Standard Clinical symptom scales will
      be included in order to control for anxiety, depression, as well as a measure of impulsivity,
      which is common co-morbidities.

      Since DBT was developed in the 80ies, DBT has gathered increased empirical support as a
      treatment that reduce suicidality, para-suicidal behavior, experienced and expressed anger,
      and increased social skills. In DBT, emotional dysregulation is assumed to arise from a
      combination of biological vulnerability and living in an invalidating environment.

      Self-harm and chronic suicidality is considered to be an emotion regulation strategy. In DBT,
      the ability to regulate emotions adaptively requires a set of skills; the ability to
      experience emotions, the ability to label emotions, and the ability to modulate stimuli that
      serve to reactivate negative or positive emotions. In the absence of these skills, or
      instances where the individual is hindered from applying them, more maladaptive behavior is
      learned and applied. Individuals that engage in non-suicidal self-injury often report greater
      emotion dysregulation than those without an non-suicidal self-injury history. Such behavior
      can e.g. be self-inflicted harm, cutting, burning, or hitting , and/or suicidal ideation.
      Non-suicidal self-injury is viewed as a learned emotion regulation strategy; because such
      behavior instantly can decrease the experience of negative affect. Therapies that focus on
      increasing adaptive emotion regulations skills have demonstrated reduced non-suicidal
      self-injury and suicidal ideation.

      The physiological manifestations of emotions rely on an activation of the Autonomic Nervous
      System. The individual experience of emotions is reciprocally related to the continuously
      changing levels of physiological arousal. The functioning of this system is in turn related
      to adapting to environmental demands. A well established measure of Autonomic Nervous
      activity is variation in inter-beat-intervals due to respiratory influence on heart rate,
      i.e. respiratory sinus arrhythmia, which is predominately a parasympathetic related
      innervation of the heart. Hence, HRV is considered a psychophysiological index of emotion
      regulation abilities. HRV is considered an index of the nervous system's ability to flexibly
      adapt to changing environmental demands and is considered a biological index of emotion
      regulation.

      We include a matched control sample of healthy controls to complete the battery of
      measurements at baseline assessment of emotion regulation functions (pre-intervention
      assessments). This will give the opportunity to characterize the group of patients with
      non-suicidal self-injury and suicidal ideation included in the current planned study in
      relation to previous research findings of the same functions in samples of patients with
      non-suicidal self-injury and suicidal ideation. The combination of clinical, cognitive and
      psychophysiological measures is a unique feature of this study, and will provide new
      information regarding the mechanisms underpinning clinical change following DBT, and possibly
      validate heart rate variability as a possible psychophysiological outcome measure for studies
      on treatment for non-suicidal self-injury and suicidal ideation.

      Statistical analyses Multilevel between-group analyses will be conducted to test for the
      between-group effects on the measures at baseline. Furthermore, a multiple regression
      analyses, so that dimensional variables can be included as independent variables in the
      model, for the pre and post measures. Regression analyses also allow for adjusting for the
      effects of possible confounders on the outcome measures, such as age, sex, and intensity of
      depressive symptoms. Furthermore, bootstrapping analysis will be conducted to examine
      moderator and mediator effects on the outcome measures. Interpretation of the strength of
      experimental effects will be guided by the use of effect size statistics. Baseline measures
      of demographics, life experiences, and symptoms may also be used to predict outcomes or as
      covariates in our analyses.
    
  