
    
      Aims To investigate whether there are differences in postoperative cognitive function, total
      morbidity or cost, following cardiac surgery determined by the use of either propofol or
      desflurane as the primary anaesthetic agent.

      Hypothesis

      The null hypothesis is that there are no differences in postoperative cognitive function,
      total morbidity or economic cost based on the type of primary anaesthetic delivered.

      Participants: Following human ethics committee approval, and informed written consent, 180
      patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery will be randomized to receive desflurane or
      propofol as the primary anaesthetic agent during surgery. This will be conducted at the Royal
      Melbourne Hospital. Data will be collected preoperatively, intraoperatively and throughout
      the entire hospital stay, and including a three-month follow-up.

      Eligibility criteria

      Inclusion Criteria

      Adult male and female patients aged 18 years or older, undergoing on-pump elective coronary
      artery bypass surgery with general anaesthesia.

        1. Off-pump cardiac surgery

        2. Require surgery for acute coronary syndrome

        3. Dialysis dependent renal dysfunction

        4. Severe liver dysfunction as determined by liver transaminases 1.5X greater than normal.

        5. Pre-existing diagnosis of schizophrenia, dementia recent stroke or cognitive disorder

        6. Recent alcohol/drug abuse/intoxication

        7. Re-do Coronary Artery Grafts

        8. Coronary Artery Grafts plus other surgery

      Interventions

      Patients will receive either propofol or desflurane as the primary anaesthetic agent for the
      duration of this surgery. The following minor differences between groups are outlined:

        1. For anaesthesia induction, the desflurane group will receive inhalational sevoflurane,
           as desflurane is pungent and irritant to the airway making inhalational induction of
           anaesthesia difficult. Following induction of anaesthesia with sevoflurane, the
           anaesthetic will be changed to desflurane at 0.5-2 MAC as necessary (this will include
           desflurane administration during cardiopulmonary bypass via the oxygen inlet to the
           circuit).

        2. Patients in the propofol group will have general anaesthesia induced and maintained by
           propofol (effect site steering using an Asena TCI pump and levels maintained from
           1.5-3µg/ml using the Marsh pharmacokinetic profile). No volatile anaesthesic agent will
           be allowed in this group including during CPB.

      The following anaesthesia, surgery, cardiopulmonary bypass, and sedation techniques will be
      common for both groups:

        1. Anaesthesia co-induction / sedation with fentanyl (2-5 ug/kg) and midazolam (0.025-
           0.05mg/kg). Following induction of anaesthesia, patients will be maintained on a
           combined intravenous infusion of fentanyl (1.5 ug/kg/hr) and midazolam (0.025-0.05
           mg/kg/hr) with Fi02=1.

        2. Anaesthesia monitoring: In addition to specified routine anaesthetic monitoring as per
           Australian and New Zealand College of Anaesthetists guidelines for general anaesthesia
           (38), all patients will have intra-arterial pressure monitoring, pulmonary artery (PA)
           pressure monitoring, nasopharyngeal temperature monitoring and transoesophageal
           echocardiography. These are standard monitoring for patients undergoing cardiac surgery
           at the Royal Melbourne Hospital.

        3. Hemodynamic management: metaraminol or nitro-glycerin can be administered to control
           systemic arterial blood pressure within a systolic arterial pressure range of 100-140
           mmHg. Beta blockade can be used at the anaesthetists discretion for either haemodynamic
           control, or management of ventricular arrhythmias.

        4. Cardiopulmonary bypass: the venous reservoir of the cardiopulmonary bypass circuit will
           be primed with 2L of crystalloid solution (Plasma-lyte(R) Baxter Healthcare) and
           maintained at a temperature of 35 degrees Celsius. Cardiopulmonary bypass will be
           performed in a standardized technique with cannulation of the ascending aorta and with a
           single two-staged right atrial-caval cannula with non-assisted venous drainage. After
           initiation of cardiopulmonary bypass the patient's nasopharyngeal temperature will be
           allowed to drift progressively down to 34 degrees Celsius at which point it will be
           maintained by a heat exchanger until rewarming is initiated. Patients' haemoglobin will
           be maintained above 70 g/l. The ascending aorta will be cross-clamped and cardiac arrest
           will be induced by administration of tepid blood cardioplegia at a temperature ranging
           from 20-25 degrees Celsius. The ratio of blood to the initial crystalloid cardioplegia
           required to achieve arrest will be 4:1 in order to obtain a potassium concentration in
           the induction cardioplegia of at least 20 mmol/l. Arrest will be achieved by antegrade
           administration of cardioplegia through an aortic root catheter, followed by retrograde
           administration through a coronary sinus catheter. Left ventricular distension will be
           monitored for by transoesophageal echocardiography. Further doses of maintenance
           cardioplegia are given following completion of graft anastomoses. Rewarming of the
           patient will commence at the beginning of the last distal anastomosis (or 15 minutes
           prior to aortic cross clamp removal). The temperature of the heat exchanger used to
           achieve this will not exceed 37 degrees Celsius. Atrial pacing wires will be attached if
           electrical activity has not been established after 5 minutes of reperfusion or if
           pre-operative heart rate is less than 60 per minute or if the patient is on B-adrenergic
           antagonists. The patient will remain on full cardiopulmonary bypass support for a period
           of time approximately equal to 20-25% of cross clamp time or until the anaesthetist,
           perfusionist, and surgeon are satisfied that cardiac function is appropriate to achieve
           separation.

        5. Post CPB hemodynamic management: Cardiac output will be measured by a thermodilution
           technique. Dobutamine can be administered for low cardiac output (cardiac index less
           than 2.0 L/min/m2) and noradrenaline can be used for low SVR syndrome if felt
           appropriate by anaesthetist, surgeon, or intensivist concerned.

        6. Postoperative sedation: following skin closure, all anaesthesia agents will be ceased. A
           low dose propofol infusion will be permitted for postoperative ICU sedation until they
           are suitable for extubation.The aim is for a Ramsay sedation score of 2 upon initial
           return to ICU then once haemodynamically stable, to aim for a score of 4. Patients will
           be escorted to the intensive care unit and will be ventilated until they have achieved
           accepted standard criteria for extubation (awake and co-operative, warm,
           haemodynamically stable, PaCO2<50mmHg, PaO2> 100 on FiO2 = 0.4). Patients will be
           allowed to awaken in ICU and extubated.

        7. Rescue protocol: In both groups additional rescue analgesia will be allowed in the form
           of fentanyl, or morphine, paracetamol, tramadol, or indomethacin as necessary to provide
           adequate analgesia.

      Endpoints

      Primary Endpoint - neurological protection 1. Neurocognitive function testing (preoperative,
      prior to hospital discharge, and at 3 months postoperation)

      Secondary Endpoints

        1. Delirium as assessed by confusion assessment method (CAM).

        2. In-hospital morbidity as determined by composite morbidity score

      Tertiary endpoints

      1. Cost of post-operative care

      The following endpoints are cumulative and reported for the entire hospital stay:

      Composite morbidity/mortality score This will be a weighted morbidity score. It will score 3
      points for death, 2 points for a major morbid outcome and 1 point for any minor outcome.
      Major morbid outcome is defined as any outcome that is permanent (e.g. stroke) or has a
      natural history in that it could lead to death, but without actually causing death. It is
      derived from morbidity likely to result from inadequate tissue perfusion or immunomodulation.

      Economics Hospital economics will be assessed on multiple criteria;

        1. Time spent in ICU

        2. Time spent in hospital

        3. Cost of all blood products

        4. Re-operation

        5. Pathology and other investigations needed while in hospital

        6. Cost of drugs administered

      Cost/economics estimations are taken from Australian published studies and index to 2006
      prices. Investigation tests are based on rebates from the Medical benefit schedule. Both are
      listed below. The cost of re-operation is based on theatre time for four hours indexed to
      2006 prices, and do not include doctors fees. The number of hospital days which will be
      charged as the hospital length of stay - ICU time.

      The actual cost of the operation are "fixed costs" (this only relates to the primary
      operation and not to reoperations). The cost that we are looking at, therefore are
      potentially variable costs which may be impacted upon by the possible use of volatile
      anaesthesia, or propofol. Obviously a return to OR would involve costs involving OR time,
      disposables including CPB circuits, and drugs (including aprotinin and recombinant factor
      VIIa).

      Sample size Estimates of power and minimal group size were obtained by performing a forward
      looking power analysis based upon the ability to show a significant difference in
      neurocognitive testing. This is based on our previous study showing a 38% incidence of
      neurocognitive abnormality in a group consistent with the propofol arm, and aiming for an
      effect size reduction of 50%. For an 80% power to reject the null hypothesis of no
      significance (P<0.05) in each group, the sample size is 90 patients in each group.

      Randomization The treating anaesthetist will allocate randomization by the sealed envelopes
      method.

      Implementation The patients will be recruited by professional research staff. Randomization
      will be implemented by the treating anaesthetist.

      Blinding The study will be open label for the treating anaesthetist who will also collect
      intraoperative data, and patient (as they will either have an inhalational induction or an
      intravenous induction, blinding is not possible), Preoperative and postoperative data will be
      collected by professional research staff who will be blinded to the treatment protocol.

      Statistical methods Continuous data collected over repeated measurement intervals will be
      examined by repeated measures ANOVA and adjusted for multisample asphericity by applying the
      Greenhouse Geisser correction. Categorical data will be analysed using Fischer's Exact test.
      Data will be corrected for multiple comparisons within families of endpoints using the
      Ryan-Holm Bonferroni correction. Intention to treat analysis will be performed.

      A blinded interim analysis of results will be performed by the data safety monitoring
      committee upon conclusion of enrolment of 80 patients. Stopping values to terminate the study
      will be set at a P value < 0.001 for primary endpoints.

      Timeline We anticipate initial recruitment will be complete 15-18 months following trial
      commencement. Follow up will be complete 3 month after the last enrollment. Data validation,
      statistical analysis and manuscript preparation will be complete by 24 months.
    
  