
    
      Study investigators will conduct a cluster randomized controlled trial comparing the CONNECT
      intervention to usual care in 16 oncology clinics. CONNECT (Care Management by Oncology
      Nurses to address supportive care needs) is a care management intervention using existing
      oncology nurses to improve provision of primary palliative care within outpatient oncology
      practices.

      The study will enroll 672 patients with advanced cancer and their caregivers. The study will
      assess the intervention's impact on patient and caregiver quality-of-life and psychological
      outcomes at three months and on healthcare utilization through one year of follow up.
      Investigators will follow a rigorous plan to establish and maintain intervention fidelity.
      Detailed process information will be collected at all sites and the study will evaluate how
      CONNECT impacts mortality and costs.

      Following best practices for complex system-level interventions, the study will use a cluster
      randomized trial design. The unit of randomization is the oncology practice, defined as a
      unique location and provider group for outpatient oncology care. The unit of analysis is the
      individual patient and caregiver.

      Designated staff at each clinic will review oncologists' schedules on a weekly basis to
      identify and track potentially eligible patients with an upcoming appointment. Research staff
      will review tracking systems weekly to maintain recruitment fidelity. Identified patients
      will receive a 1-page study information sheet at their next clinic visit, followed by a
      detailed in-person explanation of the study from a trained staff member. This staff member
      will obtain informed consent from all participants. To minimize potential selection bias,
      participants will be told in advance of both groups and not randomized if they decline to be
      exposed to one of them.

      To enhance retention, blinded research assistants will conduct monthly follow-up calls to
      assess healthcare utilization for participants in both groups. The data collection strategy
      is designed to minimize participant burden by using parsimonious measures previously
      pilot-tested with this population.
    
  