
    
      The goal of STEMI therapy is to successfully restore both epicardial blood flow and
      myocardial perfusion. PCI has been documented as being the most effective method for
      restoration of epicardial blood flow. However, epicardial blood flow does not necessarily
      equate to myocardial perfusion; not every patient with TIMI 3 flow after successful PCI
      achieves effective myocardial tissue-level perfusion. Although epicardial TIMI 3 flow could
      be restored in >90% of STEMI patients undergoing PCI, normalization of myocardial perfusion
      was achieved less frequently, with detrimental impacts on survival。 Currently, there are two
      main methods of angiographic assessment of myocardial perfusion: TIMI myocardial perfusion
      grading (TMPG), described by Gibson et al. and myocardial blush grading (MBG), described by
      Van't Hof et al. These established myocardial perfusion parameters, TMPG and MBG, have been
      widely used in various important trials and are reported to be highly useful in predicting
      clinical outcomes. However, visual assessment of these methods is categorical, subjective,
      and operator dependent. TIMI Myocardial Perfusion Frame Count (TMPFC), a novel and objective
      method that measures the filling and clearance of contrast in the myocardium using
      cine-angiographic frame-counting, was developed by our center to quantify myocardial tissue-
      level perfusion and was proved to be a predictive value on clinical prognosis.

      Currently, there are two main types of interventions to improve myocardial perfusion . One
      kind is the mechanical method, which included thrombus aspiration catheter and the distal
      protective devices. It has been confirmed that the mechanical method can effectively improve
      epicardial and myocardial perfusion in patient with part of large vessels and high burden
      thrombus. But for patients with small vessels and no obvious visual thrombus, the efficacy is
      not significant.

      The other kind intervention is medicine which included GP IIb/IIIa receptor antagonist ,
      adenosine , sodium nitroprusside, verapamil etc. Part of the drugs have some effect but the
      overall clinical efficacy is still not satisfied.

      The study intends to use targeted perfusion catheter to deliver drug to the distal targeted
      blood vessels. TMPFC and TMPG are applied to evaluate the efficacy of treatment with
      Nicorandil versus Alprostadil on myocardial tissue-level perfusion in STEMI patients
      undergoing primary PCI.
    
  