
    
      This study will incorporate a pilot/feasibility design, aiming to recruit a cohort of 15
      inflammatory bowel disease patients of child and adolescent age (10 - 17.9 years). No control
      group will be recruited.

      After potential recruits have contacted the study team to signal their interest in
      participation, a member of the team will contact them to discuss details of the study in more
      depth, and assess their suitability for participation against the inclusion/exclusion
      criteria. If eligible, and willing to participate, they will be asked to attend a baseline
      session (<28 days prior to exercise intervention) during which they will be afforded the
      opportunity to ask any questions they may have regarding the study.

      This visit will last approximately 1.5 hours. Parent/guardian will also be encouraged to ask
      any questions they may have. Fully informed written consent with be obtained from the
      participant's parent/guardian if aged under 16 years, and written informed consent (or
      assent, depending on competence) will also be taken from the participant. A baseline blood
      sample will be collected at this session by a research nurse. Participants will complete a
      range of questionnaires regarding quality of life (IMPACT III, PedsQL Generic Core Scale),
      fatigue (PedsQL Multidimensional fatigue scale), self-efficacy for exercise. A member of the
      study team will measure disease activity using a clinical questionnaire (wPCDAI, PUCAI).
      Demographic and disease history data, and physical measurements including height, sitting
      height, weight, body composition (bio-electrical impedance) will also be collected.
      Participants will be provided a wrist-worn accelerometer to measure their habitual physical
      activity for the proceeding seven days, which they will be instructed to return in a provided
      pre-paid envelope. A kit will be given for participant to provide a stool sample, to be
      brought to the following study visit. The exercise intervention will consist of four weeks of
      three jumping based exercise sessions per week. These sessions will involve basic jumping
      movements, with approximately 50-100 jumps per session; incorporating 20-30 minutes of
      exercise. Participants will be requested to attend a one hour face-to-face session at the
      beginning of each intervention week so a member of the study team can teach them safe and
      correct execution of each of the prescribed movements for that week. Participants will be
      provided with an exercise log diary in which they can record adherence to each session, and
      detail if they have experienced any pain or falls (adverse events), or if anything has
      prevented them from participating in the prescribed session. Should they be unable to attend
      any face-to-face session, the exercise diary contains details of the prescribed exercises,
      and how to perform them. A member of the research team will make telephone contact with
      research participants and their parent/guardian once per week throughout the four weeks, on
      any week that they do not attend a face to face exercise session. As a minimum, participants
      will be expected to attend their first exercise session face-to-face with a member of the
      research team. Participants will be requested to wear a wrist-worn accelerometer throughout
      the intervention period, which will be routinely downloaded at each face-to-face session.

      Follow-up visits will be completed <14 days post-intervention, at which all of the
      measurements from the baseline visit will be conducted again (excluding height, habitual
      physical activity.
    
  