
    
      Objectives :

      The primary objective of this study is to assess the effectiveness of a model of hepatitis C
      screening and integrated care targeting PWIDs in Hai Phong, Vietnam.

      This model will encompass all steps involved in achieving HCV cure among PWIDs:

      i) Mass detection of hepatitis C infection among PWIDs: in the community through a large
      community-based Respondent Driven Sampling survey (RDS); and in HIV out-patient clinics and
      methadone treatment centers where serological testing should have been made, but not HCV RNA
      to confirm hepatitis C infection.

      ii) a community-based support to improve referral to specific care for those with hepatitis C
      infection; iii) a HCV care system delivery integrated within the existing health system with
      a simplified treatment protocol taking into account PWIDs specificities such as frequent HIV
      co-infection and methadone treatment; iv) an optimized treatment adherence through a
      combination of health care therapeutic education and CBO support; v) an increase in harm
      reduction activities to encompass HCV risk transmission and to prevent HCV reinfection.

      Secondary objectives are:

        -  to assess all steps of the hepatitis C cascade of care (Hepatitis C infection diagnosis;
           HCV care enrolment; HCV treatment initiation; HCV treatment success);

        -  to assess the occurrence of adverse events (death, morbidity) and drug-related
           side-effects;

        -  to evaluate adherence to HCV treatment;

        -  to determine factors associated with treatment failure defined by a positive HCV RNA 12
           weeks after the end of HCV treatment;

        -  to estimate the reinfection rate at the end of the study and to identify risk factors of
           HCV reinfection;

        -  to project the impact and cost-effectiveness of the implemented HCV treatment
           intervention.

      Study design : the effectiveness-implementation hybrid study type 1 design will
      simultaneously allow assessing the effectiveness of Direct-Acting Antivirals (DAA) care
      strategy among PWIDs in Vietnam, and the potential obstacles to widespread implementation.

      The strategy of care includes a large community-based mass screening, a simplified treatment
      protocol based on a combination of DAAs, taking into account co-morbidities (addiction, HIV),
      physician training and important support of Community Based Organizations (CBO's) for linkage
      to care after screening, treatment adherence and prevention of reinfection after cure.

      In addition, 2 others components are included in the study:

        -  A modeling exercise to assess the impact of the intervention at the population level,

        -  A cost-effectiveness analysis to further inform policy-makers.

      Patients will be followed for 48 weeks after initiating HCV treatment. The estimated
      enrolment is 1050 participants.

      Study population: people who currently inject drugs or who have recently started opioid
      substitution treatment.

      Implementation: The study is linked to the NIDA RO1 DA041978 / ANRS 12353 DRIVE project.
      Participant recruitment will take place through DRIVE RDS survey and DRIVE cohort follow-up
      visit in two community sites managed by peer-groups in Hai Phong. All participants with
      positive HCV serology will be screened for hepatitis C and positive HCV RNA will be proposed
      for DAA treatment in 3 hospital-based HCV clinics. All participants will attend 9 study
      visits, comprising of clinical examination, blood collection for side effects and viral load
      assessment, therapeutic education, questionnaires on alcohol use, on sexual, drug use and
      other behaviors focusing on HCV infection risks or HCV reinfection risks and on quality of
      life, and harm reduction activities with the support of CBOs.
    
  