
    
      Context

      Exposure to cleaning products is an emergent risk factor for respiratory health of children.
      In some studies, an association has been observed between the use of these products in
      households and wheezing in young children (<18 months). However, the specific chemical
      substances associated with health hazards remain poorly known. A few studies suggested
      associations between some specific organic volatile compounds (aldehydes, aromatics) and
      asthma but only one study has been conducted in young children (<3 years).
      Detergents/disinfectants may contain sensitizers, irritants and endocrine disrupters.
      Children who attend daycares may be particularly exposed: cleaning tasks are often performed
      in their presence; moreover, babies and young children often put objects (eg, toys) in their
      mouths and might be exposed through various routes (ingestion, inhalation, skin). The
      importance of studying the health impact of early life environmental exposures has been
      emphasized, especially in the context of the Developmental Origins of Health and Diseases
      (DOHaD) research. However, few studies have focussed on environmental exposures in nurseries
      in relation to children's respiratory health.

      The originality of the CRESPI cohort lies in the fact that no epidemiological survey focussed
      on: 1) the effect of early exposure to cleaning products in daycares on respiratory health in
      first years of life; 2) the use of complementary and innovative tools to improve evaluation
      of such exposures, via a Smartphone application and measurements of pertinent volatile (VOCs)
      and semi-volatile (SVOCs) organic compounds. 3) the use of complementary and innovative tools
      to improve evaluation of children respiratory health, via a Smartphone application

      Methods

      The project CRESPI (http://crespi.vjf.inserm.fr/) is to set up an epidemiological survey
      among young children attending daycares. A sample of 400 daycares (30-40 children/daycare) in
      Ile-de-France (Paris region) has been drawn from a national file. We hypothesise that the
      acceptance rate of daycares will be of 25% and those of parents at least of 50% (see French
      OQAI study 2011), with an expected population of 1500 to 2500 children.

      Each daycare will be visited by trained interviewers to : i) precise the objectives of the
      study to the parents/workers in the daycare and give all material to collect data
      (questionnaire, smartphone); ii) collect dust samples (to measure SVOCs; triclosan, muscs
      ...) via an adapted vacuum cleaner and install measuring equipment to evaluate air quality
      (VOCs; ammoniac, glycol ethers ...); iii) collect information on the building (surface,
      ventilation …) and activities of workers including a calendar of cleaning tasks in rooms
      (toilets, bedroom ...) and surface (toys, windows, toddler beds …).

      A standardized questionnaire (http://crespi.vjf.inserm.fr/), as previously used in a
      parent-child cohort (sepages.inserm.fr), collecting information on the use of products,
      respiratory health and potential confounders will be completed by the parents. Respiratory
      health of the children will also be evaluated by a group of experts (paediatricians) using
      information available from medical records (children's health booklets).

      This project will take full advantage of innovative tools, i.e. Smartphone applications, to
      evaluate 1) exposures : workers and parents will scan bar-codes of products used, in the
      nursery and at home, and respond to a short questionnaire about their use, and 2) respiratory
      health of children, with monthly follow-up.

      Statistical analyses of the data will evaluate the associations between exposures and
      respiratory health of children, after adjustment for potential confounders.
    
  