
    
      General objective To determine the effect of awareness campaigns by school children targeting
      their communities on knowledge, attitudes and practices in malaria control in the Mbandjock
      health district.

      Specific objectives

        -  To describe the socio-demographic characteristics of households in the health districts
           of Mbandjock and Sa'a at the time of the survey;

        -  To measure the change due the intervention on knowledge of malaria transmission,
           diagnosis, treatment and prevention in the health district of Mbandjock;

        -  To measure the change due the intervention on attitudes towards malaria diagnosis,
           treatment and prevention in the Mbandjock health district;

        -  To measure the change due the intervention on practices in the diagnosis, treatment and
           prevention of malaria in the Mbandjock health district.

      Methodology Study design A two-arm, open label, randomized controlled clinical trial will be
      adopted with Mbandjock health district as the test district and Sa'a Health District a
      Control Health District.

      Study site and study population The study population will be the entire population of the
      Mbandjock and Sa'a communities.

      Sampling method The Lot Quality Assurance Sampling (LQAS) method was used. Since this method
      requires that the intervention zones be divided into supervision areas, the health areas of
      each district were considered as supervision areas. The health area was selected in the ratio
      2:1. In the test district 11 health areas were used and 6 health district in the control
      district. 19 households were selected for each health area as required by the LQAS method.

      Sample size A total of 209 pupils and 209 adults shall be enrolled from households in
      Mbandjock. Similarly, 114 pupils and 114 adults will be recruited in Sa'a. In addition, 57
      teachers shall be enrolled in the District of Mbandjock only. A total of 703 participants
      shall be enrolled during the study.

      Duration of study The study duration is three years. This will last from January 2017 to
      December 2020.
    
  