
    
      Background: Platelets play an important role in cardiovascular disease: First, they promote
      the development of atherosclerotic lesions, and second, platelets form vessel occluding
      thrombi on top of (ruptured) lesions, ultimately leading to thrombotic events like myocardial
      infarctions (MCI). Whereas acute, strenuous exercise causes platelet activation and
      transiently increases the risk for MCIs, long-term chronic exercise training results in a
      clear reduction of both platelet activation and MCI incidence.

      Exercise training plays a key role in cardiac rehabilitation, since improvements in
      cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) are associated with decreased mortality in these patients.
      With respect to CRF improvements, high-intensity interval training has been demonstrated to
      be more effective than moderate-intensity continuous exercise. However, the beneficial effect
      of high-intensity interval training on platelet function in patients with cardiovascular
      disease has never been investigated.

      Scientific question: The aim of this study is to determine the effect of interval training in
      cardiac rehabilitation on platelet function.

      Hypotheses: Cardiac rehabilitation with interval training components (INT) reduces

        1. platelet activation and platelet reactivity at physical rest

        2. changes of platelet activation and -reactivity induced by acute, strenuous exercise to a
           greater extent than cardiac rehabilitation consisting exclusively of moderate-intensity
           continuous exercise training (CONT).

      Work program: 80 patients at the beginning of phase II cardiac rehabilitation will be
      randomly assigned to an interval group or to a control group. In both groups, patients will
      exercise 4x / week for 12 weeks. At the beginning, after 6 weeks and at the end an exercise
      test will be carried out. Blood will be taken before (platelet function at rest) and
      immediately after each exercise test (platelet function after acute, strenuous exercise).
      Basal platelet activation as well as platelet responsiveness towards a platelet agonist
      (platelet reactivity) will be analyzed.
    
  