
    
      The trial LBL 2018 is a collaborative prospective, multi-national, multi-center, randomized
      clinical trial for the treatment of children and adolescents with newly diagnosed
      lymphoblastic lymphoma.

      The LBL 2018 trial will be open for the qualified centers of following participating study
      Groups (core study cohort): AIEOP (Italy), BFM (Austria, Czech Republic, Germany,
      Switzerland), BSPHO (Belgium), CoALL (Germany), DCOG (The Netherlands), NOPHO (Denmark,
      Finland, Norway, Sweden), PPLSG (Poland), SEHOP (Spain) and SFCE (France). HKPHOSG (Hong
      Kong), HPOG (Hungary), ISPHO (Israel), NSPHO (Moscow), PHOAI (Ireland), SHOP (Portugal) and
      SPS (Slovak Republic) start patient recruitment into the extended study cohort (without
      randomization). Over the trial period study groups may switch from the extended study cohort
      to the core study cohort.

      Primary objectives:

        -  Randomization R1, all patients eligible: To examine, whether the cumulative incidence of
           relapses with involvement of the CNS (CNS relapse, pCICR) can be decreased by a modified
           induction therapy including dexamethasone (experimental arm) instead of prednisone
           (standard arm)

        -  Randomization R2, only patients with high risk LBL eligible: to examine, whether the
           probability of event-free survival (pEFS) in these patients can be improved by receiving
           an intensified treatment arm versus a standard treatment arm (as used in the EURO-LB 02)

      Patients are stratified into 3 different risk groups according to CNS status,
      immunophenotype, genetic markers and stage of disease at diagnosis: high risk group (HR),
      standard risk group I/II (SR I/II) and standard risk group (SR).

      Patients in the risk groups SR I/II and SR are randomized (R1) in two arms after a
      cytoreductive prephase with prednisone. Patients in standard arm receive the standard
      induction phase with prednisone. Patients in the experimental arm receive an induction phase
      with dexamethasone instead of prednisone.

      In SR group, induction phase is followed by the consolidation phase, the non-HR
      extra-compartment phase with HD-MTX (high-dose methotrexate), the reintensification phase and
      the maintenance therapy for the total therapy duration of 24 months. In SR I/II group,
      patients receive no reintensification phase. The Induction phase is followed by the
      consolidation phase, the non-HR extra-compartment phase and the maintenance therapy for the
      total therapy duration of 24 months.

      Patients in the HR group are eligible for randomization (R1) as outlined above. In addition
      high risk patients are eligible for second randomization (R2) at the end of induction phase.
      In the standard arm, HR-patients receive the consolidation phase and the non-HR
      extra-compartment phase. In the experimental arm, HR-patients receive a consolidation phase
      including two additional doses of PEG asparaginase and the HR-intensified extra-compartment
      phase consisting of two high risk courses alternating with two HD-MTX courses. Either phase
      is followed by the reintensification phase and the maintenance therapy for the total therapy
      duration of 24 months.

      Patients with involvement of the CNS (CNS positive) are stratified to the high risk group
      (HR) and are eligible for both randomizations (R1 and R2). Additionally, patients with CNS
      involvement (CNS positive) receive intensified intrathecal therapy. Intrathecal therapy
      consists of TIT (triple intrathecal therapy) after diagnosis of CNS involvement. TIT is
      administered twice weekly until clearance of blasts in the cerebrospinal fluid is achieved.
      Further intrathecal therapy is provided at the same points of time as for patients without
      CNS involvement, but TIT instead of MTX IT. In addition, patients receive four additional
      doses of TIT during maintenance. Cranial irradiation is omitted for patients with CNS
      involvement.
    
  