
    
      A healthy donor has given blood to make LMP/BARF1/EBNA-1 MABEL CTLs in the lab. We made the
      cells by first growing a special type of cells called activated T cells to stimulate the T
      cells. We then added specially produced mixtures of proteins that include the LMP, EBNA1 and
      BARF proteins. These were used to stimulate T cells. As the T cells grew, we added some of
      the healthy donor cells expressing these proteins to stimulate them. We also added a cell
      called K562 that has had new genes put inside it so it expresses proteins that stimulate the
      immune system to encourage the T cells to grow. K562 cells are cancer cells that have been
      treated with radiation so they cannot grow. This stimulation trained the MABEL CTLs to kill
      cells with EBV proteins on their surface. These cells were grown and frozen.

      For the subject's treatment, the MABEL CTLs will be thawed and infused into the subject over
      1-10 minutes. Initially, two doses of MABEL CTLs will be given two weeks apart. Subjects may
      be eligible to receive additional doses of the MABEL CTLs up to 6 times.

      All of the treatments will be given by the Center for Cell and Gene Therapy at Texas
      Children's Hospital or Houston Methodist Hospital.

      Medical tests before treatment:

      Before being treated, the subject will receive a series of standard medical tests:

      Physical exam; Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function; Tumor
      measurements by routine imaging studies: Computer Tomogram (CT), Magnetic Resonance Imaging
      (MRI), or Positron Emission Tomography (PET/CT); Pregnancy test for females who are able to
      have children.

      Several studies suggest that the infused T cells need room to be able to proliferate and
      accomplish their functions and that this may not happen if there are too many other T cells
      in circulation. Because of that, if the patient's level of circulating T cells is relatively
      high, s/he may require treatment with cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan) and fludarabine before s/he
      receives MABEL CTLs.

      Medical tests during and after treatment:

      Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function; Imaging study 8 weeks after
      the 1st CTL infusion. If the subject receives additional doses they will also have an imaging
      study at 1 to 3 months after their final dose.

      Subjects will either be seen in the clinic or will be contacted by research staff yearly for
      5 years.
    
  