
    
      A sample of 1254 patients with rheumatic diseases and 271 healthy controls matched for age
      and sex was calculated as follows.

      1.A) Evaluation of patients with SLE compared to a healthy control group matched for age and
      sex. The investigators calculated 74 patients in each arm, which will be compared
      independently to the healthy control group:

        -  74 SLE patients treated with hydroxychloroquine alone;

        -  74 SLE patients with mild immunosuppression (azathioprine or methotrexate and prednisone
           <10 mg/day);

        -  74 patients with moderate to severe immunosuppression (mycophenolate mofetil or
           cyclophosphamide and/or prednisone >10 mg/day);

        -  50 patients with belimumab (convenience sample). Total: 272 SLE patients and 74 healthy
           controls.

           1.B) Evaluation of RA patients compared to healthy controls matched for age and sex. The
           investigators calculated 61 patients in each arm, which will be independently compared
           to the control group:

        -  61 RA patients only with conventional synthetic disease-modifying drugs (DMARDs);

        -  61 RA patients with biological disease-modifying drugs (bDMARDs) with anti-TNF
           (anti-tumor necrosis factor) action;

        -  61 RA patients with bDMARDs with non-anti-TNF action and with impact on the production
           of immunoglobulins (abatacept and rituximab);

        -  61 RA patients with bDMARDs with anti-IL-6 (anti-interleukin-6) action (tocilizumab) and
           synthetic drugs with anti-JAK (anti-janus kinase) action (tofacitinib).

      Total: 244 RA patients vs. 61 healthy controls. 1.C) Evaluation of the interruption of the
      use of methotrexate (MTX) for 4 weeks from the first dose of vaccination in RA patients.
      Inclusion: patients using MTX in a stable dose for at least 4 weeks, prednisone maximum dose
      of 7.5 mg/day, in association or not with other drugs, to be randomized in two arms: one that
      keeps the therapy stable and the other which suspends MTX for 4 weeks from the first dose.
      The investigators calculated 96 patients in each arm:

        -  96 MTX patients who will not have their therapy changed;

        -  96 MTX patients who will stop only MTX on the day of vaccination for 4 weekly
           applications.

      Total: 192 RA patients.

      1.D) Evaluation of patients with AS/psoriatic arthritis compared to a healthy control group
      matched for age and sex. The investigators calculated 136 patients in each arm, 136 with
      synthetic DMARDs and 136 with bDMARDs, to be compared with 136 healthy controls matched for
      age and sex.

      Total: 272 patients with AS/psoriatic arthritis vs. 136 healthy controls.

        1. E) A convenience sample of 250 (50 in each group) patients with other rare rheumatic
           diseases (SSc, PM/DM, pSS, systemic vasculitis, and primary antiphospholipid antibody
           syndrome) being followed up in Rheumatology Division (HCFMUSP) will be vaccinated and
           matched using the pool of controls from the other samples.

           Controls: 271 healthy controls matched for age and sex will be included according to the
           need for controls for SLE (n = 74), RA (n = 61) and AS/psoriatic arthritis (n = 136)
           will be selected to receive the vaccine at HCFMUSP.

        2. PEOPLE LIVING WITH HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) The investigators considered the immunogenicity of
           the vaccine for Yellow Fever as a parameter in a previous study carried out by our
           group. The response found was p1 = 92% induction of neutralizing antibodies in PLWHA.
           Considering the 1:1 ratio between vaccinated and controls, alpha error of 5% with 80%
           power, the sample size will be 271 vaccinated in the PLWHA group and 271 in the control
           group, with an effect size of 0.25.
    
  