
    
      In individuals with type 2 diabetes (T2D), chronically elevated glucose and insulin levels
      result in numerous health complications. Maintaining tight glucose control is difficult for
      individuals with T2D, particularly in the postprandial period and in the morning period just
      prior to waking. In the postprandial period, the combined effect of insulin resistance and
      beta cell dysfunction results in a prolonged elevation in glucose levels, and augmented
      insulin levels in an attempt to reduce the circulating glucose levels. In the overnight
      period, there is evidence of enhanced endogenous glucose production and of a disruption of
      the interaction between glucose levels and insulin secretion. Early work in individuals with
      T2D demonstrated that with continued fasting, glucose levels stopped declining in the evening
      and subsequently rose throughout the night to reach a morning maximum, and this elevation
      persisted till noon. Additionally these authors demonstrated that insulin levels and insulin
      secretion rates did not parallel the nocturnal glucose changes in individuals with T2D, while
      in the controls the nocturnal glucose and insulin secretion rates coincided. Evidence is also
      emerging that hyperglucagonemia may be occurring in the setting of deficient insulin
      secretion, and may be playing a role in the elevated postprandial glucose levels and in the
      overnight period. These studies provide preliminary evidence that there is disruption in the
      fine coordination between glucose levels and glucagon and insulin secretion, and that this is
      exacerbated more in the overnight period than during the waking hours. Previous studies
      examining the overnight period have been conducted following prolonged fasting (~24-34 h),
      however, most people do not fast for extended periods of time prior to going to bed.
      Additionally, individuals with T2D often know that meal composition the evening prior can
      exacerbate the elevated fasting glucose levels the following morning, thus highlighting the
      need to examine the effect of meal composition on overnight glucose control. To date, very
      little is known about the pathology of why fasting glucose levels are elevated in many obese
      individuals. There appears to be asynchrony between glucose and insulin levels in the
      overnight period but very little research has focused on this phenomenon or how meal
      composition affects overnight glucose levels. This study will provide evidence of potential
      mechanisms for the elevation in overnight glucose levels and the findings will be
      translatable for individuals with impaired fasting glucose (IFG) levels to understand the
      importance of meal composition in the evening period.

      The specific aims of this project are:

        1. To examine the hormonal responses (glucagon, c-peptide, insulin, incretins) in response
           to a meal in the postprandial period and the synchronization between glucose and
           insulin/glucagon during the overnight period in non-obese individuals and obese
           individuals with impaired fasting glucose levels (IFG).

        2. To determine if the meal composition (standard meal: 55% carbohydrate, 20% protein, 25%
           fat vs. high fat/fructose: 40% carbohydrate- 25% fructose, 40% fat, 20% protein) will
           alter the hormonal responses (glucagon, insulin, incretin) in the postprandial period,
           and if this change in meal composition will impact glucagon levels and glucose/c-peptide
           synchrony in the overnight period.

      Experimental design: Subjects will participate three times; 1) no exercise, 2) 2 hr post
      dinner exercise, and 3) morning exercise (~7am). The order in which subjects undergo each
      treatment will be randomized prior to study enrollment. Eligible subjects will initially
      undergo baseline testing for assessment of body composition, exercise stress test and blood
      screening. All subjects will have impaired fasting glucose levels. All subjects will undergo
      3 study days that will start at ~1600 h and continue until 0700 h the following morning. They
      will receive a standard meal (55% carbohydrate, 20% protein, 25% fat) at 1800 h and blood
      samples will be taken from ~4:30 pm until 7 am.
    
  