
    
      Endovascular repair of complex aortic aneurysms is limited by the need to maintain blood flow
      to the critical organs that receive blood from the aorta, such as the kidneys, liver and
      intestines. While there are some commercially available devices that may treat some of these
      patients these devices may not be suitable or available for a given patient. In this study we
      will use custom made devices manufactured by Cook, Inc, Zenith t-Branch devices and
      off-the-shelf, FDA approved devices which are altered by creating fenestrations (holes) in
      the stent graft that allow additional stents to be inserted into the blood vessels that
      supply blood to these critical organs.

      Determination of which type of endograft to use will be based on the patient's anatomy and
      the perceived urgency of the need for repair. This decision will be made by the study team
      and confirmed by a 3rd party reviewer who is not an investigator on the study team. After
      ensuring that a patient meets inclusion and exclusion criteria for participation in the
      CARPE-CMD study, the perceived urgency for repair will be evaluated given the 6-8 week
      required time for manufacture of a CMD device.

      If the patient's aneurysm is not symptomatic and if, at the discretion of the treating
      surgeon, the patient is deemed safe to wait 8 weeks until repair, the patient will be
      considered non-urgent. Non-urgent patients will undergo repair with a CMD device.

      If the patient's aneurysm is symptomatic and if, at the discretion of the treating surgeon,
      the patient is deemed unsafe to wait 8 weeks until repair, the patient will be considered
      urgent. Urgent patients will undergo repair with a t-branch device (if anatomy suitable)
      Urgent patients who do not have anatomy suitable to a t-branch device or patients who are not
      deemed safe to wait for the device to be obtained, will undergo repair with a physician
      modified device.

      The device is inserted into the body through two small punctures or incisions in the groin.
      Small stents will be inserted through the stent graft fenestrations into the major blood
      vessels affected by the aneurysm so that blood flow is maintained to these organs.
    
  