
    
      Assessed by World Health Organisation as a pandemic on March 11, COVID-19 is caused by the
      SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus. The spectrum of its clinical manifestations is strikingly broad and
      extends from mild disease (resembling an ordinary bout of flu or even asymptomatic) to
      pneumonia. The latter cases convey a high risk of evolution towards acute respiratory
      distress syndrome (ARDS), eventually fatal when worsening with cytokine storm and multiple
      organ failure or with superinfection and sepsis. In the absence of overt variations of the
      virus itself, its interactions with the host immune system are likely crucial. Clinical
      features of patients with severe forms of COVID-19 were reported, but immunological
      description of biomarkers for exacerbation and mortality vs recovery remains superficial.
      Globally decreased white blood cells, notably T-cells, suggest that CoV-2 might trigger or
      exploit an immune defect. This could correspond to gaps in immune cell subpopulations,
      kinetics of activation or repertoires. Immune failure would then be responsible for
      exacerbations and a poor outcome in intensive care unit (ICU) patients. The objective of the
      study is to characterize the kinetics of the immune response and of immune dysregulation in
      ARDS patients. In addition to studying severe ARDS patients, an inverse image of immune
      repertoires should appear in healed up patients, after they have reached an undetectable
      viral load and acquired protective antibodies (Abs). Humoral immunity mediated by specific
      anti-viral Abs was a key factor for recovery from SARS-CoV-1 infection, and this is also
      expected for CoV-2, making the Ig repertoire also of special interest for its inclusion of
      anti-viral neutralizing Abs (nAbs).

      Altogether, there is thus an urgent need for high-resolution characterization of the
      anti-CoV-2 immune response, correlating the dynamics of immune activation, cytokine
      production and immune repertoires with clinical evolution. In addition to providing
      biomarkers for prognosis evaluation and for monitoring innovative treatments this will also
      participate to the urgent quest of as many possible monoclonal antibodies (mAb) candidates
      for immunotherapy
    
  