
    
      Previous studies have confirmed that mitochondria are associated with insulin resistance or
      diabetes. As the prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) continues to increase
      worldwide, early detection and intervention of diabetes can extend life expectancy, reduce
      complications and decrease medical expenses.

      Significant differences in the expression of individual Growth Differentiation Factor 15
      (GDF-15) proteins among Taiwanese harboring different mitochondrial genotypes are noted, and
      their blood serum levels also exhibited associations with diabetes. However, the relationship
      between GDF-15 and pre-diabetes and diabetes in Asian populations has yet to be fully
      investigated. In addition, any indirect associations between GDF-15 levels and diabetic
      complications remain unclear.

      The investigators propose a two-year study project to elucidate several hot topics, including
      the level of GDF-15 in the initial diagnosis of diabetes in Asians if the interpretation is
      affected by drugs, and whether it is related to the progression of diabetes and related
      complications, such as diabetic nephropathy or peripheral neuropathy. By investigating
      mitochondrial genomic variations and the expression of related proteins, The investigators
      can determine the significant level of GDF-15 in the initial diagnosis of diabetes,
      medication effects, and diabetic complications. The DNA isolated from the blood samples will
      be evaluated by Luminex or Sanger sequencing method to determine individual mitochondria
      haplogroups, including variants located within the coding and control regions of the
      mitochondrial genome. The investigators aim to establish the significance of GDF-15 testing
      in Asian hyperglycemic populations. Our research is expected to have a positive impact on
      improving the early detection and interventional effectiveness of diabetes treatments,
      thereby reducing the financial burden on the global healthcare system.

      The investigators plan to recruit patients, including 250 participants with pre-DM or DM and
      250 participants as the control group. The investigators will enroll patients >20 years old
      and pregnant women will be excluded. Moving from the above considerations, the investigators
      will collect clinical information and lifestyle habits (smoking, alcohol consumption,
      physical activity, etc.) prospectively and review the medical records of these patients, who
      has newly-diagnosed impaired fasting glucose (IFG) or DM at the Chang Gung Memorial Hospital-
      Kaohsiung Medical Center since May, 2019. It takes about 1 year to collect the patient's
      specimen and data gradually, and the experiment takes about 1 year. For volunteers
      participating in the study, there is only a risk in the blood draw process.

      For privacy protection and confidentiality, the investigators set a research code
      representing each participant's identity. This code will not display the name, identification
      number, and address. For the results and medical records, the Principal Investigator will
      carefully maintain privacy. If any research result is published, the participant's identity
      will remain confidential.

      GDF15 is a non-glucose protein, and only one fasting blood sample is needed. Serum GDF15
      level is stable at room temperature for 48 hours, with consistent value despite four
      freeze/thaw cycles (20 hours at -70°C followed by 4 hours at room temperature). The
      anticoagulant used for sampling does not affect the measurements. One factor affecting the
      interpretation of GDF15 is pregnancy. In a study about the association between GDF15 and
      pregnancy and hyperemesis gravidarum, the association between the genes GDF15 and IGFBP7 and
      hyperemesis was found. GDF15 is highly expressed in placental trophoblast cells and its
      protein appears to promote placentation via activation of neurons in the hypothalamus and
      area postrema (vomiting center) of the brainstem. IGFBP7 also plays a role in placentation,
      appetite, and cachexia. Therefore, circulating the GDF15 level is affected by the state of
      pregnancy. That's why the investigators will exclude pregnant women in our study.

      After the research team explains the protocol and review of the informed consent form (The
      Institutional Review Board No. 201900948B0C601, informed consent form Version 3). The patient
      has all the questions answered and signed consent prior to any study procedure. A copy of the
      signed consent will be given to the patient. The samples of blood count and the extracted DNA
      will be measured within one year, including the haplogroup, the mitochondrial gene single
      set, and mitochondrial control region and binding gene variant. The storage location is the
      tissue bank of Kaohsiung Medical Center of Chang Gung Memorial Hospital.
    
  