
    
      Dialysis is central to survival for 450,000 Americans with end-stage renal disease (ESRD).
      Yet patients on dialysis have significant comorbidities and high mortality rates (24%
      annually). One out of four ESRD patient deaths occurs after a decision to stop dialysis.
      However, when persons have lost their decision capacity if there has been no prior discussion
      between the patient and surrogate regarding goals of care, the issue of whether to continue
      dialysis can pose an ethical impasse and cause profound psychological distress for surrogate
      decision makers. Using the representational approach to patient education, we developed and
      pilot tested the SPIRIT intervention (Sharing the Patient's Illness Representation to
      Increase Trust) to improve discussions about end-of-life care between patients and their
      surrogate decision makers. SPIRIT is a 6-step, 2-session, face-to-face intervention presented
      to both patient and surrogate by a trained interventionist in an interview format.

      The proposed randomized controlled trial will test the effects of the SPIRIT intervention in
      improving preparedness for end-of-life decision making among ESRD patients and their
      surrogates and reducing surrogates' conflict during decision making and psychosocial
      morbidities. Subjects will be 200 Caucasian and African-American patients with ESRD recruited
      from outpatient dialysis clinics and their chosen surrogate decision makers. Preparedness
      outcomes (dyad congruence, patient decisional conflict, and surrogate decision making
      confidence) will be measured at 2, 6, and 12 months post-intervention. Surrogate decisional
      conflict and psychosocial morbidities (anxiety, depression, and post-traumatic distress
      symptoms) will be measured 2 weeks after the patient's hospitalization that required
      surrogate decision making. To compare the effects of SPIRIT to those of standard care on
      surrogates after the patient's death, psychosocial morbidities will be measured at 3 and 6
      months after the patient's death. We will also explore the potential impact of race on
      intervention effects and examine mediators and moderators of the intervention effects.
    
  