
    
      Cardiovascular disease is one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in the United
      Kingdom (UK), as well as in the developed and the developing world. Finding new and safe
      treatments to reduce the burden of heart disease and strokes is therefore an important
      contribution to public health and in the wider public interest. HPS2-THRIVE aims to find out
      whether by combining niacin (a drug that has been available for 50 years) with a new drug
      laropiprant(which reduces the side-effects of niacin) is beneficial. All participants in
      HPS2-THRIVE will have established cardiovascular disease and therefore be at very high risk
      of recurrent vascular events (myocardial infarction, stroke or the need for arterial
      revascularisation). Two of the most important risk factors for recurrent events in such
      patients are the blood levels of LDL cholesterol with a positive association, and HDL
      cholesterol levels with a negative association.

      HDL cholesterol has long been known to have a strong inverse correlation with coronary heart
      disease (CHD) risk. But, randomized trial evidence for beneficial effects from raising HDL
      cholesterol is limited. One of the most effective HDL-raising agents is niacin but the
      tolerability of niacin has been severely limited by flushing and cutaneous side-effects,
      which appear to be mediated largely by prostaglandin D. Laropiprant is a selective
      prostaglandin D receptor antagonist that substantially reduces the frequency and intensity of
      niacin-induced flushing. Daily oral doses of extended release (ER) niacin plus Laropiprant
      2g(formerly MK-0524A) have been well tolerated in early studies and increase HDL cholesterol
      by 20-25%. The trial will assess whether this increase in HDL cholesterol translates into
      clinical benefit as is expected from the observational evidence. In addition, all
      participants will also be provided with effective LDL-lowering therapy, as either simvastatin
      40mg daily alone or with ezetimibe 10mg daily in a combination tablet.

      The complementary effects on the HDL (good) and LDL (bad) cholesterol produced by extended
      release niacin/laropiprant 2 g daily and simvastatin 40 mg with or without ezetimibe 10 mg
      should provide an excellent treatment option for patients with vascular disease. However, no
      trials so far have demonstrated clearly that raising HDL cholesterol produces the expected
      reduction in cardiovascular risk. If HPS2-THRIVE is able to demonstrate reliably that raising
      HDL cholesterol reduces the risk of further cardiovascular events then this will be relevant
      to hundreds of millions of people worldwide.
    
  