
    
      This project may fill an important gap of knowledge in a research area that has taken on
      major importance over the past few years, and has thus the potential to impact several major
      public health recommendations. First, considering the high penetrance of dating apps in the
      men who have sex with men (MSM) population (reaching 78.2% in a recent report), more than
      62,000 MSM in Switzerland are estimated to use such applications. How many of them suffer
      from addiction remains unclear and our project will be the first to provide estimates of the
      prevalence of online dating addiction in this particular population. Second, our project will
      help to clarify the impact of online dating app usage on health outcomes. By identifying
      drivers of the current HIV/(sexual transmitted infections (STI) epidemic in Switzerland, our
      project might thus provide critical information to shape future prevention measures aiming at
      further reducing HIV/STI incidence rates. Third, because sexual risk-taking increases with
      substance use and depression, it remains crucial to detect mental health outcomes early and
      provide adequate care to populations at high risk of HIV, or other STI, transmission. Fourth,
      our study might identify a new phenomenon related to high-risk sexual behaviour that may not
      be limited to the MSM group, but could also affect other, larger populations interacting and
      meeting through online communication channels. Considering that more than 41 million people
      are currently using dating apps in Europe, our findings might have a substantial impact on
      the general population. Finally, this project might provide the very first insights on the
      interplay between online dating, mental health and sexual risk taking. This new understanding
      could then help Switzerland create additional measures for preventing HIV transmission and
      reach the UNAIDS targets for HIV elimination by 2030.
    
  