
    
      Background: Hypertension is a major risk factor for cardiovascular diseases and its control
      rate has remained low worldwide. Studies have found that telemonitoring blood pressure (BP)
      helped control hypertension in randomized controlled trials. However, little is known about
      its effect in a structured primary care model in which primary care physicians (PCP) are
      partnering with cardiology specialists in electronic healthcare data sharing and medical
      interventions. This study aims to identify the effects of a coordinated PCP-Cardiologist
      model that applies telemedicine tools to facilitate community hypertension control in China.

      Methods/Design: Hypertensive patients receiving care at four community healthcare centers
      (CHCs) that are academically affiliated to Shanghai Chest Hospital, Shanghai JiaoTong
      University are eligible if they have uncontrolled blood pressure in the previous three months
      and access to mobile internet. Study subjects are randomly assigned to three interventional
      groups: 1) usual care; 2) home-based BP tele-monitor with embedded GSM module and unlimited
      data plan, an App to access personal healthcare record and receive personalized lifestyle
      coaching contents, and proficiency training of their use; or 3) this plus coordinated
      PCP-Cardiologist care in which PCPs and cardiologists share data via a secure CareLinker
      website to determine interventional approaches. The primary outcome is mean change in
      systolic blood pressure (SBP) over a 12-month period. Secondary outcomes are changes of
      diastolic blood pressure (DBP), HbA1C, blood lipids, and medication adherence measured by the
      eight-item Morisky Medication Adherence Scale MMAS.

      Discussion: This study will determine whether a coordinated PCP-Cardiologist Telemedicine
      Model (PCTM) that incorporates the lasted telemedicine technologies will improve hypertension
      care. Success of the model would help streamline the present community healthcare processes
      and impact a greater number of uncontrolled hypertensive patients.
    
  