
    
      Potential subjects will be identified using the diagnosis of migraine headache classified by
      the modified ICHD-II (International Classification for Headache Disorders) criteria proposed
      by Hershey et. al. This diagnosis will be confirmed by the investigators prior to enrollment
      of the subject and will be documented in the study documents. Subjects will be recruited
      during the scheduled work or research hours of the investigators in the ED.

      Eligible patients will be informed of the study including a discussion of the two possible
      interventions. After informed consent and assent are obtained, patients will be randomly
      assigned 1 of the 2 arms of the study. The target is 40 subjects in each arm. Subjects will
      be assigned to a study group using a computer generated randomization schema. This
      randomization will only be known to one unblinded collaborator that will not be enrolling
      subjects or be involved in the data analysis.

      If assigned to receive intravenous migraine medications the subject will be treated with the
      standard of care medications which include ketorolac (0.5mg/kg, max 30mg), metoclopramide
      (0.1 mg/kg, max 10mg), diphenhydramine (1mg/kg, max 50mg) plus a normal saline fluid bolus
      (20mL/kg, max 1000mL).

      If assigned to the auricular acupuncture arm, efficacious ear points will be located by a
      needle contact test and/or an electrical point finder which emits an acoustic alarm when a
      change in electrical resistance is detected signifying a potential active auricular acupoint.
      If the subject does not improve with acupuncture, they will be assessed by the ED physician
      and at the MD discretion further emergency department treatment will be administered which
      may include intravenous migraine medications as this is the current standard of care in the
      Norton Children's Hospital/Norton Children's Medical Center (KCH/KCMC) ED.

      All subjects will be contacted 2 to 6 days after discharge to determine their clinical
      status. If the darts are still in place at the follow-up call, the subjects will be contacted
      at 2 weeks and weekly thereafter until all darts have fallen out.
    
  