
    
      Evaluation of The Effect of Bupivacaine (marcaine) in Reducing Early Post Tonsillectomy Pain
      (Prospective, randomized, intra-individual study.) Study guidelines

      Aim of the study

      - to evaluate the effectiveness of applying bupivacaine intra-operative in reducing early
      post-tonsillectomy pain

      Patients and methods

        -  It will be a randomized, placebo-controlled, single-blinded study

        -  one tonsillar fossa will be the tested side, and the other fossa will be the control

        -  to insure the random selection, the tested and control sides will be selected based on
           unpredicted method e.g. based on the last number in pt MRN: If the last # is even (0, 2,
           4, 6, 8) = right side will be the tested If the last # is odd (1, 3, 5, 7, 9) = left
           side will be the tested

        -  Exclusion criteria included :

             1. pt with past history of unilateral peritonsillar abscess

             2. the current, regular use of a systemic steroid or NSAID

             3. a known hypersensitivity to bupivacaine

             4. a combined with unilateral myringotomy or bilateral myringotomy with unilateral
                ventilation tube

             5. pt with poor dental hygiene

        -  accompanied adenoidectomy is not an exclusion criteria

        -  the tested side will be : packed (after classic tonsillectomy) with gauze soaked in 0.5%
           bupivacaine, (2ml of bupivacaine + 2ml NS)for 5 min.

        -  the control side will undergoing the same of tested side but with normal saline

        -  post-operative analgesia will be paracetamol

        -  pain evaluation will be by visual analog scale (fig. 1) and it will be in frequency of
           2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24 hours post-op (frequency can be re-adjusted)

        -  Data of pain will be collected by the nurse. And they will not know which side is the
           tested. (single- blind)

        -  after phase I (data collection). Data will be calculated for P-value and other
           statistics scores

        -  Targeted sample size is 35 patients.

        -  patients will be consented for the possible adverse reactions of local application of
           the tested medicine (e.g. allergic reactions, Paresthesia). However, because in our
           study we will not add adrenaline, so differences in incidence of post-tonsillectomy
           bleeding is not expected.

        -  data will be statistically analyzed by McNemar's test

        -  For the data safety monitoring of the study, an independent external otolaryngology
           consultant (Dr.Ahmed Alarfij) will be assigned to monitor the safety of study
           participants.
    
  