
    
      The purpose of this Phase II research project is to evaluate and market an innovative health
      message intervention to increase uptake of the human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine and reduce
      women's cervical cancer risk through partnership with Planned Parenthood. The overall aim is
      to reach a broad population through Planned Parenthood, the nation's leading sexual and
      reproductive health care center, especially among low socioeconomic status (SES) and
      historically underserved populations. Despite an overall increase in vaccination and
      reduction in HPV-related infections in younger populations targeted by previous health
      promotion efforts, young adult women who are recommended for vaccination demonstrate much
      lower vaccination rates and higher rates of infection. In a recent Phase I grant, the
      investigators developed and demonstrated the usability and feasibility of an innovative,
      culturally-grounded, technology-based narrative intervention that delivers decision
      narratives in the form of videos via a health kiosk, an underutilized communication strategy
      for reaching less involved audiences. This brief, low-cost, easily implementable intervention
      doubled the uptake of the vaccine in a separate pilot study. The proposed Phase II project
      will: (1) Complete development of the intervention, (2) Evaluate its effectiveness through a
      randomized clinical trial, and (3) Prepare the product for the market. To accomplish these
      aims, the investigators will develop the intervention for implementation in waiting rooms as
      part of check-in procedures. Development includes programming and installing tablets to
      accomplish these tasks (Aim 1). The investigators will then conduct the evaluation study in
      four Planned Parenthood clinics in southeastern Pennsylvania (Aim 2). Eligible women will be
      consented, complete a pretest, and then randomized to view the brief intervention or
      attention control messages via the tablet. After viewing the messages, the participants will
      complete a short posttest. Treatment participants will receive follow up texts/emails as
      reminders to vaccinate, and all participants will receive texts/emails with links that allow
      completion of posttest surveys at 3- and 9 months. Finally, the investigators will prepare
      the intervention for the market that includes not only Planned Parenthood but other clinics
      that are currently served by the project partners as well as the broader market for HPV
      vaccination (Aim 3). In summary, the proposed communication strategy has wide reaching
      implications not only for reducing cancer risk, but more broadly for designing brief and
      easily implemented prevention messages across many domains of public health. The research
      will also close the health disparities gap in minority, under-served young adult women's
      access to preventive health care.
    
  