
    
      The aims include first, to quantify the posture and physical activity of patients in the
      community before and after scoliosis treatment and compare to age-matched controls. Patients
      undergoing bracing or surgery for scoliosis will wear novel low-profile electronic monitors
      for 4 days prior to and at one year after initiation of treatment. Accelerometer data from
      the 4 activity monitors are combined for a comprehensive profile of daily activity, above and
      beyond that of a typical pedometer. Analysis will show a participant's % active time vs.
      static, % time sitting vs. lying down vs. standing vs. walking, total number of steps taken
      per day, and cadence of walking during each activity bout. The amount of total daily time
      spent lying, sitting, standing, walking and running will be quantified using specialized
      processing algorithms developed at Mayo Clinic. Results will be compared to a group of age-
      and BMI-matched control patients with healed forearm fractures.

      Second, to determine changes in the mechanical properties of the paraspinal skeletal
      musculature (muscles along the spine) in scoliosis patient before and after treatment with
      brace or spinal surgery.

      Shear Wave Elastography (SWUE) is a technique that uses ultrasound, a non-invasive imaging
      technique, to detect mechanical properties of tissues. Using SWUE, the stiffness in the
      paraspinal muscles will be obtained by acquiring Shear modulus measurements, reported in kilo
      Pascal (kPa) units. 10 measurements will be obtained for each muscle and a region of interest
      (ROI) will be placed in the displayed elastogram or color map from each measurement to obtain
      a "kPa" value. A mean shear modulus or stiffness will be obtained by averaging all 10
      results. The measurements from each ROI are derived using software built in the ultrasound
      equipment.

      The change in paraspinal skeletal muscle stiffness will be assessed and compared to normal
      controls to determine characteristics of spinal musculature in scoliosis patients and the
      impact of treatment with bracing or surgery.
    
  