
    
      Overactive bladder (OAB) is a very common and bothersome condition manifested by urgency,
      frequent urination, urge urinary incontinence, and nocturia. Drug therapy with oxybutynin or
      tolterodine is the most common approach to treatment of OAB in VA Medical Center clinics and
      is the standard of care nationally. Although it improves symptoms of OAB for many patients,
      drug therapy often has side effects, which cause a significant number of patients to
      discontinue therapy. Further, many symptoms are not completely controlled, even while
      patients are on the medication. Therefore, there is a need to improve interventions for this
      common problem. Although behavioral treatment is a well-established treatment for urge
      urinary incontinence and frequency in women, there are no controlled trials of behavioral
      treatment for symptoms of OAB in men. The primary purpose of this project is to evaluate the
      effectiveness of behavioral treatment for symptoms of OAB in male veterans.

      The study is a two-site (Birmingham and Atlanta) randomized clinical trial to evaluate the
      effects of behavioral training compared to a standard (drug) treatment control condition.
      Subjects are 143 men with OAB as manifested by urgency and frequent urination (>8 voids per
      day), with or without incontinence, and without significant bladder outlet obstruction.
      Following a run-in period in which all patients are treated with an alpha blocker to
      empirically treat any undetected obstruction, they are stratified on severity and presence of
      urge incontinence and randomized to 8 weeks of behavioral treatment or drug therapy. The
      behavioral treatment is a comprehensive, behavioral training program, which includes pelvic
      floor muscle rehabilitation, self monitoring with bladder diaries, and teaching urge
      suppression and other skills to inhibit detrusor contraction, thus reducing urgency,
      frequency, incontinence, and nocturia. Patients in the control group receive standard therapy
      consisting of individually titrated, extended-release oxybutynin, a well-established
      pharmacologic agent with a state of the art drug delivery system that has the lowest rates of
      side effects. Bladder diaries completed by subjects prior to randomization and following the
      last treatment session are used to calculate changes in frequency of urination, as well as
      other symptoms of overactive bladder, including reports of urgency, incontinence, and
      nocturia. Secondary outcome measures include patient global ratings of satisfaction and
      improvement, impact of incontinence, and the American Urological Association (AUA) Symptom
      Index.

      The second purpose of the study is to examine combined behavioral and drug therapy. Following
      post-treatment assessment, patients who do not achieve satisfactory outcomes with either
      behavioral or drug therapy alone are crossed over into a second phase, in which they receive
      combined treatment to improve outcome as much as possible.

      This study will yield important information related to alternative treatment of OAB in male
      veterans. Though many clinicians use drug therapy routinely in the treatment of OAB, most do
      not offer behavioral treatments such as pelvic floor muscle training for this problem. Thus,
      this study has potential to alter standards of care for OAB in men.
    
  