
    
      Presently, the standard of care at our practice is that the discharging physician decides the
      type and amount of opioid medication to prescribe a patient following a cesarean section.
      After informed consent has been obtained, patients will be enrolled in our
      randomized-control, equivalence study. The experimental group will be prescribed 20
      oxycodone-acetaminophen and the control group will be prescribed 28 oxycodone-acetaminophen
      at the time of discharge. Both groups will also be provided with a handout on non-opioid
      analgesia. The groups will be assigned randomly in blocks. The investigators will recruit
      patients either in the clinic, if participants are to have a scheduled cesarean section, or
      at some time during the hospital admission for delivery. The satisfaction survey and pain
      scale will be administered at the postoperative check by the clinic staff and providers. If
      the patient does not show up for their postoperative visit, 3 attempts total will be made by
      an investigator to reach the patient and administer both surveys by phone within 2 weeks of
      discharge. A preliminary analysis of the data will be done once half the study patients have
      been recruited. First, block randomization will help limit discrepancies between groups.

      Subject evaluation will generally be limited to no more than 3 weeks following surgery.
      Evaluations will occur at the postoperative visit via two surveys (see below). If the patient
      does not show up for the clinic visit, 3 attempts will be made by an investigator to reach
      the patient and administer both surveys by phone within 2 weeks of discharge.

      Variables of interest:

        1. Age

        2. Race

        3. Insurance

        4. Repeat cesarean section

        5. Classification of cesarean section (scheduled, unscheduled, emergent)

        6. Type of skin incision and closure

        7. Urine toxicology screen results

        8. Tubal ligation at the time of cesarean

        9. Anesthesia (General or regional [epidural, spinal or combined], if regional, duramorph
           given)

       10. Length of hospital stay

       11. Number of refills
    
  