
    
      Extensive literature documents that endothelial dysfunction is associated with almost every
      condition predisposing to atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease. Hence, endothelial
      dysfunction is significantly associated with the burden of cardiovascular risk and can be
      considered a barometer of the total risk burden. Importantly, microvascular dysfunction has
      been shown to increase risk of future cardiovascular events.

      This study aims to clarify if ticagrelor, but not prasugrel or clopidogrel is associated to
      an improved reactive hyperemia index (RHI) and circulating levels of specific biomarkers of
      endothelial function, at treatment steady state. Ticagrelor has previously been demonstrated
      to increase adenosine levels by inhibiting adenosine reuptake in red blood cells, by
      inhibiting the equilibrative nucleoside transporter (ENT)-1. Furthermore, ticagrelor can
      induce adenosine triphosphate (ATP) release from human red blood cells. Interestingly,
      ticagrelor, but not clopidogrel or prasugrel have been recently shown to be associated to an
      improved endothelial function as evaluated with peripheral arterial tonometry after forearm
      ischemia.

      Post-ACS patients (who experienced an acute coronary syndrome and thereby started therapy
      with an oral P2Y12 inhibitor at least 30 days before) will be consecutively screened for
      possible inclusion. Patients will then be randomised to receive in a sequential manner the
      three oral P2Y12 blockers (i.e.) ticagrelor, prasugrel or clopidogrel for at least 30 days
      each, according to a balanced cross-over study design including the sequences below:

      Seq\ Per P.I P.II P.III S.I T P C S.II T C P S.III P T C S.IV P C T S.V C T P S.VI C P T
      During the three months study period the therapy with the P2Y12 inhibitor will be switched as
      for randomization sequence scheme.

      When started, each drug will be given with the corresponding loading dose of 600 mg for
      clopidogrel and then continued at 75 mg/day, 180 mg for ticagrelor and then continued at 90
      mg b.i.d. and 60 mg for prasugrel and then continued at 10 mg/day (5 mg/day for patients ≥75
      years or weighing ≤ 60 kg).

      The main measurements, including reactive hypermedia index, PRU, aspirin reaction units, and
      circulating markers of endothelial function will be performed at baseline, after
      P2Y12-inhibitor loading dose, before and after P2Y12-inhibitor maintenance dose.

      During the visit, blood pressure will be measured in the contralateral arm before
      examination. The EndoPAT probes will be placed on the index fingers. If the index finger will
      be missing or deformed, another finger will be used, using the same finger on both hands.
      Baseline registration will be conducted for 5 min. The test arm will be then occluded for 5
      min, using a standard blood pressure cuff placed on the upper arm. Subsequently, the cuff was
      deflated and the registration continued for 5 more minutes. After EndoPAT, blood will be
      drawn to collect serum and plasma for biomarkers assessment [Asymmetrical dimethylarginine
      (ADMA), adenosine plasma concentration, von willebrand factor antigen, endothelin-1,
      C-reactive protein, soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFLT-1), intercellular cell adhesion
      molecule-1 (ICAM-1), vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), prothrombin fragment 1+2,
      fibrinopeptide A, and thrombin-antithrombin complex (TAT)]. To assess the relationship
      between residual platelet reactivity or percent inhibition and effect of P2Y12 oral blocker
      on endothelial function, platelet function testing will be also carried out acutely and at
      treatment steady state by means of the Verifynow system using both P2Y12 and aspirin assays.

      Based on previous findings, we set mean RHI at 1.8 with a within subjects SD of 0.31. Hence,
      36 patients completing all sequences (i.e. 6 pt/sequence) will provide 90% power to detect a
      10% RHI relative change in the ticagrelor group with a two-sided alpha level at 5%. To
      account for drop outs as well as incomplete data assessment at all time points, a final
      sample size of 50 patients will be recruited.

      Patients will be provided with a regular drug prescription (standard of care medication). At
      each follow-up the investigator will collect information about adherence to the study drug
      and register the charge number of the prescribed P2Y12.

      Allocation of study treatment will be performed via a web-based interactive randomization
      system, based on a computer-generated random sequence with a random block size stratified
      according to the type of P2Y12 inhibitor (ticagrelor vs prasugrel vs clopidogrel) as well as
      for the presence of diabetes mellitus.

      Adverse events are defined as any undesirable experience occurring to a subject during the
      study, whether or not considered related to study. All adverse events reported spontaneously
      by the subject or observed by the investigator or his staff will be recorded. Serious adverse
      events in this study are considered to be extremely rare.
    
  