
    
      Vaccinia virus (a live but relatively weak relative of smallpox and cowpox) is used to
      vaccinate people against the development of smallpox (variola) resulting from an infection
      with the viral genus Orthopoxvirus. Although, smallpox was thought to be eradicated worldwide
      during the 1970's, some smallpox cultures have been retained in the laboratories of several
      countries and may pose a potential threat if used as a biological weapon. This has recently
      led to programs where mass-inoculations with vaccinia have been initiated throughout the U.S.

      Vaccination against smallpox using vaccinia can result in complications. Reactions are rarely
      serious or life threatening, but one of the most common serious complications occur in and
      around the eye. This occurs when a person transfers vaccinia viruses by touch from their
      primary inoculation site to their own eyes (auto-inoculation). Accidental exposure can also
      occur in the laboratory or by contact with a vaccinated person. Ocular involvement may be
      confined to the lids or conjunctiva but may easily be transferred to the cornea. Keratitis
      can result in scarring that could have a severe and permanent impact on vision. Even when the
      cornea is not affected, extensive lesions on the lid or other ocular tissues can lead to
      additional sight-threatening complications.

      Recently, the US Food and Drug Administration licenced Vaccinia Immune Globulin Intravenous
      (Human) (VIGIV, formerly known as NP-016). It is indicated for the "treatment and/or
      modification of the following conditions, which are complications resulting from smallpox
      vaccination: (a) Eczema vaccinatum; (b) Progressive vaccinia; (c) Severe generalized
      vaccinia; (d) Vaccinia infections in individuals who have skin conditions such as burns,
      impetigo, varicella-zoster, or poison ivy; or individuals who have eczematous skin lesions
      because of either the activity or extensiveness of such lesions; and (e) Aberrant infections
      induced by vaccinia virus that includes its accidental implantation in eyes (except in cases
      of isolated keratitis), mouth, or other areas where vaccinia infection would constitute a
      special hazard." The precautionary statement regarding isolated vaccinia keratitis appears
      though it is uncertain whether VIGIV use will decrease or increase corneal scarring in
      humans. The implication of increased scarringis based on some evidence in animal models
      indicating that more extensive corneal clouding can occur following VIG therapy. To
      investigate if this implication has clinical significance, two hundred study participants
      with corneal involvement following vaccinia vaccination or other exposure will be randomized
      to receive either placebo or VIGIV. All enrolled participants will be provided
      standard-of-care antiviral treatments for ocular complications. One-year proportions of
      corneal scarring will be compared between the two groups. Further knowledge about the
      biologic mechanisms of complications associated with vaccinia vaccination and rapid
      diagnostic test may lead to more effective forms of therapy.
    
  