
    
      Childhood obesity is a serious public health problem with limited effective prevention
      strategies to date. Although previous nutrition and physical activity environmental
      approaches for obesity prevention show some promise, most studies have not shown reductions
      in excess weight gain. Moreover, few prevention studies significantly engage parents and
      focus on the home environment. To prevent childhood obesity it is essential to promote
      healthy behaviors in the home environment because parents are influential primary role models
      for healthy eating and sedentary behavior, and are gatekeepers for food and beverage
      availability and degree of inactivity within the home. Moreover, the home setting is where
      most of children's calories and energy dense foods are consumed and where children engage in
      much of their sedentary behavior, particularly screen time (e.g., television, computer, game
      system). The proposed study will test the efficacy of the Healthy Home Offerings via the
      Mealtime Environment (HOME) Plus program, a ten-month, family-based health promotion
      intervention to prevent excess weight gain among 8-12 year old children. The program is based
      on Social Cognitive Theory and a socio-ecological framework and promotes both regular and
      nutritionally-sound snacks and meals in which family members eat together (i.e., family
      meals) and encourages reductions in sedentary behavior, particularly screen time among
      children in the home setting. The efficacy of the intervention will be tested in a randomized
      controlled trial with 160 families randomized to two conditions (intervention or
      attention-only control). Two cohorts of families, recruited from after-school programs and
      community centers, will be followed for 2.5 years. The primary hypothesis is that, by the end
      of the ten month intervention, target children in the intervention families, relative to
      children in the control families, will have significantly lower body mass index (BMI; primary
      outcome) after adjustment for baseline BMI values. Secondary outcomes include frequency of
      weekly family meals and number of healthful foods and beverages available in the home and
      served at family meals and snacks (as reported by parent), target children's daily intakes of
      healthful foods and beverages, and target children's minutes of sedentary behavior per week,
      particularly screen time. Child and parent measurement will occur in their homes at baseline,
      post-intervention (12-months post-randomization), and follow-up (9-months post-intervention)
      by trained research staff. The proposed study builds upon successful methods from our HOME
      pilot study (2006-2008; NIH R21-DK0072997) and is innovative as it actively engages entire
      families in experiential activities and capitalizes on the home setting. The study will
      provide important information on environmental and behavioral strategies that families can
      use at home to prevent excess weight gain. The intervention program has high translation
      potential and is likely to be immediately useful to families of school-age children because
      it will be tested in real-world community settings and sustained across the state of
      Minnesota by the University of Minnesota's Extension Service.
    
  