
    
      Purpose: To demonstrate that TAP blockade administered by the surgeon during surgery is as
      effective as when placed as a separate procedure by an anesthesiologist under ultrasound
      guidance by head to head randomized comparison controlling for medication, concentration
      volume and location.

      Introduction:

      The transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block is a regional anesthesia technique where local
      anesthetic is injected into the neurovascular plane between the transversus abdominis and
      internal oblique muscles. The ventral rami of the segmental thoracolumbar nerves course
      through the TAP before innervating the anterolateral abdominal wall. The TAP block has been
      shown to provide postoperative analgesia following abdominal surgery. Prospective randomized
      trials have demonstrated analgesic efficacy of TAP block and cadaveric studies have shown
      reliable dye spread from T9-L1 (iliac crest to the costal margin) , although the spread is
      dependent upon the technique of injection, single versus multiple injections. The TAP block
      is an intermuscular plane block i.e., needle placed in the plane between the internal oblique
      and transversus abdominis muscles. The sensory fibers located in this plane is too small to
      be visualized by ultrasound or localized by nerve stimulation. The TAP block may be performed
      in patients under general anesthesia since nerve localization is not necessary. This block
      has a number of advantages which include technical simplicity, high analgesic effectiveness,
      opioid sparing, long duration of effect, up to 36 hours, minimal side effects in comparison
      to that associated with neuraxial analgesia (e.g., hypotension, motor blockade). TAP block
      has successfully been incorporated in enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS) protocols to
      reduce postoperative pain, reduce post op narcotic requirement, provide earlier return of
      bowel function and reduce length of stay. However multiple techniques for placement of the
      block have been described, in differing locations and with differing agents to analgesia
      after a variety of procedures. Historically the block has been placed based on anatomic land
      marks in the triangle of Petit guided by the sensation of the administrator. The safety and
      anatomic reliability of this approach has been questioned. Currently the block is frequently
      placed by an anesthesiologist under ultrasound guidance. Recently there have been published
      reports of surgeons placing TAP blocks intraoperatively guided by palpation and direct
      visualization, both open and with laparoscopic visualization . It is currently the practice
      in the division of colon and rectal surgery to use a standardized method for placing a TAP
      block after open and laparoscopic abdominal colon and rectal cases as part of our ERAS
      protocol requiring minimal time and cost limited to the cost of the medication. The authors
      hypothesize that TAP block administered by the surgeon is as effective as when administered
      by an anesthesiologist under ultrasonic guidance controlling for medication, volume,
      concentration and location of placement.

      Methods: This study is a randomized trial with a placebo control arm to confirm effectiveness
      of the block its self, as TAP block is fully adopted as standard practice throughout
      abdominal surgery. Consecutive patients 18 years old or greater with intellectual capacity to
      consent, who are scheduled to undergo elective open or laparoscopic abdominal surgery by the
      division of colorectal surgery, will be offered inclusion in the study. Choice of open versus
      laparoscopic procedure is at surgeons discretion based on the patient's condition, diagnosis
      and best practice. Those patients whose procedure begins laparoscopically who require
      conversion to laparotomy will be noted and included in the open group. Exclusions will
      include patients who have allergies to the medications, patients with a preoperative
      addiction to narcotics or chronic pain syndromes requiring chronic medication, or whose
      anatomy or procedure precludes placement of the block.

      Consenting patients will be randomized to receive administration of a TAP block either
      intraoperatively by the surgeon by direct palpation and/or visualization or by an
      anesthesiologist under ultrasound guidance. Secondary randomization will assign 1/4rd of both
      arms to receive placebo. In treatment arm cases Marcaine 0.25% with epinephrine 1:200,000 in
      a volume in ccs equal to the patients weight in Kg will be delivered. Those assigned to
      placebo will receive an equivalent volume of saline. In all cases the block will be placed at
      the conclusion of the case; for the surgeon, prior to closure of the abdomen, for the
      anesthesiologist after skin closure but prior to emergence from general anesthesia.

      The volume will be divided equally, bilaterally and injection via needle and syringe into the
      transversus abdominis muscle plane lateral to the border of the rectus muscle at the level of
      the umbilicus. In cases of longer xyphoid to pubis laparotomy incisions the volume of
      injection can be further divided to be injected superiorly and inferiorly in the abdominal
      wall to assure adequate distribution. In all cases the injection will be performed under
      general anesthesia after the completion of the case either immediately before closure of the
      abdominal incision(s) or immediately after closure, prior to emergence from anesthesia.

      The patients and the data collection staff will be blinded at to the medication vs placebo
      and the method of administration.

      Post operatively all patients in all groups will be included in a standard post-operative
      ERAS pathway including use of intravenous ketorolac and acetaminophen, metoclopramide, early
      ambulation. All patients will have access to standard post-operative analgesia including
      intravenous narcotics (morphine, hydromorphone) patient controlled analgesia (PCA) and PO
      analgesia acetaminophen, ibuprofen, oxycodone.
    
  