
    
      The anterolateral impingement syndrome is caused by obstruction of the so-called
      anterolateral gutter (ALG) or recess secondary to an inversion injury resulting in disruption
      of the syndesmotic and/or lateral collateral ligaments and capsule.

      In anterior impingement,Arthroscopic evaluations suggest direct microtrauma to the talus and
      tibia as the aetiology. The natural course of this microtraumas to form osseous spurs.

      In anteromedial impingement,The mechanism is not well understood but is likely a rare
      complication of a supination (inversion) injury rather than a pronation (eversion) injury as
      initially hypothesized.During the acute injury, there is damage to the anterior tibiotalar
      ligament, which subsequently thickens. In addition toligament thickening, osteophytes,
      synovitis and fractures have been described as other possible causative factors.

      In posteromedial impingement, the common precipitating injury for posteromedial ankle
      impingement is a plantar flexion, inversion and internal rotation trauma. This can lead to
      damage to the PTTL and associated synovitis.

      The majority of the posterior impingement syndromes are related to the posterior talus.The
      secondary ossification centre of the posterolateral talus forms around 8-13 years of age and
      then subsequently fuses within 1 year of that. Occasionally (approximately 7%), there may be
      non-fusion with a resultant ostrigonum.

      Conventional MR imaging can accurately detect and localize osteophytes and associated
      lesions. In addition, MR imaging provides an easy evaluation of any articular cartilage
      changes, ligamentous injury, and occult bony contusions.

      Direct magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography extends the capabilities of conventional MR
      imaging and utilizes the natural advantages gained from joint effusion. Contrast solution
      distends the joint capsule, outlines intra articular structures,and leaks into
      abnormalities.It can detect cartilage damage, intra articular loose bodies and osteochondral
      talar lesions.
    
  