
    
      New generation of drug eluting stents (DES) have been shown to have better long-term patency
      rates than the vein grafts utilized in conventional CABG. Then, it may be expected that
      hybrid coronary revascularization (HCR) combining minimally invasive direct coronary artery
      bypass (MIDCAB) grafting of left anterior descending (LAD) artery by left internal mammary
      artery (LIMA) and stenting of non-LAD coronary arteries with the new generation DESs may have
      superior efficacy and safety compared to conventional CABG in patients with multivessel
      coronary artery disease (CAD). The true significance of CAD is reflected by the pressure
      gradients in coronary arteries that show actual changes in coronary blood flow and myocardial
      perfusion whereas the degree of anatomical narrowing only indicates a potential for the
      hemodynamical changes that also depend on vessel compliance, distal vascular resistance, and
      collateral circulation. Then, the true effect of myocardial revascularization as treatment of
      CAD should be likewise assessed by measuring residual pressure gradients in coronary arteries
      after revascularization, i.e. as the functional efficacy in analogy to the functional
      significance of CAD. For multi-vessel disease the summary hemodynamic effectiveness of
      revascularization may be captured either by continuous variable, e.g. averaged magnitude of
      the post-procedural pressure gradients in the qualified arteries or by categorical index,
      e.g. a relative proportion of the arteries with significant post-procedural pressure
      gradients among the qualified arteries both preferably weighted for their significance in
      myocardial blood supply. For comprehensive comparison of the revascularization strategies the
      qualified arteries should include all arteries/branches that had significant disease at
      baseline and were amenable to treatment with at least one of the revascularization methods,
      e.g. with at least one stenosis >70% and diameter >1.5 mm. The categorical measure of the
      functional efficacy may also be considered a measure of the functional completeness of
      revascularization in analogy to the conventional anatomical completeness. This functional
      completeness in terms of removal of all significant pressure gradients in coronary arteries
      is expected to be superior to anatomical completeness for assessing the procedural success of
      the intervention because the successful grafting/stent implantation does not guarantee the
      permanent removal of the pressure gradients, which may still persist due to development of
      intimal hyperplasia along the suture line of surgical anastomosis or stent
      underexpansion/edge dissection.

      The primary purpose of the study is to assess whether iFR -guided HCR done as the staged
      procedure with LIMA-LAD MIDCAB at first stage, and percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI)
      of non-LAD arteries at the second stage, is superior to conventional CABG in terms of the
      functional efficacy of revascularization assessed by the weighted average of iFRs measured 12
      month post-procedure in all coronary arteries with at least one significant stenosis (>70%
      for CABG group, iFR ≤ 0.89 for iFR-guided HCR) and diameter ≥1.5 mm at baseline. For proximal
      lesions in major coronary arteries - LAD, circumflex (Cx), and right coronary artery (RCA) -
      the simple weights 0.5, 0.25, 0.25 will be used, respectively. For other lesions the Duke
      jeopardy scores will be used instead. Measurement of functional efficacy at 12 month
      post-procedure will allow assessment of the final result of the intervention after complete
      vessel healing, endothelialization of the stents, on stable antithrombotic treatment, etc.
      Also, this study will assess whether achieving the functional completeness of
      revascularization described above in addition to the anatomical completeness of the procedure
      may further improve the treatment outcomes in patients with multivessel CAD. Specifically,
      the investigators will assess the relationship between the functional completeness of the
      revascularization and the occurrence of the MACCE over 1, 3, and 5 years following
      randomization in the patients with anatomically complete procedures. Finally, the hypothesis
      will be tested that iFR-guided HCR has better overall safety than CABG. Whereas, compared to
      CABG HCR is associated with less frequent perioperative complications, blood transfusions,
      shorter ICU and hospital stays, these benefits of less invasive treatment may be overridden
      by the additional complications of stenting, e.g. acute stent thrombosis, dissection,
      arterial perforation/rupture and others. With iFR guidance of the HCR these additional
      complications of PCI are expected to be less frequent and the whole procedure - more safe.
    
  