
    
      It is known that the incidence of feeding problems is high in neonatal populations and
      certain patient groups appear to be particularly at risk. It is not yet known which infant
      groups admitted to Level 3 Neonatal Units are at most risk of feeding problems and in need of
      specialist feeding assessment and interventions. While many studies have examined the impact
      of prematurity and additional medical problems on feeding outcomes, most studies to date are
      limited to sub-populations, and/or do not investigate how best to identify the babies who are
      at most risk of feeding difficulties. Neonatal Speech and Language Therapists require
      information about feeding risks and outcomes for the neonatal population as a whole for
      caseload prioritization and to target populations most in need of specialist feeding
      interventions.

      Babies born extremely preterm (before 28 weeks gestational age) and very low birth weight
      (less than 1500 grams at birth) have been identified as slower to achieve full oral feeding
      than those born at an older gestational age and higher birth weight. Certain medical problems
      have been found to correlate with feeding outcomes in preterms. Impaired respiratory
      function, gastrointestinal complications, neurological involvement, and heart defects have
      all been associated with delayed feeding progression and poor feeding outcomes.

      This study aims to determine if gestational age at birth or number and type of medical
      conditions is the better indicator of risk of feeding disorders in infants admitted to a
      Level 3 neonatal unit.

      Design:

      Prognostic study using retrospective case note analysis.

      Setting:

      A Level 3 Neonatal Unit (including intensive care, high dependency, and special care) at the
      Royal Preston Hospital.

      Procedure:

      A retrospective audit of routinely collected data will be undertaken and analysed. The
      BadgerNet patient record management system is updated daily for all babies in neonatal units
      around the country. Data will be collected from the BadgerNet daily notes and discharge
      summary and added to a bespoke spreadsheet prior to statistical analysis. Data collection
      will be conducted by a member of the Royal Preston Hospital Neonatal Unit clinical team. No
      patient identifiable data will be collected. Data will be listed on the spreadsheet in a
      random order to ensure there is no possibility of anyone, including the clinical researcher,
      tracing coded data back to the infant.

      Data storage:

      The spreadsheet of coded variables will be stored in a password protected folder accessible
      only to the clinical researcher. In order to move the spreadsheet to the University of
      Central Lancashire computer system for statistical analysis, it will be emailed in
      secure/encrypted form then saved on a restricted drive in a password protected folder that
      will only be accessible to the clinical researcher and statistician.

      Information to be included on spreadsheet includes:

        -  Gestational age category (coded 1-4)

        -  Medical status - number of systems involved (coded 1-5) and types (coded 1-27)

        -  Full oral feeding by 37 weeks and 40 weeks (coded 1-3/1-4)

      Coding:

      Gestational age category:

        1. Extremely preterm: <28 weeks

        2. Very preterm: 28-31+6 weeks

        3. Moderate to late preterm: 32-36+6 weeks

        4. Term: 37 weeks+

      Medical status - number of systems involved:

        1. None

        2. 1

        3. 2

        4. 3

        5. 4 or more

      Medical status - types and combinations:

        1. No involvement in any of the specified systems

        2. Neurological only

        3. Respiratory only

        4. Gastrointestinal only

        5. Cardiac only

        6. Craniofacial only

        7. Neurological + respiratory

        8. Neurological + gastrointestinal

        9. Neurological + cardiac

       10. Neurological + craniofacial

       11. Respiratory + gastrointestinal

       12. Respiratory + cardiac

       13. Respiratory + craniofacial

       14. Gastrointestinal + cardiac

       15. Gastrointestinal + craniofacial

       16. Cardiac + craniofacial

       17. Neurological + respiratory + gastrointestinal

       18. Neurological + respiratory + cardiac

       19. Neurological + respiratory + craniofacial

       20. Neurological + gastrointestinal + cardiac

       21. Neurological + gastrointestinal + craniofacial

       22. Neurological + cardiac + craniofacial

       23. Respiratory + gastrointestinal + cardiac

       24. Respiratory + gastrointestinal + craniofacial

       25. Respiratory + cardiac + craniofacial

       26. Gastrointestinal + cardiac + craniofacial

       27. 4 or more systems

      Slow attainment of full oral feeding (preterms only):

        1. Yes

        2. No

        3. Information not available (exclude from analysis)

      Feeding difficulty (all babies):

        1. Yes - achieved oral feeding after 40 weeks but before discharge

        2. Yes - discharged home tube feeding

        3. No

        4. Information not available (exclude from analysis)

      Operational Definitions:

      Gestational age groups are based on the categories used by the World Health Organisation:

        -  Extremely preterm: <28 weeks

        -  Very preterm: 28-31+6 weeks

        -  Moderate to late preterm: 32-36+6 weeks

        -  Term: 37 weeks+

      Medical status will be categorized by the number of impaired body systems from the following
      list: neurological, respiratory, gastrointestinal, cardiac, and craniofacial. Following a
      thorough literature review, these five systems have been identified as the most commonly
      related to feeding difficulties.

      Presence/absence of involvement of these systems will be determined by the patients discharge
      letter on BadgerNet. This letter is completed by a medical doctor and includes a section for
      each of the listed systems. If a problem is listed under any of these system headings it will
      be recorded as a positive, regardless of severity or duration. Exceptions to this include the
      following: retinopathy of prematurity, transient tachypnea of the newborn, intraventricular
      hemorrhage grades 1-2, and brachial plexus injury with no respiratory compromise.

      Slow attainment of full oral feeding is defined as inability to achieve full oral feeding by:

        -  37 weeks post-menstrual age (full term)

        -  Discharge home (if earlier than 37 weeks) or

        -  Within one week of birth if born at or over 36 weeks

      Feeding difficulty is defined as inability to achieve full oral feeding by:

        -  40 weeks post-menstrual age (due date)

        -  Discharge home if earlier than 40 weeks, or

        -  Within one week of birth if born at or over 39 weeks.

      Analysis:

      Descriptive statistics and appropriate statistical tests will be used to determine the
      presence or absence of correlation between variables. Outcomes with the strongest correlation
      will be identified and analysed using a logistic regression model.
    
  