
    
      The University of Chicago Education Lab research team is carrying out a randomized controlled
      trial of a promising academic intervention during the 2015-16 academic year in partnership
      with the Chicago Public Schools (CPS) and SAGA Innovations. Male and female CPS students in
      grades 9 and 10 will be randomly assigned either to receive what investigators believe to be
      a best-practice intensive academic support, or to a control group receiving status quo CPS
      and community services, for one academic year (AY2015-16). The intervention is high-dosage
      math tutoring provided by SAGA Innovations (previously Match Education of Boston). A previous
      randomized controlled trial conducted by the University of Chicago research team found that
      one year of this intervention, delivered in AY2013-14, generated between one and two extra
      years of academic growth in math, over and above what the normal U.S. high school student
      learns in one year. The estimated effects for math achievement are on the order of 0.19 to
      0.30 SD, depending on the exact test and norming used. The intervention also improved student
      grades in math, by 0.58 points on a 1-4 grade scale, compared to a control mean of 1.77.
      These gains are particularly important because math success versus failure is a strong
      predictor of high school graduation.

      This current study aims to replicate the investigators' previous findings, and to that end
      the research team will again look at the academic, behavioral, and long-term effects of this
      high-dosage math tutoring program on youth. This study is also designed to explore issues
      that will be central to efforts to scale-up this promising strategy, including variation in
      tutor quality and whether there are optimal tutor-student and student-student pairings in
      terms of gender and race.

      The SAGA Innovations program expands on the nationally recognized innovation of high-dosage,
      in-school-day tutoring developed in Match Education's charter school in Boston. The tutoring
      program meets as a scheduled course, Math Lab, once a day during the normal school day, and
      is provided in addition to a student's regular math class. Students taking the course receive
      an elective credit upon completion. Every student works with the same full-time, professional
      tutor for the entirety of the school year. The content of the tutoring sessions is aligned
      with what students are learning in their regular math courses, but is also targeted to
      address individual gaps in math knowledge. Also following the original model developed by
      Match Education, SAGA tutors use frequent internal formative assessments of student progress
      to individualize instruction.

      In addition to replicating previous studies that suggest the promise of this high-dosage
      tutoring model for improving the academic outcomes of at-risk youth, this study also aims to
      provide insight into the ability of this program to serve youth at a much larger scale.
      Despite the great need for programs that can affect the national dropout crisis and improve
      youth outcomes, little is known about how to take promising education interventions to scale.
      This study will begin to explore whether there is a trade-off between effectiveness and scale
      by randomly assigning students to pairings and randomly assigning pairings to tutors. Tutors
      will be separately ranked from highest to lowest quality by SAGA leadership, and by randomly
      assigning tutors to students, the investigators will be able to explore what effect, if any,
      tutor quality has on student outcomes. In addition, this study will look at whether gender
      and race composition of student-tutor pairings and student-student pairings has an effect on
      outcomes. This work will enable the investigators to begin to learn about variation in tutor
      effectiveness and the optimal way to match kids to tutors. The research team hopes this work
      will have important implications for how to scale this promising strategy both within Chicago
      and beyond.
    
  