
    
      RESEARCH STRATEGY

      SIGNIFICANCE

      The Sao Paulo-Minas Gerais Tropical Medicine Research Center (SaMi-Trop) consists of a
      network of collaborating scientists in the States of Minas Gerais and São Paulo which has
      been established for the purpose of developing and conducting research projects on neglected
      infectious diseases in Brazil, with an initial focus on Chagas Disease biomarker, discovery
      and validation. The SaMi-Trop represents a major challenge for focused research in neglected
      diseases, with knowledge that can be applied in primary health care.

      Chronic Chagas Cardiomyopathy (CCC) is the most important clinical presentation of Chagas
      Disease (ChD), eventually affecting approximately 20% to 30% of those in the chronic phase of
      the disease. CCC comprises a wide range of manifestations, including heart failure,
      arrhythmias, heart-blocks, sudden death, thromboembolism and stroke [1]. Clinical
      presentation typically varies widely according to the degree of myocardial damage and most
      patients present a mild form of heart disease, frequently characterized only by the presence
      of asymptomatic abnormalities on the ECG or in other complimentary exams [2]. Nonetheless,
      when heart failure and/or severe arrhythmias manifest, the prognosis is ominous, with high
      and premature mortality rates, typically in adult male patients,1 but also in the elderly
      [3]. Indeed, when compared to patients with idiopathic cardiomyopathy, patients with CCC have
      poorer survival, irrespective of other clinical and echocardiographic parameters [4].

      Thus, the clinical course of Chagas heart disease is variable and identifying patients who
      are at risk of progressive CCC and dying remains a challenge. Several longitudinal studies
      performed in patients in the chronic phase of ChD demonstrated that many individual
      characteristics predict an unfavorable prognosis. This subject was systematically reviewed a
      few years ago and concluded that most studies were described in insufficient detail and/or
      lacked minimal standards in reporting results. Results have been somewhat inconsistent in
      different studies, and the best combination of clinical and laboratory variables predictive
      of mortality has not yet been established [5].

      A potentially helpful score to predict death was developed to permit the stratification of
      risk in Chagas heart disease [6]. Six independent prognostic factors were identified, and
      each was assigned a number of points: New York Heart Association class III or IV (5 points),
      evidence of cardiomegaly on radiography (5 points), left ventricular systolic dysfunction on
      echocardiography (3 points), non-sustained ventricular tachycardia on 24-hour Holter
      monitoring or stress testing (3 points), low QRS voltage on electrocardiography (2 points),
      and male sex (2 points) [6. Patients were classified in three risk groups according to the
      final score: low risk (0 to 6 points), intermediate risk (7 to 11 points), and high risk (12
      to 20 points). In the original study, the 5-year mortality rates for these three groups were
      2 percent, 18 percent, and 63 percent, respectively.6 Although the score was successfully
      validated in independent cohorts, [6,7] some important issues may arise. The derivation of
      the score is complex and it is not easy to calculate during the medical consultation. To be
      calculated, the patient must be submitted to several exams and procedures, including clinical
      examination, ECG, Chest x-ray, echocardiogram and Holter monitoring or stress testing. Most
      of these tests are not available in the rural areas, where most of ChD patients live.

      A simple score, based on widely available and low-cost tests, which could stratify the risk
      of death without complex calculations, might be useful in the primary care setting, where
      echocardiograms and Holter monitoring are not widely available. Easily obtained variables,
      such as clinical features, BNP levels and ECG measurements, are good candidates as biomarkers
      for developing a new simple predictive rule. Moreover, new biomarkers in blood, related
      mainly to inflammation and the immune response, such as TNF-alpha, adhesion molecules and
      other cytokines, may be determined to be potent prognostic factors and may be useful in the
      future for further improvement in risk stratification in CCC.

      METHOD

      Design

      Non-concurrent prospective open cohort study, with minimal follow-up of two years (baseline
      and 24 months).

      Outcome

      Primary: death Secondary: hospitalization due to cardiac conditions; new ECG abnormalities

      Study Population

      Participants will be selected from patients evaluated by the Tele Minas Saude (TMS), the
      state Tele Health System. Since the TeleHealth System is currently acting in support of the
      Primary Care system, these patients are under the care of primary care physicians of the
      Health Family Strategy, a public primary care program that has a high coverage in the state
      of Minas Gerais.

      The inclusion criteria are to be a client of the TMS TeleHealth System, be >18 years old,
      have a positive history for T cruzi infection or Chagas disease, have an abnormal ECG and to
      consent to participating in the research program.

      The exclusion criteria include pregnancy or breast feeding, and any severe condition with
      ominous prognosis that indicates a life expectancy of less than two years.

      Sample size for patient accrual

      Considering the minimal number of events per variable acceptable in a proportional hazards
      regression analysis of 10 events per variable,8 and maximal number of studied variables of
      ten, the number of events would be 100 in the whole study. Since the prediction model has to
      be developed and validated and the whole sample will be divided in two, the number of events
      should be 200. For a 2-year follow-up period and annual mortality rate of 5% in CCC (10% in 2
      years), the calculated sample size is 2,000 subjects.

      Since the TMS Telehealth system performs 25,000 ECGs each month (300,000 a year), that ECG
      abnormalities typical of CCC are observed in 5% of these exams (1,250), and projecting that
      10% of these patients would be recruited and agree to participate in this research program,
      the calculated sample size of 2,000 patients will be recruited in a 16 months' accrual
      period.

      Follow-up

      Follow-up will be conducted on a yearly basis, with standardized interviews and new ECG exams
      performed after two years of baseline. Vital status and hospitalization will also be
      ascertained by linkage of the study database with mortality and hospitalization databases of
      the Ministry of Health.

      Recruitment, initial evaluation and measurements

      Patients will be recruited from among those that regularly attend the public primary care
      service of State of Minas Gerais in places served by TMS Telehealth System. This system
      provides teleconsultation and Electrocardiogram services (TeleECG), including interpretation
      of all ECGs by a cardiologist in the University Hospital. A standardized simple form is
      completed before the transmission of the ECG data to the University hospital and the question
      "Do you know if you have Chagas disease?" will be added to this questionnaire. Those who
      answer yes to this question and have abnormal ECG will be selected. A second visit of the
      selected patients will be scheduled for performing a short questionnaire (including the
      evaluation of the functional class) and for collecting blood samples. Blood samples will be
      sent to a central laboratory for T. cruzi serology and BNP measurements, which will be done
      by standard techniques. Other blood samples, including plasma for protein and antibody
      studies and stabilized whole blood lysates for T cruzi PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction), DNA,
      will be stored at -80o C to enable batched testing for other biomarkers.

      Electrocardiogram services (TeleECG)

      The ECG performed in the town of origin of the patients will be sent to be assessed by the
      TMS Telehealth System specialists. The Telecardiology activities were developed using a
      digital electrocardiograph installed in the towns, at the Basic Health Units of the public
      healthcare system. The examination was always carried out after being requested by a
      physician. The ECG will be sent using communication software developed by the TMS Telehealth
      System and will be analyzed by a on-duty cardiologist. The report will be sent to the Primary
      Care facility and the ECG tracings will be transferred to ECG reading center. In this ECG
      Reading Center, a software developed by Prof. Peter Mac Farlane, from Glasgow University,
      will analyzes and codify the ECG (by the Minnesota Code) and compare to the previous ECG,
      according to a validated algorithm [9]. All abnormal codes will be reviewed by an experienced
      cardiologist.

      Data analysis

      The standardized mortality ratio (SMR) analysis and a survival analysis will be conducted.
      The outcome death is death. Also, a survival analysis considering the secondary outcomes -
      hospitalization due to cardiac conditions and new ECG abnormalities - will be run. The
      development and validation of the prognostic model will follow current recommendations,
      including the division of the sample in derivation and validation sample, and the use of
      modern methods to evaluate the performance of the model [10,11]. Additionally, descriptive
      spatial analysis using geographic distribution for the SMR and a Bayesian spatial model for
      small area data will be run.

      Innovation

      Beyond the relevance of the main goal of this study, it has many unique and innovative
      aspects, related to the use of knowledge and infra-structure developed for other projects
      conducted by our research group:

        1. The possibility of testing new biomarkers detected in other branches of this study or in
           the NIH-sponsored REDS-II/III Chagas disease study.

        2. The use of the infrastructure and the logistics of the TMS program, a state-wide
           TeleHealth System coordinated by the University Hospital in the Brazilian state of Minas
           Gerais

        3. The use of the methodology of linkage between our databases and administrative and
           mortality databases from the Health Ministry to complement the follow-up of the selected
           patients

        4. A standardized codification system of the ECGs, using the facilities of the ECG Reading
           Center of the long-term longitudinal study on the health of 15,000 adult public servants
           from Brazilian Universities (ELSA-Brazil).

      New biomarkers ChD has a complex physiopathology and many immunological, inflammatory,
      autonomic and micro-vascular processes have a role in the development or the progression of
      the disease [12]. The investigators have described increased levels of macrophage
      inflammatory protein (MIP-1alpha) and Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in ChD
      patients, [13-15] and that those patients with more severe forms have more elevated levels
      [13]. Recently, in the ChD study (REDS-II), were studied 600 ChD patients and 500 controls
      searching for biomarkers related to the disease and CCC. In a preliminary analysis, several
      biomarkers including high sensitivity troponin, myoglobin, soluble vascular cell adhesion
      molecule 1 (sVCAM-1), soluble intracellular cell adhesion molecule (sICAM) and
      myeloperoxidase showed abnormal patterns in T cruzi seropositive and parasitemic donors and
      CCC patients. These and other biomarkers, including those identified in the transcriptome
      analysis are candidates to be studied in the whole cohort of 2,000 CCC patients in TMS
      program or, alternatively, using nested case-control design.

      Tele Minas Saude (TMS) Program, a state-wide public TeleHealth System

      The TMS program is a partnership between the Minas Gerais State Health Department and the
      State Research Agency (FAPEMIG) with six public universities of Minas Gerais: Universidade
      Federal de Minas Gerais (UFMG), Universidade Federal do Triângulo Mineiro (UFTM),
      Universidade Estadual de Montes Claros (UNIMONTES), Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora
      (UFJF), Universidade Federal de São João del-Rei (UFSJ) and Universidade Federal de
      Uberlândia (UFU), forming the Teleassistance Network of Minas Gerais. Created from a
      telehealth pilot project in cardiology (2006), later expanded to other specialties and
      villages and transformed into permanent telehealth service, subsidized by the state
      government in 2009 [16-18].

      The objective is to support infrastructure projects of state public health, initially
      deployed to support the Primary Health Care and Family Health Teams [16]. At that stage, had
      as main objective to assist professionals in their daily work to improve access to
      specialized services, reducing and qualifying referrals of patients to secondary and tertiary
      care. The main activities offered are a) duty of teleconsultation offline in various medical
      specialties, nursing, dentistry, physiotherapy, psychology, pharmacy and nutrition, b) duty
      in telecardiology to analyze electrocardiograms (ECGs) and provide teleconsultations online
      for critical clinical cases c) technical support online and offline, d) permanent education
      through workshops and training and e) continuous monitoring of system operation in the
      municipalities.

      So far, the program was implemented in 608 municipalities in the state corresponding to 732
      telehealth sites. The primary care units in the villages were equipped with computers,
      electrocardiograph, digital printer and digital camera. Universities were equipped with
      workstations and videoconferencing equipment. Since 2006, over 20,000 teleconsultations were
      conducted and 600,000 ECGs analyzed by experts. These telehealth activities prevented the
      displacement of patients in 78% of the cases [16].

      Linkage of databases The Brazilian Health System is characterized by coexistence of a
      universal public health system (70-80% of coverage) and a supplementary private network.
      Mortality data from all Brazilians and from hospitalizations in the public health system are
      stored in large databases owned and managed by the Health Ministry. Investigators developed a
      methodology for searching these databases for specific subjects using probabilistic linkage
      methods. The probabilistic strategy we developed has high accuracy, with a sensitivity of
      90.6% and specificity 100% [19]. This method will be used in a complimentary way to direct
      follow-up.

      ECG Reading Center ECG interpretation is subjected to substantial intra- and inter-observer
      variability. To overcome this problem, a standardized ECG code was developed 50 years ago 20
      and has been widely used in epidemiological studies. The visual classification of the ECG
      using the Minnesota code, nonetheless, is time consuming. The investigators created a ECG
      Reading Center for the Elsa study, a 10-year longitudinal cohort study of 15,000 public
      employees of Brazilian Universities. For this ECG Reading Center, was installed a software
      developed by Prof. Peter MacFarlane, from Glasgow University, that analyzes, codifies and
      compares the ECG with previous tracings, according to a validated algorithm [9]. This system
      will be used in the present project.

      Preliminary Studies

      Diagnostic and prognostic value of BNP In 2002, investigators described, in a study published
      by The Lancet, that blood levels of BNP are inversely correlated to the systolic left
      ventricular (LV) ejection fraction, the most used index of LV function in ChD [21]. In
      patients with abnormal ECG and/or chest X-Ray, BNP elevation had a positive predictive value
      of 80% and a negative predictive value of 97% for the detection of patients with depressed
      left ventricular ejection fraction [21]. This results were confirmed in the following years
      by several other studies by our research group [22-26]. A diagnostic strategy including ECG
      and BNP performed better than the classical approach with ECG and chest X-Ray [24]. Moreover,
      BNP was also a marker of ventricular arrhythmia [26] and diastolic dysfunction [22,27].

      More recently, was described that BNP levels were strong predictors of the risk of death [28]
      and in a cohort of 1,398 indwelling elderly from the city of Bambuí, in the state of Minas
      Gerais, Brazil [28]. The hazard ratio for death was 1.27 for each unit of log-transformed BNP
      level (95% confidence interval (CI: 1.11, 1.45) among infected persons, independent of
      potentially confounding factors. Infected persons with baseline BNP levels in the top
      quartile had a risk of death twice that of persons in the bottom quartile (hazard ratio =
      2.07, 95% CI: 1.29, 3.32). In the same population, was found that BNP alone or in association
      with atrial fibrillation had prognostic value for stroke mortality in T. cruzi chronically
      infected older adults [29].

      Electrocardiographic measures and prognostic models The ECG is the single most important exam
      in CCC. Numerous epidemiological studies have shown that patients with a normal ECG have an
      excellent medium-term survival [30,31]. The greater the number and severity of ECG
      alterations registered in a same tracing, the more advanced the myocardial damage possibly
      is, and the worse the prognosis should be [12]. We have shown that the QRS duration is
      moderately correlated with the LV ejection fraction [32] and that, during the follow-up of
      these patients, the increase in the duration of the QRS complex and the appearance of new
      electrocardiographic alterations may help in identifying patients with a significant decrease
      (of 5% or more) in left ventricle ejection fraction [33].

      Based in the well-known prognostic value of LV ejection fraction and the presence of
      ventricular tachycardia, [5] was proposed an alternative approach to the well established
      Rassi's score, [34,35] considering only three risk factors: left ventricular ejection
      fraction < 50%, ventricular tachycardia at either stress testing or Holter monitoring, and
      QRS > 133 ms at ECG (or filtered QRS > 150 ms at signal-averaged ECG).34,35 Low risk group
      has zero or one risk factor (5-year mortality: 1%), intermediate risk, two factors (20%
      mortality), and high risk, all three factors (50% mortality). This simplified prognostic
      score had an excellent performance in predicting death in a study with 74 months of follow up
      (c statistic 0.92) and it may be an attractive alternative to the established six-factor
      score.

      More recently, the investigators showed that T-wave amplitude variability (TWV), a
      sophisticated ECG-derived measure of repolarization variability, is independently related to
      the risk of death in ChD [36]. They have also studied the prognostic value of several new
      echocardiographic measures [37-39] which could be of physiopathological and clinical
      relevance, but are not possible to be used for ambulatory patients in the rural area.

      Kaplan-Meier curves demonstrating mortality in Chagas disease patients Classified according
      to the presence prolonged of QRS > 133 ms at ECG; Classified according to a risk score in
      which each of the following factors is worth one point: ventricular tachycardia at either
      stress testing or Holter monitoring, left ventricular ejection fraction < 0.50, QRS > 133 ms
      at ECG. Low risk group has zero or one risk factors, intermediate risk, two factors, and high
      risk, all three factors.

      Summarizing, although we and others investigators have extensively studied prognostic markers
      in Chagas disease and CCC, there is no definite simple, low-cost prognostic model available
      to be used in the primary care setting. Standard ECG and BNP levels are good candidates to be
      selected in this simplified predictive model.
    
  