
    
      Patients who undergo mastectomy +/- sentinel node biopsy +/- axillary clearance +/- implant
      reconstruction will be eligible for the study. Patients will be consented by Mr Davies
      preoperatively in the breast clinic at Kingston Hospital to be randomly allocated to one of
      two groups.

      The study will be double blinded and patients will be randomly allocated in to one of two
      groups as detailed below:

      Group 1 - Control Group The first group will act as the control group and will receive wound
      infiltration with the full amount of local anaesthetic (40mls) around the drain sites and
      axillary wound, if present, as is standard practice. They will also receive a 20ml injection
      of 0.9% saline deep to serratus anterior under direct observation. Infiltration of saline
      will be delivered into 2-3 muscular slips (typically ribs 4-6) in the anterior axillary line.
      The local anaesthetic will be prepared according to body weight and a dose of 0.375% of
      chirocaine will be used with the addition of 1:200000 adrenaline and 1 microgram/kg of
      clonidine.

      Group 2 - Serratus Plane Block Group

      The second group will receive a serratus plane block and wound infiltration as described
      below:

      The serratus plane block will be conducted by injecting 50% of the total available chirocaine
      0.375% with adrenaline and clonidine (20mls) deep to serratus anterior under direct
      observation. Infiltration will be delivered into 2-3 muscular slips (typically ribs 4-6) in
      the anterior axillary line. The remaining 50% of local anaesthetic (20mls) will be
      administered by wound infiltration around the drain sites and axillary wound if present along
      with a 20ml 0.9% saline injection.

      For clarity, please see the table summary below detailing the volumes and locations of local
      anaesthetic and saline injections in both groups:

      20ml local anaesthetic delivered as a serratus block 20ml Saline delivered deep to serratus
      anterior 20ml local anaesthetic and 20ml saline wound and drain site infiltration 40ml local
      anaesthetic wound and drain site infiltration Control Group X √ X √ Serratus Group √ X √ X

      The purpose of the saline injections is to blind the trial to the surgeon delivering the
      serratus block.

      The anaesthesia for all patients in both groups will be induced using a combination of
      0.25mg/kg ketamine, propofol and fentanyl according to standard anaesthetic protocol. All
      patients will receive 10mg IM morphine intraoperatively. All patients will have regular
      simple analgesia such as paracetamol and ibuprofen and PRN opiates (tramadol 50-100mg PRN 8
      hourly) prescribed for post-operative adjunct pain management.

      Patients will be blinded to which group they are randomly allocated to. Written consent and
      information sheets will be provided to patients and a letter sent to their GP confirming
      participation in the study.

      Data on pain scores and the use of analgesia in recovery, the use of analgesia overnight, the
      presence of nausea and the pain score and mobilisation status one day after the operation
      will be collected. The pain score will be assessed using a standard numerical rating scale
      from 0-10 to score their pain subjectively where:

        -  0 = No Pain

        -  1-3 = Mild Pain (interferes a little with activities of daily living)

        -  4-6 = Moderate Pain (interferes significantly with activities of daily living)

        -  7-10 = Severe Pain (unable to perform activities of daily living)

      Patients will also be followed up and one week and 3 months after their surgery to determine
      their recovery and the presence of any pain. This data will be collected using the FACT - B:
      Quality of Life Assessment 1 questionnaire.

      All collected data will only be stored on NHS trust computer systems.
    
  