
    
      According to the World Alzheimer Report 2018, 50 million people are living with dementia and
      the number is expected to triple to 152 million by 2050. Most people at high risk of dementia
      or with dementia reside in the community. Effective community-based programs can help to
      maintain functional levels and mitigate or prevent excessive functional decline. There are
      increasing empirical evidence to support structured and regular cognitive activities as part
      of brain health lifestyle .

      Cognitive intervention is an increasing popular approach that aim to maintain or improve the
      cognitive functioning of the older adults with or without cognitive impairments. Appropriate
      cognitive intervention has the potential to change their brain neuro-mechanism. Recent
      evidence suggests that repeated practices of a carefully designed cognitive exercises with a
      high degree of similarity with real-life activities of daily living (ADL) (e.g., remembering
      the instructions for taking prescription medicine, identifying the medicine precautions,
      etc.) can improve both cognitive skills and cognitive functional performance.

      Because of the complexity of cognitive issues people with cognitive impairments encounter,
      scholars have advocated for a multi-component cognitive intervention that includes more than
      one approach to make the best use of the individual approaches. The investigators conducted a
      quasi-experimental study that combined motor-cognitive dual-task exercises with high
      cognitive demands, cognitive training, and cognitive rehabilitation. The results showed that
      the intervention can improve cognitive skills and cognitive functional performance for people
      with mild cognitive impairments.

      However, the need to strengthen the research design and to standardize treatment protocols
      led most cognitive intervention research to target a group of participants with similar
      cognitive skills, such as those with normal cognition, those with mild cognitive impairments,
      or those with dementia, etc. This homogeneity in participants is in sharp contrast to what is
      observed in communities, where most likely the group is inclusive of persons with different
      levels of cognitive skills. The efficacy of cognitive intervention with an inclusive group
      design was rarely examined.

      Scholars have called for more effort to speed up the process of bridging evidence-based
      intervention to the everyday settings people live in. Cognitive intervention is in a
      situation of "leaky pipeline," that is, no systematic examination of how the evidence can be
      translated, tested in real-world settings (practice), and/or implemented across communities
      in the continuum of research evidence to widespread implementation. The increasing use of
      feasibility research design is mostly used as a precursor of randomized clinical trial,
      examining whether a study protocol requires adjustment, what the barriers and potential
      strategies are. With the abundance of research that supports the efficacy of cognitive
      intervention, to the best of the investigators' knowledge, there are no study that
      investigated the transportability of evidence-based cognitive intervention into the
      community.

      This study discusses the feasibility, implementation, and preliminary effectiveness of an
      evidence-driven, multi-component cognitive intervention using simulated everyday tasks
      (MCI-SET) for cognitively-vulnerable older adults in community organizations in two cities in
      southern Taiwan.
    
  