
    
      Modified radical mastectomy (MRM) is one of the most common surgeries performed, and one that
      may be associated with significant acute postoperative pain in breast surgery. Acute
      postoperative pain is an independent risk factor in the development of chronic
      post-mastectomy pain.

      Various regional anesthetic procedures have been tried to provide better acute pain control
      and, consequently, less chronic pain. They can reduce perioperative opiates requirement and
      thereby decreasing their possible side effects. These regional procedures include local wound
      infiltration, thoracic epidural, and thoracic paravertebral block (PVB). pectoral nerves
      block type-1 (PECSI), pectoral nerves block type-2 (PECS II), and serratus plane block.

      Ultrasound-guided Serratus anterior plane (SAP) block is an interventional technique that
      recently gained popularity in the context of breast surgery. SAP block resulted in better
      hemodynamic stability, early ambulation, and reduced duration of hospitalization as well as
      hospital costs in postoperative breast patients.

      Some limitations may be encountered during the use of ultrasound, such as obesity, tumor
      invasion of the surrounding muscles, which may lead to poor ultrasound image quality. Also,
      ultrasound use depends on equipment quality and investigator experience.

      The investigators hypothesized that an open approach to serratus anterior block by
      infiltration of local anesthetic between serratus anterior muscle and ribs after tumor
      excision during surgery would be non-inferior to ultrasound-guided approach in providing
      analgesia to female patients undergoing modified radical mastectomy. The primary endpoint
      will be the total dose of morphine consumed in the 1st postoperative 24 h. secondary outcomes
      will be the time of the first analgesic request (duration of the pain-free periods after
      surgery in the1st postoperative 24 hours), postoperative visual analog score (VAS),
      postoperative modified Ramsay sedation score, and PONV (post-operative nausea and vomiting).
    
  