
    
      Systemic inflammatory diseases in children include auto-inflammatory diseases (deregulation
      of the innate immune system with production of pro-inflammatory cytokines) and autoimmune
      diseases (deregulation of the adaptive immune system with production of pathogenic
      autoantibodies). Neurological damage has been reported in both cases, but the
      neurodevelopmental psychiatric manifestations are poorly known, especially in children.
      Neurodevelopmental disorders are a broad spectrum of pathologies with common symptomatic
      dimensions. They present a common physiopathology combining genetic predisposition factors as
      well as environmental risk factors, which allows them to be studied from a global
      perspective. Among the environmental risk factors, the immune system seems to play an
      important role in the appearance of these pathologies. In recent years, fundamental and
      animal studies have highlighted an important role of the immune system at the cerebral level.
      Indeed, far from the old notion of ""immune privilege"", the innate or adaptive immune
      balance seems to have a fundamental role in the proper development and functioning of the
      brain. Consequently, any change in the immune balance could then disrupt neurological
      development. Indeed, in recent years, epidemiological studies seem to indicate the role of
      immune-mediated events during pregnancy (maternal autoimmune/inflammatory pathology or
      infection during pregnancy) or the early years of life (autoimmune/inflammatory pathology) as
      risk factors for neurodevelopmental disorders.

      Neurodevelopmental manifestations are very poorly known in systemic inflammatory pathologies.
      They can have a significant impact and justify adapted care in order to limit the functional
      impact. Indeed, due to their pathology, these patients produce pro-inflammatory cytokines at
      an early stage which could have an impact on their neurodevelopment. The identification of
      neurodevelopmental disorders in these patients could be a clinical and epidemiological
      validation of preclinical studies highlighting the importance of the immune system in the
      proper development of the brain. The main objective of our study will be to define the
      prevalence of neurodevelopmental disorders in children suffering from systemic inflammatory
      diseases via the passing on by parents of children between 5 and 17 years old of three
      hetero-questionnaires (i) SRS (assessing social interaction disorders), (ii) ADHD-RS
      (assessing attentional and hyperactivity difficulties) (iii) BRIEF (assessing difficulties in
      executive functions). All the results of these scales are adjusted for the age and sex of the
      patients and provide a T-score (allowing a valid comparison).

      This is a multi-centre cross-sectional study involving the collection of data from patients'
      medical records and questionnaires from patients' parents.
    
  