
    
      Human egg freezing is rapidly becoming a vital tool in Assisted Reproductive Technology.
      Candidates for egg freezing include women without partners who wish to preserve their
      fertility; cancer patients at risk of losing fertility from chemotherapy; and donor egg
      recipients. While in the past, egg freezing has not been as successful as embryo freezing in
      producing live births, recent experience in several centers has demonstrated significant
      improvement, with pregnancy rates comparable to those achieved with frozen embryos. The
      purpose of this study is to determine the best method to freeze eggs. We shall be seeking
      volunteers from the egg donor program, since young, fertile donors represent the best model
      to study the effect of egg freezing.

      We plan to enroll 12 recipients and 6 donors in this study. Each egg donor will go through a
      stringent screening process (medical, genetic and psychological). Eggs retrieved from all
      donors will be split in half: one half will be frozen by the slow freeze method, and the
      other half by vitrification. Each of the six donors will be paired with two recipients; each
      recipient will be assigned half the total eggs frozen. For each recipient, half of the eggs
      will come from the slow freeze group and the other half will come from vitrification.

      When the recipient's uterine lining is deemed ready (following estrogen treatment and
      ultrasound monitoring), thawing will be performed on eggs frozen by either the slow freeze or
      the vitrification method. The thaw process will be randomized between the two types of
      freezing. One sperm will be injected into each egg that survived the freeze. Fertilization
      and embryo development will be recorded. Ideally, two embryos will be transferred into the
      recipient's uterus. Pregnancy will be determined by a blood test and followed by serial blood
      tests and ultrasound.

      The study will determine which freezing method yields better survival and pregnancy rates.
    
  