
    
      The oncological outcome achieved by NSS is considered equivalent to RN in patients with stage
      T1 renal tumors and as the benefits of NSS become apparent, the indications and application
      of NSS continue to expand to involve even higher stages of renal tumors, These trails were
      successful to achieve nearly a similar oncological outcome, however the functional outcome of
      the residual renal volume was not calculated because most of these studies depend only on the
      radiographic stage of the tumor. And it is not logic to expose the patients to the risk of
      NSS surgery with dissection of a large tumor volume to leave only small residual renal tissue
      volume that may not have enough benefit. To balance this risk benefit ratio, preoperative
      assessment of expected residual renal tissue volume can be calculated using contrast CT for
      all patients with renal masses must be done to reach a cutoff point for the least residual
      volume of renal tissue that should be left postoperatively to achieve a significant function,
      and to decide whether to do NSS or to proceed to radical surgery from the start.

      The technical skill of the surgeon and the anatomical features of the renal tumor are
      important factors. The contribution of each factor to treatment choice and outcome are
      particularly relevant because the physician treatment recommendations are subject to training
      patterns biases, comfort levels and individual experience also the kidney doesn't follow an
      anatomical partitioning since designation of independent renal segments based on vascular
      distributions or collecting duct branching is not possible. Nevertheless, renal anatomy does
      contain consistent and easily reproducible landmarks which can be used by radiologists and
      surgeons to describe and quantify pertinent features of renal masses therefore Preoperative
      Aspects and Dimensions Used for an Anatomical Classification (PADUA) scoring system have
      emerged for quantifying the anatomical features relevant to surgical decision-making and to
      predict the risk of surgical and medical perioperative complications in renal tumor patients.

        1. Preoperative assessment:

             1. Using contrast CT radiologist will measure the expected residual renal tissue
                volume ( total renal tissue volume) and PADUA score.

             2. GFR Calculation by Cockcroft-Gault formula.

        2. Operative technique:

           NSS will be done whenever possible by open approach, according to PADUA score hot
           ischemia with clamping of the renal artery will be done in less complicated mass while
           cold ischemia with cooling of the kidney surface after clamping of both renal artery and
           vein will be done in more complicated masses, Enculation of the mass will be done
           whenever possible, excision will be done if needed then closure of renal defect will be
           done only if necessary.

           Radical nephrectomy will be done only in more complicated cases that are not amenable
           for NSS by open or laparoscopic approach through early ligation of the renal artery and
           vein, removal of the kidney outside Gerota's fascia, with or without removal of the
           ipsilateral adrenal gland, and performance of a complete regional lymphadenectomy
           whenever possible.

        3. Post-operative assessment:

             1. In case of NSS ,immediately post operatively the volume of the mass excised will be
                measured using graded jar and after 6 months contrast CT for measuring the residual
                ipsilateral parenchymal renal volume and the volume of the other kidney will be
                done by the same radiologist who had previously assessed the case (blinded to the
                preoperative data).

             2. In case of radical nephrectomy, immediately post operatively we will separate the
                mass from normal renal tissue in the specimen excised then the volume of the mass
                and the normal renal tissue will be measured using graded jar. After 6 months the
                volume of the other kidney will be measured by the same radiologist who had
                previously assessed the case (blinded to the preoperative data)

             3. Residual GFR calculation by GFR Calculation by Cockcroft-Gault formula.
    
  