
    
      Specific details of Treatment/Intervention: (prescription and/or therapy, devices, equipment,
      solutions, product to be used in conducting study:

      To apply Prismaflex system with oXiris membrane after cardiopulmonary bypass in SCUF modality
      for CPB priming volume elimination.

      Duration of procedure: 6 hours Blood flow:150-200 ml/min Anticoagulation: no additional
      heparinization.

      According to the features of oXiris membrane:

        1. Cytokines, complement, endotoxin adsorptive capacity.

        2. Capability of accurate fluid balance management after cardiac surgery and CPB.

        3. Reduced demand of anticoagulation therapy for CRRT in patients with high risk of
           bleeding.

      The goal of the research:

        1. To evaluate effect of adsorption of oXiris membrane on levels of complement (C3a, C5a),
           pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, TNF-α,IL-6,Il-8, IL-10,TGF-β), LPS (EAA
           levels) after CPB.

        2. To evaluate leukocytes activation after CPB and after inflammatory mediators adsorption
           with oXiris (CD11b/CD18)

        3. To evaluate endothelial dysfunction after CPB and after CRRT with oXiris:
           endothelial/leukocytes interactions (ICAM-1, VCAM-1), biomarkers of endothelial
           permeability (angiopoetin-2, sFLT-1), biomarkers of endothelial coagulopathy (von
           Willebrand factor, thrombomodulin)

        4. To evaluate effect of volume control with CRRT on CS-AKI and dependence on mechanical
           ventilation after cardiac surgery, regarding volume overload in patients undergoing CPB
           with "priming volume" infusion.

        5. To evaluate stage and topography of cardiac surgery associated acute kidney injury
           (creatinine, cystatin C, NGAL, KIM-1, β2-microglobuline) in patients in two arms: oXiris
           and standard protocol.

        6. To evaluate adsorptive and volume control feasible effects of oXiris membrane on volume
           management (CVP,PAWP), LPS adsorption, reduction of systemic inflammation , endothelium
           dysfunction and AKI after cardiac surgery with CPB in comparison with standard protocol.
    
  