
    
      Rationale:

      Non alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has a prevalence of up to 80% in patients with T2DM
      and obesity and can lead to steatohepatitis (NASH) and fibrosis as well as cirrhosis and
      hepatocellular carcinoma. As NAFLD is associated with increased risk of cardiovascular
      disease and mortality and as NAFLD-induced liver disease is anticipated to be the most common
      indication for liver transplantation over the next decade, treatment options are desperately
      needed but very few are available.

      Weight loss with caloric restriction (CR) is the preferred treatment of NAFLD, however
      successful maintenance of a significant weight loss is difficult to achieve. Additionally,
      despite significant association between degree of weight loss and improvements in NASH and
      NAFLD, there is extensive overlap in the response among populations. This suggests that it
      may not be weight loss in general, but rather the mechanistic underpinnings of the weight
      loss that potentiate the therapeutic effects. A study comparing dietary carbohydrate
      restriction vs CR in obese subjects with NAFLD found that, despite similar weight loss
      between groups, there was greater hepatic triglyceride reduction with carbohydrate
      restriction and this reduction was highly correlated with plasma ketone concentrations.
      Hence, although weight loss is ostensibly important, there might be additional factors beyond
      just weight loss per se causing the improvements in NASH. Therefore, rather than weight loss,
      reduction in intrahepatic triglyceride will be the primary endpoint of this proposal.

      Progression to NASH and beyond is largely due to a spectrum of metabolic abnormalities
      including ectopic hepatic fat accumulation, insulin resistance, and abnormal lipid
      metabolism. A recent animal study showed blunted ketogenesis in NASH and suggested the
      overall etiology was due to inefficient oxidation and disposal of free fatty acids in the
      liver. A fasting paradigm, or facilitating times of ketosis that could then normalize lipid
      metabolism, might be one of the additional factors beyond weight loss that ensures
      improvements in NAFLD and NASH.

      Intermittent fasting (IF) is a dietary intervention whereby food is restricted for varying
      timeframes, including alternate day fasting (ADF) where no or very few calories are given for
      a day or more with ad lib feeding in between. In animal models, IF has been shown to have
      numerous beneficial effects, many in excess of those seen with CR. In a mouse model of NAFLD,
      IF resulted in improvements in hepatic steatosis and inflammation along with gene expression
      changes showing enhanced activation of lipid oxidation and reduction of lipid synthesis.
      These benefits may be due to "flipping the metabolic switch" from glucose to ketone
      utilization for primary cellular energy needs. Data are only beginning to emerge on the
      effects of IF in humans, and very few studies have focused on ketone production as a mediator
      of positive outcomes. There are no data on the effect of ADF on NAFLD.

      Specific Aims:

      SA1: To compare the effect of ADF vs CR on metabolic changes including liver fat, glucose
      homeostasis, lipid metabolism, and inflammation in patients with NAFLD and T2DM SA1a: To
      determine changes in hepatic triglyceride by MRS after 4 weeks of ADF and after 4 weeks of ad
      lib diet SA1b: To determine changes in glucose homeostasis SA1c: To determine changes in
      whole body lipid metabolism and inflammation SA2: To determine the safety, tolerability, and
      effectiveness on weight loss of ADF vs CR SA2a: To determine safety of ADF SA2b: To compare
      changes in body weight, body composition, physical activity, physical functioning and
      physical fitness SA2c: To determine effect on eating behaviors, hunger/satiety, and body
      image SA2d: To determine effect on cognition and quality of life
    
  