
    
      Study Design The study will be conducted using an unblinded, randomized trial design.
      Patients starting systemic therapy for advanced NSCLC will be invited to complete the LCSS-QL
      upon starting first-line systemic chemotherapy and then prior to subsequent treatment visits
      (every 3 weeks). Patients will then be randomized at baseline to whether or not their
      physician will receive this information at the time of clinic visits for the duration of
      study participation. Randomization codes will be generated by computer program, with
      stratification by physician, platinum-based versus non-platinum based therapy and Eastern
      Cooperative Group Performance Status 0 and 1 versus 2 and 3. All patients complete the
      LCSS-QL at baseline, at the beginning of each cycle of chemotherapy, and at follow up visits
      until disease progression (initiation of subsequent therapy)or discontinue clinic visits an
      expected average of 12 to 18 weeks.

      Patient Population All NSCLC patients with advanced disease (Stage 3B or 4) starting systemic
      therapy at the Princess Margaret Hospital will be eligible to participate. Inclusion criteria
      include the physical ability to use the hand-held instrument (adequate vision, manual
      dexterity), provision of written informed consent, and written fluency in English, French,
      Italian, Spanish, Portuguese or Chinese. Patients will be excluded if they are unable to
      complete or understand the assessment process, or if they are receiving concurrent radical
      radiotherapy.

      Physician Information Physicians will be trained in interpretation of the LCSS electronic
      output data, in order to facilitate interpretation of the different domains of patient
      well-being, for example pain scores. An endorsement sheet will be printed in addition to the
      LCSS data, highlighting major changes in quality of life. For example, deterioration in pain
      control will be highlighted with suggestions to increase or change pain medication, consider
      radiotherapy and other pain management options, including changing systemic therapy.

      Outcomes

      Endpoints include palliative care referral rates, duration of systemic therapy, use of
      supportive interventions and QoL during treatment.

      Data on the number of chemotherapy cycles administered, referral to palliative care
      (including timing), institution of additional supportive treatments, and number of imaging
      tests ordered will be collected for all patients prospectively. Data on LCSS scores,
      subsequent therapy, and date of death will also be recorded.
    
  