
    
      Technical information about the content of the MyPlan 2.0. intervention:

      MyPlan 2.0. was the eHealth intervention that was used in this study. MyPlan 2.0. is a
      theory- and user-based intervention. Theories used to develop the intervention are the
      self-regulation theory and the Health Action Approach model. The intervention targets pre-
      and post-intentional processes to reach behavior change. The intervention consists of five
      website visits in five weeks (one per week).

      During the first website visit, the participants fill in a short PA questionnaire and based
      on the answers, they receive personal feedback about their behavior (pre-intentional
      processes). Knowledge is also provided by giving users the chance to fill in an optional quiz
      about PA and its beneficial effects. Post-intentional processes are targeted during this
      first visit by asking the participants to make an action plan. Participants are asked what
      they want to do (e.g. being more active by cycling during leisure time), when (e.g. every
      Sunday morning), where (e.g. in the streets nearby) and for how long (e.g. 60 minutes). After
      answering these questions, the participants can identify difficult situations and possible
      barriers (i.e. coping planning) while pursuing their goals. Dependent on which barriers they
      select, specific solutions are given and the participants could choose which ones they
      consider appropriate and want to apply. After this first website visit, the users can
      indicate how they want to self-monitor their behaviour (e.g. using an agenda).

      One week after finishing the first website visit, the participants receive an email to
      revisit the website. During this second visit, they receive feedback about their behavioural
      change process and their goals (e.g. did the participant reach his/her goal or not?).
      Afterwards the participants have the possibility to adapt their action plan (e.g. setting
      new, more realistic goals). They can reconsider coping plans, based on barriers they
      experienced while pursuing their goals. Furthermore, participants can optionally read
      activity tips. Website visits 3, 4 and 5 are respectively activated one week after the
      previous visit. Again, the participants are reminded by email. These three last visits are
      identical to the second visit (review of the action and coping plan).
    
  