
    
      Study Design

      Building on the established protocol of Art-Therapy based supervision together with the
      additional elements of mindfulness practice, this study will adopt an randomized wait-list
      control trial design comprising of two groups: (i) Intervention group (MCAT Supervision), and
      (ii) Control group (MCAT Supervision will be provided after the intervention group completed
      all supervision sessions).

      Study Site

      Participants will be recruited from a community-based collaborating partner, Hospice Care
      Association (HCA), Singapore's largest home hospice care provider. Deputy Medical Director
      and Programme Director of HCA Star PALs, together with his appointed staffs will provide
      assistance in recruitment as well as tracking of participants, allowing for timely
      intervention and efficient data collection.

      Participants

      The sample will comprise of 60 frontline EoL caregivers including doctors, nurses, social
      workers and allied health professionals currently working in field of hospice and palliative
      care (N=60).

      Allowing for an attrition rate of 15% at follow-up, a sample of 60 will provide 80% power to
      detect an effect size of 0.80 standard deviation units in the primary outcome measure of
      Maslach Burnout Inventory-General Survey between the intervention and control group at the
      (two-tailed test) 5% level of significance.

      Recruitment, assessment, intervention, and follow up procedures

      Upon informed consent and baseline assessment [T1] conducted via paper or electronic online
      questionnaires, participants will be randomly assigned to either the intervention or waitlist
      control group. Those assigned to in the intervention group will attend 6 weekly
      Mindful-Compassion Art Therapy supervision led by a credentialed art therapist and an
      experienced mindfulness practitioner at the training facilities of HCA. Each session will
      last for 3 hours and each group will consists of 15 participants. Outcome assessments will be
      conducted at two-time-points: immediately after intervention [T2] and four weeks post
      intervention [T3]. Those assigned to the waitlist control group will receive no intervention
      until approximately three month later; equivalent intervention and assessment procedures will
      be administered. The 6-week 3-hour MCAT supervision will include elements of brief
      psycho-education, weekly mindful mediation that serve as a foundation to foster art making,
      reflective writing, group sharing and discussion.

      Between and within participants comparisons of quantitative outcomes will be conducted and
      the appropriate effect size estimates reported. The intervention group and control group will
      be compared on the main outcome (i.e. burnout) and secondary outcomes (i.e. fear and negative
      attitudes of death, emotional awareness and regulation, resilience, compassion, and overall
      quality life). T2 and T3 assessments will be compared with baseline assessment. The
      intervention and control groups will also be compared on demographic characteristics with
      baseline measures; if necessary, they variables will be controlled in the analyses. The SPSS
      statistical software package will be used to manage the data.

      The Framework method of analysis will be used to analyze qualitative data. 28 Analyses will
      be both deductive (from pre-set aims and objectives) and inductive (arising from participants
      view). This method tends to be more structured than some other methods of qualitative
      analysis and the process more explicit and more informed by a priori questions. It is
      designed so that it can be more easily understood and assessed by people other than the
      analyst, such as funding bodies, policy makers and participants. Throughout the analytical
      process we will use strategies to maximize credibility, criticality, and authenticity. The
      QSR NVIVO software package will be used to manage the data.
    
  