
    
      The study will be conducted in the Infertility clinic of a medical school hospital. The study
      included women receiving IVF treatment. In the pre-initial evaluation, "Introductory
      Information Form, Screening on distress in fertility treatment (SCREENIVF), Infertility
      Stress, Life Quality Scale for Persons with Fertility Problems(FertiQol), Subjective Units of
      Distress Scale-SUD application is planned. A "Consultancy Program" will be applied to the
      experimental group in the form of two modules in addition to drug applications, egg pick up
      and embryo transfer before, during and after clinical routine health care. The first module
      of the counseling program is the definition of infertility, the treatment process, its
      effects on the life process and coping methods. The second module includes the application of
      breath awareness and Emotional Freedom Technique (EFT) within the scope of coping methods
      with infertility stress. Emotional Freedom Technique-EFT is an energy psychotherapy based on
      the principle that each limiting thought, disturbing emotion and memory of an individual
      disrupts the energy flow in the body and creates congestion. This technique, the stimulation
      on the meridian system by focusing on the thought, disturbing emotion or memory that prevents
      the individual (often by touching) regulates the energy flow and provides the individual to
      relax. With breath awareness, beneficial results can be obtained, such as physical, sensory
      and mental control, life-facilitating techniques, individual and social awareness,
      re-existence and raising the level of consciousness. Within the scope of the counseling
      program, a total of seven follow-ups will be made, five-to-one, via two phone calls. On the
      day of follicle development (2nd Follow-up), Egg Pick up Procedure (4th Follow-up) and Embryo
      transfer (5th Follow-up), the patient will be given breathing exercises and EFT and
      Subjective Units of Distress Scale will be scored. The control group will continue clinical
      routine health care and will be followed up on the first day of IVF treatment (1st follow-up)
      and on the seventh day of embryo transfer (2nd follow-up). For ethical reasons, a consultancy
      program will be applied to the control group after the second follow-up. Data collection
      tools will be applied again to both groups in the final evaluation.
    
  