
    
      Study design: This is a prospective not controlled, not randomized, unicentric study to
      establish predictive biomarkers for a safe and effective treatment withdrawal in patients
      with type 1 AIH.

      Length of the study: Screening is expected to take a year. Treatment withdrawal will be done
      gradually over a period of 6 months and there will be a follow-up of 18 months.

      Sample size: The rate of recurrence has been around 36% in some studies. However, this rate
      is uncertain and it depends on the studied population and the afterwards follow-up. That is
      why investigators have calculated the sample size with the confidence interval of this rate
      and a 10% precision which was of 87 patients. Expecting 10% of losses, the final sample size
      is 96 patients.

      Patients: Investigators will select 96 patients diagnosed with type 1 AIH with biochemical
      remission of at least 3 years that are under immunosuppressive treatment followed in Hospital
      Clinic Barcelona. Patients with type 2 AIH are excluded because of their proved high risk of
      recurrence. Other inclusion and exclusion criteria are the following:

      Treatment withdrawal: IS will be tapered gradually over a period of 6 months. Azathioprine
      will be stopped during the first 3 months, reducing the dose 50% every month. Prednisone will
      be tapered 2.5mg monthly until total withdrawal. During withdrawal and the first year after
      stopping treatment patients will undergo laboratory tests on a monthly basis, afterwards,
      follow-up will be done every 3 months until the end of the project.

      Sustained remission: Patients that after stopping treatment maintain AST/ALT under 2 times
      the upper normal limit.

      Recurrence: Patients who do not fulfil previous criteria.

      Data collection:

        -  Demographic variables: age, sex, time from diagnosis to treatment withdrawal, laboratory
           information such as aminotransferases, gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT), alkaline
           phosphatase (AP) and autoantibodies.

        -  Histological sample at the moment of inclusion in which the following analysis will be
           performed: usual staining techniques to evaluate the presence of portal inflammation,
           interface hepatitis and fibrosis. Expression of a group of genes involved in liver
           rejection (CXCL9, CXCL10, FoxP3, TK1, CD74, MMP9) will be evaluated with quantitative
           polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) in RNA of the tissue samples cryopreserved at -80ºC.
           Immunochemical staining to quantify the number of lymphocytes CD4+, CD8+ and Tregs.

        -  The following variables will be evaluated in blood samples collected at the inclusion
           and in every follow-up visit:

             -  Flux cytometry: Frequency and characteristics of Tregs (CD4+, CD25+, CD127- and
                FoxP3). The intracellular stain of CTLA-4 will be evaluated as well.

             -  Stimulation with interleukin 2 (IL2) to study Tregs response (measured by the
                expression of pSTAT5 after 20minutes of stimulation and the afterwards production
                of IL10).

             -  Autoantibodies titers: antinuclear autoantibodies (ANA), anti-smooth muscle
                antibody(ASMA), anti-liver kidney microsome type 1 (antiLKM), anti-soluble liver
                antigen (antiSLA) and immunoglobulins levels.

      Statistical analysis: Categorical variables will be compared with Chi or Fisher tests.
      Quantitative variables will be analyzed with non-parametric tests (Mann-Whitney for
      independent samples and Wilcoxon for paired samples). To quantify the expression of genes in
      blood and tissue sample the Ct of the gene will be normalized with the 3 "housekeeping" (18S,
      HPRT, GAPDH) to generate the delta Ct. Results will be expressed as a relative expression of
      the cDNA of the study and the calibrated sample. Differences of <0.05 will be considered as
      statistically significant. Data analysis will be performed with Stata vs 15.1.

      Ambition: Investigator's hypothesis is that those patients affected with type 1 AIH able to
      maintain remission after treatment withdrawal will express distinctive serological and
      histological biomarkers, making possible the identification of patients that could benefit
      from stopping treatment in the future avoiding its costs and adverse effects. At the same
      time, it would help to understand the immunopathogenesis of AIH and the identification of new
      therapeutic targets. Therefore, changing the natural history of this disease where there has
      been little advance in this field in the past decades.
    
  