
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) at 6 months for patients with relapsed or
      refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL)/prolymphocytic
      leukemia (PLL) treated with the combination of MOR00208 plus lenalidomide.

      II. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) at 6 months for patients with
      treatment-naive CLL/SLL/PLL treated with the combination of MOR00208 plus lenalidomide.

      III.To obtain preliminary data on toxicity profiles and efficacy with the combination of
      MOR00208 plus lenalidomide in patients with Richter's Transformation IV. To obtain
      preliminary data on efficacy of MOR00208 in patients with progressive disease on ibrutinib
      monotherapy

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) at 12 months for patients with untreated
      CLL/SLL/PLL or relapsed/refractory disease treated with the combination of MOR00208 plus
      lenalidomide.

      II. To determine the complete response (CR) rate, nodular partial response (nPR) rate,
      partial response (PR) rate, and stable disease (SD) rate for patients with untreated
      CLL/SLL/PLL or relapsed or refractory disease treated with the combination of MOR00208 plus
      lenalidomide.

      III. To summarize the progression free survival (PFS), time to next treatment, and overall
      survival (OS) for each of two cohorts of patients treated with this regimen.

      IV. To evaluate toxicity with this regimen, including frequency and severity of toxicities,
      dose reduction requirements, and adverse events requiring drug discontinuation.

      V. To perform baseline analysis of patients enrolled on this trial including fluorescence in
      situ hybridization (FISH), stimulated karyotype, zeta-chain-associated protein kinase 70
      (Zap-70) methylation, and immunoglobulin variable region heavy chain (IgVH) mutational status
      and describe relationships between these biomarkers and ORR or PFS for each of two cohorts
      with this regimen.

      VI. To determine the effect of this regimen on total immunoglobulins, CD4+ and CD8+ T cells,
      natural killer (NK) cells, and interleukin-21 receptor (IL-21R) expression on CLL cells.

      VII. To determine whether NK cells and T cells are activated in response to MOR00208 alone or
      in combination with lenalidomide.

      VIII. To estimate the rate of minimal residual disease (MRD) in patients achieving CR, and
      whether this correlates with PFS.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive anti-CD19 monoclonal antibody MOR00208 intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on
      day 1 (days 1, 2, 8, 15, and 22 of course 1) and lenalidomide orally (PO) daily on days 1-28
      (days 9-28 of course 1). Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
    
  