
    
      This research will be a prospective, cohort study to determine if mothers of infants/newborns
      are more willing to complete CPR training using a 22-minute instructional DVD and infant
      manikin versus traditional four hour didactic instruction. Participants of the study will
      include mothers ages eighteen years and older, being treated as inpatients on the Mother Baby
      Unit (MBU) at the Cedar Crest (CC) site. Participants must have given birth within the last
      twenty-four hours, to a baby receiving care in the MBU nursery or the Neonatal Intensive Care
      Unit (NICU). Consent will be obtained from mother to participate. The control group will
      consist of those mothers who are currently certified in CPR (i.e., have taken the traditional
      CPR class, or have been recertified in CPR by classroom instruction, within the past two
      years). It is expected that this group will not have many participants because it is
      predicted that not many mothers will be certified in infant CPR prior to giving birth. After
      being consented, mothers will be surveyed, and tested on their CPR knowledge and proficiency
      before hospital discharge. The experimental group will consist of those participants who are
      not currently certified in CPR (i.e., have had traditional CPR training over two years ago
      which has lapsed, or who have never been certified in CPR). These participants will be
      consented, surveyed, asked to watch a 22-minute instructional DVD with an infant manikin, and
      then tested on CPR knowledge and proficiency before hospital discharge. Surveys will include
      questions pertaining to participant demographics, previous CPR learning experiences, reasons
      for obtaining and approximate cost of previous CPR instruction, and rating their
      instructional experiences (e.g., ease, quality of instruction, convenience, and
      effectiveness). Research staff will become CPR Instructors; and to ensure the inter-rater
      reliability each member of the staff will independently score CPR knowledge and performance
      in a series of mock CPR testing scenarios. During the study, research staff will be blinded
      to the group that the participants are enrolled in. Therefore, if one research staff member
      enrolls the participant, another blinded research staff member will assess the participants
      CPR proficiency in order to eliminate any instructor bias. Follow-up phone calls will be
      conducted 6 months post enrollment to measure the multiplier effect and to inquire about the
      incidence of having to use CPR skills in a real-life situation. Scores on participant's
      written and practical tests, responses to survey questions and follow up phone calls will be
      compared between groups.
    
  