
    
      Specific Aims

      • Determine the effect of propranolol on vocal tremor in the treatment-seeking population.

      To date, the nonselective beta-blocker propranolol remains the only agent approved for the
      treatment of essential tremor (ET). For ET, immediate and sustained release formations of
      propranolol are equally effective, while other beta-blockers like nadolol and timolol are not
      as effective. While propranolol improves tremor in greater than half of patients with
      essential tremor, its effects on tremor are not evenly distributed. Improvement in tremor
      symptoms is greater for limb tremor than axial tremor, and therefore propranolol is not
      commonly used for the treatment of essential voice tremor (EVT). However, its effect on
      essential voice tremor has never been objectively, prospectively studied. Our aim is to
      objectively determine the effect of propranolol on essential voice tremor in the
      treatment-seeking population by evaluating patients with EVT before and after propranolol
      therapy.

      • Determine the effect of botulinum toxin injections on vocal tremor in the treatment-seeking
      population.

      More recently, botulinum toxin A has been used for the treatment of EVT. Chemical denervation
      with botulinum toxin is only modestly effective in reducing limb tremor in ET and complicated
      by side effects of weakness. However, botulinum toxin seems to be more effective in treating
      EVT than other manifestations of ET. While prior studies have not enlisted validated
      assessments of voice quality to measure the effect of botulinum toxin injections on EVT, they
      have shown subjective improvement in acoustic measures of tremor and ratings of videotaped
      speech after therapy with botulinum toxin. Our aim is to objectively determine the effect of
      botulinum toxin on vocal tremor in the treatment-seeking population by evaluating patients
      with EVT before and after botulinum therapy.

      Voice Evaluations and Medications

      For the first evaluation, a research coordinator will collect demographics and patient
      reported data. This data will result from providing patient questionnaires and recording the
      patient's voice. VRQOL data will be collected by having the patient answer ten statements on
      a 1-5 scale, such as "I have trouble speaking loudly or being heard in noisy situations" or
      "I run out of air and need to take frequent breaths." QUEST data will be also recorded to a
      30-item essential tremor-specific questionnaire. Patient will also complete a global voice
      rating of a 0-7 scoring of "How would you rate your voice today?" After these subjective
      questionnaires, patient will participate in a vocal recording using prompts and passages from
      the validated CAPE-V voice assessment tool.

      After a discussion of the risks and benefits of propranolol therapy, the patient will then be
      given a prescription by the principal investigator for propranolol.

      The second evaluation will occur at an office visit two weeks after initiating propranolol
      therapy. Again, this will consist of patient-reported V-RQOL, QUEST, and global voice rating
      data. Patient will participate in a second vocal recording using prompts and passages from
      the validated CAPE-V voice assessment tool.

      At this second evaluation, patient will receive botulinum toxin injections. The risks and
      benefits of botulinum toxin therapy will be explained to the patient, and bilateral
      injections will take place.

      Four weeks after botulinum toxin injection, the patient will undergo the third voice
      assessment. Again, this will consist of patient-reported V-RQOL, QUEST, and global voice
      rating data. Patient will participate in a third vocal recording using prompts and passages
      from the validated CAPE-V voice assessment tool.
    
  