
    
      Epoetin alfa is a medication that helps the body make more red blood cells.

      Before treatment you will have a complete physical exam. You will have around 1 tablespoon of
      blood drawn for blood tests (these tests are in addition to the routine blood tests you will
      have as part of your standard of care). Women who are able to have children must have a
      negative blood pregnancy test.

      You will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a coin) to one of two treatment groups.
      Patients in the first group will be given epoetin alfa once a week at the time chemotherapy
      is started. Patients in the other group will not receive epoetin alfa, but will undergo the
      same laboratory exams and quality of life evaluations as the group of patients who were given
      epoetin alfa.

      Patients in both groups will receive transfusions if their hemoglobin drops below a certain
      level or it the doctor feels it is necessary. These transfusions are considered to be
      standard of care. You will be asked to keep a diary listing the dates of all transfusions you
      receive.

      If you are assigned to receive epoetin alfa, you will be given epoetin alfa once a week
      during your regularly scheduled chemotherapy. You will receive treatment with epoetin alfa
      for up to 6 courses of chemotherapy (usually around 5 months, but may be longer). Epoetin
      alfa will be given to you as an injection under the skin. Once a week, you will have around 1
      tablespoon of blood drawn to check the level of hemoglobin in your blood. If your hemoglobin
      rises above a certain level, treatment with epoetin alfa may be temporarily stopped until
      your hemoglobin level decreases.

      Patients in both groups will continue to receive chemotherapy during this study as scheduled.
      During chemotherapy, you will have around 1 tablespoon of blood drawn every 1-2 weeks for
      routine blood tests (as part of your standard of care for treatment of cancer).

      If you agree to the optional procedures, you will continue receiving epoetin alfa even if
      your hemoglobin levels show that you are not responding to epoetin alfa treatment. However,
      if you do not choose to take part in the optional procedures and you are not responding to
      epoetin alfa treatment, you will be taken off the study.

      If you experience any intolerable side effects that are a result of epoetin alfa or your
      disease gets worse, you will be taken off the study.

      This is an investigational study. Epoetin alfa is FDA approved and commercially available.
      Around 164 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  