
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and feasibility of the autologous hematopoietic cell
      transplantation (AHCT) regimen of yttrium Y-90 basiliximab/DOTA, given in combination with
      standard dose(s) of BEAM in patients with primary progressive or relapsed Hodgkin lymphoma
      (HL).

      II. To determine the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) and characterize toxicities at each
      dose level - including time course.

      III. To evaluate hematological recovery in terms of neutrophil and platelet engraftment time.

      IV. To estimate overall response rate (ORR: complete remission [CR] + partial remission
      [PR]), response duration, overall survival, progression-free survival, and the cumulative
      incidence of non-relapse mortality and relapse/progression.

      V. To estimate the radiation doses to the whole body and normal organs through serial imaging
      studies.

      VI. To define biodistribution/extended pharmacokinetics of 111indium (In)-basiliximab/DOTA
      and 90Y- basiliximab/DOTA including terminal elimination, serum half-life (t1/2), and area
      under the curve (AUC).

      OUTLINE: DOSIMETRY STUDY: Patients receive basiliximab intravenously (IV) and indium In 111
      basiliximab IV on day -21. Patients undergo indium In 111 imaging scans daily. Patients with
      appropriate biodistribution continue on to treatment.

      TREATMENT: Patients receive basiliximab IV and yttrium Y 90 basiliximab IV on day -14.
      Patients also receive BEAM chemotherapy comprising carmustine IV over 2 hours on days -7 and
      -6, etoposide IV over 4 hours twice daily (BID) and cytarabine IV over 2 hours BID on days -5
      to -2, and melphalan IV on day -1. Patients undergo autologous hematopoietic progenitor cell
      infusion on day 0.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at day 90-100, 180, 1 year, 1.5
      years, and 2-5 years.
    
  