
    
      In the past three decades, the advancement of perinatal and neonatal care has resulted in a
      marked improvement in the survival of premature infants. However, this has been offset by an
      increasing incidence of chronic lung disease (CLD). Longitudinal follow-up studies indicated
      that premature infants resolving from CLD have a higher risk of neurodevelopmental
      disabilities and have poorer cognitive performance at school age compared with those without.
      Current approaches to treatment of premature infants at risk for neurodevelopmental
      disabilities have emphasized early assessment and intervention within the first year of life
      to optimize their developmental outcome. However, the information concerning the course of
      early neuromotor development and the factors contributing to neurodevelopmental disabilities
      in premature infants with CLD is limited. Therefore, the major purposes of this three-year
      multi-centered developmental follow-up study are threefold. First, we will prospectively
      evaluate the early neuromotor performance of premature infants with CLD and premature infants
      without CLD from birth until 12 months of corrected age. Neuromotor performance will be
      assessed using the Neonatal Neurobehavioral Examination- Chinese version during neonatal
      period, and the Alberta Infant Motor Scale and a three-dimensional video motion analysis
      system during infancy. Secondly, we will follow up the neurodevelopmental outcome of these
      infants at 12,18 and 24 months of corrected age to identify the early neuromotor impairments
      that predict later neurodevelopmental disabilities. Neurodevelopmental outcome will be
      assessed using the Bayley Scale of Infant Development- 2nd edition and physician's
      neurological diagnosis. Thirdly, we will examine two potential influencing factors i.e.,
      respiratory disease itself and brain lesions that may contribute to the neurodevelopmental
      disabilities in premature infants with CLD. Respiratory disease will be assessed using the
      Clinical and Roentgenographic Scoring Systems for Assessing Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia during
      neonatal period and pulse oximeter during infancy. Brain lesions will be assessed with
      cranial ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging. This research project will enroll 60
      premature infants with CLD and 60 premature infants without CLD from National Taiwan
      University Hospital and MacKay Memorial Hospital. The groups will be matched for birth
      weight. The results of this study will help understand the course and nature of early
      neuromotor development in premature infants with CLD. The obtained early neuromotor
      predictors will assist clinician early detection of infants who are at greatest risk for
      developmental disabilities and are in most need of early intervention services. The
      identified factors for adverse neurodevelopment in premature infants with CLD will assist
      health care professionals in designing prevention and intervention programs to enhance their
      developmental outcome. Furthermore, the obtained database will help develop a national
      monitoring system for measuring developmental effects of respiratory management and early
      intervention programs for premature infants with neonatal respiratory disease.
    
  