
    
      All groups will be instructed by a physiotherapist in the performance of protocol of
      neck-shoulder exercises. This program will be carried out at home for at least three days a
      week during three months. The exercise protocol includes active mobilization, stretching and
      strengthening (concentric/eccentric, isotonic, and isometric) exercises. All participants
      will be given a booklet with a detailed description of every single exercise.

      Those participants included in any of the DN groups will undergo 3 sessions of treatment (1
      session per week during 3 consecutive weeks). In each session, the physiotherapist in charge
      of the intervention will assess the presence of active or latent MTrPs in severa neck
      shoulder muscles. The selected muscles have been previously described as having a higher
      prevalence of MTrPs in adults with chronic neck pain: a) scalene muscles; b) levator
      scapulae; c) splenius cervicis; d) cervical multifidus; and e) upper trapezius trapezius. The
      location of the trigger points will be carried out following the recommendations and
      guidelines described in the literature.

      Those in the TE + local DN group will receive deep DN, using a fast-in fast-out technique, as
      described by Hong. The needle, once inserted in the muscle with a 10 to 20 mm depth, will be
      mobilized in a quick ascending and descending motion, in order to evoke the so-called LTRs. A
      minimum of 3 to 6 LTRs will be elicited in each muscle.

      For patients in the TE + distal DN group, the deep DN intervention will be carried out in
      those muscles with MTrPs, but at a remote location from the MTrP area. The same evaluation
      and intervention protocol previously described for the TE + local DN group will be carried
      out. The main difference is that, in this group, DN will not elicit LTRs. Instead, DN will be
      applied at a minimum distance of 1-1.5 cm from the MTrP locus.

      Finally, in the TE + placebo DN group, the therapeutic exercise program will be combined with
      DN using using a Dong Bang placebo needle, similar to the Streitberger placebo needle. These
      needles are designed with a retractable system. Therefore, these placebo needles evoke
      mechanical stimulation without piercing the skin; hence, patients experience a pressure
      sensation similar to that of a "real" needle.
    
  