
    
      Music therapy has become a standard palliative care service in many pediatric and adult
      hospitals. However, a majority of music therapy research has focused on the use of music to
      improve psychosocial dimensions of health, without considering biological dimensions. In
      addition, few studies have examined dose-response relationships. Cancer treatment is an
      inherently stressful experience, and a significant number of young children and parents
      (caregivers) experience persistent, interrelated emotional distress and poor quality of life.
      Many parents also experience traumatic stress symptoms because of their child's cancer
      diagnosis and treatment. The investigators previously tested an Active Music Engagement (AME)
      intervention that uses active music play to diminish stressful attributes of cancer treatment
      to help manage emotional/traumatic distress experienced by young children (ages 3-8) and
      parents and improve quality of life. A recent AME trial is examining psychosocial mechanisms
      of action responsible for change in child/parent outcomes. The current study expands on this
      work by examining AME's effects on several biomarkers to povide a more holistic understanding
      about how active music interventions work to mitigate cancer-related stress and its potential
      to improve immune function. The purposes of this two group, randomized controlled trial are
      to examine biological mechanisms of effect and dose-response relationships of AME on
      child/parent stress during the consolidation phase of Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL)
      treatment. Specific aims are to: 1) establish whether AME lowers child and parent cortisol,
      2) examine cortisol as a mediator of AME effects on child and parent outcomes, and 3) examine
      the dose-response relationship of AME on child and parent cortisol. Child/parent dyads
      (n=250) will be stratified (by age, site, ALL risk level) and randomized in blocks of four to
      AME or attention control. Each group will receive one 45-minute session during weekly clinic
      visits for the duration of ALL consolidation (4 weeks standard risk; 8 weeks high risk).
      Parents will complete measures at baseline and following the last study session. Child and
      parent salivary cortisol samples will be taken pre and post-session for the first 4 AME or
      attention control sessions. Child blood samples will be reserved from routine blood draws
      prior to sessions 1 and 4 (all participants) and session 8 (high risk participants). Linear
      mixed models will be used to estimate AME's effect on child and parent cortisol. Examining
      child and parent cortisol as mediators of AME effects on child and parent outcomes will be
      performed in an ANCOVA setting, fitting the appropriate mediation models using MPlus and then
      testing indirect effects using the percentile bootstrap approach to estimate the indirect
      effect. Graphical plots and non-linear repeated measures models will be used to examine the
      dose-response relationship of AME on child and parent cortisol.
    
  