
    
      Aims:

        1. Developed a screening test for neonatal cholestasis using dry blood spot

        2. Improve patient survival by early diagnosis of treatable neonatal cholestasis disease
           such as biliary atresia and inborn error of bile acid metabolism.

      Phase I - Validation of method for quantification of disease markers on dry blood spot.

      Pediatric children with cholestasis diagnose at National Taiwan University Hospital during
      admission or out-patient clinic will be collected for the Phase I study. 5ml of venous blood
      will be collected for measurement of disease markers during routine follow-up at National
      Taiwan University Hospital outpatient clinic. Dried blood spot (DBS) specimens are collected
      from patients by applying a whole blood, drawn by lancet from the finger, heel or toe, a
      provided filter paper. To evaluate the stability of disease markers on DBS, a total 10 blood
      spots (each blood spout contain 50 - 75 microL of blood) will be applied on the filter paper
      at day 0. The collected blood spots samples of a single patient at day 0 will be evaluated at
      the day of DBS collection and followed by day 3, day 7, 6 months and 1 year after sample
      collection. The purpose of repeat measurement of single patient sample at different time
      point is to evaluate the possible effect of time effect on the accuracy of the data. 5 blood
      spots are separated and protected from light with a light blocking envelope to compare the
      light effect on disease markers degradation (Table 1). Serum disease markers measured with
      conventional method will be served as reference and compared with DBS samples at different
      time points. 30 patients will be collected to validate the correlation between serum and DBS
      disease markers level.

      Phase II - Pilot study In the pilot study, we aim to develop dry blood spot method for the
      screening of neonatal cholestasis. Children with neonatal cholestasis disease previously
      diagnosed at Department of Pediatrics, National Taiwan University Children's Hospital from
      2007 or newly diagnosed children will be recruited retrospectively from chart review.
      Patients with indirect type hyperbilirubinemia and healthy neonates will be enrolled as
      control. We will analyze neonatal cholestasis and control patients dry blood spot screening
      test after birth to quantify disease markers level. ROC curve analysis will be conducted on
      bilirubin quantity to find the best cutoff to screen for neonatal cholestasis. The sample
      size of case and control study is 20 cases and 20 controls.
    
  