
    
      Participants will receive treatment as usual for diabetic macular oedema at Bristol Eye
      Hospital (University Hospitals Bristol NHS Foundation Trust) and Gloucestershire Hospitals
      NHS Foundation Trust. This entails injection of aflibercept into the eye, initially with four
      monthly doses, then as required with regular monthly assessments. Additionally, patients will
      be invited to complete standardised visual functioning questionnaires at baseline and roughly
      6 and 12 months. Patients will be followed up for one year for this study, but treatment will
      continue as necessary beyond the end of the study.

      The primary outcome of Best-Corrected Visual Acuity (BCVA) will be assessed at one year and
      compared to the treatment arm of two recent phase 3 RCTs (VISTA and VIVID). Additional
      secondary outcomes of retinal thickness, visual functioning, and adverse events will also be
      collected.

      Real world data will be collected from Bristol Eye Hospital and Gloucestershire Hospitals NHS
      Foundation Trust. Bristol Eye Hospital, as part of the RENOIR HIT, has set up a hub and spoke
      outreach model to treat patients with diabetic macular oedema, and this service has been
      running since September 2013. Treatment is performed at one of three outreach sites: South
      Bristol Community hospital, St Georges medical practice in Worle, and a mobile macular unit
      currently based at Cribbs Causeway. There are about three to five new patients per month
      commencing treatment with aflibercept in the Bristol area. In Gloucestershire, treatments are
      performed at Cheltenham General Hospital, and Gloucester Royal Hospital; we expect an
      additional two to three new patients per month from these sites.

      All patients attending for routine treatment will be invited to take part in the study. In
      order to detect a clinically significant difference of 5 letters using the Early Treatment of
      Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) protocol, between the real world and the clinical trials,
      sample size calculations suggest we will need at least 30 new patients to compare to the
      treatment arm of the clinical trials.
    
  