
    
      Study Purpose

      Treatment strategies for recurrent brain metastasis

      Limited clinical data support interventions for recurrent BM such as WBRT, re-operation or
      SRS, depending on previous treatments (6, 45, 48). Two retrospective analyses looked at a
      total of 130 non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients with recurrent BM after resection
      (6, 45). ,Recurrence happened at the original site in approximately two/thirds of the
      patients and at other sites for the remainders; Re-resection had a significant effect on
      prolonged survival compared to patients who did not undergo it (p=0.001). A small subgroup of
      these patients underwent a third resection with a median survival of 42 months. A more recent
      study looked at resection of BM that had previously been treated with SRS (48). Sixty-one
      patients with 1-3 previously treated BM recurred and underwent resection. Major neurological
      morbidity occurred in 2% and no mortality was observed. A multivariate analysis showed that
      higher RPA class, focal treatment (surgery or SRS), and treatment of new additional lesions
      significantly affected survival. Re-operation of a previously focally treated BM provided
      long-term control and positive impact on survival. Additionally, confirming the pathological
      diagnosis in a recurrent lesion after SRS is important, as radiation necrosis can occur in
      2.3%-8.6% of the patients, a condition that requires a different treatment approach than that
      for recurrent metastasis (5, 10, 14).

      Surgery and radiation therapy are important components in the complex treatment of BM and can
      prolong survival and improve the quality of life. Patients, who develop brain metastasis
      after WBRT remain with limited options. A resection will diminish the local disease
      significantly; however adjuvant radiation might further increase the control rate. We plan to
      evaluate the addition of a stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) boost to the resection cavity both
      as adjuvant and salvage procedure in patient, who underwent resection of a BM and previously
      received WBRT or decline WBRT.

      Study Design

      The study is designed to observe patients for feasibility, efficacy and toxicity:

      Patient Enrollment Informed Consent will be obtained and then eligibility screening will be
      assessed using Inclusion/ Exclusion criteria. A patient who appears to meet ALL eligibility
      requirements will be asked to participate in the study.

      Variables Measured The primary end point will be evaluated following obtaining follow up
      neuro-imaging (contrast Brain CT or MRI).

      The secondary end points will be measured as follows:

        -  Evaluation of CT and MRI by neuro-radiologist. - Individual response: comparison between
           pre-treatment and follow-up MRI performed at 2-3 months intervals or according to
           clinical indication.

        -  Side effects during and following the treatment, as well as self reported (or otherwise
           obtained) absence of side effects.

      Pre-Procedure

      Screening process:

      Patients with known systemic malignancy, who underwent surgical resection of a brain
      metastasis and fulfill the eligibility criteria specified for this study (see
      inclusion/exclusion criteria)

      Imaging:

      All patients will undergo a contrast CT and MRI brain imaging in preparation of the
      treatment.

      Neurological Baseline Assessment:

      A standard neurological baseline examination shall take place. The neurological examination
      will include the following:

        -  Cognitive function ( Mini Mental Status)

        -  Cranial nerves

        -  Motor Strength

        -  Deep tendon reflexes

        -  Plantar response

        -  Sensory

        -  Coordination/Gait
    
  