
    
      Objectives:

      To evaluate discordance in lung maturity in diamniotic twins based on birth order, sex and
      body weight. If we find discordance in fetal lung maturity in twin gestations this will
      change current practice of sampling only one amniotic sac for evaluation of fetal lung
      maturity.

      Hypotheses:

      Lung maturation within twin pairs is weakly correlated based on presentation and estimated
      fetal weight.

      Research Methods:

      This study will be prospective cohort study of women with twin diamniotic intrauterine
      gestations who will be delivered at a Good Samaritan or Bethesda North Hospital. Patients
      will be counseled and informed consent for participation in the study will be obtained prior
      to enrollment in study.

      At the time of Cesarean delivery or in the event of amniocenteses for FLM, a sample of
      amniotic fluid will be drawn from the amniotic sac of Twin A and Twin B. Each amniotic sac
      will be aspirated by the obstetrician and sent to the laboratory for determination of fetal
      lung maturity index and lamellar body count. Fetal lung maturity index and lamellar body
      count will be correlated to see if there is an association between Twin A and Twin B.

      Fetal Lung Maturity index and lamellar body count will be calculated and compared based on
      fetal weight, sex, zigosity, and birth order. Demographic information, maternal obstetrical
      and medical history, newborn/fetal data, indications for cesarean section and twin A and B
      outcomes will be obtained through OB Traceview or patient chart.

      Study population:

      Participants will include pregnant patients, greater than 24 completed weeks with diamniotic
      twin gestations, at Good Samaritan and Bethesda North Hospitals. Patients will be scheduled
      for a cesarean section by their primary MD prior to being approached for inclusion into the
      study.
    
  