
    
      We have designed a randomized control trial to assess the impact of a laparoscopic simulator
      curriculum on operating room performance amongst gynecology residents. At the beginning of
      the study, each resident that chooses to participate will take a multiple choice pre-test
      assessing his or her background knowledge of laparoscopic surgical principles. Everyone will
      then listen to a series of lectures / video demonstrations teaching the fundamentals of
      laparoscopic surgery. The final part of the orientation is to have each resident perform 5
      tasks on the laparoscopic simulators (peg transfer, endoloop, pattern cutting, intracorporeal
      suturing, and extracorporeal suturing) while being proctored by a faculty member who is
      timing the task and recording any errors made. Each resident will have 2 proctored
      performances (pre- and post) on the simulator and it will be set up as a typical OSCE-type
      exam. We chose to have them perform 2 repetitions as opposed to the usual 1 (like on the
      MCAT, SAT, or other high stake exam) to allow for potential unfamiliarity with the simulator
      equipment.

      The residents will then perform a laparoscopic tubal ligation with a faculty member when they
      begin their Benign Gynecology rotation. Each resident will subsequently be randomized either
      traditional teaching (no simulator) or five 30-minute faculty-directed sessions at the
      Laparoscopic Simulator Lab. Those randomized to simulation training can practice and perform
      as many repetitions necessary on the simulator to achieve proficiency. Prior to completing
      the rotation, the residents will perform another laparoscopic tubal ligation with a faculty
      member blinded to whether they randomized to simulator training to re-assess their technical
      skills. The resident will have another proctored examination of simulator performance on the
      five tasks. Finally, a videotape review by independent observers will verify precision of the
      surgical evaluations at the conclusion of the study.
    
  