
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if capecitabine and oxaliplatin reduces the death rate compared to
      carboplatin and paclitaxel in women with mucinous adenocarcinoma of the ovary or fallopian
      tube.

      II. To determine if bevacizumab reduces the death rate compared to no bevacizumab in women
      with mucinous adenocarcinoma of the ovary or fallopian tube.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if capecitabine and oxaliplatin increases the duration of progression-free
      survival (PFS) compared to carboplatin and paclitaxel in women with mucinous adenocarcinoma
      of the ovary or fallopian tube.

      II. To determine if bevacizumab increases the duration of PFS compared to no bevacizumab in
      women with mucinous adenocarcinoma of the ovary or fallopian tube.

      III. To compare the response rates for capecitabine and oxaliplatin versus carboplatin and
      paclitaxel in patients with mucinous adenocarcinoma of the ovary or fallopian tube with
      measurable disease after initial tumor reductive surgery.

      IV. To compare the response rates for bevacizumab versus no bevacizumab in patients with
      mucinous adenocarcinoma of the ovary or fallopian tube with measurable disease after initial
      tumor reductive surgery.

      V. To determine the nature and degree of toxicity of capecitabine and oxaliplatin compared
      with that of carboplatin and paclitaxel in this cohort of patients.

      VI. To determine the nature and degree of toxicity of bevacizumab in this cohort of patients.

      VII. To compare capecitabine and oxaliplatin versus carboplatin and paclitaxel with respect
      to changes in patient reported neurotoxicity.

      VIII. To determine the impact on quality of life (QOL, as measured by the Functional
      Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Ovarian [FACT-O] Trial Outcome Index [TOI]) following treatment
      with the above regimens.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To collect fixed and/or frozen tissue and whole blood for future research studies.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive carboplatin intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on day 1 and
      paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 6 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2-6 hours on day 1 and capecitabine orally (PO)
      twice daily (BID) on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 6 courses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM III: Patients receive carboplatin and paclitaxel IV as in arm I and bevacizumab IV over
      30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90
      minutes alone on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 12 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM IV: Patients receive oxaliplatin and capecitabine as in arm II, and bevacizumab as in arm
      III.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4-6 weeks, every 3 months
      for 2 years, and then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  