
    
      Over 5 million Americans have Alzheimer's disease or a related dementia, a progressive and
      irreversible neurodegenerative condition, affecting also close to 15 million family
      caregivers (CG). A hallmark of the disease and one of the most significant challenges in
      dementia care is neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) of which agitation is the most disabling and
      frequently occurring. It is associated with increased health care costs, reduced life
      quality, heightened caregiver burden, disease acceleration and nursing home placement.
      Treatment typically involves pharmacologic agents; however, these are at best modestly
      effective, carry serious risks including mortality, and may not reduce family distress.
      Recently issued position statements from medical organizations suggest nonpharmacologic
      strategies as first-line treatment. Nevertheless, nonpharmacological strategies for agitation
      remain understudied. We propose a Phase III efficacy trial to test a novel 8-session
      patient-centric intervention, the Customized Activity Program (CAP). We will test CAP using a
      randomized two-group parallel design of 250 people with dementia (PwD) and their CGs (dyads)
      who will be randomly assigned to CAP or a control intervention of equivalent in-home
      attention and social contact. CAP assesses PwDs' preserved capabilities, deficits, previous
      roles, habits, interests and home environment from which activities are developed to match
      PwD profiles. Families are trained to implement activities and modify them for future
      decline. A pilot phase with 60 dyads showed clinically meaningful and statistically
      significant reductions in agitation, with no adverse effects. Our primary study aim evaluates
      the effect of CAP at 3 months on agitation (Hypothesis: PwD in TAP will have lower caregiver
      rated agitation compared to the control intervention condition. Three secondary aims
      evaluate: 1) 6-month effects of TAP on agitation and quality of life in PwD (Hypothesis: PwD
      in CAP will manifest lower caregiver rated subscale frequency and severity scores at 6 months
      and better quality of life compared to PwD in the control intervention); 2) Immediate effects
      of CAP at 3 and 6 months on CG wellbeing, and time spent providing care (Hypothesis: CGs
      receiving CAP will report enhanced wellbeing and less time caregiving compared to the control
      intervention (3 and 6 months); and 3) Cost effectiveness of CAP expressed as an incremental
      cost outcome achieved in the form of CG burden reductions and willingness to pay for burden
      reductions (3 and 6 months; Hypothesis: CAP will be cost effective compared to the control
      intervention at each test occasion). Five exploratory aims will evaluate treatment effects on
      psychotropic medication use and other troublesome behaviors, if effects differ by cognitive
      status, if CGs receiving CAP use activities at 6 months and with what frequency, how time
      gained is spent, and if frequency/duration of treatment and activity use affects outcomes. If
      proven efficacious and cost effective, CAP has potential to transform clinical practice by
      offering a proven nonpharmacologic treatment for agitation of PwDs at home. This trial
      addresses a critical clinical need and public health priority identified by recent
      legislative activity.

      Objectives

      Our primary study aim evaluates the immediate effect of CAP on agitation at 3 months. Our
      hypothesis is that PwD receiving CAP will manifest a lower caregiver rated frequency and
      severity score on the Neuropsychiatric Inventory-(NPI) subscales of agitation+aggression (21
      items), compared to those in the control intervention.

      Three secondary aims are to evaluate: 1) effects of CAP at 6 months on agitation and quality
      of life in patients. Hypothesis: Patients receiving CAP will manifest lower caregiver rated
      frequency and severity scores on the NPI-C agitation + aggression subscales and better
      quality of life in comparison to patients receiving the control intervention from baseline to
      6 months; 2) effects of CAP at 3 and 6 months on CG wellbeing, (burden, skill acquisition,
      efficacy using activities), and time spent providing care. Hypothesis: Caregivers receiving
      CAP will report enhanced wellbeing and less time caregiving compared to those in the control
      intervention at 3 and at 6 months; and 3) cost effectiveness of CAP expressed as an
      incremental cost outcome achieved in the form of CG burden reductions and willingness to pay
      for burden reductions at 3 and 6 months. Hypothesis: CAP will be cost effective compared to
      the control intervention at each test occasion.

      To further understand treatment effects and enhance translation, we propose exploratory aims
      to evaluate: 1) Impact of CAP on psychotropic medication use in treatment and control
      conditions at 3 and 6 months by comparing proportion of PwD who require dose increases or
      incident use of psychotropic medications (negative outcome) and proportion of PwD who reduce
      or eliminate medication use because agitation improved (positive outcome); 2) Whether
      treatment effect on agitation differs at 3 and 6 months by cognitive status; 3) Whether CAP
      reduces total NPI scores as rated by CGs at 3 and 6 months, 4) If at 6-months CGs receiving
      CAP are using prescribed activities and with what frequency; and how CGs use any personal
      time gained; and 5) Extent to which treatment receipt and enactment (frequency/duration of
      sessions and use of activities) affects NPI-C scores. If proven efficacious and cost
      effective, CAP has potential to transform the current paradigm of dementia care that relies
      primarily on the pharmacologic management of agitation. It will offer clinicians and families
      a proven nonpharmacologic approach to enhance quality of life that can be replicated, has
      reimbursement potential, and resonates with medical treatment guidelines and health care
      reform efforts aimed at reducing pharmacologic use and helping older adults be cared for at
      home.

      Background

      This proposed trial specifically builds upon and extends the pilot phase testing of the
      proposed intervention with 60 dyads (NIMH R21 grant # R21 MH069425). This pilot phase
      evaluated program acceptability, identified behaviors most responsive, and evaluated
      magnitude of change for NPS and CG burden. Dyads were interviewed at baseline, randomized to
      intervention or wait-list control, and then reassessed at 4-months. After 4-months, the
      wait-list control group received the intervention and was reevaluated at 8 months (within
      group comparison 4 to 8 months). Main outcomes: At 4-months, a statistically significant
      treatment effect was found for frequency of NPS overall (p=.010; Cohen's d=.72) using the
      16-item Agitated Behavior Inventory for dementia. Specifically, 77% of CGs in treatment
      reported improvements in NPS compared to 40% in the wait-list group; 23% in treatment
      reported worsening of NPS compared to 60% in wait-lists. As untreated agitation worsens over
      time in a significant proportion of patients, our pilot data suggests that worsened agitation
      was less common in the intervention group; the intervention also appeared to help reduce
      likelihood of worsening in patients whose agitation was destined to worsen without treatment.
      It appears unlikely that the intervention caused an adverse effect of worsening. However, as
      this is a possibility, it is listed in the consent form as a possible risk. Reductions for
      intervention group also occurred for specific behaviors reflecting agitation and behaviors of
      most concern to this CG sample; shadowing (p=.003, Cohen's d=3.10), and repetitive
      questioning (p=.023, Cohen's d=1.22), with slight increases (worsening) found for the control
      group. As shown in Figure 2, we also found a statistically significant reduction in
      prevalence of caregivers reporting agitation (p=.014, Cohen's d=.75); 14.8% in treatment vs.
      44.8% in control reported PwD agitation at 4 months. A similar pattern was found for
      argumentation (p=.010, Cohen's d=.77). Also, CG in treatment reported that PwD demonstrated
      better engagement (p=.029, Cohen's d=.61), more pleasure (p=.045, Cohen's d=.690), and
      improved ability to keep positively busy (p=.017, Cohen's d=.71). Equally significant were
      reductions in CG objective burden as measured by NIH REACH vigilance items hours "doing
      things" for PwD (p=.005, Cohen's d=1.14); and hours "on duty" (p=.001, Cohen's d=1.01) with
      those in intervention reporting 5 hours less and those in control reporting spending 3 hours
      more on duty. Control group participants demonstrated similar benefits from 4 to 8 months.
      Medication Use: Of 60 PwD, 78.3% were on an anti-dementia medication (cholinesterase
      inhibitor or memantine), 32% were on psychotropic medication for NPS, and 45% were on
      antidepressants at study entry. Use of medications did not impact the primary outcome (e.g.,
      frequency of behavioral symptoms). In separate regression analyses, we entered baseline
      use/non-use of 3 medication-types (e.g., anti-depressant, other psychotropic medication, and
      anti-dementia medications) as a predictor and found no impact on treatment outcome or effect
      size. This shows that medications are common, yet NPS persist. It also suggests the
      importance of assuring that PwD are on a stabilized dose prior to entering a trial so that
      treatment effects are not confounded by medication use. Cognitive Status: We found no
      difference in treatment effect by cognitive status: both high (>10) and low (< 10) MMSE
      groups benefited similarly with regard to the reduction of behavioral frequency. However, the
      high MMSE group also showed a reduction in the number of behaviors occurring at 4 months
      (p=.028). Cost: We also calculated preliminary incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER),
      expressed as cost to bring about one additional unit of benefit measured by CG hours per day
      "doing things" and hours per day "being on duty" and decision tree and Monte Carlo analyses
      tested robustness of economic models. Average intervention cost was $941.63 per dyad. ICER
      showed that CGs in treatment saved one extra hour per day "doing things" at a cost of $2.37
      per day; and one extra hour per day "being on duty" at a cost of $1.10 per day. Monte Carlo
      showed that the intervention was cost-effective 79.2% of the time for "doing things" and
      79.6% of the time for "being on duty." Varying cost assumptions did not change
      cost-effectiveness. In summary, this pilot phase demonstrated proof of concept; high
      acceptability by PwD and CGs, preliminary positive outcomes, preliminary cost effectiveness,
      and that benefits were for PwD agitation and no adverse events. It also provides guidance for
      trial design considerations including importance of assuring dyads on medications have a
      stabilized dose prior to study enrollment and evaluating relationship of cognitive status to
      outcomes. Our proposed trial advances this pilot phase by: a) testing efficacy with a larger,
      diverse sample that will be well characterized as to diagnosis, disease severity, and
      behaviors using standard clinical assessments, b) comparing CAP to a control intervention
      condition receiving equivalent attention and social contact, controlling for unknown effects
      of empathy, validation and attention provided in CAP; c) examining cost effectiveness
      prospectively from a societal perspective, and d) evaluating a broad range of other outcomes
      and moderators (dose, intensity, activity use) to support future translational efforts.
    
  