
    
      Diabetes type two is a debilitating disease that leads to chronic morbidity such as
      accelerated microvascular disease. Accelerated microvascular disease may produce blindness,
      end stage renal disease, myocardial infarction, stroke, and limb ischemia. Strategies to
      prevent or delay microvascular disease have the potential to improve the lives of millions
      and prevent catastrophic illness. The major focus of prevention of microvascular disease in
      diabetes has been on the endothelium and its role in protection of blood vessels. An
      unexpected means to prevent microvascular disease in diabetes may be coupled to the function
      of vitamin C in red blood cells (RBCs) of diabetic subjects. Based on new and emerging data,
      vitamin C concentrations in RBCs may be inversely related to glucose concentrations found in
      diabetes. Based on animal data, we hypothesize that RBCs with low vitamin C levels may have
      decreased deformability, leading to slower flow in capillaries and microvascular hypoxia, the
      hallmark of diabetic microangiopathy. Low vitamin C concentrations in RBCs of diabetic
      subjects may be able to be increased, by using vitamin C supplements. Findings in animals may
      not accurately reflect effects in humans because of species differences in mechanisms of
      vitamin C entry into RBCs. Therefore, clinical research is essential to characterize vitamin
      C physiology in RBCs of diabetic subjects. In this protocol we will investigate physiology of
      vitamin C in RBCs of diabetic subjects as a function of glycemia, without vitamin C
      supplementation (arm 1) and with vitamin C supplementation (arm 2). We will screen type II
      diabetic subjects on insulin and/or oral hypoglycemic medication(s) and select those with
      hemoglobin A1C concentrations of less than or equal to 12%. Selected subjects may be
      hospitalized twice, each time for approximately one week. The primary objective of the first
      hospitalization (arm 1) will be to evaluate the effect of hyperglycemia on vitamin C RBC
      physiology regardless of baseline vitamin C concentrations (without any vitamin C
      supplementation). The second hospitalization (arm 2) investigates the effect (if any) of
      vitamin C supplementation to changes in RBC physiology during euglycemic and hyperglycemic
      states. As inpatients, subjects will have two venous sampling periods each of approximately
      24 hours. On admission, subjects may be fitted with continuous glucose monitors (CGMs), oral
      hypoglycemic agents will be discontinued, and basal-bolus insulin regimen initiated. Insulin
      doses will be clinically determined and titrated to achieve euglycemia (fasting and pre-meal
      glucoses <140mg/dl) prior to the first sampling period (euglycemic sampling). The first
      sampling period will be performed under conditions of euglycemic control for 24 hours. The
      second sampling period will be performed under controlled hyperglycemia induced by
      withholding basal and bolus insulin and providing a high carbohydrate load diet (70-75%
      carbohydrate). Correction-scale insulin will be provided for glucoses >350-400mg/dl.
      Hyperglycemia will not exceed 9 hours, and will be reversed by reinstituting insulin.

      During the two sampling periods, samples will be withdrawn via venous catheter for RBC
      deformability, vitamin C concentrations and other related research studies. Following
      completion of arm 1, subjects considered for participation in arm 2 will be provided a
      prescription for vitamin C 500mg twice daily. Given that vitamin C and vitamin E are related
      antioxidants, and that both vitamins appear to be associated with RBC rigidity, diabetic
      subjects may also be given a prescription for 400 international units (IU) of vitamin E (RRR
      alpha tocopherol) daily. Subjects will continue vitamin C and E supplementation for a minimum
      of 8 weeks depending on RBC vitamin C concentrations. To evaluate any effect of vitamin E
      supplementation, plasma and RBC vitamin E levels may be measured concurrently with vitamin C
      levels during various phases of arms 1 and 2. All subjects will be seen as outpatients at
      weekly or biweekly intervals with regular measurement of plasma and RBC vitamin C
      concentrations. Target RBC vitamin C concentration >30uM is required prior to arm 2 inpatient
      sampling studies. Vitamins C and E supplementation will be discontinued upon inpatient
      admission for arm 2. Risk of both vitamin supplements are minimal as both supplementation
      doses are safe. Outcomes are to measure RBC rigidity and vitamin concentrations before and
      after supplementation. After a minimum of 8 weeks (depending on RBC vitamin C levels),
      subjects will be hospitalized again, and sampling repeated as described. In this manner, each
      subject serves as his/her own control, and deformability of red blood cells can be determined
      in relation to glycemia and to vitamin C concentrations in RBCs and plasma.

      Subjects will be required to consume standardized meals during inpatient stays. All meals
      will be prepared by the NIH Clinical Center Metabolic Kitchen. To avoid obscuring plasma
      vitamin C changes that may result from hyperglycemia, dietary vitamin C content will be
      restricted to less than 10 mg per meal. Additionally, to avoid confounding vitamin E
      measurements, diets will provide less than 6 mg alpha tocopherol per day. Standardized meals
      at the 2nd inpatient admission will be provided to match what was consumed by the subject at
      their 1st inpatient admission.
    
  