
    
      The purpose of the study is to determine if preoperative dosing of darifenacin will assist in
      postoperative ureteral stent pain. This will be a randomized two arm prospective study to
      evaluate postoperative ureteral stent pain. One arm will be given 3 days of preoperative
      darifenacin and the control group will have the standard of care which is no preoperative
      anticholinergic medication. The primary endpoints will be decreased pain scores and less ER
      visits and hospital admissions for stent difficulty. These will be assessed by a pain diary
      completed by the participant as well as a questionnaire when the participant returns to
      clinic for stent removal. Also included in evaluation of the primary end point will be
      patient phone calls, ER visits and admissions for stent difficulty. Secondary endpoints will
      be narcotic and postoperative anticholinergic use. This will also be assessed with the pain
      diary completed by the participant. Participants will be included in the study if they are
      undergoing a procedure that a stent will likely be required. This will include participants
      who will have ureteroscopy or extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy and a stone 1 cm or
      larger. Also participants with stones smaller than 1 cm who due to anatomy of the ureter or
      kidney will likely need a stent on preoperative evaluation will also be included in the
      study. Included as well in the study are participants who will undergo renal or ureteral
      surgery that a ureteral stent will be utilized. Participants will be randomized after consent
      is obtained into two groups. One group will receive standard of care which is no preoperative
      anticholinegic medications. The second group will receive the three day treatment with
      darifenacin pre procedure. Participants in the second group will be instructed on side
      effects of darifenacin and given appropriate contact information prior to initiation of the
      medication. Both groups will be followed postoperatively with a pain diary. Postoperative
      follow up will continue until the stent is removed 1-2 weeks after the procedure. The exact
      time of stent removal will depend on the success and nature of the surgery and will be at the
      discretion of the surgeon. Participants will be able to voluntarily stop the medication for
      any reason as well as if they have serious side effects from the medication. Data to be
      collected from each group includes age, gender, race, prior ureteral stents, prior renal or
      ureteral surgery, past medical history, allergies, current medications and urinary
      complaints.
    
  