
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of IL13-PE38QQR delivered by continuous
      infusion via 1 or 2 intratumoral catheters into recurrent or progressive malignant glioma.

      II. To determine: the pathologic effect of intratumoral IL13-PE38QQR infusion determined at
      Day 15 resection; the neuroradiographic characteristics of convection-enhanced drug delivery;
      serum levels of study drug and detect the appearance of antibody to study drug.

      III. To determine the proportion of patients surviving at 6 months after continuous
      intratumoral IL13-PE38QQR infusion at the MTD, followed by Day 15 resection, of recurrent or
      progressive malignant glioma.

      IV. To determine: the proportion of patients remaining disease free at 6 months; the time to
      progression and overall survival of patients with recurrent or progressive malignant glioma
      after infusion of IL13-PE38QQR at the selected dose followed by resection; the pathologic
      response rate of recurrent or progressive malignant glioma to IL13-PE38QQR delivered by
      continuous intratumoral infusion at the MTD; any additional toxicities of IL13-PE38QQR
      administered by stereotaxic catheters into recurrent or progressive malignant glioma at the
      MTD; the neuroradiographic characteristics of convection-enhanced drug delivery; serum levels
      of study drug and detect the appearance of antibody to study drug.

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: Patients with recurrent or progressive supratentorial malignant glioma who
      are considered appropriate for re-operation will be eligible for either phase of the study.
      Each patient will have tumor biopsy at study entry, followed by continuous intratumoral
      infusion of IL13-PE38QQR via 1 or 2 intratumoral catheters, placed within the enhancing
      portion of the tumor. Infusion rate will be held constant at 540 mL/hr (total). Toxicity will
      be assessed by clinical neurologic examination and laboratory values. Resection will be
      performed on Day 15 (6-13 days after end of infusion). Pathologic evidence of tumor necrosis
      will be assessed. Follow-up assessments will include neurologic examinations and MRI scans.
      No other anti-tumor treatment will be administered for at least 60 days after resection
      (except for progressive disease). Patients will be observed until death.

      Phase I: The infusion duration will be escalated first in cohorts of 3-6 patients from 51.8
      mL (4 days) to a maximum of 90.7 mL (7 days), to identify a MTD based on infusion duration.

      Once duration is determined, IL13-PE38QQR concentration will be escalated in cohorts of 3-6
      patients from 90.7 mg to a maximum of 362.8 mg (assuming 7-day infusion) to identify a MTD
      based on concentration.

      Phase II: Patients will be treated at a selected dose no higher than the MTD to estimate the
      proportion of patients surviving at 6 months, time to progression and survival, and
      pathologic response rate.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: In Phase I, 12-48 patients, up to 6 centers in Europe, Israel and North
      America. In Phase II, up to 35 efficacy evaluable patients, up to 6 centers.
    
  