
    
      Background

      Physical inactivity has been estimated to cause 5.3 million deaths per year globally and is
      identified as one of the most important modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases,
      functional loss and disability. To correctly identify and study physical inactivity in old
      age, reliable assessment tools are crucial in both research and clinical settings.

      Recent technological advancements in wearable activity monitors have led to a growing number
      of large, population-based studies using accelerometers to measure physical activity,
      sedentary behavior (in terms of overall volume, intensity and pattern), and sleep among older
      adults. However, the wide use of accelerometers also brings challenges when comparing the
      results across different studies that use different brands and models, various assessment
      protocols (e.g. anatomic locations, sampling frequency), data processing procedures and
      report different outcomes. Different accelerometer set-ups (i.e. brand, model, body position,
      initialization protocol, etc.) may challenge the interpretation of health-enhancing effect of
      physical activity and detrimental effect of sedentary behavior simply because of
      methodological issues.

      Accelerometers measure acceleration, defined as the change in velocity over time (Δv/t),
      which quantifies the volume and intensity of movement. In addition, acceleration is a vector
      quantity with components of magnitude and direction, which can be used to identify the
      position of accelerometer in relation to gravity. Therefore, accelerometer could also be used
      to distinguish posture (e.g. sitting, standing, lying down) depending on the site of
      placement.

      Since raw acceleration signals are difficult to interpret, they are typically "translated" by
      calibration studies to physiological outcomes (e.g. energy expenditure, oxygen consumption)
      or behavioral categories (e.g. sitting, walking, running). Through regression modelling,
      calibration studies often produce point estimates of energy expenditure from accelerometer
      counts or establish a range of accelerometer counts for different physical activity intensity
      levels. This range of accelerometer counts is referred to as "cut-points" for different
      intensities of physical activity.

      Before the use of accelerometers, physical activity and sedentary behavior has been primarily
      assessed with questionnaires. Even as the scale of accelerometer studies are growing rapidly,
      questionnaires are still considered an important assessment method when assessing physical
      activity and sedentary behavior in large-scale studies. Some accelerometers and
      questionnaires have been validated by objectively measured energy expenditure. But for
      physical activity questionnaires, the validity against objective methods (e.g. accelerometry,
      heart rate monitor and double-labelled water) were found to be moderate at best and very few
      validation studies focused on older adults. In order to bridge and interpret data from
      questionnaires to accelerometers among older adults, there is a need to validate existing
      physical activity and sedentary behavior questionnaires with energy expenditure in this
      population.

      Energy expenditure has earlier been used to validate accelerometers and physical activity
      questionnaires metrics. Nevertheless, several issues remain unsolved: (1) despite the
      correlation between these methods has been reported to be high in few studies, the agreement
      is generally low especially in populations with altered metabolic states such as obese and
      overweight individuals; (2) while the total volume of physical activity is a clear metric
      which is presumably positively correlated with total daily energy expenditure, intensity of
      physical activity in older adults may be affected by a number of physiological determinants
      such as cardiovascular and neuromuscular function, inflammation status and malnutrition.
      Resting metabolic rate (RMR) and maximum physiological capacity (e.g. maximum oxygen update
      (VO2 max) typically decrease with age, which may be particular important as the same daily
      activities would likely be "more intense" to an older person compared to a younger person;
      (3) despite that numerous activity monitors provide similar metrics (e.g. counts/minutes),
      the physiological implication can be highly different depending on what such metrics stand
      for. For example, despite the output from accelerometers placed on wrist and on the hip may
      be identical (counts/minutes), the different magnitude of acceleration may have a completely
      different physiological relationship when assessed by physiological metrics (e.g. energy,
      oxygen uptake). Such diverse physiological impact according to the anatomical placement of
      accelerometers requires a rigorous harmonization of metrics from the accelerometers coupled
      with energy expenditure in representative activities at different intensities.

      To date, validation studies with accelerometers worn on multiple body positions are scarce
      and not all studies uses energy expenditure as the reference. One way to disentangle the
      physiological meaning of physical activity and sedentary behavior is to anchor accelerometer
      output to objective measurements of physiological capacity such as VO2 max, oxygen uptake
      during semi-standardized activities performed at self-selected pace and overall energy
      expenditure during free-living conditions collected over a representative period of time.
      This will contribute to a deeper understanding and accurate interpretation of the
      accelerometer data among community-dwelling older adults and to provide more specific
      accelerometry-based recommendations for physical activity, especially for the oldest
      population.

      Objectives

      The aims of this methodological study are to:

        1. develop hip-, wrist-, thigh-, and low back- worn accelerometer cut-points for different
           intensities of physical activity based on energy expenditure during semi-standardized
           daily tasks for the 80+ year-olds.

        2. validate accelerometry at the wrist, hip, thigh, and low back for estimating energy
           expenditure in free-living conditions, measured by the gold standard of energy
           expenditure, double-labelled water (DLW).

        3. validate existing physical activity and sedentary behavior questionnaires against gold
           standard of energy expenditure (DLW) in free-living conditions in the 80+ year-olds.

      Recruitment and data collection procedures

      The investigators will conduct a cross-sectional study with two modes of data collection: 1)
      in the laboratory; and 2) in the field. Participants will be recruited through two pathways:
      1)(Pathway A) invited personally during the routine preventive home-visits performed by the
      Municipality of Odense ; (Pathway B)or 2) invited through a letter to community-dwelling
      older citizens who lives in the Municipality of Odense. Those who show interest to
      participate will then receive detailed written information about the project and will be
      invited to a medical screening after signing an informed consent. The entire testing
      procedure will span across 14 days as urine samples for DLW method is needed on Day 1 and Day
      14. In between, participants will be invited to attend one for lab test for measuring energy
      expenditure during semi-standardized functional tasks.

      Statistical considerations and data management A detailed data management plan will be
      followed in the collection, entering, and analysis of data. In the laboratory examination
      day, all measurement devices will be synchronized before the measurement begins.

      Sample size Assuming that different accelerometers can capture same physical activity
      behaviour, in a test for agreement between two raters using the Kappa statistic, a sample
      size of 95 subjects achieves 80% power to detect a true Kappa value of 0.70 when there are 3
      categories with frequencies equal to 0.01, 0.20, and 0.79. (representing estimated percentage
      of time spent in moderate-to-vigorous activity, light activity, and sedentary behavior in
      this population). This power calculation is based on an alpha of 0.05.

      Creation of a research biobank

      A research biobank (blood, urine, and saliva samples) will be created for the described
      project. The blood samples will be destroyed no later than 5 years after the project is
      ending. Blood samples will be taking at the facilities of the University (SDU). An authorized
      nurse or biomedical laboratory scientist will be in charge of obtaining blood samples from
      the participants. The biobank will be stored at SDU. In total, 8 urine samples will be
      obtained from each participant during the entire project period. Urine samples will be frozen
      and sent to USA for analysis. The urine samples will be anonymized and stored in the research
      biobank until the end of the project, when the samples will be destroyed. A trained project
      personnel will be in charge of collecting urine samples from the subjects. In this protocol,
      University of Southern Denmark acts as the controller of the biological materials collected
      (urine samples). Data processing agreements will be made between SDU and the University of
      Wisconsin, USA; and between SDU and University of California, Berkeley. The US processor
      shall comply with Danish law governing protection of personal data.

      Ethical considerations

      The research activities of this study will be carried out in accordance with the Declaration
      of Helsinki. All subjects will receive the pamphlets from The National Committee on Health
      Research Ethics regarding personal rights when participating in a health research project and
      aspects to consider before deciding to participate. This study will involve older adults, who
      are considered vulnerable individuals. It is important to acknowledge and respect
      participants' autonomy, i.e., they have to be able to decide by themselves their
      participation in the study with the right to withdraw at any stage. Moreover, a communication
      strategy suitable for this population will be applied to prevent any risk of enhancing
      vulnerability and stigmatization of the older adults.

      This project will generate valuable and novel knowledge about how do objectively measure
      physical activity measured by different accelerometers on the same individual correlate with
      energy expenditure among in +80-year-old community-dwelling citizens; and whether these
      patterns differ according to protein level. These knowledges that can be used to optimize and
      target the preventive and treatment strategies for malnourished older adults hence offer a
      benefit for the individual older adult and for the health care sector. Thus, the
      investigators believe that the benefits from the study is greater than the limited
      discomforts that may follow participation. Subjects are covered by the Danish Patient
      Insurance Association and can thus receive insurance of financial compensation in case any
      damage occurs while participating in the research project. This information will be given to
      participants both verbally and written (in the pamphlets from The National Committee on
      Health Research Ethics) during recruitment.

      All personal data will become anonymized and handled with full confidentiality in compliance
      with the Personal Data Processing Act. The procedure of personal data processing will be
      reported to the Danish Data Protection Agency in University of Southern Denmark. In this
      study protocol, only the anonymized urine and saliva samples will be sent abroad for analysis
      (details described earlier) with no linkage to any other personal data (e.g. CPR number,
      address, telephone number etc..).

      Participants will not receive any compensation for their participation in the study.
    
  