
    
      This research will adopt a mixed methods design for the study involving both quantitative and
      qualitative data collected and analysed simultaneously, then compared or related and
      interpreted.

      Up to 10 participating care homes will be selected by Quantum Care Home Group in line with
      the inclusion/exclusion criteria. A total of 80 participating residents living with dementia,
      80 informal carers and 20 care home staff will be selected from the participating care homes.

      This study will explore:

        1. The most effective and efficient methods for creating personalised playlists, including
           developing automated approaches, using technology (e.g. Apps and music recommendation
           algorithms).

        2. The most easy-to-implement delivery methods for delivering personalised music to
           residents in care homes.

        3. The most effective ways to assess responses to personalised music from people with
           dementia, including trialling automated analysis of changes in facial expression in
           video footage.

        4. Initial impressions of whether factors such as timing of listening affect the observed
           impacts of listening to personalised music or whether listening prior to difficult care
           events appears to be beneficial (e.g. dressing, washing, toileting, sundowning, etc.).

      A personalised playlist of about 100 songs will be created using responses to the music
      preferences questionnaire provided by the resident and their informal
      carer/Consultee/attorney (or paid carer). These questionnaires will be provided by the
      research team to the potential participants, identified by care home staff, together with the
      information pack and consent forms.

      A music listening session will be arranged where the resident and their informal
      carer/Consultee/attorney will be played 30 seconds excerpts of each of the tracks (in 15
      minute blocks over a period of up to 1 hour). The resident will be asked to wear a monitor on
      their wrist, similar to a watch, in order to monitor movement and pulse rate. The session
      will be filmed to enable analysis of emotional responses to music using machine learning
      analysis of changes in facial expression, as well as directly observed movements of hands,
      feet and/ or head. Where necessary the music listening session can be split into multiple
      shorter sessions to accommodate resident or care home requirements. Responses to the 30
      second excerpts will be used to generate a refined personalised playlist for each
      participant, anticipated to be between 10 and 20 tracks.

      The refined personalised playlists will be played to residents in music listening sessions
      throughout the duration of the study. How long music is played for and how frequently will,
      for the feasibility study, be determined by the resident, care home staff and/or informal
      carers. Different delivery methods for delivering personalised music will be tested including
      use of wireless headphones, smart speakers or other wireless speakers and their effectiveness
      and ease of use assessed through feedback from residents and focus groups and interviews with
      informal carers and care home staff. Duration and frequency of music listening sessions will,
      where possible, be logged through the listening history in the music app used and/or through
      data recorded by care home staff or informal carers.

      A short training session will be provided in each participating care home to train staff and
      informal carers on delivering personalised music listening and collecting observational data
      (e.g. on timing of listening and observed effects on mood and behaviour). Fidelity,
      acceptability and appropriateness of the interventions will be assessed by the research team
      through the observation of selected personalised music listening sessions.

      Approaches to assessing responses to the music that will be used include analysis of facial
      expression changes and movement in video footage, heart rate changes and qualitative
      information provided in reports from a member of the research team, residents, care home
      staff and/or informal carers. Impacts on well-being of residents over time will be assessed
      using scores derived from inventories for behavioural and psychological symptom assessment as
      a proxy, e.g. The Neuropsychiatric Inventory Nursing Home Version (NPI-NH), including for
      depression/apathy and anxiety/agitation. The Health-Related Quality of Life Measure for
      people living with dementia (DEMQOL) and DEMQOL-Proxy (administered with the informal
      carer/Consultee) will also be completed. It is expected that these tools will be used before
      the intervention and between 1 and 3 further times for each resident participant at
      appropriate intervals during the period of the study.

      For this study the use of qualitative and quantitative assessment tools is for the purpose of
      developing and testing the appropriateness of personalised music listening and assessment
      methodologies rather than to draw conclusions about efficacy or otherwise of the intervention
      itself (which would be the subject of further studies subject to subsequent ethical
      approval). The quantitative data generated, therefore will only be used to supplement
      qualitative assessments to help infer/indicate factors for further investigation in
      subsequent feasibility studies and a longer-term larger scale intervention study i.e. to
      inform the design of those studies. Therefore, in this feasibility study, analysis of the
      quantitative measures is not intended to produce statistically significant data (the
      statistics involved will be mostly descriptive and, in some cases, inferential). Together
      with subsequent feasibility studies, it is intended to inform the design of the larger scale
      intervention study in which the sample size will be calculated to produce statistically
      significant results.

      The study will trial the use of facial expression change through automated analysis of video
      footage. The initial pilot showed a strong correlation between the scores, indicating that,
      after further calibration, absolute thresholds can be derived to classify a track as either
      high or low response. Deep-learning facial expression change analysis will be developed to
      determine the feasibility or otherwise of using automated analysis of facial expression
      change in video footage. This will involve:

        -  Acquiring videos at 30 frames per second while music is played, extracting 1 image per
           second and generating 3 features for each.

        -  Performing face detection using Microsoft Azure Cognitive Services Application
           Programming Interface (API) and extracting an emotion score from the facial expression
           in 8 categories: anger, contempt, disgust, fear, happiness, neutral, sadness, and
           surprise. The research team will then form a secondary score based on a linear
           combination of these expressions and assign it to each frame.

        -  The research team will then aggregate the values of all frames acquired while a track
           was played to form a total response score by assigning different weights to the frames
           and deriving first-order statistics from the resulting distribution. The researchers can
           then compare the scores to subjective observation.

      The views of care home staff and informal carers/Consultees/attorneys about the intervention
      will be sought throughout the study, via the means of focus group discussions and interviews.
      These focus group discussions and interviews will be conducted with care home staff and
      families in order to explore their views of how personalised playlists have an impact on
      residents including their impressions of the effect of variables such as timing of listening
      or the impact on difficult care situations. Direct feedback will also be sought from
      participating residents themselves, where feasible.

      Informed consent for participation will be obtained, including for participation by informal
      carers/Consultees and care home staff, as well as residents. If anyone participating in the
      study, in any way indicates that they do not want to take part or in any way indicates that
      they are unhappy or distressed, then their participation will be paused (e.g. a different
      track played or a different question asked) and if the distress persists, the session will be
      stopped.

      Informal carers/Consultees/attorneys will provide qualitative assessments of any benefits or
      disbenefits to them arising from the impact of personalised music listening on the
      behavioural and psychological symptoms of their relative/friend (e.g. improving relationship
      with carers and family). These assessments will be provided through participation in
      structured focus groups. Informal carers/Consultees/attorneys will participate in up to 3
      focus groups, conducted by a member of the research team, experienced in qualitative
      research, once the refined personalised playlist is completed, between 2 and 4 months later
      and at the conclusion of their participation in the study.

      Care home staff will provide qualitative assessments of any benefits or disbenefits to them
      arising from the impact of personalised music listening on the behavioural and psychological
      symptoms of the resident, for example:

        -  improving relationship with carers and family;

        -  improved quality or ease of care provision such as easing of distress caused by
           difficult care events.; and

        -  ease of incorporation of personalised music therapy into the usual working practices of
           the care homes.

      These assessments will be provided through participation in structured focus groups. Care
      home staff will participate in up to 3 focus groups, conducted by a member of the research
      team, experienced in qualitative research, once the refined personalised playlist is
      completed, 2-4 months afterwards and at the conclusion of their participation in the study.
      If the care home staff are unable to participate in a focus group, a semi-structured 1:1
      interview will be conducted instead.

      As individuals with more severe dementia may lack the capacity to communicate their music
      preference or emotional responses to listening to music, this study will both:

        -  explore using the outcome measures as an objective way of gauging their preferences and
           responses by comparing responses measured through biomarkers and subjective assessments
           given by individuals living with less severe stages of dementia and their carers, family
           and/or friends; and

        -  work directly with people with advanced dementia who are not able to communicate their
           music preferences or emotional responses to listening to music, instead gathering such
           information from their carers, family and/or friends and measuring responses through
           biomarkers and subjective assessments given by these individuals.

      The eventual larger scale study will explore issues of cost effectiveness, in addition to
      clinical effectiveness.

      Pilot sub-study: Benefits of personalised music in dementia - a pilot study to investigate
      mechanisms of action

      12 of the 80 participants (who have capacity to provide informed consent) will be further
      invited to take part in a pilot sub-study to investigate mechanisms of action.The capacity of
      residents to give consent will be assessed and documented by care home staff. The
      participants will be provided with an information sheet about the sub-study, consent forms
      and an MRI Safety Screen Questionnaire. This pilot study will help develop the mechanistic
      rationale for a larger scale intervention study to explore the effects of personalised music
      on behavioural and psychological symptoms in people with dementia.
    
  