
    
      Tuberculosis (TB) remains a leading cause of death in developing countries and its burden has
      been exacerbated by the concurrent HIV epidemic. Despite the advances in medicine, TB
      diagnosis still remains a challenge, especially in developing countries where diagnosis
      relies mostly on the detection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (MTBC) by smear
      microscopy and/or culture. Smear microscopy is rapid, simple and not expensive but it lacks
      sensitivity. Culture on solid medium, which is performed in some well equipped laboratories,
      is more sensitive than microscopy but takes up to 8 weeks to obtain the result.

      Colorimetric methods have been used for the rapid detection of drug sensitivity in M.
      tuberculosis either from isolates or directly from sputum. These methods rely on the
      detection of live bacteria through either enzymatic activity (nitrate reduction) or their
      ability to reduce an oxidation-reduction indicator, either in solid or liquid medium. They
      are fast, simple, and offer a good potential that should be evaluated for the diagnosis of
      TB.

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the performance of colorimetric assays for the
      detection of M. tuberculosis complex from sputum samples from adult pulmonary TB suspects in
      a high TB and HIV prevalence setting, using Löwenstein Jensen (LJ) and Mycobacterium growth
      indicator tube (MGIT) culture as gold standard. The colorimetric methods evaluated here will
      be the solid medium-based nitrate reductase assay as described (NRA) or with an additional
      step using para Nitrobenzoic (PNB) acid for differentiation of MTBC and NTM (NRA-p), and the
      modified resazurin microplate assay, also using PNB for differentiation of MTBC and NTM
      (REMA-p).

      . If any of the colorimetric assays is found to be accurate, significantly faster than
      conventional culture methods, and easy to perform, then it could be implemented in a
      tuberculosis culture laboratory. By reducing the time to detection compared to conventional
      culture and the costs compared to recent commercial methods, these assays offer a good
      alternative to conventional methods and might help to improve TB diagnosis in developing
      countries.
    
  