
    
      UChicago and MWCN will recruit and enroll 20 health centers (HCs) to participate in a
      training intervention and to implement diabetes group visit and text messaging programs at
      their clinic sites. Each HC will assemble a team of 3-4 providers and staff to participate in
      the training. HCs will be randomized to one of two training cohorts. HC providers and staff
      will attend two in-person Learning Sessions in Chicago and a series of monthly webinars,
      recruit and enroll patients, implement a 6-month diabetes group visit and text messaging
      program plus subsequent booster sessions, complete periodic surveys and interviews, assist
      with data collection through patient surveys and chart abstraction, and present their program
      to peer HCs during Learning Sessions and to local stakeholders, state primary care
      organizations, or other professional groups. Each HC will enroll 15 patients in the group
      visit and text messaging program; the 2018 Training Cohort will do so immediately following
      their enrollment in the study and the 2020 Training Cohort will do so after 18 months. During
      the first 18 months, the 2020 Training Cohort will collect data from electronic health
      records (EHR) of randomly selected patients to serve as a control group. Changes in
      self-reported outcomes, diabetes processes of care, and clinical outcomes will be assessed
      for intervention patients from baseline through 2 year follow up, and processes of care and
      clinical outcomes will be compared for intervention vs. control participants. Capacity of HC
      providers and staff to conduct a group visit and text messaging intervention for patients
      with diabetes, as well as their confidence in identifying and addressing health disparities,
      will be evaluated through surveys and in-depth interviews. This study will expand knowledge
      of the barriers, facilitators, and perceived benefits and drawbacks of group visit and text
      messaging interventions and inform the development of a toolkit that will be disseminated to
      other HCs.
    
  