
    
      Background. The prevalence of Alzheimer's disease is increasing due to an aging society.
      Parallel, care and nursing needs and costs rise with disease progression. Promoting and
      stimulating patients to maintain patients abilities and the independent life is therefore
      essential to prolong the time at home and reduce direct and indirect costs. Computer-based
      technologies, such as tablet-based trainings, might have the potential to support the patient
      itself and the caregiver by reducing the (nursing) care-dependency and stabilizing or slowing
      the disease progression. Prior studies revealed that patients suffering from dementia in
      general desire technologies supporting cognitive abilities, communication skills, social
      integration and activities of daily living (e.g. mobility) (Lauriks et al .2007, Wand et al.,
      2016). Moreover, a multimodal approach has been demonstrated to be superior compared to
      unimodal approaches, aiming to foster only one domain or aspect. In this study, a multimodal
      tablet-based training, focusing on cognitive, psychological, physical and aspects of
      activities of daily living, for patients suffering from mild Alzheimer's disease was
      implemented.

      The primary aim of this study is to examine the efficacy of the multi-domain approach which
      as implemented in the tablet-based training in mild AD patients. Secondary aims are to
      measures structural and functional cerebral changes, quality of life, mobility, motivation,
      life-style factors, stress, care-dependency, (instrumental) activities of daily living,
      changes in medical treatments, problems in behavior, burden due to nursing, activity level,
      arm strength, depressive symptoms and the usability of the data raised for the development of
      a decision support system.

      Methods. This study is implemented as a randomized controlled trial with embedded design.
      Two-hundred twenty subjects with mild AD (dementia diagnoses according to NINCDS-ADRDA
      criteria) and the primary caregiver will be included in the study. One hundred ten subjects
      will receive a guided tablet-training for 1.5 years. One hundred ten subjects are in the
      control group, receiving "normal" medical treatment and support. Additionally, five nursing
      persons and 5 M.A.S. (Morbus Alzheimer syndrome) trainers conduct single and group trainings.
      All subjects and the caregivers will be tested and interviewed, respectively, at study entry,
      at six, twelve and eighteen months. The study team consist of Joanneum Research (JR), the
      Sozialverein Deutschlandsberg (SVDL), the Austrian Red Cross (ÖRK), and the Medical
      University of Graz, Department of Neurology and the Institute of Nursing Science as well as
      Health System & Intelligence (HS&I).

      Recruiting. The recruiting process is carried by telephone, flyer, home page, personal
      meetings, and social media. The approach is convenience sampling.

      Randomisation. In advance of the study, a randomisation concept determines the participant's
      random assignment to intervention or control group. The first half of the 220 participants
      are 70% likely to be assigned to the intervention group and 30% to the control group. For the
      second half of the sample the likelihood for group assignment reverses. This step should
      guarantee that enough participants receive the intervention in case of challenging
      recruitment. The intervention is favoured over an equal distribution to the groups. At the
      University Clinic of Neurology, where the examination takes place, only a study nurse knows
      about the group assignment of the patients, forwarding this information to the personnel of
      the SVDL and the ÖRK.

      Blinding. In the context of the study, blinding of the employees of the SVDL and ÖRK is not
      possible since the intervention is apparent to the personnel. The neurologists and
      neuropsychologists are not informed at any time during the study of the patient's group
      assignment.

      Intervention. "Multimodal Activation" (MMA) is an app developed for tablets that contains a
      serious game and has been previously tested in patients with dementia. It stimulates a
      multimodal training by games that involve cognitive and physical exercises. These exercises
      can be individually adapted to content, level of difficulty, sequence and time. The training
      starts with physical exercises accompanied by music. Afterwards there are cognitive exercises
      such as a quiz, puzzle, gap-filling, simple arithmetic tasks or listening comprehensions. The
      patients can use MMA at home as well as in a care facility.

      Intervention group (IG). The IG undertakes a 1.5-year tablet PC-based training of cognitive
      and physical skills using DaheimAktiv, which is carried out every 14 days by a MAS trainer,
      medical nurse or pedagogically trained person from the SVDL or the ÖRK together with the
      patient. The tablet remains with the patient at home and the participants are encouraged to
      continue training without the presence of a trainer (with and without a relative). All
      training sessions are recorded. DaheimAktiv is a multimodal intervention procedure with
      cognitive and physical exercises. In addition to the fourteen-day training units with the
      trainers and independent training, "training cafés" will take place in small groups to
      promote motivation and increase social integration, i.e. several patients train together.

      Control group (CG). In the control group, the medical interventions initiated are continued
      (standard intervention). Apart from that, these patients are subjected to the same study
      conditions as the patients of the intervention group. After completion of the evaluation
      phase, patients of the CG will receive a free, one-year license for DaheimAktiv.

      Study outline. First, a pre-screening of potential participants takes place to check for
      inclusion and exclusion criteria. The patients that fit the criteria are invited to the
      University Clinic of Neurology for a neurological examination, blood sampling (also for
      potential genetic analysis) and cognitive assessments (performance tests and interviews). If
      a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease is confirmed on a clinical basis, patients are invited to
      a structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in order to exclude other causes
      of cognitive deficits and aggregate imaging biomarkers of disease-associated changes such as
      hippocampal volume. Six and twelve months after study inclusion short cognitive testing and
      interviews at home will be carried out. After 1.5 years, the patients from the control and
      the intervention group again are invited to the University Clinic of Neurology performing the
      same procedures as during baseline.

      Hotline. For the duration of the study, the SVDL provides a hotline specific for questions
      and problems that participants might face.

      Statistics. The quantitative data will be analysed using IBM SPSS (version 25.0, 2017). The
      chosen level of significance is determined at α = .05. Mean and standard deviation or median
      and quartiles will be part of the descriptive statistics. Absolute and relative frequencies
      will depict categorical data. In order to test for the hypothesis regarding the positive
      effect of tablet training on cognition, primary outcome parameters (such as global
      neuropsychological scores) as well as secondary variables (such as neuropsychological
      subscores) will be compared between intervention and control group using ANCOVA adjusted for
      multiple testing. Furthermore, total brain volume, local volume of brain areas such as the
      hippocampus, cerebral microstructure and functional connectivity will be measured and
      compared between groups. Other secondary outcome parameters will be analysed using ANCOVA for
      between group comparisons. Pre-post comparisons (by ANOVA for repeated measures) shall deepen
      the understanding of how these changes occur over time. The analyses will be adjusted for
      age, sex, comorbidity and education. Qualitative data from the interviews will be organized
      and coded via the software MAXQDA. Afterwards a qualitative content analysis will be applied.

      Ethics. Patients (or the person with power of attorney) have to give informed consent in
      order to participate in the study. At any given time, the participants can refuse or withdraw
      the consent without giving specific reasons. The genetic analysis merely serves a scientific
      purpose and requires written consent. All samples are analysed and stored using pseudonyms.
      Only at the University Clinic of Neurology it is possible to connect the sample with the name
      of the donor. If the results of the genetic analysis will be used for multi-centric research,
      it is ensured that the identity of the donor remains anonymous for cooperating centres. All
      aspects of the examination are non-invasive (except blood sampling), state-of-the-art
      procedures that are applied according to the law. The ethics committee of the Medical
      University of Graz approved the study on February 5th 2020 (31-556 ex 18/19).

      Data protection Every participant receives an individual, pseudonymous code at the University
      Clinic of Neurology that is shared with the SVDL and ÖRK for patient-code assignment. The
      other partners of the study team only receive the patient's code. The communication between
      the project partners and all data transfer occurs using this code to ensure the anonymity of
      the patients. The SVDL submits questionnaires and interviews to the Medical University of
      Graz (MUG) via a secured server (protected by password). All personal information about the
      participants is confidential. Interviews are pseudonymised during transcription. The project
      partners have access to the data for the purpose of data entry and analysis.

      For the tablet-based training with the MMA app, a registration with an email-address and a
      password is necessary. This information is stored in a coded form in a database. The serial
      number of the tablet has to be stored as well. Further personal information is optional and
      hence not required to use the training.

      The app also stores information about every completed unit in the programme like speed and
      precision in the training intervention for the sake of future improvement. For further
      analysis of the intervention group, the data will be pseudonymous.

      The usage of fitness trackers only works in combination with an account that the users have
      to create in the first place. However, there is no data transfer of the log data to the
      central database of the project. Only the users can access that data.

      Trainings. In order to minimize the inter-rater variability of thr raters for questionnaires
      and interviews, the data-collecting persons of the SVDL and the ÖRK are trained beforehand on
      the questionnaires and interviews (individual interviews, focus groups) by employees of the
      MUG Neurology and nursing. For the tablet training, the SVDL and the ÖRK will train the
      dementia trainers to use the intervention. The duration will be about 4 hours. All
      participants/patients receive training in the application of the intervention by the
      SVDL/ÖRK.

      Hotline, contact persons. During the study, the SVDL will set up a hotline for questions and
      problems of the participants during the study period. Regular times are given for this.
    
  