
    
      The present study is a prospective, randomized trial conducted at the Second University
      Department of Cardiology in Attikon University Hospital. A two hundred seventy patients with
      STEMI , within 48 hours after primary PCI are randomized in two remote conditioning (RIC)
      protocols or no intervention other than standard treatment (control group). The first
      protocol utilizes two ischemic stimuli by brachial cuff inflation of both arms at 200 mmHg
      for 5 minutes, separated by 15 minutes, after a baseline vascular function assessment (T0).
      Each ischemic stimulus is followed by a vascular function assessment (T1, T2), with a final
      assessment 25 minutes after the second cuff deflation (T3). The second protocol is identical
      with the first, except for the omission of the second ischemic stimulus. Both protocols are
      preceded by a sham conditioning procedure, by way of cuff inflation omission after their
      placement around the ordinary brachial position. The RIC protocol will be also performed in
      30 healthy volunteers. Blood samples are drawn at baseline (T0) and at the termination of
      each protocol (T3). All patients are in sinus rhythm, while exclusion criteria include Killip
      class>2 during the index event, administration of nitrates, history of previous known
      coronary artery or other cardiovascular disease, previous PCI or coronary artery bypass
      surgery (CABG), as well chronic inflammatory and systemic disease. Furthermore, The
      investigators are going to conduct a two - year follow up in order to asess a) changes in
      left ventricular contractility via estimation of Left Ventricular End Systolic Volume( LVESV)
      by echocardiography study b) changes in endothelial glycocalyx and arterial stiffness.

      Arterial stiffness is assessed by carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (PWV) using arterial
      tonometry (Complior, Alam Medical, Vincennes, France); normal values <10 m/s. PWV is
      calculated as the distance between the carotid and femoral arterial pulse palpation site,
      divided by the transit time between waves (m/s). All measurements are performed by the same
      examiner, who is blind to the ischemic protocol exploited (intra-observer variability=5%).

      The perfusion boundary region (PBR) of sublingual arterial microvasculature (diameter span
      from 5 to 25 μm) is measured using Sidestream Darkfield imaging (Microscan, Glycocheck,
      Microvascular Health Solutions Inc., Salt Lake City, UT, USA). The PBR is the cell-poor
      layer, resulting from the phase separation between the flowing red blood cells (RBC) and
      plasma on the microvessel luminal surface. The PBR includes the component of glycocalyx that
      does allow cell penetration. Thus, an increased perfused boundary region (PBR) is consistent
      with deeper penetration of erythrocytes into glycocalyx, indicating a loss of glycocalyx
      barrier properties and is a marker of reduced glycocalyx thickness. This constitutes a
      standardized, reproducible, operator-independent method of assessing arterial glycocalyx, and
      is thus proposed as a means to endothelial integrity evaluation.

      Malondialdehyde (MDA) is determined spectrophotometrically with a commercial kit (Oxford
      Biomedical Research, Rochester Hills, Mich, colorimetric assay for lipid peroxidation;
      measurement range 1-20 nmol/L; 3.39% and 4.75% intra-assay and inter-assay variability
      respectively). IL-6 is measured by a high-sensitivity immunoassay [human IL-6 Quantikinine
      (high sensitivity)], that detects values as low as 0.094 (intra-assay variability <5%).

      MicroRNAs (Mirs) are small, single stranded, non-coding RNA molecules comprising 19-25
      nucleotides that regulate post-transcriptional gene expression in response to cellular or
      environmental stimuli [38]. Their non-invasiveness and stability in serum allows prompt
      estimation of their expression using archived serum samples. Specific MiRs have been
      implicated in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease and IRI. MiR-144 serves as a pivotal
      RIC mediator, while miR-150 and miR-499 inhibit apoptosis and fibrosis in the setting of
      animal models of myocardial IRI [40, 41]. In addition, miR-21 has been demonstrated to reduce
      infarct size and early left ventricular (LV) remodelling after IRI in rats. On the contrary,
      miR-208 exerts deleterious effects by way of hypertrophy and adverse remodelling induction .
      Serum miRNA are obtained from samples using the NucleoSpin miRNA Plasma Kit (MACHEREY-NAGEL
      GmbH & Co. KG, Duren, Germany) according to instructions of the manufacturer. The expression
      patterns of the miRNAs tested and a housekeeping gene, U6sn, were quantitatively assayed
      using reverse transcription and real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction
      (RT-PCR). Stem-loop complementary DNAs (cDNAs) are synthesized using looped reverse
      transcription primers specific for each miRNA. Reverse transcription and quantification is
      performed with the Mir-X™ MicroRNA Quantification Kit (Clontech Laboratories, USA) according
      to the instruction of the manufacturer using Roche Light Cycler Fluorescence Quantitative PCR
      System (ABI, USA). All the samples are amplified in triplicate and each experiment was
      repeated three times to confirm reproducibility. The fold change in expression level is
      calculated using the 2-ΔΔCt method. The primers for PCR are:

      Name Sequence miR-150 F: 5'-TCTCCCAACCCTTGTACCAGT- 3' R: 5'-GTGCAGGGTCCGAGGT-3' miR-208 F:
      5'-CTTTTGGCCCGGGTTATAC-3' R: 5'-CTGACATCCTCTAGGCTGG-3' miR-144 F: 5'-GGGGGTACAGTATAGATGAT-3'
      R: 5'-TGCGTGTCGTGGAGTC-3' miR-499 F: 5'-CAAAGTCTTCACTTCCCTGCCA-3' R:
      5'-GATGTTTAACTCCTCTCCACGTGATC-3' miR-21 F: 5'-CCCGCCTAGCTTATCAGACTG-3' R:
      5'-GCCGTCGGTGTCAACATCA-3' miR-145 F: 5'-GGCGTCCAGTTTTCCCAG-3' R: 5'-CAGTGCTGGGTCCGAGTGA-3'
      U6sn F: 5'-CTCGCTTCGGCAGCACA-3' R: 5'-AACGCTTCACGAATTTGCGT-3' Once considered as inert
      by-products of NO metabolism, nitrate (NO¬3-) and nitrite (NO2-) have recently been shown to
      function as recycling substrates in a process of NO regeneration , which is independent of
      the classic L-arginine-NO-synthase (NOS) pathway. This is of particular importance in the
      setting of myocardial ischemia, as the latter cascade is progressively deactivated in hypoxic
      environments. Thus, the nitrate-nitrite (NOx) pool should be perceived as a reservoir of NO
      bioactivity that complements NOS in states of low-oxygen tension. The concentration of
      nitrate/nitrite in blood plasma is determined using Griess reaction with a commercially
      available kit (Cayman's Nitrate/Nitrite Colorimetric Assay Kit 780001) as we have described
      previously. Each plasma sample is ultrafiltered through a 10kDa molecular weight cut-off
      filter (Pall Nanosep® centrifugal device with Omega membrane, Sigma Aldrich: Z722065). The
      filters are pre-rinsed with Ultrapure water prior to ultrafiltration of the plasma. Then,
      500μL of plasma is centrifuged for 30 minutes at 14.000xg at 4οC. 40μL of the filtrate are
      used for the determination of nitrate/nitrite , the Griess reagents are added and the
      absorbance of each well was measured at 540nm using the reader Infinite 200 PRO series
      (Tecan). The concentration of nitrate/nitrite is determined with a nitrate/nitrite standard
      curve respectively using Graph Pad prism version 7 (Graph Pad Software, Inc.) according to
      the manufacturer's instructions. The results are expressed in μmol/L.

      Moreover, the investigators are going to perform an echocardiographic study at 1 and 2 years
      after the recruitment to investigate whether the left ventricular function differs among the
      3 arms of the study (2 RIC protocols and no intervention).

      STATA v.11 and SPSS v.22 are used to analyse the data. The Shapiro-Wilk test is used to
      examine whether the data are normally distributed, whereas the Levene test is used to examine
      the homoscedasticity of the data. All non-parametric variables are compared using the
      Wilcoxon test for comparisons between baseline and post-intervention values and are
      transformed into ranks for multivariate analysis. In all analyses, the researchers use two
      tailed tests with p<0.05. The investigators use parametric (Pearson r) and non-parametric
      (Spearman rho) correlation coefficients to examine cross-sectional associations. Analysis of
      variance (ANOVA) for clinical and biological data is performed to test the differences among
      groups and all non-parametric variables are transformed into ranks before entering the
      analysis using a previously published methodology . ANOVA (general linear model, SPSS 22,
      SPSS Inc, Chicago, Ill) for repeated measurements is applied for (a) measurements of the
      examined vascular function and biochemical markers (at T0, T1, T2, and T3 for the former and
      at baseline and termination of protocol for the latter) with the parameter of time used as a
      within-subject factor, and (b) to test differences among the 2 RIPost protocols (single-
      versus double-inflation) and sham procedure using a model including age, sex, BMI,
      dyslipidaemia, diabetes, hypertension, concomitant medical treatments, MI location,
      myocardial enzymes, and number of diseased coronary vessel (>70% stenosis) as covariates. The
      interaction between the study groups and the covariates included in the model are also
      examined, while the F and p values of the interaction between time of measurement of the
      examined markers and study groups are also calculated. The Greenhouse-Geisser correction is
      used when the sphericity assumption, as assessed by Mauchly's test, is not met. Post hoc
      comparisons are performed with Bonferroni correction. A p-value of<0.05 is considered as
      statistically significant. Inter- and intra-observer variabilities (%) of vascular and
      biochemical markers are calculated as the SD of the differences between the first and second
      measurements, and are expressed as a percentage of the average value in 30 healthy
      volunteers.
    
  