
    
      Through advertisement and community outreach, potential participants will be directed to the
      website, BrainHealthRegistry.org. The overall goal of this project is to identify, assess and
      longitudinally monitor subjects who are interested in participating in brain research.
      Participants will enroll through the website, BrainHealthRegistry.org, and provide informed
      consent prior to any study activities.

      The website will include:

        1. Information about the Brain Health Registry (who is eligible to participate, the goals
           of the project and other relevant information about investigators and sponsors involved
           in the Initiative)

        2. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) such as "How will my information be used?", "How will
           patient information be safeguarded?", "What information will be requested?", "How much
           time will be required for registration and testing?" will be addressed for participants.

        3. General information about Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative diseases
           discussed in lay terms Links to sites that may be of interest to participants

        4. Login to our secure Registry website

      The Registry will be a large, online database of volunteers who are interested in
      participating in neuroscience research. While anyone over the age of 18 is welcome to join
      the Registry, the intent is to concentrate all efforts on enrolling participants age 55 years
      and older. It will consist of online tools and databases, which are HIPAA-compliant and
      secure.

        1. Participants will access the Registry by going to the BHR website,
           BrainHealthRegistry.org

        2. Participants will provide their email address and create an account and username with
           the Registry

        3. The Registry will send an automatic email to the participant to verify their email
           address

        4. Participants will read the online Information Sheet and will be asked to provide their
           consent by clicking either "I consent" or "I decline." Participants who decline to
           participate in the Registry will be automatically directed out of the Registry website

        5. Participants who give their consent will be permitted to continue through the
           registration process, which includes completing a battery of questionnaires designed to
           obtain a general understanding of participants health, medical history wellbeing

        6. In addition to questionnaires, participants will be able to complete online cognitive
           assessments.

        7. Participants will given the option to elect a Caregiver and/or Study Partner (CASP) to
           enrich their study profile.

        8. Participants may be referred to other research studies and/or clinical trials
    
  