
    
      This protocol is designed for the screening and baseline assessment of and collection of
      research sample from patients with abnormalities of immune function as manifested by
      recurrent or unusual infections, recurrent or chronic inflammation, or previous laboratory
      evidence of immune dysfunction. Abnormalities of immune function may be inherited or may be
      iatrogenic such as that following hematopoietic stem cell transplantation or other treatments
      resulting in prolonged immune dysfunction. Blood and/or bone marrow cells may also be used to
      investigate the utility of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPS) for immune cell derivation
      and targeted gene correction. This is not a protocol to study or screen for human
      immunodeficiency virus infection, though patients with HIV infection who may have other
      causes for immune dysfunction are not excluded. First or second degree genetically related
      family members (limited to mother, father, siblings, grandparents, children, aunts, uncles
      and first cousins of an affected patient) may also be screened for clinical, in vitro and
      genetic correlates of immune abnormalities. Healthy Volunteers will be enrolled as a source
      of control blood samples for research testing, not to include genetic testing. Screening and
      baseline assessment under the auspices of this study may be limited to two visits over one
      year period, unless the patient has been determined by initial evaluation to require further
      study at NIH or are ongoing long-term safety assessments as required by their participation
      on a gene therapy or transplant protocol. Patients with documented immune dysfunction may
      receive limited medically indicated treatment if that medically indicated treatment is
      related to the abnormality of immune function under study, with such treatment limited to the
      period of the one year baseline assessment indicated in this protocol. When screening and
      assessment is complete, patients will be offered an opportunity to participate in another
      study, or if there are no active studies appropriate for the patient, other options will be
      suggested to the primary or referring physician.

      This protocol will allow detailed investigation of patients with abnormalities of immune
      function with up to one year of observation with the following goals:

        1. To determine the degree, scope and cause of immune dysfunction;

        2. To establish the pace and pattern of change in the disease process;

        3. To determine the extent of organ involvement and damage from immune dysfunction.

      This screening and baseline assessment is necessary to discover new causes of immune
      abnormalities, to delineate epidemiology of immune deficiencies, to develop new diagnostic
      and therapeutic tools, and to determine a patient's eligibility for other studies.

      Lung MRI as a CT supplement in Infection Surveillance in Immunodeficiencies:

      The routine use of computed tomography (CT) has increased substantially since its
      introduction into medicine, which, in turn, has also increased the amount of radiation to
      which individuals are exposed. This increased radiation is not without risk and is
      particularly problematic in our primary immunodeficiency disease population, who require
      serial imaging with chest CTs to manage pneumonia. Standard medical practice in this patient
      population is to diagnose infection by obtaining a diagnostic CT and then repeating the CT
      every three to four weeks until the lesion has resolved in order to guide the treatment
      course.

      Although the radiation dose at our institution has been reduced by a factor of four in the
      last several years as a result of peak kilovoltage (kVp) reduction dose modulation and
      iterative reconstruction; cumulative radiation exposure carries an increased lifetime risk
      for cancer and reducing exposure should be in keeping with the mandate, As Low As Reasonably
      Achievable (ALARA).

      Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), which does not expose the patient to any ionizing
      radiation, has shown promise in detecting the obvious infiltrates secondary to cross
      sectional ability and increasing resolution.

      Previously, lung MRI had not been considered as a potential substitute for CT because of poor
      signal- to- noise ratio (SNR) due to the low density of protons in lung parenchyma, the short
      T2* relaxation time in the lungs secondary to air-tissue based susceptibility, and the
      challenge of imaging over long scan times resulting in respiratory, vascular and cardiac
      motion artifacts.

      However, the recent development of MRI scanning techniques that provide an ultra short echo
      time (UTE) along with oversampling of k-space center appear to overcome the above mentioned
      drawbacks of MRI for imaging the lung/ chest.

      For this protocol, we will use optimized versions of the MRI UTE pulse sequence on our 3T
      clinical scanners to perform breath-hold (BH) coronal and BH and free-breathing axial images.
      Our goal is to comprehensively evaluate the lung without additional radiation with a
      clinically reasonable scan time of <30 minutes, especially with a proportionally high
      percentage of young adults.

      Subjects enrolled under 05-I-0213 with primary immune deficiencies may be considered for
      participation in the sub study to evaluate the feasibility of novel MRI techniques compared
      with standard CT imaging for pathology surveillance if they are undergoing medically
      indicated CT imaging for the diagnosis or monitoring of infection.
    
  