
    
      Perioperative Myocardial Infarction (PMI) is a major contributor to perioperative mortality
      and morbidity with overall incidence of 5-16% (1, 2). It is associated with increased 30-day
      mortality of 11.6% vs 2.2% of patients without PMI in non-cardiac surgical patients (1).
      However, its recognition and diagnosis remains challenging as the typical symptoms and
      findings of ischemic MI may be masked by post-operative changes and pain management.

      To support early detection and diagnosis of myocaridal injury in the perioperative setting,
      myocardial injury after non-cardiac surgery (MINS) has been recognized as an important
      prognostic marker independently associated with mortality and significant morbidity in the
      perioperative period (3,4). MINS is defined as prognostically relevant myocardial injury due
      to ischemia that occurs during or within 30 days after noncardiac surgery. Perioperative
      screening and monitoring of MINS is recommended by the most recent 2016 Canadian
      Cardiovascular Society (CCS) Guidelines (5). One study found of the MINS patients, only 41.8%
      of which filled universal definition of MI (4). This may suggest that screening for MINS in
      the Perioperative setting by detecting post-operative troponin rise is an important marker to
      prompt further investigation and closer monitoring.

      However, despite efforts in recognition and establishment of MINS, there is still no
      consensus for the optimal management of MINS in addition to routine cardiac risk
      stratification. Common MI management options may be complicated by post-operative changes
      such as anemia, hypotension, hypoxemia, and use of routine anti-platelet and anticoagulation
      agents and invasive intervention is associated with high risk of complication and mortality
      in the perioperative period (6).

      Colchine is an alkaloid anti-inflammatory drug with well-established safety and adverse
      effect profile in various clinical settings including pericarditis and gout flare.
      Pharmacologically, colchicine inhibits beta-tubulin polymerization into microtubules,
      preventing activation and migration of neutrophils to achieve its anti-inflammatory effect.
      Clinically in the cardiac surgery patient population, colchicine has been shown in multiple
      meta-analyses to be efficacious in preventing post-operative atrial fibrillation (7), in
      treatment and prevention of pericarditits and post-pericarditomy syndrome (8, 9). In patients
      who are high risk for cardiovascular events, systemic review has shown reduction in
      cardiovascular mortality and myocardial infarction in some studies (10). Colchicine is an
      ideal agent in the perioperative period as it does not increase the risk of major bleeding,
      hepatic and renal toxicity, and there is only gastrointestinal discomfort at high doses.

      In this study, the investigators hope to determine if colchicine decreases the incidence of
      MINS in high risk surgical patients undergoing non-cardiac surgery and optimally establish
      colchicine as a viable therapy to improve perioperative cardiovascular outcome in those
      patients.

      Research Question: In the current clinical setting, is a larger, multi-centre randomised
      controlled trial comparing effect of perioperative oral colchicine administration versus
      placebo on incidence of MINS feasible?

      This pilot study will inform many aspects of the future multi-centre trial. The pilot study
      will provide information on the recruitment rate of eligible patients and incidence of MINS
      on the recruited patient, which will allow the investigators to determine the sample size
      required in the large multi-centre trial to detect clinically relevant differences.

      The pilot study will also provide information on the operational aspect of clinical trial,
      including initial patient enrolment and consent processes, data collection from electronic
      chart review. This will help refine the process and improve efficiency of the larger trial.

      Lastly, information collected on side-effects of study drug (colchicine) would improve timely
      detection and treatment of the associated side effects (GI, myopathies, and blood
      dyscrasias), as well as expected drop-out rate from the larger trial due to intolerance of
      these side effects.
    
  