
    
      Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) are neuro-developmental disorders presumably related to
      neural circuit alterations. The symptoms, that start very early in development and persist
      through adulthood, can lead to severe handicap. Even though a wide variety of clinical
      severity exists, difficulties in social interactions are a core feature of ASD. These
      difficulties are characterized by social perception abnormalities, manifested mainly through
      abnormal eye contact. Such abnormalities have been largely confirmed in the last decade by
      eye-tracking studies, which allow objective and quantitative investigation of gaze behaviour.
      Studies with adults and children with ASD during visualization of social scene have shown a
      lack of preference for socially relevant information, mainly faces and eyes.

      In the typically developing brain, socially relevant information is processed within a
      specific network, called the social brain. Functional MRI (fMRI) activation studies have
      shown the implication of a key region of the social brain, namely the superior temporal
      sulcus (STS), is in processing social information, ranging from the perception of eyes, faces
      and voices to the more complex processes of social cognition. Over the last decades, brain
      imaging studies investigating the neuro basis of ASD have consistently described anatomical
      and functional abnormalities within the social brain, particularly within the STS Currently
      there are important limitations in the therapeutic interventions available for ASD.
      Pharmacological treatments are only indicated for psychiatric comorbidity and has no impact
      on ASD core manifestations. Behavioural interventions, on the other hand, are generally
      expensive, time-consuming and have modest results. In more recent years non-invasive
      neuromodulation techniques, such as Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS), have raised hope
      as effective tool to address ASD core manifestations. Indeed, modulating the neural activity
      of STS with an impact on social perception opens new therapeutic perspectives in ASD. The
      effect of TMS on social behaviour has been recently showed by a study from our lab. Following
      an inhibition of the right STS by inhibitory TMS, healthy volunteers look less at the eyes of
      the characters during the visualization of social scenes.

      In this context, the main objective of this study is to investigate the effect of repetitive
      session of TMS applied to the STS on social perception in patients with ASD. In addition, the
      investigators aim to research the impact of putative changes in social perception in broader
      social behaviour using clinical scales. Finally, the investigators aim to research putative
      changes in brain functioning at rest by measuring rest cerebral blood flow using Arterial
      Spin Labeling (ASL)-MRI before and after TMS. This is a double-blind, randomized,
      placebo-controlled therapeutic trial, ultimately aiming to improve broader social behaviour.

      For that purpose, the investigators will include in the present study 20 participants with
      non-syndromic ASD aged from 18 to 25 years old. Social perception will be measured using an
      eye-tracking during passive visualization of social stimuli. All patients will undergo an MRI
      for neuronavigation purposes and to obtain rest cerebral blood flow measures using arterial
      spin labelling MRI sequence, as well as clinical scales to evaluate their global social
      behavior: clinical global impressions (CGI), "évaluation des comportements autistiques
      revise" (ECA-R) and autism behavior checklist (ABC). The 20 patients will be automatically
      randomized in the active TMS arm (n = 10), or in the placebo arm (n = 10). Patients will
      undergo 10 sessions of TMS applied to the posterior part of the right superior STS, from
      Monday to Friday for two consecutive weeks. Following the 10 sessions, evaluations will be
      performed: 5 days, 1 month and 3 months after the end of the treatment.

      The investigators expect that stimulation of the posterior part of the STS, a region shown to
      be strongly implicated in processing social information, mainly from the eyes, would lead to
      an increase in eye-gaze perception and thus promote access to social cues necessary for
      adapted broader social behavior. If so, TMS could be further considered as an alternative
      therapeutical intervention in ASD.
    
  