
    
      Background:

        -  Bladder cancer is the sixth most common cancer in the United States, disproportionately
           affecting more men than women.

        -  The gold standard for the surgical treatment and diagnosis of non-muscle invasive
           bladder cancer is transurethral resection of bladder tumors (TURBT).

        -  TURBT requires the fragmentation of bladder tumors and piecemeal removal of these
           tumors.

        -  TURBT leads to loss of histopathologic information - including tumor orientation, size,
           and margin status - which may compromise outcomes and risk tumor seeding within the
           bladder.

        -  Given these multiple problems with TURBT we are testing some modifications to the
           current resectoscope device and the effect of these modifications on the quality of
           TURBT specimens produced.

        -  The redesigned resectoscope device will be tested ex-vivo on cystectomy specimens to
           avoid risks to patient safety.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective of this study is to determine if resectoscope device modification can
      provide improved pathologic standards for the TURBT procedure. An improvement in any of the
      parameters outlined below will constitute a device improvement in the current resectoscope:

        -  Presence of three tissue layers within the tumor specimens containing bladder mucosa,
           lamina propria, and portions of the muscularis.

        -  Information regarding tumor margin, assessed as the ability to ascertain if tumor is
           present at the margin of the resection.

      Eligibility:

        -  Medical condition requiring surgical removal of the bladder

        -  Men and women, age >= 18 years

      Design:

        -  Preclinical tissue acquisition trial, ex vivo, proof-of-concept.

        -  Following cystectomy, a modified resectoscope/redesigned resectoscope will be used to
           resect areas of tumor from the cystectomy specimens. These resected tumors will be sent
           with the cystectomy specimen for histopathology to assess the size of resection, depth
           of resection, and ability to ascertain tumor orientation.

        -  The remainder of the cystectomy specimens will undergo traditional histopathology.
           Histopathologic information from both specimens will be included in the final
           histopathologic diagnosis to ensure accurate oncology staging.

        -  This study will allow for about 2 years of accrual and the accrual ceiling will be set
           at 25 subjects.
    
  