
    
      The Unilever Pureit As+ filter will be assessed for chemical and microbiological performance
      and health impact using a parallel, household-randomised controlled trial (RCT) design over a
      four-month follow-up period.

      This study will follow an open (non-blinded) design because filtration technologies are
      particularly challenging to blinding (Boisson et al., 2010). Equal randomisation will be
      applied (i.e. 1:1). Randomisation will be undertaken through a lottery organised in each
      participating village.

      The study will be undertaken in two phases; an initial phase will involve a baseline survey
      in the identified affected communities. Those households identified as eligible during the
      baseline survey will then be randomised into the intervention or control group and the
      intervention will then be distributed. After a 2-4 week adaptation period, control and
      intervention arms will be followed at monthly visits for a period of four months.

      The baseline study will collect information on demographics, sanitation facilities, hygiene
      practices, drinking water sources and treatment practices, diet of household members,
      knowledge of arsenic contamination and arsenicosis, and other factors that could potentially
      impact the outcomes of interest. Additionally, data on behavioural factors that have been
      observed to be associated with Household Water Treatment (HWT) use will be collected to
      predict intervention use in the intervention arm. During the baseline survey, water samples
      of source water and stored drinking water will be collected and tested for total
      thermotolerant coliforms (TTC) and total arsenic concentration. The female head of the
      household will be invited to provide a sample of urine for total urinary arsenic testing. The
      female head of the household will be followed because it is expected that she will be the
      household member that i. is mainly responsible for drinking water management, and ii. is at
      home most of the day and thus making it logistically feasible to obtain spot urine samples
      throughout the study.

      At monthly intervals, participating households will be visited to assess filter use using
      self report as well as objective indicators. Additionally, in each round of follow-up,
      drinking water samples will be taken in all participating households for both microbiological
      and arsenic testing. Additionally, the female head of household will be invited to provide
      spot urine samples for total urinary arsenic at each round of follow up.

      For arsenic testing samples of stored drinking water will be collected and analysed for total
      arsenic. Additionally, in intervention households, samples of source water will also be
      collected to assess the percentage removal of Arsenic by the Pureit AS+ filter. Water samples
      will be collected in polyethylene bottles pre-washed with nitric acid water and nitric acid
      (0.1% v/v) will be added after collection at the laboratory as a preservative (Roychowdhury,
      2008). Samples will be stored in ice box until arrival to the lab and stored at 4°C until
      shipment to the laboratory for analysis. Total water arsenic will be measured by Flow
      Injection Hydride Generation Atomic Absorption Spectrometry (FI-HG-AAS) and or Inductively
      coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS).

      For microbiological testing, in each round of follow-up, in intervention households water
      samples will be collected of i. stored drinking water (whether this is from the intervention
      filter or another container), ii. in a 25% random sample, samples will also be taken of
      influent water (source water) and effluent water out of the filter (if they keep their
      drinking water elsewhere). For control households, water samples will be collected of i.
      stored drinking water and, ii. in a 25% random sample, from the water source. Untreated
      drinking water will be collected to determine technology performance by comparing effluent
      and influent water quality. For the stored drinking water, the householder will be asked if
      there is any drinking water in the house at that moment and a sample will be collected from
      the vessel that the householder identifies as being the main container used at that moment to
      fill a cup or glass for drinking. All samples for microbial analysis will be collected in
      sterile Whirl-Pak™ bags containing a tablet of sodium thiosulfate to neutralize any
      disinfectant. Samples will be placed on ice and processed within 4-6 hours of collection to
      assess TTC levels. Microbiological assessment will be performed using a DelAgua field
      incubator (University of Surrey) in accordance with Standard Methods (Eaton et al., 2005).

      Acceptability and major limitations with the filtration technology will be assessed during
      the final follow-up visit. The acceptability of the technology will be evaluated by
      conducting household surveys, in-depth interviews (IDI) and focus group discussions (FGDs). A
      subsample of male and female heads of households will be asked to participate in FGDs at the
      end of the study to provide feedback on the technology including perceived benefits and
      limitations.
    
  