
    
      The number of women Veterans is increasing due to changes in the composition of the active
      duty military, and understanding the healthcare needs of this growing segment of the patients
      we serve is critical. Insomnia complaints are more common among women than men, with a mean
      prevalence of over 23% among US women. Insomnia (defined as sleep disturbance that is
      sufficiently severe to cause distress or impact functioning), is a significant public health
      concern that contributes to lost productivity, psychological distress, medical morbidity, and
      mortality risk. In a recent paper on transformation of care for women Veterans, Yano et al.
      included "sleep issues" as part of the "VA Women's Health Research Agenda for the Future";
      however, systematic reviews of VA women's health research (2006 and 2011) did not identify
      any prior studies of sleep disorders among women Veterans. In 2011 the investigators
      completed the first descriptive study of sleep problems among women Veterans who receive VA
      Healthcare (HSRD PPO 09-282-1; PI: Martin). The investigators found high rates of insomnia
      (54% of respondents) and comorbid conditions that may impact treatment acceptability and
      delivery. The investigators also found that women Veterans with insomnia preferred
      non-medication treatments over medications, and that they were most likely to access this
      treatment if it were delivered in individual format (rather than groups). There is a growing
      literature on treatment of insomnia among individuals with comorbid conditions, suggesting
      that insomnia treatment may lead to meaningful and durable improvements in sleep quality and
      other symptoms.

      This study was a randomized trial to compare two non-medication behavioral treatments for
      insomnia. The first is a novel intervention based on Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT)
      in addition to sleep restriction, stimulus control and sleep hygiene. this treatment is
      called Acceptance and the Behavioral Changes to Treat Insomnia (ABC-I). The standard
      treatment used as a comparator was Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia (CBT-I). The
      objectives were: 1) to compare dropout rates and adherence to behavioral recommendations
      between the two treatment programs, 2) to compare the effectiveness of the two treatment
      programs in improving sleep/wake patterns from baseline to post-treatment, and 3) to compare
      the maintenance of improvements in sleep/wake patterns across the two treatment programs
      3-months after the end of treatment.

      A brief survey was mailed to women Veterans who received healthcare within 6 months from the
      VA Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System, and women referred for treatment of sleep disorders
      were also invited to participate. All women who return the survey indicating symptoms of
      insomnia were contacted by phone and invited to participate in the treatment study. Exclusion
      criteria were limited to severe or unstable medical/psychiatric disorders, the presence of
      moderate-to-severe sleep apnea, or barriers to attending the treatment sessions (e.g., live
      too far away, no access to transportation). The insomnia treatment programs were provided in
      5 one-on-one sessions to women Veterans with insomnia by a trained interventionist. Women
      Veterans will be randomized to one of the two treatment programs (ABC-I: n=74 and CBT-I:
      n=75). Adherence and attrition were measured in both treatment groups. Sleep quality
      (self-reported and objectively measured), psychiatric symptom severity and quality of life
      will be assessed at baseline, post-treatment and at 3-month follow-up. ANOVA was used to test
      for differences between groups in adherence and attrition. Equivalency/noninferiority methods
      were used to determine whether sleep-related outcomes are comparable between the two groups,
      using both intent to treat and per protocol analyses. A priori power calculations showed that
      there was sufficient power to identify clinically meaningful differences with 148 randomized
      participants.
    
  