
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess safety and toxicity of anti-programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) inhibition with
      pembrolizumab with concurrent chemoradiation therapy for non-operable, locally advanced
      non-small cell lung cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate local control and distant metastasis-free survival, progression-free and
      overall survival with the addition of pembrolizumab to chemoradiotherapy.

      II. To evaluate the rates of pneumonitis that may result from combination pembrolizumab and
      chemoradiotherapy.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess whether programmed cell death ligand 1 (PDL1) status on immunohistochemistry is
      predictive of response to pembrolizumab when combined with chemoradiation therapy.

      II. To assess T cell (cluster of differentiation 8 positive [CD8+] T cells and CD4+ forkhead
      box P3 positive [FoxP3+] regulatory cells) responses at weeks 1, 3, 6 during chemoradiation
      therapy and before each administration of pembrolizumab for cycles 1, 2, 3.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of pembrolizumab.

      Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes
      on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36. Patients undergo 3-dimensional (3D) conformal radiation
      therapy (CRT) or intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) once daily (QD) 5 days a week
      for 6 weeks . Beginning 2-6 weeks after, 2 weeks before the end, or at the start of
      chemotherapy and radiation therapy , patients also receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes
      on day 1. Treatment with pembrolizumab repeats every 21 days for up to 18 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days every 12 weeks for 1
      year, every 16 weeks for 1 year, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  