
    
      Post-exercise glycogen synthesis rate is an important factor in determining the time needed
      to recover. Glycogen synthesis is affected not only by the extent of glycogen depletion but
      also in a more direct manner by the type, duration, and intensity of the preceding exercise
      because these will differentially influence the acute enzymatic changes as well as recovery
      from the acute changes that are induced by strenuous exercise. To optimize glycogen synthesis
      rates, adequate amounts of carbohydrate should be ingested. It has been suggested initially
      that a carbohydrate intake of 0.35 g·kg body wt-1 ·h-1 , provided at 2-h intervals, maximized
      muscle glycogen synthesis. Others observed no differences in glycogen storage rates after
      subjects ingested 0.75 or 1.5 g carbohydrate·kg-1 · h-1 provided at 2-h intervals. In a
      follow-up study, it was reported that an intake of >0.5 g·kg-1 · h-1 is necessary to maximize
      post-exercise glycogen synthesis if supplements are administered at 2-h intervals. Higher
      glycogen synthesis rates have been reported in studies in which carbohydrates were ingested
      more frequently and at higher ingestion rates than in previous studies. Other efforts to
      increase glycogen synthesis rates by changing the form of administration (ie, as a solution,
      as a solid, or intravenously) have been unsuccessful. While the above range of intake rates
      has been suggested to maximize muscle glycogen resynthesis post-exercise, the required dosage
      with sweet corn derived high glycemic starch and its effect on a subsequent time trial
      exercise is currently unknown. So, investigators objective in this experiment is to find out
      optimal sweet corn derived recovery ingestion dose by using a glycogen lowering exercise
      protocol, followed by glycogen repletion via ingestion and a subsequent 20 km time trial
      cycling performance.
    
  