
    
      Severe hypotension may be a serious complication to induction of anaesthesia. The patients
      preoperative clinical circulatory status will help define the risks of such a side-effect. A
      patient with a preexisting heart condition will be at increased risk for morbidity/mortality
      in relation to anaesthesia induction.

      Total intravenous anaesthesia may be delivered by two different approaches. The old way where
      the drug (Propofol and/or Remifentanil) is delivered in a velocity (mg/kg x hour or microg/
      kg x min) specified by the anaesthetist. Hereafter called Velocity Controlled Infusion (VCI).
      At induction, to get effect of the drug, a high infusion rate is desired. A high infusion
      rate is associated with increased risks of hypotension if it is not adjusted in accordance
      with the current circulatory status of the patient. A failure to adjust may be futile for the
      patient. Therefore, induction takes some time because infusion rate is set within a
      relatively safe range. After a few minutes, once airway control is achieved, the infusion
      rate must be adjusted down to avoid hypotension.

      There is a more modern way of adjusting the infusion rate, the so called Target Controlled
      Infusion. With this approach, the pump delivering the drug will help the anaesthetist to
      select the appropriate infusion rate for any given situation. The anaesthetist selects a
      preferred concentration of the drug at the target, that is in the circulation. The pump then
      administrates the drug, first at high rate and then at lower rate, taking into account the
      patients age, weight and sex and the preferred target concentration.

      It is possible that this help from the machine is associated with less risk for hypotension
      at anaesthesia induction. If this is so it would have an impact on which of TCI and VCI that
      would be the best choice of anaesthesia. This would have special impact when giving
      anaesthesia to patients with a heart condition.
    
  