
    
      The feasibility of solely using a campaign intervention (CI) to promote healthy eating and
      physical activity behaviors for weight loss and weight maintenance has not been examined in a
      systematic manner. Thus, the primary aim of this study will be to examine whether a
      stand-alone CI results in similar weight loss compared to a standard behavioral weight loss
      intervention (SBWL). It is hypothesized that the CI will achieve a similar weight loss when
      compared to the SBWL. Additional aims include the examination of the CI on changes in
      moderate to vigorous intensity physical activity, dietary intake, self-monitoring of dietary
      intake and physical activity, weight loss self-efficacy, and motivation compared to a SBWL.
      This study will recruit forty-eight sedentary, overweight and obese adult men and women, to
      participate in a behavioral weight loss intervention at the University of Pittsburgh Physical
      Activity and Weight Management Research Center (PAWMRC). To be considered eligible for this
      study, participants must be 18-55 years of age, with a Body Mass Index (BMI) ranging from
      ≥25.0 kg/m² to 45.0 kg/m². Assessments will be conducted at week 0 and 12 of the
      intervention. Each assessment will take approximately 30 minutes to complete and include
      height, body weight, and assessment of physical activity, dietary intake, weight loss
      self-efficacy, and motivation. Upon successful completion of baseline assessments, eligible
      subjects will be randomly assigned to one of two groups using a stratified randomized block
      design: 1) standard behavioral weight loss intervention (SBWL) or 2) campaign intervention
      (CI). The CI will target specific diet and physical activity behaviors to improve weight loss
      efforts within a thematic framework based on the professional auto racing point system
      concept. CI session content and targeted behavior goals will tie into this overall theme and
      throughout the campaign participants will have the opportunity to earn incentives to
      reinforce positive behavior changes. This study is a necessary first step to examine the
      feasibility of a stand-alone campaign as an alternative strategy for weight management when
      compared to a standard behavioral weight loss intervention. Furthermore, this study will
      provide variance estimates on the effectiveness of a campaign intervention compared to a
      standard behavioral weight loss program that can be used to determine appropriate sample
      sizes for a future full-scale clinical study of this alternative strategy.
    
  