
    
      The tibia (long bone in the leg) bears most of the body weight and is the most commonly
      fractured long bone in the body. According to the National Center for Health Statistics;
      tibia, fibula and ankle fractures account for an annual sum of 581,000 fractures. Of all long
      bone fractures, the tibia is the most common site for non -union(failure to heal).

      For many years, the standard practice in the treatment of fractures of the tibia shaft and
      other long bones has been intramedullary nailing (placing rod in the bone)using titanium or
      stainless steel implants( tibial nails).

      More recently however, orthopaedic surgeons have found an alternative to the standard carbon
      fiber implants (tibial nails), especially in the prophylactic reinforcement of bones
      susceptible to pathological fractures following metastatic tumors. The new carbon fiber has
      also been used in the treatment of tibial non-union (non- healing bone); which has shown
      satisfactory outcomes. A clear advantage over titanium implants (tibial nails) is the carbon
      fiber's radiolucent (ability to see through the implant on x-ray) property. This allows for
      improved visualization of early healing and the reduction of fracture segments (i.e. fracture
      alignment) without the typical radiopaque (inability to see through the implant on x-ray)
      density and artifact found with metals on x-ray, MRI or CT Scans. The early visualization of
      callus formation8(healing) may therefore serve as a good prognostic predictor of successful
      union.

      Thus orthopaedic trauma patients, especially in cases of polytrauma may heal faster; attain
      earlier weight bearing status, and independence, decrease rehabilitation center stays and
      advance recovery with possible quicker return to work. These benefits have economic
      significance in reducing direct costs to patients and their families as well as to the
      healthcare system. Use of carbon fiber implants (tibial nails) seems to hold the promise of a
      shorter recovery time with better functional outcome than with more rigid titanium implants
      (tibial nails). This is due to the carbon fiber implants(tibial nails) elasticity
      (flexibility) which is close to that of bone, preventing excessive rigidity and possible non-
      union (non -healing bone).

      Intramedullary nails have continued to evolve, beginning with stainless steel implants and
      progressing to titanium. The titanium nail has been used over several years and the carbon
      fiber is a newer material and is now used by several institutions for treatment of tibial
      shaft fractures. There are no studies that directly compare the two nails in a prospective
      manner.

      The standard of care for treatment of tibial shaft fractures is the use of an intramedullary
      (rod inside the bone) implant. Both implants perform the same function but are made of
      different materials. Current treatment of tibia fractures at The University of Alabama at
      Birmingham (UAB) utilizes both titanium and carbon fiber implants.
    
  