
    
      Before the study begins, the selected individuals will be identified by a numeric code and
      will receive instructions regarding oral hygiene as well as supragingival scaling in all
      teeth. According to a random numeric table generated by a computer software, the study
      coordinator will allocate each patient into one of the following groups: Control (Scaling and
      Root Planing - SRP) or Test (SRP + probiotic therapy). The subjects (Test and Control groups)
      will receive lozenge containing/not containing. In the Test group, the lozenge will present
      Bifidobacterium lactis HN019 (HN019). Individuals will be instructed (immediately after the
      first session of mechanical instrumentation) to consume twice a day for 4 weeks by dissolving
      the lozenge before bedtime, and when wake up. They will also be instructed not to consume
      other probiotic product during the study. Clinical, immunological and microbiological
      parameters will be assessed at baseline (pre-intervention) and after completion of
      non-surgical periodontal therapy 30 and 90 days. All patients will receive detailed
      information regarding the study (goals, benefits and risks) according to the Term of Consent.
      The sample size was determined using the software Graphpad Statemate 2.0 (GraphPad Software,
      Inc., San Diego, CA, USA). The ideal sample size to ensure an 80% power in the statistical
      analysis of the data obtained in this study was calculated considering the differences of
      means and standard deviations between the test and control groups of the study by Vivekananda
      et al. (2010). The α value was set at 0.05. The average dropout of patients in our previous
      studies (approximately 20%) was also considered to calculate the sample size. Thus, a sample
      size of at least 30 patients was considered appropriate for this study. The normality and
      homoscedasticity of the data obtained will be checked. Comparisons within groups and among
      groups at different time intervals will be performed through parametric or non-parametric
      appropriate tests. The significance level will be set at 5% in all tests. All calculations
      will be performed by SPSS software (SPSS, Chicago IL, USA).
    
  