
    
      Upon coming to a clinical visit, patients who are complaining of trigger finger will be asked
      if they would like to participate in a study. After finishing the consent process, patients
      who elect to participate will be randomized to one of the two steroid groups. All patients
      will complete an initial enrollment survey as well as a DASH score (Disabilities of the Arm,
      Shoulder, and Hand), and the Michigan Hand Questionnaire (MHQ). Each patient will be examined
      by one of the attending physicians or one of the experienced physician's assistants and their
      Quinnell grade of trigger finger will be documented. Injection will performed in a
      standardized fashion in clinic. Multiple trigger fingers in any one patient will be treated
      but patients will be randomized, not individual fingers. The most radial finger treated will
      be the one followed for outcome measures. Patients will have the option to be treated with a
      different medication if they require further injections. However, all patients and data will
      be analyzed in an intention to treat manner. Follow-up visits will be arranged at 6 weeks, 6
      months, 1 year, and 2 years. At each follow-up visit, patients will again fill out the DASH
      score, MHQ, and a study-specific survey to evaluate outcome. In anticipation of the
      difficulty of obtaining a high follow-up rate at the 1 year and 2 year marks, the
      study-specific survey and the DASH and the MHQ may be administered to the patients over the
      phone or be sent an electronic version of the surveys. Additionally, these patients will also
      receive a written copy of the surveys via mail to complete and return. All patients will be
      followed for a total of 2 years after their latest injection. Most of these procedures are
      standard of care, the only research visits are the 1 and 2 year follow-up visits. Some
      patients with recurrent or continued symptoms may be indicated for surgical treatment of
      their trigger finger. Surgical treatment is considered clinical care of these patients who
      have continued or recurrent symptoms and the surgical treatment would not be considered part
      of this study.

      Data collected from the patient's medical record will include demographic information such as
      age, sex, birthdate. The investigators will also review whether the patient is currently
      taking any medications for the treatment of diabetes mellitus.
    
  