
    
      1. Methods

           Aim and Objectives

           This study aims to describe the trajectory of lung cancer patients HRQoL, symptoms and
           functions following VATS or SABR treatment for Stage I-II NSCLC and to determine the
           feasibility and patient acceptability of online self-reporting of PROMs.

           Specific objectives of the study include:

             -  To compare changes before and after treatment of patient reported outcomes (HRQOL
                and Patient Satisfaction) after VATS lung resections or SABR in early stage lung
                cancer patients.

             -  To correlate clinical outcomes (complications and AEs) with Quality of Life in
                order to find objective predictors of major decline in patient reported outcomes.

             -  To identify specific factors, which have influenced the personal choice between the
                treatments (Decision Self-Efficacy Scale)

             -  Establish recruitment and attrition rates and adherence to PROMs reporting during
                the study

             -  To describe patient choice of electronic vs paper questionnaires

             -  To explore implementation issues through patient and staff interview.

        2. Design

      This is an observational prospective longitudinal study with repeated measures (PROMs),
      employing a convenience sample of consecutive patients planned to have VATS resections or
      SABR for stages I-II of NSCLC. Outcomes measures will be collected prior to treatment and
      1,3,6,12 months afterwards, administering the questionnaires by the remote web-based system.
      Paper administration will be offered to patients without Internet access.

      Sample size considerations

      Last year 100 pre-surgical quality of life questionnaires have been collected in 5 months
      from outpatients' clinic at Leeds Cancer Centre (LCC). For longitudinal studies involving
      regular PROMs, the investigators typically see 70% consent rate and 30-35% attrition over 3
      months24. Therefore the investigators expectations are to be able to recruit 200 VATS and 50
      SABR patients recruiting over 12 months with 12 months of follow-up.

      In order to detect a minimum difference of 10% from the baseline value and standard deviation
      of the EORTC QLQ-C30 Global Health Scale scale (as measured in our historical cohort of 115
      anatomic lung resections), with a alfa level of 0.05 and statistical power of 90%, a sample
      size of 115 patients in the surgical arm was estimated.
    
  