
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the response rate (complete and partial) in patients with mycosis fungoides
      treated with interleukin-12 (IL-12).

      II. Determine the frequency of refractory disease in patients treated with this drug.

      III. Determine the toxic effects of this drug in these patients. IV. Determine the
      feasibility and dose-limiting toxic effects (DLT) of interleukin-2 (IL-2) when administered
      with IL-12 in patients who have not shown disease progression after 12 weeks of IL-12 and in
      those who have shown disease progression after 12 weeks of IL-12.

      V. Determine the maximum tolerated dose and recommended dose of IL-2 when administered with
      IL-12 in these patients.

      VI. Determine immune and cytokine response over time in patients treated with this regimen.

      VII. Determine the frequency of improved clinical response in patients treated with this
      regimen.

      VIII. Determine the biologic correlates of response, including levels of interferon gamma
      production, natural killer cell activity, infiltration of skin lesions by CD8-positive cells,
      lymphocyte IL-12 receptor expression, signal transducers and activators of transcription
      protein levels and IL-12 signal transduction, and induction of apoptosis in tumor cells in
      the skin of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter, dose-escalation study of interleukin-2 (IL-2).

      Patients receive interleukin-12 (IL-12) subcutaneously (SC) twice weekly for 24 weeks.

      Disease is assessed at 13 weeks. Patients who do not have progressive disease also receive
      IL-2 SC 3 consecutive days a week during weeks 13-24. Patients with progressive disease at
      week 13 receive IL-2 SC at a fixed dose during weeks 13-24.

      Patients with responding disease after week 24 may continue to receive IL-2 and IL-12 for
      another 12 weeks.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of IL-2 until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which at least 2 of 3 or 2 of 6
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. The recommended dose (RD) is the dose preceding
      the MTD. Additional patients are treated at the RD.

      Patients are followed at 6 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 18-46 patients will be accrued for this study within 28 months.
    
  