
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the activity of the study regimen as measured by the proportion of patients who
      are alive and progression-free for at least 12 months after study entry in patients with
      newly diagnosed stage III or IV clear cell ovarian cancer in the following populations:
      patients in the United States (U.S.) and worldwide (outside of Japan) and patients in Japan.

      II. To compare progression-free survival in newly diagnosed stage III or IV clear cell
      ovarian cancer patients in patients in the U.S. and worldwide (outside of Japan) versus
      patients in Japan.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize the duration of overall survival and progression-free survival in each
      population.

      II. To examine the frequency and severity of adverse events as assessed by Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4 in each population.

      III. To estimate the rate of objective tumor response in patients with measurable disease.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore whether immunohistochemical (IHC) expression of components of the mammalian
      target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway (phosphatase and tensin homolog [PTEN], total
      and phosphorylated protein kinase B [Akt], as well as, ATP-binding cassette, sub-family C
      [CFTR/MRP], member 3 [ABCC3] [MRP3], ATPase, H+ transporting, lysosomal accessory protein 1
      [AB CF2], cyclin E, and vascular endothelial growth factor [VEGF]) are associated with
      outcome, nationality or clinical characteristics.

      II. To explore whether there is any differences in differential gene expression profiles
      between U.S. and worldwide (outside of Japan) versus Japanese patients.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive paclitaxel* intravenously (IV) over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 30
      minutes on day 1 and temsirolimus IV on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 6
      courses. Patients then receive consolidation therapy comprising temsirolimus IV on days 1, 8,
      and 15. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 11 courses in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: * For circumstances in which docetaxel should be substituted for paclitaxel, docetaxel
      is given IV over 1 hour.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  