
    
      Each patient will be asked to follow an Intradialytic aerobic low intensity exercise program
      of 45 minutes per each HD session throughout the 6-month study duration. The exercise will be
      tailored to each HD patient's ability (measured by VO2Max), supervised by the hospital
      physiotherapist and the research team. Continuous support and encouragement to the patients
      will be provided to assure they complete the 45 minutes of exercise on each HD session.
      Additionally, patients will be educated on the health benefits of exercise and how to
      integrate safe exercise into their daily life (by the research assistants).

      Research assistants will be trained by the principal investigator (PI) on the study
      instruments and data collection methods. These assistants will administer 4 questionnaires (5
      minutes each) for each HD patient separately and will collect data from the medical chart of
      each patient. The assessment will take place during the HD session.

      The research assistants will also collect from the patient's file blood test results on a
      monthly basis (relevant to the study mentioned in table1); additional needed parameters will
      be analysed from the same blood sample that the hospital already collect for the patients
      monitoring, and will be analysed by the hospital for a fee from the research fund. For the
      β-aminoisobutyric acid (BAIBA) tests - cardiometabolic marker, 5 ML of the blood sample from
      each patient will be transported to a specialized lab for analysis.

      All of the parameters, except the demographics (collected only at t0), will be collected and
      monitored at 3 time points: Baseline (t0), post-intervention (t1) and follow up (t2).

      Assessment tools include

        -  Demographics: Height - Weight - Age - Social and Work status - Comorbidities - Education
           level

        -  Biochemical markers: C-reactive protein, Urea reduction ration, Phosphorus (P), BAIBA,
           Vitamin D3, Parathyroid Hormone, Calcium and Phosphorus Product

        -  Number of hospitalization days and emergency HD sessions

        -  Exercise Behavior questionnaire consists of 7 questions to assess the activity level of
           the patient before implementing the program. It will reflect the patient's activity
           level and importance.

        -  Barriers to physical activity questionnaire [5], which includes questions related to
           different categories of disease- and patient- specific barriers to physical activity
           (psychological, physical, and economical barriers) in addition to the lack of time
           factor.

        -  Malnutrition Inflammation Score (MIS) [6]: This is a comprehensive scoring system with
           significant associations with prospective hospitalization and mortality as well as
           measures of nutrition, inflammation, and anemia in HD. MIS has 10 components, each with
           four levels of severity from 0 (normal) to 3 (severely abnormal). The sum of all 10 MIS
           components ranges from 0 (normal) to 30 (severely abnormal); a higher score reflects
           more severe degree of malnutrition and inflammation. The scoring sheet consists of four
           sections.

        -  Quality of life (QOL) measured using the EuroQOL -5 health questionnaire [7]. It
           assesses 5 health concepts: mobility, self-care, usual activities (work, study,
           housework, and family or leisure activities), pain / discomfort, and anxiety /
           depression. Patients have 5 choices for each question to choose from to describe their
           health today. In addition, patients have to indicate on a scale marked from 0-100 their
           opinion about how good or bad their health state is today.

        -  Exercise effort test: Heart rate monitoring to assess the level of exercise performed
           [8]

        -  Exercise Fitness Level: measure using the Borg Scale of perceived Exertion [9]

      All questionnaires that are originally not Arabic, will be translated to Arabic (local
      language), prior to study by 2 translators whose first language is Arabic. Next step, each
      questionnaire will be translated back to English by a dietitian whose first language is
      English and who also knows Arabic. All questionnaires will be validated by running them on 10
      patients and accordingly modifying their feasibility to the Emirates HD patient's culture,
      language level and comprehension status.

      The physiotherapist and the research assistants will be responsible for training the patients
      on the exercise program and recording the intensity, duration, and modality of the exercise
      for each patient as well as patient's complaints and reasons for drop out, if any. The
      intervention will be given within the HD session: no extra time required beyond the time of
      HD. During the intervention, patient will be at all times under direct supervision of the
      physiotherapist and medical team; in case of any discomfort, the intervention will be
      immediately stopped.

      Sample size was chosen based on convenient sampling. Patients of the HD unit who received
      clearance from the medical team, met the inclusion criteria and consented, were included in
      the study.

      Data will be analyzed through Scientific Package for Social Sciences version 18. Descriptive
      statistics will be used to analyze the data. Correlations will be conducted through ANOVA.
      Effect of the study will be analyzed by paired t test on continuous data and Chi-square on
      categorical data
    
  