
    
      Sarcoidosis is a multisystem granulomatous disease of unknown cause that can affect any organ
      in the body, including the heart. Sarcoidosis results from an immune reaction to an
      environmental exposure to yet unknown antigen(s) in a genetically predisposed individual.
      Autopsy studies have suggested that cardiac involvement with sarcoidosis occurs in up to 25%
      of cases, although more than half of these cases are sub-clinical. Cardiac sarcoidosis (CS)
      CS can lead to life-threatening heart failure, heart block, or rhythm disturbance and
      accounts for 13-25% of all sarcoidosis deaths in the USA. Therefore, although respiratory
      failure from lung sarcoidosis is the most common cause of sarcoidosis-related death in the
      USA, sudden death from cardiac sarcoidosis is a major concern owing to its acute nature. CS
      can present in a multitude of ways. It can be the initial manifestation of sarcoidosis in an
      individual not known to have sarcoidosis (a cohort beyond the aims of this proposal),
      patients can present with cardiac symptoms which can include palpitations, near-syncope or
      syncopal episodes which require a complete workup for potential CS and patients can be
      asymptomatic which is a sizable cohort considering the discrepancy between the expected
      prevalence of CS (25-40%) and CS that is detected clinically (5%).

      Granulomatous myocarditis can lead to ventricular dysfunction and ventricular arrhythmias
      causing significant morbidity and mortality. Immunosuppressive therapy (IST) has been shown
      to reverse active myocarditis and preserve left ventricular (LV) function and in some cases
      improve LV function. In addition, IST can suppress arrhythmias that develop due to active
      myocarditis and prevent the formation of scar. Cardiac MRI (cMRI) and cardiac PET scans are
      currently used as complementary diagnostic tests for cardiac sarcoidosis, although with some
      limitations. Cardiac MRI with gadolinium has a sensitivity of 76-100% and specificity of
      78-92% for the diagnosis of cardiac sarcoidosis, but its use is limited in patients with
      implantable cardiac devices. The presence of delayed enhancement on gadolinium-enhanced MRI
      is suggestive of scar tissue formation. 18FDG PET uses radioactive glucose to detect areas of
      active inflammation. The use of 18FDG PET as a marker of active granulomatous myocarditis
      should be interpreted carefully as several studies have shown the limitations of such
      protocols that force the myocardium to generate energy using free fatty acid metabolism
      exclusively. In addition, studies have also shown that the presumed pathological patterns,
      focal and focal on diffuse uptake, are also seen in healthy controls and patients with
      ischemic congestive heart failure who have undergone 18-FDG-PET12 and that a blood glucose
      level of >7.5mmol/L (>137mg/dl) at the time of the study results in absent or minimal
      myocardial FDG activity.

      The potential role of cardiac biomarkers, including brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), atrial
      natriuretic peptide (ANP), and cardiac troponins, in detecting active myocarditis is limited
      and studies have been disappointing. At present, there are no biomarkers to detect active
      myocarditis and the use of advanced imaging modalities (FDG-PET) for assessing and monitoring
      active myocarditis is not feasible or practical and is associate with high radiation
      exposure. As such, a biomarker that is reflective of active myocarditis and that is cardiac
      specific will assist physicians in assessing the presence of active myocarditis to guide
      therapeutic decisions and to assess response to therapy which can limit further cardiac
      damage.

      Cell free DNA (cfDNA) are fragments of genomic DNA that are released into the circulation
      from dying or damaged cells. It is a powerful diagnostic tool in cancer, transplant rejection
      and fetal medicine especially when the genomic source differs from the host. A novel
      technique that relies on tissue unique CpG methylation patterns can identify the tissue
      source of cell free DNA in an individual reflecting potential tissue injury. A recent paper
      utilized this technique to identify cardiac specific cfDNA in the bloodstream of patients
      with acute myocardial injury and sepsis reflecting cardiomyocyte injury/death. We will be
      conducting a pilot study to explore the utility of this diagnostic tool to identify
      granulomatous myocarditis in patients with sarcoidosis.
    
  