
    
      Anemia is one of the most common complications in patients with sepsis in the intensive care
      unit (ICU), as well as sepsis is a major cause of high mortality in ICU. Studies demonstrated
      that sepsis-related anemia can be caused by fluid loading related hemodilution, iatrogenic
      blood loss, decreases in iron supply, erythropoietin (EPO) production and erythrocyte
      lifespan .

      However, sepsis related anemia has been demonstrated to be associated mainly with
      inflammation (i.e., "anemia of inflammation"). Anemia of inflammation is usually a mild to
      moderately severe anemia (hemoglobin rarely < 8 g/dL) . It develops in the setting of
      infection, inflammatory disease or malignancy, together with low serum iron despite adequate
      systemic iron stores, decreased serum transferrin, normal size of erythrocytes and hemoglobin
      content or mildly decreased size and hemoglobin content of erythrocytes if the inflammatory
      disease is longstanding .

      Impaired iron homeostasis and the suppressive effects of proinflammatory cytokines on
      erythropoiesis, together with alterations in the erythrocyte membrane that impair its
      survival may result, ultimately, in inflammation-associated anemia .

      Hepcidin is a key regulator of inflammation-associated anemia. Hepcidin reduces the iron
      level in plasma through:

        1. direct inhibition of intestinal absorption of iron.

        2. promotion of iron storage in macrophages by down regulating expression of ferroprotein
           in intestinal mucosae and macrophages.

      Increased interleukin-6 (IL-6) in patients with sepsis can induce an abruptly increased
      synthesis of hepcidin, causing decreased plasma iron. Plasma iron can be depressed by
      inflammation markedly (more than 50%) and rapidly ( with in 24 hrs). Also, the interaction
      between inflammation and iron metabolism may interfere with other inflammatory anemia
      associated parameters and complicate iron metabolism in patients with sepsis.

      Typically, plasma ferritin (which stores iron) is reduced in iron deficiency anemia but can
      increase in the acute phase of sepsis. Anemia usually results in an increased synthesis of
      EPO in kidneys in minutes to hours, but the response to EPO is blunted in patients with
      sepsis . The soluble transferrin receptor (sTfR), an early and sensitive biomarker for
      diagnosing iron deficiency , is particularly useful for identification of concomitant iron
      deficiency in patients with inflammation. The sTfR is not affected by inflammation, which is
      a significant advantage over other biomarkers. Plasma sTfR reflects the degree of iron
      availability for cells, whereas plasma ferritin reflects iron storage. Hence, the ratio of
      sTfR to log ferritin (hereafter termed "sTfR/log ferritin") provides the efficacy of sTfR
      alone or ferritin alone in the diagnosis of iron deficiency. These cytokines have the
      propensity to promote iron restricted erythropoiesis, characterized by functional rather than
      absolute iron deficiency, occurring secondary to dysregulation of iron metabolism.

      Associations among inflammatory cytokines, EPO, and anemia in critically ill septic patients
      remain unclear.

      The inflammatory anemia-associated parameters mentioned above may change with the severity of
      inflammation in patients with sepsis. The sensitivity and specificity of these parameters can
      be modified if inflammation and iron deficiency are present concomitantly. This may
      complicate the diagnosis, evaluation, and treatment of inflammatory anemia.

      Hence, a better understanding of changes in the inflammatory anemia and associated parameters
      in patients with sepsis at the early stage of ICU admission is needed urgently. In addition,
      although severe anemia is associated with adverse outcomes in critical illness, a lowered
      plasma iron is part of the natural defense against pathogens.

      EPO has also been demonstrated to exert protective effects in the kidneys and lungs of mice
      with sepsis, but EPO deficiency contributes to anemia development in patients with sepsis. As
      a result of these effects, inflammatory anemia-associated parameters have been speculated to
      be associated with the prognosis of patients with sepsis , but relevant studies are lacking
    
  