
    
      The investigators will use the microscope with OCT (Lumera with RESCAN OCT) coupled to assess
      the extent, depth and change of retinal architecture in the perioperative period. Thus, they
      will evaluate what the optimal maneuvers of dissection of macular membranes to obtain a more
      satisfactory result of the rearrangement in the retinal layers. Furthermore, the use of OCT
      perioperative may dispense with the use of dyes, decreasing the concentration used or reduce
      the exposure time.

      Materials and methods The investigators will evaluate 30 patients with changes in macular
      membranes with surgical removal of indication from the Retina and Vitreous outpatient sector
      of Unifesp - Paulista School of Medicine. The patients will be classified according to the
      diseases in the following groups: Macular Hole, Epiretinal Membrane, Traction Syndrome
      vitreomacular, and proliferative vitreoretinopathy of Retinal Detachment. Everyone will be
      informed about the risks and benefits of the study and sign an informed consent form. In the
      preoperative evaluation a complete ophthalmologic examination with complementary tests such
      as angiography and optical coherence tomography will be done.

      Patients will undergo retinal surgery using the Lumera Microscope WITH RESCAN OCT - ZEISS.
      The team of surgeons will answer the questionnaire on the surgical difficulty regarding the
      identification and removal of macular membranes.

      All patients will be assessed at 1, 7, 15, 30, 60 and 90 and 180 days after surgery,
      including the following tests:

        -  Measurement of visual acuity with best correction

        -  Previous Biomicroscopy

        -  Indirect Funduscopy

        -  tonometry

        -  Optical coherence tomography (OCT)

        -  Retinography Surgeries and procedures of the study groups will be conducted by the same
           team of surgeons and all surgeries and procedures will be carried out in IPEPO -
           Paulista Institute of Studies and Research in Ophthalmology / Vision Institute.

      For each type of retinal disease, there will be a control group and a group OCT as detailed
      below: 1 - GROUP CONTROL The control group will undergo retinal surgery with conventional
      microscope without coupled OCT. This group will have its filmed and documented surgery. The
      team of surgeons will answer the questionnaire on the surgical difficulty regarding the
      identification and removal of macular membranes.

      2 -GROUP OCT / RESCAN In the group microscope coupled to OCT, patients will undergo retinal
      surgery using the Lumera Microscope WITH RESCAN OCT - ZEISS and have their filmed and
      documented surgery. The team of surgeons will answer the questionnaire on the surgical
      difficulty regarding the identification and removal of macular membranes.

      Statistical methodology All information will be presented by mean and standard deviation for
      the quantitative variables and absolute frequency (n) and relative (%) for qualitative
      variables.
    
  