
    
      Children allergic to cow's milk proteins (CMA) will be included. They have to be diagnosed
      with CMA during the first year of life and have attended periodic follow-up visits to our
      Allergy Clinic at Hospital La Paz (Madrid, Spain). Clinical data on personal history of
      asthma, allergy to other foods and positive reactions upon cow's milk ingestion along with
      their evolution from initial diagnosis will be recorded.

      Prior to inclusion in the SOTI protocol, determination of serum specific IgE to cow's milk
      (CM), ALA, BLG and casein (ImmunoCAP, Phadia, Uppsala, Sweden) will be performed and current
      clinical status will be confirmed by oral food challenge (OFC) with cow's milk. An open OFC
      with CM (3 g of proteins per 100 mL) will be performed following a modified protocol
      according to the level of allergic sensitisation. Group I will start at a dose of 2 mL, and
      those in groups II and III started at a dose of 0.005 mL. In both protocols doses will be
      doubled until objective clinical reactivity is achieved.

      Determination of serum specific IgE to cow's milk and its proteins will be performed in the
      follow-up at 6 and 12 months visits.

      In order to evaluate the influence of the level of sensitisation in the result of SOTI,
      patients will be classified into three groups according to the level of sIgE for CM and/or
      its proteins: group I (0.35-3.5 kU/L, CAP Class I and II); group II (>3.5-17 kU/L, CAP Class
      III); group III (>17-50kU/L, CAP Class IV). The highest sIgE level against any of the CM or
      its proteins will determine the group of inclusion.

      A control group of cow's milk allergic children, with similar levels of sIgE, will be
      included in order to evaluate the natural evolution to tolerance in CMA. They will be
      followed for one year, after which, clinical reactivity with OFC will be again confirmed.
      These control patients will selected among those who, after the initial OFC, refuse to
      undergo SOTI.

      Specific Oral Tolerance Induction:

      The initial dose for SOTI will be the previous dose that elicited symptoms in the OFC. Group
      I doses will be upped weekly in the hospital setting, and patients will maintain that dose
      twice daily at home. Groups II and III also will start with the previous dose that elicited
      symptoms in the OFC, but will receive incremental doses daily in the hospital setting until
      they reach a dose of 1 mL. Achieving an intake of 200 mL of milk (6 g of proteins) twice a
      day, which is the usual amount for patients of that age, will be considered complete
      tolerance.

      Reactions occurring during the induction phase at the hospital will be treated according to
      the severity of symptoms. If patients present with mild non-objective symptoms, the same dose
      will be repeated. If the reaction is objective and limited to local symptoms, the previous
      dose will be given after the resolution of symptoms. If the reaction is generalised,
      involving two organ systems, SOTI will be continued with a dose which is two doses previous
      to the one that elicited symptoms. If the reaction involves three organ systems, the next
      dose administered will be reduced three steps in the dosage protocol. Written instructions
      will be given to parents regarding how to treat possible adverse reactions at home.

      After the induction phase, patients will continue to consume 200 mL milk twice daily and
      dairy products were allowed freely.

      In the maintenance phase, follow-up visits are scheduled at one month, six months and one
      year after finishing the induction phase. Data on tolerance of cow's milk and dairy products
      will be recorded. Adverse events upon ingestion will also be recorded.
    
  