
    
      Breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer and the leading cause of cancer death
      among women worldwide, accounting for 25% of total cancer cases (Globocan, 2012) It ranks as
      the most prevalent cancer among women in the Middle East and Northern Africa (Ferlay et al.,
      2015). In Egypt, breast cancer is the most common type of cancer among females (Ibrahim et
      al., 2014).

      Survival of breast cancer patients depends on the disease stage. Most of the patients with
      localized disease experience long-term disease-free survival. Meanwhile, those who develop
      metastasis have a 5-year relative survival of only 24% (Siegel et al, 2015). Hormonal
      receptor positive (HR +ve) represent the most common subset (almost 70%) in both early and
      advanced disease (Clarke et al., 2012).

      It is crucial to determine the menopausal status before initiation of treatment. For HR +ve /
      Her 2-negative metastatic breast cancer patients who premenopausal; If the patient had
      Disease free survival (DFS) of 12 months or more, or if she was diagnosed with metastasis de
      novo, the recommended first line is either ovarian ablation plus tamoxifen or aromatase
      inhibitor (Cardoso et al., 2017). For postmenopausal patients aromatase inhibitors are
      recommended with median progression-free survival (PFS) between 8 and 10 months (Bonneterre
      et al., 2000) and 10 months (Paridaens et al., 2008).

      Chemotherapy regimens that are prescribed in hormone receptor-positive patients includes
      microtubule inhibitors (including taxanes and vinca alkaloids), anthracyclines, gemcitabine,
      cyclophosphamide and capecitabine. But endocrinal therapy is preferred as long as the patient
      is not in visceral crisis (Cardoso et al., 2017).

      Recently new drugs that increased progression free survival (PFS) has been approved in the
      treatment of HR +ve metastatic breast cancer (MBC) as fulvastrant (Selective estrogen
      receptor modulator) (Ellis et al., 2015) and palbocilib (Ck4/6 inhibitor) (Finn et al., 2015)
      as first line and eveirolimus (mTor inhibitor)(Pritchard et al., 2012) as second line.

      The optimum sequence of endocrinal treatment and chemotherapy has not been fully clarified,
      It is of great importance to bear in mind that the goal of treatment in recurrent and
      metastatic breast cancer is extending the progression free survival (PFS) and sustaining a
      good quality of life (Cardoso et al., 2017).

      A retrospective study by Shankar et al. that compared between combination of capecitabine and
      aromatase inhibitor (AI) versus capecitabine alone versus aromatase inhibitor alone showed
      that the median PFS of first-line treatment was significantly better for the combination with
      PFS 21 months vs 8.0 months for capecitabine and 15.0 months for AI. For second-line
      treatment, the PFS was longer in the combination compared with capecitabine and Al groups (18
      months vs. 5.0 months vs. 11.0 months, respectively) (Shankar et al., 2015).

      Alvarado et al, compared combination aromatase inhibitor plus capecitabine versus
      capecitabine alone versus aromatase inhibitor alone. The median PFS of first-line treatment
      was significantly better for the combination (PFS not-reached for combination vs.3.0 m for
      capecitabine and 13.0 m for AI, p<0.0001). For second-line treatment, the PFS was longer in
      the combination compared to capecitabine and AI (PFS not reached vs. 6.0 m vs.13.0 m,
      respectively, p=0-041) (Alvarado et al., 2012).

      In China a Phase II trial assessed the use of of metronomic oral capecitabine therapy
      combined with aromatase inhibitors in postmenopausal metastatic and recurrent breast cancer
      resistant to first-line aromataseinhibitors and the results showed overall Response Rate
      (ORR) 70.5% and median PFS 9.57 months (L. Jian-wei et al., 2015). Lee S. Schwartzberg
      conducted a phase II trial which results showed that fulvastrant with metronomic capecitabine
      for women with HR-Positive, HER2-Negative MBC has Median PFS was 14.98 months (Schwartzberg
      et al., 2014).

      Capecitabine; being cheaper and more available in economically disadvantaged countries
      together with the promising results of the previous retrospective trial by Shankar et al and
      the prospective trial by Alvarado Miranda et al ; further confirmation of such results by a
      prospective randomized clinical trial is crucial. Currently a phase III trial under the title
      of "Metronomic Capecitabine Plus Aromatase Inhibitor for First Line Treatment in HR(+),
      Her2(-) Metastatic Breast Cancer" with the primary results expected to be published on 2021
      (Sun Yat-sen University, 2016).
    
  