
    
      Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a severe and debilitating psychiatric illness
      characterized by intrusive unwanted thoughts (obsessions) and repetitive or ritualistic
      actions intended to reduce anxiety (compulsions). OCD is common with lifetime prevalence
      estimated at 2.5%, equally affecting both genders and all ethnic groups. It is also typically
      chronic in nature, resulting in substantial impact on quality of life. Functioning can be
      markedly impaired; it has been estimated that 20% of individuals with OCD should be
      considered severely affected. Although the pathophysiology is unclear, hyperactivity in the
      prefrontal orbital cortex has been consistently demonstrated, and normalizes with treatment.
      A decrease in cortical inhibition has been implicated in OCD utilizing a variety of methods,
      including paired-pulse TMS.

      First-line treatment typically consists of either cognitive-behavioural therapy and/or
      pharmacotherapy with serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI's or clomipramine). Ordinarily only
      modest benefits are obtained with conventional pharmacotherapy, with the majority of patients
      considered nonresponsive or only partially responsive. The limited success of conventional
      treatment makes identifying alternative treatments a priority. Although psychosurgery is
      regarded as a valid alternative for severe and refractory individuals, the potential for
      serious and irreversible adverse consequences is significant, rendering this a treatment of
      'last resort' only. Repetitive TMS appears to represent a safe and effective alternative for
      severe sufferers.

      Repetitive TMS has been shown to be an effective therapeutic tool for the treatment of
      several neuropsychiatric disorders including MDD and schizophrenia, but investigations into
      its utility in OCD are very preliminary. In a study of 12 OCD patients single session
      stimulation of the right lateral prefrontal cortex (20 Hz, 80% motor threshold, for 20
      minutes) resulted in a decrease in compulsive urges for eight hours in contrast to the left
      prefrontal cortex which was associated with more modest response . Sachdev et al randomly
      assigned 12 individuals to receive right or left dorsolateral prefrontal stimulation (10
      Hz,110% resting motor threshold, 15 minutes 5 sessions/week for 2 weeks). Subjects showed
      significant improvement at two weeks and 1-month follow-up, regardless of lateralit. A
      randomized controlled trial comparing right prefrontal stimulation to sham treatment in 18
      OCD subjects was negative, however low frequency (1 Hz) stimulation was used in contrast to
      previous reports (110% motor threshold, 20 minutes 3 times/week for 6 weeks). Most recently a
      small study of 10 individuals with OCD and/or Tourette's syndrome found benefit with
      low-frequency stimulation of the supplementary motor area (1 Hz, 100% motor threshold, 20
      minutes 5 sessions/week for 2 weeks). Notably subjects were treatment-resistant in both this
      and the Sachdev study. Thus although this limited literature precludes any definitive
      conclusions, it suggests that rTMS may be of benefit in refractory OCD.

      In this study we propose to investigate the effectiveness of rTMS treatment in refractory
      OCD. Although ideal treatment parameters need to be established, the above literature
      suggests that high frequency stimulation of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex is likely to
      be beneficial. Bilateral stimulation will be used; our previous work has demonstrated this
      method to be safe and well tolerated. Moreover patients will be assigned in randomized
      double-blind fashion to receive either active or sham TMS, allowing for more definitive
      conclusions to be drawn. We also propose to explore whether the induction of CI mediates the
      therapeutic effects of rTMS on OCD symptoms.
    
  