
    
      This randomized controlled trial will examine the efficacy and safety of a bio functional
      textile in the treatment of atopic dermatitis (AD).

      Atopic dermatitis subjects will be randomized to placebo or active group and asked to wear
      cotton long sleeved shirts and pants (single cotton versus cotton coated with chitosan)as
      pyjamas during the night for a 2 month period.

      Atopic dermatitis is defined by Haniffin and Rafka criteria (Rothe MJ et al 2006) - must have
      three or more of major criteria

        1. Pruritus

        2. Typical morphology and distribution

             1. Flexural lichenification or linearity in adults

             2. Facial and extensor involvement in infants and children

        3. Chronic or chronically-relapsing dermatitis

        4. Personal or family history of atopy (asthma, allergic rhinitis, atopic dermatitis)

      OR should have three or more of minor criteria:

      Xerosis,Ichthyosis, palmar hyperlinearity, or keratosis pilaris, Immediate (type I skin-test
      reactivity, raised serum IgE, early age of onset, tendency toward cutaneous infections
      (especially S aureus and herpes simplex) or impaired cell-mediated immunity, tendency toward
      non-specific hand or foot dermatitis, nipple eczema, cheilitis, recurrent conjunctivitis,
      dennie-Morgan infraorbital fold, keratoconus, anterior subcapsular cataracts,orbital
      darkening, facial pallor or facial erythema, pityriasis alba, anterior neck folds, itch when
      sweating,intolerance to wool and lipid solvents,perifollicular accentuation,food
      intolerance,course influenced by environmental or emotional factors,white dermographism.

      PROCEDURES After screening, subjects will enter a run in period of 2 weeks. Patients meeting
      Hannifin and Radjka criteria for AD will be randomized to chitosan free or chitosan coated
      cotton long sleeved t-shirts and pants.

      Intervention will continue for 2 months. The medical investigator will be blind to
      intervention when comparing AD severity at the beginning and end of the study

      Study Schedule:

      Visit 0:

        -  Explain study protocol

        -  Review medical history to determine eligibility based on inclusion/exclusion criteria.

        -  Schedule visit 1

      Visit 1 :

        -  Provide written information about the study

        -  Obtain signature of potential subject on written informed consent

        -  Perform medical examination and register SCORAD index

        -  Answer Dermatology quality of life questionnaire

        -  Patients are explained and given a diary symptoms card

        -  Perform skin swab of determined areas (25 cm2 of occipital, interscapular , brachial and
           popliteal areas)

        -  Perform serum sampling

        -  Patients are explained trial and are given a Shirt and pants

        -  Surveillance and medical care, if required

      Visit 2 :

        -  Review medical history including medications history

        -  Perform medical examination and register SCORAD index

        -  Answer a quality of life questionnaire

        -  Deliver the diary symptoms card

        -  Perform skin swab of determined areas

        -  Perform serum sampling Visits will be performed at an appropriate medical setting . Each
           visit will last approximately 45 min .

      Primary Outcomes

        1. Investigator rated eczema severity: clinical improvement measured by SCORAD (score of
           severity of AD) (initial versus final, % of change). SCORAD is composed of three
           different domains (A= extension B= intensity C = subjective symptoms). To determine
           extent, the sites affected by eczema are shaded on a drawing of a body. The rule of 9 is
           used to calculate the affected area (A) as a percentage of the whole body: Head and neck
           9% Upper limbs 9% each , Lower limbs 18% each ,Anterior trunk 18% ,Back 18% 1% each for
           genitals, each palm and the back of each hand. The score for each area is added up.

           The total area is 'A', which has a possible maximum of 100%. A representative area of
           eczema is selected. In this area, the intensity of each of the following signs is
           assessed as none (0), mild (1), moderate (2) or severe (3).:Redness ,Swelling ,Oozing
           /crusting Scratch marks , Skin thickening (lichenification),Dryness (this is assessed in
           an area where there is no inflammation) .The intensity scores are added together to give
           'B' (maximum 18). Subjective symptoms i.e., itch and sleeplessness, are each scored by
           the patient or relative using a visual analogue scale where 0 is no itch (or no
           sleeplessness) and 10 is the worst imaginable itch (or sleeplessness). These scores are
           added to give 'C' (maximum 20).

        2. Changes in Quality of life. Patients are asked to answer the Portuguese version of the
           Dermatology Life Quality Index (> 16 years old) or the children´s Dermatology Quality of
           Life Index (4-16 years old) at the beginning and end of the study

      Secondary Outcomes

        1. Changes in participant rated symptoms of eczema: patients are asked to record the
           severity scores of itchiness and sleep disturbance of the previous day in a diary card
           (10 point scale from 0-none to 10-extreme)

        2. Changes in the need of eczema treatment: patients are asked to record the use of topical
           steroids, antihistamines, oral steroids or immunosuppressive drugs on a diary card.

        3. Immunological serum markers: changes in serum total IgE, specific IgE to enterotoxin
           A,B, C and TSST (staphylococcus enterotoxins) serum eosinophil cationic protein (ECP),
           blood eosinophils, C reactive protein. Changes in cytokine serum levels (RANTES, IL-31,
           IL-18,IL-16).

        4. Changes in skin microflora: characterize the skin microflora of 25 cm2 of popliteal,
           brachial intertriginous areas , interscapular and occipital region and determine the
           changes in number of colony forming units of Staphylococcus aureus from the beginning to
           the end of study.

        5. Presence of the seven most common filaggrin gene mutations including R501X and
           c.2282del4

      INVESTIGATIONAL PRODUCT Acquisition: Textiles will be provided by textile enterprise Crispim
      e Abreu Lda.

      Formulation and packaging, will be done as usual in textiles. Chitosan coated or chitosan
      free garments will be indistinguishable.
    
  