
    
      Patient trust is associated with improved self-care among patients with conditions from
      diabetes mellitus to HIV, and patient trust has also been found to correlate with medication
      adherence and continuity with physician. Therefore, an exploration of how large-scale public
      disclosure of payments will affect patient trust in doctors and the medical profession can
      help predict the effect of the policy on patient care.

      Past studies of patient responses to disclosure present contradictory findings: some patients
      may refuse to see doctors who accept payments, while others may see the potential for
      conflicts of interest as only a small factor in the choice of physician. In one literature
      review, both patients and participants believed that disclosure would lead to increased
      confidence in their providers' decisions. Yet another study found that while disclosure does
      not have much impact on a person's willingness to participate in research, 59% of
      participants said that disclosure did not change their trust in the researcher or institution
      and 36% of participants indicated that their trust decreased. Moreover, in a role-playing
      experiment, patients who heard a disclosure statement said they would feel uncomfortable
      turning down a doctor's recommendations for fear of suggesting that the doctor was corrupt.
      However, none of these studies explicitly measured trust in a clinical relationship in the
      context of large-scale disclosure, which will be the setting for the PPSA website.

      Defining Trust Both in the medical context and beyond, many definitions of trust have been
      proposed, and multiple measurement tools have been developed. Trust is generally thought of
      as "the willingness of a party to be vulnerable to the actions of another party based on the
      expectation that the other will perform a particular action important to the trustor,
      irrespective of the ability to monitor or control that other party." One of the most
      comprehensive conceptual models for trust in physicians and medical institutions is based on
      5 dimensions: 1) fidelity, pursuing a patient's best interests; 2) competence, avoiding
      mistakes and producing the best results; 3) honesty, or telling the truth, 4)
      confidentiality, protection of private information, and 5) global trust, a holistic aspect.

      There are multiple predictions for how disclosure will influence patient-provider relations
      when considering these dimensions. For example, the increased transparency about ties to
      industry could increase patient perceptions of honesty. Physicians who receive payments for
      consulting may be viewed as experts in their fields, and therefore may be seen as more
      competent. Alternatively, patients may question the fidelity of a doctor who receives
      payments, wondering if she has the patient's best interests as her priority. Thus, the
      implications for a national disclosure website on patient trust in physicians and the
      institution of medicine are unclear, despite CMS' claims that the PPSA will aid consumer
      decision-making. This project sets out to explore the effects of disclosure on patient trust
      in doctors and the medical profession.
    
  