
    
      Vitamin D (vitD) deficiency is more prevalent among African Americans and Latinx and in the
      elderly who have low exposure to sunlight. African Americans and nursing home residents who
      contract SARS-CoV-2, the novel virus that first appeared in Wuhan, China, and who develop the
      disease designated COVID-19 experience a much worse clinical outcome than other groups. Some
      have speculated that low vitD status could exacerbate COVID-19 infection, especially if the
      viral infection reaches the lower respiratory tract.

      Sufficient vitD may help to improve the pulmonary immune response to the virus, reduce the
      dangerous cytokine storm, and lessen surfactant dysregulation, potentially preventing or
      ameliorating the acute syndrome. To maximize the benefits of vitD on host response to
      SARS-CoV-2, prophylactic supplementation to ensure sufficiency before COVID-19 would be the
      preferable public health option. Yet, vitD supplementation during acute infection may also
      improve overall clinical outcome in some infected patients. It is a relatively inexpensive
      therapy that has a large safety profile when given in doses of 4000-6000 international
      units/day to adults.

      To date, there is no effective cure or preventive vaccine for COVID-19. Given the risk of
      disease and death, any intervention that reduces the morbidity and mortality from COVID-19
      would be of immense value. We hypothesize that achieving and sustaining vitD sufficiency
      through dietary supplementation will result in improved immune function and a decrease in
      COVID-19 incidence and symptomatology. Importantly, this objective will address the
      significant health disparity of vitD deficiency among black, Latina and the elderly. We
      further hypothesize that those individuals with a circulating 25(OH)D of ≥40 ng/mL will have
      less severe COVID-19 symptoms, particularly among higher risk populations. We will compare
      the effectiveness of higher dose vitD vs. standard of care dosing.To test these hypotheses,
      we propose the following Aims:

        1. Focusing on prevention, this Aim will test whether achieving vitD sufficiency (as
           defined by total circulating 25(OH)D ≥40-60 ng/mL) in individuals at risk for deficiency
           will improve clinical outcomes in those who subsequently develop COVID-19.

        2. Focusing on vitD as mitigation therapy, this Aim will evaluate the effectiveness of
           bolus dosing followed by daily vitD supplementation in achieving the target 25(OH)D
           range of ≥40-60 ng/mL in those individuals testing positive for COVID-19 at
           MUSC/affiliated hospital facilities, but do not require admission to a hospital
           (outpatient) and will examine whether achieving this target range is associated with
           less severe COVID-19 and differences in inflammatory cytokine profiles.

      In the prevention arm of this project (Aim 1), individuals at higher risk ≥50 years of age
      who test negative for COVID-19 at MUSC/its affiliate hospitals, and agree to daily vitD
      supplementation for a 12-month period, with vitD status measured monthly will be randomized
      to placebo or prescribed vitD (6000 IU/day) to achieve a total circulating 25(OH)
      concentration of ≥40-60 ng/mL. We will compare study groups regarding subsequent infection
      with COVID-19, severity of symptoms, need and duration of hospitalization (LOS), admission to
      the ICU, need for ventilatory support, and mortality, along with return to baseline
      activities and/or work, as a function of age, BMI, and other recognized COVID-19 risk
      factors. In the mitigation arm of this project (Aim 2), non-hospitalized individuals ≥50
      years of age who test COVID-19 positive will be randomized to placebo or a bolus of oral vitD
      (20,000 IU X 3 days) followed by 6000 IU vitD/day, and we will compare study groups on
      measures of disease severity as in Aim 1. All participants in both Aims 1 and 2 will receive
      a daily multivitamin (MVI) containing 800 IU VitD for the 12-month period.

      Following the completion of these Aims, we will be able to answer the following questions:

        1. Are individuals with vitD deficiency more likely to be diagnosed with COVID-19
           infection?

        2. Does being vitD replete make a person more likely to have asymptomatic COVID-19?

        3. Does vitD sufficiency status account for why African Americans, Latina, and the elderly
           more likely to experience complications related to COVID-19?

        4. Is vitD deficiency in COVID-19 positive outpatients associated with increased severity
           of symptoms and differences in inflammatory cytokine profiles that is mitigated by bolus
           and then sustained vitD supplementation?

      The long-term impact of these studies will influence public policy regarding more widespread
      vitD supplementation is a means of reducing the severity of COVID-19. Given its low cost and
      the ease with which widespread supplementation could be instituted, oral vitD supplementation
      may represent a rapid and inexpensive means by which to reduce both the COVID-19 incidence
      and severity.
    
  