
    
      Method Participants The sample will consist of 20 cognitively healthy older adults (aged 55
      or older) recruited from the Centre on Aging participant database. The participant database
      has been approved by the Health REB (REB #HS14652). Individuals who are in the participant
      database have given their consent to be contacted by researchers about their willingness to
      participate in specific research projects. Names of individuals are provided to researchers
      by the Centre on Aging upon submission of REB approval and the research protocol.

      Materials Questionnaires Pre-training Questionnaire - demographics. The questionnaire will
      consist of general questions about the participants. Items will include gender, age, and
      experience with memory training.

      Pre-training memory recall test. The questionnaire will ask participants to describe social
      events they did during the previous week. This questionnaire will be given in the
      pre-training session.

      Post-training memory recall test. The questionnaire will ask participants to describe social
      events they did during the previous week. This questionnaire will be given in the
      post-training session.

      Post-training questionnaire. The questionnaire will ask participants about their thoughts
      regarding the format and usefulness of the instruction materials. For example, participants
      will be asked if they thought the study helped them remember social events.

      Intervention group materials Memory tasks - instructions. This document instructs
      participants in the intervention group on how to use the memory tasks for daily social
      events.

      Memory tasks - forms. Each day has a separate document that has a) a diary of social events;
      and b) tasks to review the week's social events.

      Memory tasks - forms example. This is an example of the above form filled out to help explain
      how memory tasks are to be done.

      Design This study involves an experimental design, whereby participants will be randomly
      assigned to one of two groups, an intervention group (n=10) and a control group (n=10). The
      independent variable is, therefore, the presence or absence of the daily memory recording
      task for social events. The dependent variables are: (a) the changes in performance on the
      written recall tests from pre- to post-training; and (b) the difference between the groups
      (i.e., Control vs. intervention group) on performance of memory of social events. Information
      about how useful the intervention materials were will be used in a more qualitative way to
      help improve the intervention.

      Procedure The study will consist of: a) a pre-training session; b) seven days of independent
      memory training (intervention group) or usual way of remembering social events (control
      group); and c) a post-training session. The pre-training session will involve a test that
      measures recall of social events from the previous week. This will be followed by seven days
      of training for recall of daily social events. The post-training session will occur after the
      seven days and involve the same test as the pre-training session that measures recall of
      social events from the previous week.

      Pre-training session. There will be separate pre-training sessions for each individual
      participant with the principal investigator either at the University of Manitoba (Bannatyne
      campus or Fort Garry campus) or, if participants prefers, in his or her own home. During the
      pre-training session, the principal investigator will provide an informed consent form to the
      participant. The principal investigator will describe the project, review the consent form
      and answer any questions. Once the participant provides written consent, a demographics
      questionnaire will be administered. A pre-training memory recall test will also be done that
      asks participants to list social events they did during the previous week.

      Seven day training week. Materials will be provided to the intervention group during the
      pre-training session. Materials will include: a) instructions for memory tasks; b) forms for
      each day for diaries and tasks; and c) an example of the form filled out. The control group
      will not receive materials and will have to rely on their own memory strategies to remember
      social events during the 7 days.

      Post-training session. There will be separate post-training sessions for each individual
      participant with the principal investigator either at the University of Manitoba (Bannatyne
      campus or Fort Garry campus) or in the participants' homes. A post-training memory recall
      test will be done that asks participants to list social events that they did on the previous
      week (i.e., this is the same test that was used in pre-training session). The post-training
      questionnaire will then also be administered to each participants.

      Data Management Data will be entered into the computer. The computer file will not contain
      any names or addresses and each participant data will be identified by a unique participant
      ID only. Consent forms will be stored in a locked filing cabinet in Dr. Menec's research
      space (S112 Medical Services Bldg).

      Analyses A total score of all social events recalled will be created. Scores will be
      calculated by the following scheme: a) one point for remembering an event; and b) one point
      for remembering the day of the event. Other scoring approaches will also be considered; for
      example, assigning a higher score if more detail about a person met is remembered. SPSS will
      be used to test hypotheses using two independent group t-tests. The use of t-tests is
      justified because a) the investigators can compare scoring on pre- and post-session memory
      recall tests; b) the investigators have an appropriate sample size of 20; and c) the
      investigators have two independent groups. The usefulness of the memory intervention
      materials will be examined more qualitatively by looking at responses to each of the
      questions and participants' comments.
    
  