
    
      The trends of bath disability in elderly consistently increased and, enhance, the demand of
      helping bath for the elderly also increased in Taiwan. Bathing is an important item of
      activities of daily living for human. Bathing not only keeps the body clean but also makes
      body comfort. Some studies showed that taking hot (40-40.5°C) baths 1.5 - 2 hours before
      bedtime resulted in a significant increase slow wave sleep (SWS) in the early part of the
      sleep period and improving sleep continuity in older female insomniacs.

      Nurse aides are one of important human resource for long-term care institution. In Taiwan,
      Chao et al. reported that nurse aides had long-term accumulating discomfort over neck,
      shoulders and lower back during helping disable residents to carry out activity daily life.
      However, the body discomfort in nurse aides significantly decreased by using auxiliary
      equipment during assisting the elderly to carry out activity daily life. Therefore, it is
      important to use auxiliary equipment to prevent injury during work for nurse aides.

      This study is interested in applying edde massage bathtub to improve sleep quality for
      disable residents in long-term care institutions. The study is divided into two stages, first
      stage of the study is to train nurse aides to use the bathtub machine (which has edde massage
      function) and solicits the opinions of nurse aides about factors related to the accessibility
      and safety of bath-tub machine using focus group methods. The purposes of the first stage
      study are (1) to examine the feasibility and simplicity of the operation of bathtub machine
      for nurse aides; (2) to examine the safety and comfortability of the bathtub machine from the
      perspectives of the nurse aides.

      Second stage of the study is to explore the experiences of nurse aides and disabled elderly
      by using the bathtub machine. The purposes of the second stage study are (1) to understand
      the experiences of nurse aides and the elderly with disability by using the bathtub
      machine(which has edde massage function); (2) to evaluate the effectiveness of using the
      bathtub machine on the sleep quality and body temperature in the elderly with disability.
    
  