
    
      Cancer is at least partially attributable to immunological disturbance, and its treatment
      causes additional inflammatory problems. Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN),
      especially that induced by oxaliplatin or Taxanes (including paclitaxel and docetaxel) is
      common among cancer patients during or after the treatment of chemotherapeutic agents,
      presented as pain and sensory abnormalities for months, and even persists for years in some
      patients after the cessation of chemotherapy. Even worse is that currently available drugs
      cannot effectively manage these conditions. Besides, CIPN causes fatigue, anxiety, and
      depression, which lower patients' quality of life and determination to fight the disease.
      Interestingly, CIPN is featured by the interference of interleukin (IL) pathways, among which
      escalation of IL-17 is predominant, suggesting that IL-17 may be manipulated to reduce the
      inflammation or the immunological disturbance. Cyanidin, a type of glucosides, has been
      proved to behave like an IL-17 inhibitor and works in an animal model of skin hyperplasia in
      reducing the IL-17 levels and severity of hyperplasia. We have identified a food material
      that contains large amounts of glucosides and rutinosides - mulberry juice. Preliminary
      findings of an ongoing human study of our team have provided statistical evidence that this
      crude material effectively relieves clinical symptoms of a disorder associated with
      inflammation features. The current proposal aims to explore the effect of this IL-17
      inhibitor-rich material in CIPN and related symptoms. To avoid confounding effects from pain,
      we plan to divide the potential participants into severe pain and mild pain group to conduct
      two human studies. A single-blinded randomized controlled design is adopted to compare the
      effects of this crude material between the experimental group and the control group in (1)
      pain and CIPN of the severe pain participants and (2) fatigue, anxiety, and depression in the
      mild pain participants. IL and other immune markers will be tested as evidence of improvement
      of inflammation status. We expect a decrement in pain, CIPN, fatigue, anxiety, and depression
      severity with the intake of this IL-17 inhibitor-rich material among cancer patients
      undergoing chemotherapy.
    
  