
    
      Treatment of peripheral arterial disease consists of vascular risk factor management and,
      dependent on the severity of the disease, exercise therapy, and either radiological or
      surgical intervention. After invasive treatment, many patients keep complaints, or complaints
      return, despite the fact that the treated segment is still patent.

      Supervised exercise therapy (SET) has been proved to be an effective treatment for patients
      with intermittent claudication, with a significant increase in maximal walking distance.
      Further, exercise therapy contributes to an improvement in quality of life, a delay in
      disease progression and an improvement of the vascular risk profile.

      Research on SET after an invasive intervention is rare. In one study, the effect of SET after
      surgical treatment on walking distance was determined. The initial claudication distance
      increased significantly in the exercise group, compared with surgical treatment alone.

      In June 2004, the Network for Exercise Therapy Parkstad (NETP) was implemented in Heerlen and
      its environs. The physiotherapists of this network provide community based SET according to
      the protocol of the Royal Dutch Society of Physiotherapy. The web based database, which is a
      part of the NETP, was retrospectively searched for patients who started SET within 2 months
      after a radiological or surgical intervention. Seventeen patients fulfilled these criteria,
      and after 1, 3, 6 and 12 months, there was a significant increase in both initial
      claudication distance (ICD) and absolute claudication distance (ACD).

      The expectation is that SET, immediately offered after an invasive intervention for
      peripheral arterial disease, influences walking distance and quality of life. Further, a
      positive influence on vascular risk factors and the frequency of re-interventions is
      expected.
    
  