
    
      In 2011, United Nations (UN) gathered to address the prevention and control of
      non-communicable diseases (NCDs) worldwide. The UN, in its Political Declaration, recognized
      the critical importance of reducing the level of exposure to the common modifiable risk
      factors for NCDs, such as physical inactivity and unhealthy diet. In Hong Kong, NCDs are
      responsible for more than 85% of all deaths and most of these are preventable. FAMILY Project
      Cohort Study (2014) also found that 88.6% of Hong Kong people had inadequate vegetable and
      fruit intake, 70.6% had inadequate physical exercise, 26.4% were overweight and 5.4% were
      obese. Hong Kong, being the most westernized and developed city of China, can take a leading
      role in promoting and implementing the UN Political Declaration.

      Families worldwide are undergoing rapid changes together with macro, social and economic
      trends. Demographic shifts, economic upheavals, changing societal norms and values, both
      immigration across national borders and migration within nations are creating new and altered
      structures, processes, and relationships within families. The increasingly complex and
      diverse family structure is leading to a major concern in the well-being of families in Hong
      Kong, including their health, happiness and harmony (3Hs). Family life and health education
      should be strengthened to meet the increasing needs of healthy lifestyle promotion. The
      results from the baseline findings of FAMILY Project Cohort Study (2014) revealed that only
      27.9% of the participants considered themselves to be 'happy' while 15.6% of the participants
      were classified as 'unhappy'. Nearly one-third (30.7%) of the participants reported having
      experienced at least one stressful life event in the previous year due to heavier workload
      (10.8%), serious health problems of a family member (6.8%), worsening financial situation
      (6.2%), health problems (5.1%), or death of a family member (4.7%). Furthermore, more than
      half of the participants (52.5%) reported having some source of dyadic conflict with family
      members. In response to these family and health challenges, the Happy Family Kitchen Movement
      (HFKM) project, with a focus on "FAMILY Holistic Health", will be conducted at territory-wide
      level in Hong Kong.

      There are now many definitions and operationally defined terms on family health. On the
      functional level, the terms family health, family functioning, and healthy family are often
      used interchangeably (Hanson & Boyd, 1996). Family health has been described as complex
      system, interactions, relationships and processes with the potential to enhance both
      well-being and the entire household's health, and routines in the family may affect family
      health (Denham, 1999, 2002; Yoshikawa, 2012). Despite the different perspectives in the
      definitions, family health should be holistically defined, encompass both wellness and
      illness variables and focus on the interactive, developmental, functional, psychosocial, and
      health processes of family experience (Anderson & Tomlinso, 1992). Hence, the HFK Movement
      project will focus on "FAMILY Holistic Health" which is to emphasize a more comprehensive and
      wide reaching aim and includes the physical, psychological and social aspects of well-being.

      Over the past six years, the FAMILY project has been working on community-based projects to
      promote 3Hs. Since September 2010, the Happy Family Kitchen I project (HFK) was launched in
      Yuen Long district, with the mission to promote 3Hs by building capacity for families on
      positive communication. As a component of the FAMILY Project, the HFK project had
      demonstrated the impact to build up an effective practice model through collaboration among
      various project partners. HFK II was an improved version, extended and introduced to Tsuen
      Wan & Kwai Tsing districts in April 2012. The School of Public Health, The University of Hong
      Kong, collaborated with The Hong Kong Council of Social Service in the training, design and
      implementation, and conducted project evaluations for HFK I & II projects, which showed that
      the projects were well received by the family members in Yuen Long, Tsuen Wan and Kwai Tsing
      districts, with significantly improved 3Hs and intervention-related behaviors. Therefore, the
      HFKM project is developed based on the strong foundation of the HFK projects in the previous
      years. In view of the physical health challenges locally and globally, the new phase of
      FAMILY project will put more emphasis on physical health in the upcoming three years.
      Following the theme on FAMILY 3Hs, the new work focus is to promote family holistic health
      with emphasis on the interaction and integration of physical and psychosocial health.

      In Hong Kong, most 'health projects' only focus on individual's physical health and usually
      separate physical from mental or psychosocial health. The focus of this project not only
      emphasizes on individuals' health but on the family's holistic health. It is aimed to help
      family members influence each other for healthier lifestyles. The focus on family is a new
      and unique concept which is an innovative, long-term and highly sustainable at the community
      level. With the involvement of family members, Hong Kong families can change their lifestyles
      and make a difference and impact on their health. A family-focused approach will be used and
      a holistic perspective will be adopted to design a sustainable family holistic health
      intervention model in the community to meet the global health challenges.

      The innovative family holistic health intervention model will emphasize on the interaction
      and integration of physical health and psychosocial health, based on positive psychology
      (Seligman, 2002; Seligman, 2011; Seligman & Csikszentmihalyi, 2000), using physical exercise
      and healthy diet as the platform to promote finer and fitter families, which will ultimately
      enhance the 3Hs. Thus, the ultimate objective of the community-based project is family
      holistic health for 3Hs.

      In practice, innovative integrated positive psychology, public health theories and minimal
      methods will be used to develop brief, simple and cost-effective interventions targeted at
      families, in collaboration with experienced NGO partners and community stakeholders. Training
      workshops for the promotion of family holistic health will be conducted for the facilitators
      of the community-based family intervention programs. Hence, a larger number of people will be
      able to benefit from the program which can have greater sustainability and wider
      dissemination as it will be easy to administer and the costs will be low. The community-based
      family intervention programs will be aimed at promoting a higher level of physical exercise
      and a healthy diet for people of all ages which will enhance family interaction, pleasure and
      well-being. The use of positive psychology approach can help families develop positive
      attitudes and stronger motivation for healthy lifestyles. By working together with family
      members to have more physical exercise and consume less sugar, the process will be enjoyable
      with quick and measurable benefits, which will ultimately enhance sustainability within the
      family and beyond.

      The evaluations conducted will be vigorous and evidence generating with quantitative and
      qualitative methods and follow-ups to assess behavioral changes and improvements in the key
      components of family well-being. For program development, process evaluation will also be a
      source for data collection.

      This study has two major objectives:

        1. To examine the effectiveness of positive psychology and physical exercise intervention
           (PE) for the promotion of family health, happiness and harmony (3Hs).

        2. To examine the effectiveness of positive psychology and healthy diet intervention (HD)
           for the promotion of family health, happiness and harmony (3Hs).

      The community-based family intervention is expected to:

        1. improve family health, happiness and harmony

        2. promote physical and psychosocial health

        3. enhance family communication

        4. encourage behaviors on positive psychology, physical exercise and healthy diet
    
  