
    
      If the patient agrees to participate in this research study they will be asked to undergo
      some screening tests and procedures to confirm that they are eligible. Many of these tests
      and procedures are likely to be part of regular cancer care and may be done even if it turns
      out that they do not take part in the research study. If they have had some of these tests
      and procedures recently, they may or may not have to be repeated. These tests and procedures
      will include: a medical history, complete physical examination, performance status, tumor
      assessment, EKG, blood tests, pregnancy test, confirmation of pathology report and obtain
      insurance approval to receive temozolomide. If these tests show that the patient is eligible
      to participate in the research study, they will begin the study drug administration. If they
      do not meet the eligibility criteria, they will not be able to participate in this research
      study.

      Biomarkers are substances such as genes and proteins that are important biological
      "indicators" that can be measured in tumor tissue. The investigators would like to look at
      biomarkers before and after patients receive study drug administration. Comparing the
      biomarkers from tissue collected before and after receiving study treatments may help us find
      biomarkers that are associated with response to study treatment or lack of response to study
      drug administration.

      Before the patient starts study drug administration, if the investigators determine that the
      patient is healthy enough for a biopsy, the patient will undergo a biopsy to provide tumor
      tissue for the research tests described above. (If it is determined that the patient should
      not have a biopsy, they can still take part in this research study).

      The investigators are looking for the highest doses of olaparib and irinotecan and/or
      temozolomide that can be administered safely without severe or unmanageable side effects to
      participants that have Ewing's sarcoma or rhabdomyosarcoma. Therefore, not everyone who
      participates in this research study will receive the same doses of olaparib, irinotecan,
      and/or temozolomide. The doses the patients get will depend on the number of participants who
      have been enrolled in the study before them and how well they have tolerated their doses. The
      investigators will tell patients how the dose level you receive compares to doses given
      previously in this study.

      Olaparib and irinotecan and/or temozolomide will ge given in cycles of 21 days (3 weeks).
      Both olaparib and temozolomide are drugs that are taken by mouth. Patients will take olaparib
      and temozolomide on days 1-7 (week 1) of each cycle. Irinotecan is given by IV, once per day,
      on days 1-7 of each cycle. Patients will take olaparib twice per day and temozolomide once
      per day.

      The investigators will give patients a drug diary to record the doses of olaparib and
      temozolomide that they take each day. The diary will also include special instructions for
      taking olaparib and temozolomide. A member of the study team will show patients how to enter
      their doses in the diary.

      During cycle 1 patients will come to the clinic on Days 1 and 8 (weeks 1 and 2). During
      cycles 2-6 they will come to the clinic on Day 1 of each cycle. During cycles 8 and beyond
      they will come to the clinic every 9 weeks.

      At each study visit patients will undergo the following procedures: a physical exam,
      questions about their health (problems, medications, side effects), performance status and
      blood tests. Additionally, during the visit on Cycle 1, Day 8 patients will have an EKG. 4-6
      weeks after starting study drug administration their blood will be tested for its clotting
      ability on Day 1 of Cycle 2. They will also undergo a biopsy to provide tumor tissue for
      biomarker research tests. Every 9 weeks they wil have a CT scan or MRI to measure your tumor.

      Patients will be asked to return to the clinic about 30 days after stopping study drug. At
      this visit the following will be done: physical exam, questions about their health,
      performance status and blood tests. Patients will be asked to return study drug bottles and
      any unused study drug at this visit.

      The investigators would like to keep track of the patients' medical condition for as long as
      they allow. The investigators would like to do this by either calling patients on the
      telephone or following them at clinic visits every 3 months. Keeping in touch with patients
      and checking their condition helps the investigators look at the long-term effects of the
      research study.
    
  