
    
      Peripheral artery disease (PAD) is characterized by atherosclerotic occlusive disease of the
      lower extremities. More than 8 million Americans and 200 million people globally have PAD.
      Recent data reveal a prevalence of 15% in the MEDICARE population. In populations at risk,
      patients with a history of diabetes or cigarette smoking, the risk may rise as high as 30%.
      In addition to the heightened risk of myocardial infarction and stroke, PAD increases the
      risk of lower extremity claudication and critical limb ischemia. Lower extremity bypass
      grafting is an important method of restoring blood flow to the distal limb, reducing symptoms
      of claudication, and preventing amputation in patients with severe PAD.

      Vorapaxar is a protease activated receptor (PAR)-1 antagonist that inhibits thrombin
      activation of the PAR-1 receptor. Vorapaxar has been FDA approved for patients with PAD to
      reduce the rate of cardiovascular death, MI, stroke, and urgent coronary revascularization.
      It is prohibited in patients with a previous stroke. In addition, patients treated with
      vorapaxar were noted to have a significant reduction in the rates of acute limb ischemia.
      This study will be a randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled randomized study of
      vorapaxar vs. placebo in 80 patients undergoing femoral-popliteal bypass grafting for
      Rutherford 3 - 5 disease.

      Baseline visit: Informed consent will be signed. Vital signs will be taken and blood drawn
      fasting for baseline values.

      First visit, pre-surgery: Blood will be drawn for platelet activation testing. A 6 minute
      walk test will be performed. Brachial artery reactivity testing will be performed. An
      ankle-brachial index will be performed.

      30 days: Platelet testing will be performed. 90 days: Limited history and physical exam. 180
      days: Limited history and exam, blood draw for biomarkers, brachial artery reactivity
      testing. Vein bypass graft reactivity testing.

      360 days: 6 minute walk test and ankle brachial index will be performed.

      Randomization: The Investigational Pharmacy will create a block randomization. Patients in
      the active treatment group will receive vorapaxar 2.08 mg daily or matching placebo.
      Treatment will continue for 1 year.

      In addition, 20 healthy subjects to serve as a control population to define normal parameters
      during a single visit day. The healthy subjects will not be administered vorapaxar or
      placebo.
    
  