
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether broccoli sprout/broccoli seed extract supplement (Avmacol) increases
      the urinary excretion of the mercapturic acid of the tobacco carcinogen, benzene, in healthy
      volunteers who are current heavy smokers.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether Avmacol increases the urinary excretion of the mercapturic acids of
      other tobacco carcinogens, including acrolein and crotonaldehyde.

      II. To determine whether Avmacol increases the urinary excretion of the mercapturic acids of
      tobacco carcinogens, normalized by bio-measurement of tobacco exposure.

      III. To determine whether Avmacol upregulates the NRF2 target gene transcripts in the buccal
      cells of current smokers.

      IV. To evaluate for a dose-response relationship between Avmacol and the detoxification of
      tobacco carcinogens and the expression of NRF2 target gene transcripts.

      V. To determine the relationship between systemic study agent exposure and biomarker
      modulation.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether the GSTM1 and GSTT1 genotypes are important genetic modulators of
      detoxification of tobacco carcinogens with Avmacol treatment.

      II. To bank specimens for future research including evaluation of tobacco gene signatures in
      buccal and nasal epithelium and buccal cell nuclear morphometry.

      OUTLINE: Participants are randomized into 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Participants receive lower dose broccoli sprout/broccoli seed extract supplement
      orally (PO) daily for 10-14 days. After 10-14 days, participants receive higher dose broccoli
      sprout/broccoli seed extract supplement PO daily for 10-14 days.

      ARM II: Participants receive higher dose broccoli sprout/broccoli seed extract supplement PO
      daily for 10-14 days. After 10-14 days, participants receive lower dose broccoli
      sprout/broccoli seed extract supplement PO daily for 10-14 days.

      After completion of study, participants are followed up at 10-14 days.
    
  