
    
      TB is the most common opportunistic infection and the single most common cause of death in
      HIV infected people in Africa today. Latent TB infection has been known to revert to active
      TB following new infection in HIV infected people; also, TB has been shown to accelerate the
      progression of HIV disease. These epidemiologic relationships between TB and HIV and the high
      prevalence of these diseases in sub-Saharan Africa make studying TB and HIV infected
      populations in this region of the world important. The Masiphumelele Township of Cape Town,
      South Africa, with its high rates of TB and HIV, is representative of many poor communities
      in Africa. The purpose of this study is to observe people from the Masiphumelele Township
      over a 5-year period to assess the prevalence of TB and HIV infections in a random sample of
      people and the clinical and genetic characteristics of active TB infection.

      This study has two parts: a random cross-sectional survey and a clinical and genetic
      assessment of TB patients. Participants in the random survey will only be involved with the
      study for a maximum of 2 days. The purpose of the first part of the study is to compare the
      prevalence of active TB and the prevalence of HIV infection in a random sample of people from
      the Masiphumelele Township. In this part of the study, children and adults will be randomly
      selected from the township population to determine the prevalence of active TB and the
      prevalence of HIV infection in this group of people. Fieldworkers will identify eligible
      participants in the township and will ask them to visit the clinic that day or the next. At
      the clinic, participants will be asked to complete a demographics and TB history
      questionnaire and provide a saliva sample for anonymous HIV testing. A sputum sample will be
      collected from each participant with a nebulizer; each participant will also be given a
      sputum sample bottle and will be asked to collect an early morning sputum sample on the next
      day that will be returned to the clinic.

      The second part of the study will enroll TB patients. Participants in this part of this study
      will be followed for the course of their TB treatment for at least 6 months. The purpose of
      the second part of the study is to assess changes through time of the clustering and
      transmission of TB among HIV infected and uninfected people in the Masiphumelele Township.
      This assessment will include examining the diversity of TB strains in this population and
      determining the relationship between recurrent cases of TB and HIV infection. All sputum
      samples indicating TB infections that were previously collected from participants will
      undergo genetic testing by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis.
      Participants will be asked to complete a demographics and TB history questionnaire and
      provide a saliva sample for anonymous HIV testing. Participants will also be interviewed
      about treatment they have received for TB, their responses to this treatment, and whether
      they are currently on highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) for the treatment of HIV
      infection.

      Participants who are found to be infected with TB during the first part of the study will be
      offered TB treatment through the clinic and will be invited to participate in the second part
      of this study. Participants who are found to be infected with HIV during the study will be
      referred to further treatment and evaluation.
    
  