
    
      Patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) present lower levels of physical
      activity (PA), which have been associated with increased healthcare utilization and reduced
      survival. Thus, optimizing PA levels has become one therapeutic priority in COPD management.

      Pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) is an effective intervention in reducing symptoms and improving
      patients' functional status and quality of life. However, its effects in increasing patients'
      physical activity (PA) levels are limited. Previous research has suggested that PR with
      continuous PA monitoring with feedback may be a suitable approach to increase and maintain
      patients' PA levels.

      Patients who agree to participate will be randomized to either receive a PR program with PA
      monitoring and regular feedback of a pedometer (experimental group [EG]) or a PR program
      alone (control group [CG]). Both PR programs will last 12 weeks and consist of exercise
      training and psychoeducation sessions. During the PR program, patients in the EG will receive
      a pedometer to self-monitor their PA and individualized step-count goals. They will continue
      to use the pedometers and receive individualized goals for 3 months after the program.

      The impact of the intervention will be explored using a mixed-methods approach.

      Assessments will be conducted in both groups at 4 time points: before, immediately after, 3
      and 6 months after the PR program. Physical activity levels, lung function, breathlessness,
      exercise tolerance, peripheral muscle strength, health-related quality of life and healthcare
      utilization will be assessed in both groups in these time points.

      Descriptive statistics will be used to characterize the sample. To analyze changes in outcome
      measures, data from the two groups will be compared at each time point.

      Patients in the EG will also be invited to attend focus groups after the intervention to
      assess their perspective about the intervention and their satisfaction with the use of the
      pedometer.

      A sample size calculation using the primary outcome was performed based in a previous pilot
      study. It was found that 12 patients with COPD would be required in each group to provide 80%
      power (alpha = 0.05) to detect significant differences between groups. However, as PR
      programs usually have considerable dropouts (around 30%), 16 patients with COPD were
      recruited for each group.
    
  