
    
      Alaska Native children are disproportionately affected by early childhood caries, compared to
      all U.S children. Dental care needs for adults and children in rural Alaska far exceed the
      acute care and prevention resources available. As a result, there is a high level of dental
      morbidity present among adults that likely contributes to early transmission of mutans
      streptococci (MS) from adult caregivers to infants in the household. Furthermore, the
      cultural practice of pre-mastication of solid food for infant feeding amplifies the
      transmission of oral secretions from adult to child. The prevention of early MS acquisition
      and subsequent caries in infants and toddlers requires efforts starting at birth. Since
      Alaska Natives are a rural population at high risk for caries, interruption of vertical
      transmission of MS using a combination of improved oral hygiene practices, and topical
      antimicrobials and bacteriostatic agents may be an ideal prevention strategy for childhood
      caries. Chlorhexidine and xylitol are two agents that have been shown to reduce dental decay
      and MS counts.

      The specific aim of this proposal is to conduct a community based, randomized blinded trial
      to determine if the serial use of chlorhexidine and xylitol will reduce the vertical
      transmission of caries between Alaska Native mothers and infants. We hypothesize that a two
      week period of twice-daily chlorhexidine mouthwash use prior to delivery, followed by a
      subsequent two year period of maternal xylitol gum use, will lead to a significant reduction
      in the age-specific prevalence of early childhood caries at 12 and 24 months of age among the
      offspring of mothers in the intervention group, compared to control group mothers. We also
      hypothesize that, compared to controls, mothers and children in the intervention group will
      have significant reductions in oral MS counts at each follow-up interval.

      If proven successful, this intervention could have a significant impact on the prevalence of
      caries among young Alaska Native children and other population groups at high risk for
      childhood caries.
    
  