
    
      The study is designed as a 12-week, two-armed, randomized controlled trail to assess the
      efficacy of a COVID-19-modified version of the Enduring Happiness and Continued
      Self-Enhancement (ENHANCE) program. The ENHANCE program represents a 12-week multi-construct,
      evidenced-based intervention for improving overall happiness and subjective well-being. The
      ENHANCE program was modified specifically to address the known health and well-being
      challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic.

      Eligible participants will be randomized into either the ENHANCE program or Wait-List Control
      (WLC) group. ENHANCE participants will be introduced to 10 evidenced-based principles that
      have been shown to improve health and well-being outcomes. Participants will be further
      guided to systematically practice these principles in their daily lives using a small-changes
      approach. WLC participants will be asked to continue life a usual, and provided some
      additional health and well-being resources that can be accessed online to support current,
      ongoing distress, if needed.

      Participants will be asked to complete an online survey about their emotional, social, and
      physical well-being at baseline (or at the start of the study), midway (or 6-weeks into the
      study), and at post-assessment (or at the end of the study period). At the end of the study
      period, all control participants will also be offered the full ENHANCE program.

      Investigators expect that participants receiving the ENHANCE program will show improvements
      across all negative (e.g., depression, anxiety) and positive (e.g., life satisfaction,
      quality of life) variables from baseline to post-study. Investigators further expect there to
      be immediate positive health and economic outcomes linked to active participation in the
      ENHANCE program (versus the WLC group). Investigators believe the impacts of this research
      will include (a) mitigating the risk of a severe onset of mental health problems related to
      anxiety, depression, post-traumatic stress, and suicide, (b) increasing positive mental
      health and well-being, and (c) increasing physical health in participants across time.
    
  