
    
      Coronary artery disease is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in the United States.
      At present, professional guidelines endorse the use of an array of non-invasive tests for
      patients with suspected coronary artery disease, which are limited to one of two approaches:
      1) physiologic demonstration of ischemia by functional stress testing or 2) anatomic
      visualization of stenosis by coronary computed tomographic angiography.

      Stress test for physiologic assessment of coronary disease is performed most commonly with
      the prognostic value unsurpassed by other non-invasive tests, with risk of cardiac events
      escalating exponentially with increasing inducible hypoperfusion. However, despite its high
      reported performance, the "real world" accuracy of stress test is less sanguine and
      demonstrates generally poor discrimination of specific vessels that accommodate coronary
      lesions that cause ischemia. These findings have encouraged the adoption of other stress
      tests, such as positron emission tomography, which offers reliable attenuation correction,
      increased count sensitivity, lower radiation dose and enhanced diagnostic performance.
      Positron emission tomography also enables measures of absolute myocardial blood flow.

      Coronary computed tomographic angiography is an alternative test that evaluates coronary
      disease by direct anatomic visualization of stenoses in a manner similar to cardiac
      catheterization. Similarly, when employing invasive fractional flow reserve to identify
      ischemia, high-grade stenoses observed by computed tomography are causal of ischemia less
      than half of the time.

      Multicenter randomized trial data examining invasive methods have demonstrated that a
      combined anatomic-physiologic approach by catheterization with fractional flow reserve
      improves identification of patients who may benefit from revascularization, by restricting
      revascularization to those with high-grade stenoses that specifically cause ischemia.
      Nevertheless, the combination of catheterization with fractional flow reserve is invasive, is
      not widely adopted in clinical practice, and is costly.

      Computed tomography perfusion is a novel non-invasive technique that can evaluate the
      physiologic significance of coronary disease, and is performed by adding a single image
      acquisition to computed tomography in the same setting. The combination of computed
      tomography perfusion to computed tomography may represent an ideal "one-stop shop" that may
      allow for both anatomic and physiologic evaluation of coronary disease, serve as a more
      effective gatekeeper to cardiac catheterization, and better identify patients that would
      benefit from revascularization.

      The emergence of dual energy computed tomography techniques enables potentially improved
      perfusion assessment. In particular, projection-based dual energy computed tomography is a
      novel computed tomography method that incorporates energy-dependent models for basis material
      decomposition within tissue, and may allow for absolute quantification of myocardial blood
      [iodine] volume with high accuracy and allows for single energy monochromatic imaging that
      retains image stability while reducing common computed tomography artifacts. Both of these
      measures by projection-based dual energy computed tomography enable quantitative assessment
      of myocardial iodine uptake, but the diagnostic performance of dual energy computed
      tomography as compared to nuclear stress testing has not been tested systematically to date.

      To date, an integrated anatomic-physiologic approach by non-invasive methods has been
      lacking, largely due to the lack of a test that is capable of providing both accurate
      anatomic and physiologic data in a single setting.

      The DECIDE-Gold trial will be a prospective multicenter study to evaluate the diagnostic
      performance of the dual energy computed tomography perfusion for the detection and exclusion
      of hemodynamically significant coronary artery disease, as defined by fractional flow
      reserve, the reference standard. The targeted population is subjects with suspected coronary
      artery disease who are referred for non-emergent clinically-indicated invasive coronary
      angiography or rest-stress nuclear imaging. The study is considered non-significant risk as
      investigators will be blinded to the dual energy computed tomography perfusion analyses will
      in no part play a role in the subject's medical treatment or clinical course.
    
  