
    
      Two groups of subjects will be recruited for this study. The first group (Group 1) will
      consist of healthy able-bodied individuals with no history of lower extremity trauma. The
      second group (Group 2) will consist of individuals with unilateral, below knee functional
      deficits that require an AFO (ankle foot orthosis) for daily activities (e.g. fracture,
      muscle and/or nerve injury, ankle arthritis, or peripheral neurologic disease).

      The investigators will obtain a brief medical history to identify major medical conditions or
      prior injuries that could influence limb geometry, and lead to reliance on an AFO for Group 2
      participants.

      A 3D representation of each participant's lower limb geometry will be obtained using a
      Structure Core scanner (Occipital, Inc.) which uses an infrared structured light projector to
      construct a 3D image of an object. The scanner is connected to an iPad; to operate the user
      rotates the iPad camera around the desired object. In seconds, the entire geometry is
      digitally reconstructed. Measurements will be evaluated using digital imaging analysis
      software (Standard Cyborg, Inc.). The investigators will evaluate concurrent validity by
      directly comparing software-based measurements from limb scans, with direct measurements on
      the same individual collected using digital calipers. The investigators will determine
      repeatability of each technique by conducting three identical limb scans and actual physical
      measurements at two time points on the same day in each individual, and then comparing the
      results between time points. The interior of the AFO worn by participants in Group 2 will
      also be scanned to obtain its geometry for comparison with measurements obtained from each
      individual's limb.

      Validity and repeatability will be assessed using measurements at multiple locations on the
      lower leg. Limb measurements will include 1) width of the metatarsal heads, 2) width of the
      calcaneus, 3) foot length, 4) foot height, 5) arch height, 6) medial-lateral width between
      ankle malleoli, 7) minimum circumference above the ankle malleoli, 8) maximum calf
      circumference , 9) medial-lateral width of the knee condyles 10) anterior-posterior width at
      mid patellar tendon, 11) distance from bottom of foot to tibial tubercle.

      Concurrent validity will be determined using the intra-class correlation coefficient and
      absolute error (root mean square error) for comparisons between measurements from limb
      scanning and the calipers. Reliability will be determined using the intra-class correlation
      coefficient and the minimal detectable change value for comparisons over time.
    
  