
    
      Pre-study day protocol:

      Participants will be asked to meet for a brief (1 hour) pre-study assessment in preparation
      for the study day. Participants' eligibility will be assessed during this time. Subjects will
      arrive at the British Columbia Children's Hospital Research Institute's Clinical Research and
      Evaluation Unit (CREU) having fasted overnight (at least 8 hours since last caloric intake;
      no morning exercise, and assisted transportation to minimize stress). The consent form will
      be thoroughly explained, with the subject instructed to stop and ask questions at any point
      in which they are confused or uncomfortable. If the participants are willing to participate,
      verbal consent and a signature will be obtained. On this day, participants will fill out a
      questionnaire, and the following measurements will be taken: height (Harpenden Stadiometer;
      Holtain Limited, UK) and weight (electric scale; HealthOMeter Professional, Sunbeam Products,
      Inc.), bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA; Q4 Bioimpedance Analyzer, RJL Systems, MI), 3
      site skinfold (Harpenden Calipers; Baty International, UK), blood glucose (One Touch Ultra,
      LifeScan, Inc.), and resting energy expenditure (REE; Vmax Encore, Viasys, CA). The REE
      describes the caloric requirement for vital function in the absence of physical exertion.
      This value will be used to calculate the total energy content of the experimental diets in
      order to ensure that the specific caloric needs of each participant will be met. Blood
      glucose will be assessed for gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM; fasting plasma glucose level
      of 5.3 mmol/L indicative of GDM). Skinfold and BIA measurements will be collected to
      determine maternal fat and fat free mass.

      Study day protocol:

      Healthy pregnant women (20-40 y) who have consented and participated in the pre-study day
      will be studied at two stages of gestation (n=15/stage) over a range of test methionine
      intakes (ranging from 0-40mg/kg/day). At the beginning and end of the day a urine dipstick
      test will be performed. Each study day will be separated by a week and will receive a
      different, random methionine test intake. On the day of the study, participants will come in
      fasted at ~8 am for a total of eight hours. They will receive eight hourly meals, which
      represent 1/12 of their balanced nutritional need for the day. The meals consist of an orange
      flavoured shake with egg protein composition, balanced with sufficient carbohydrates and
      lipids. A tracer amino acid (L-[1-13C] phenylalanine) will be provided with the test meals to
      assess oxidation of the tracer to 13CO2 (13C- carbon dioxide) in breath in response to the
      test/limiting amino acid (methionine). Open-circuit indirect calorimetry will be performed
      until 5 steady state data points will be obtained for the measurement of VCO2 (Carbon Dioxide
      Output; Vmax Encore, Viasys, CA). This technique, called the indicator amino acid oxidation
      method, is a novel, non-invasive and completely safe approach especially in pregnancy.

      Throughout the 8-hour study period biological samples (breath, urine, blood) will be
      collected and analyzed for 13CO2 content and sulfur amino acid metabolites.
    
  