
    
      The MOVIDA project is a longitudinal observational study enrolling patients who initiate ART
      in decentralized areas requiring individual data and blood samples collected in routine HIV
      care.

      This project aims at evaluating and providing operability data of the use of Dried Blood
      Spots (DBS) as sampling tool to measure and monitor the HIV viral load in real life in rural
      decentralized areas in Vietnam.

      This operational project would contribute to:

        -  the provision of viral load measurements in patients from rural decentralized areas,

        -  the improvement of the proportion of patients in virological success on ART, and hence
           to reduce the proportion of patients with acquired HIV drug resistance,

        -  the improvement of general HIV care and to establish an observatory of HIV drug
           resistance,

        -  strengthen national capacities through capitalization and exchange of good practices of
           blood sampling using DBS system to expand to other indications than HIV VL measurement.

      To achieve this goal, clinical and laboratory staff will be trained to the management of the
      MOVIDA project (enrollment of patients; sample collection, management and analysis; data
      collection) before the operational observational study. Patients on the antiretroviral (ART)
      initiation visit will be informed about the study and invited to participate, before
      collection of blood to prepare DBS and collection of clinical data already routinely
      collected in the patient medical records. The blood collection (5ml) will be repeated at 6,
      12 and 24 months during follow-up visits already planned according to the current national
      guidelines for the ART delivery.

      The samples collected (5ml of blood) will be analyzed in a local central laboratory using the
      m2000rt Abbott techniques. Analysis results (VL and when necessary HIV Drug Resistance
      genotyping) will be available to the medical doctor in order to adapt the patient treatment
      appropriately. A set of randomly selected DBS will be shipped to France for centralized
      quality control analyses.

      A socio-anthropological qualitative study will also be implemented targeting patients,
      health-care staff and peer health workers to apprehend their understanding of VL, and to
      better define determinants of adherence and attendance to clinical visits. This will help
      local health authorities adapt the messages and the initiatives to improve adherence to ART
      and attendance to care follow-up.

      The study duration is 36 months with a 6 months period of enrollment and will be conducted in
      6 provinces where 1000 patients are to be enrolled.
    
  