
    
      Peritoneal dialysis (PD) is one of renal replacement therapy used for end-stage renal
      disease. Since 2011, there has been increasing numbers of patients under "PD First" policy of
      the Thai government. The most common PD related complication is PD-related infection
      categorized PD-related peritonitis, and exit site and tunnel infection. Although possible to
      treat PD-related infection, the incidence of technical failure and death due to peritonitis
      are still high in Thailand. PD-related infections mainly caused by Staphylococcus aureus. To
      prevent PD-related infection, cleaning with aseptic solvents using aseptic technique and
      prevent infection by prescribing prophylactic antibiotics are recommended. The International
      Society for Peritoneal Dialysis (ISPD) has recommended position statement of the regular use
      of mupirocin ointment around the catheter exits point and apply in nasal cavity. However,
      there is rising concern of long term use of mupirocin for mupirocin resistance of S. aureus.
      CHG is antiseptic use in clinical practice. It can coat at least 12 hours on skin and has
      anti-bacterial covered in both grams negative and positive. Several meta-analysis studies
      showed effectiveness of CHG in the prevention of hospitals infection i.e. reduces
      catheter-related sepsis, postoperative infection, and microbial resistance. According to
      PD-related infection, CHG has very little evidence of its effectiveness. This pilot study
      aims to evaluate effectiveness, safety, and cost-utility of CHG-soaked cloths compares to
      mupirocin ointment and exit site usual care (normal saline and povidone-iodine) with aseptic
      technique in prevention of PD-related infections. It is a multicenter, double-blind,
      stratified randomized controlled trial. Participants will be randomized to three arms
      mupirocin, usual care, or CHG-soaked cloths. They will be followed up 24 months or
      completetion of PD. The primary outcome is PD-related infection (PD-related peritonitis or
      exit-site and tunnel infection). Secondary outcomes are infection-related catheter removal
      and technique failure, nasal and exit-site Staphylococcus aureus colonization, health-related
      quality of life, mental health, medication adherence, safety, adverse events related to
      treatments such as skin irritation, rash, etc. For cost-utility analysis, costs include
      providers and patients expenses. The Utility is assessed using EQ-5D-5L.
    
  