
    
      The impingement-free ROM in a RSA patient is defined as the rotational area the humeral liner
      can move through without colliding against the scapula or dislocating the joint. In a
      previous study, a new software model was developed that uses imaging data to compute and
      quantify the impingement-free ROM of a patient according to clinically relevant motions.
      Before this model can be used in clinical practice, a validation of the model's accuracy in
      predicting real RSA patient outcomes is required. Therefore, the first objective is to verify
      the model's ability to predict the ROM of the glenohumeral joint in real RSA patients. The
      investigators will investigate and quantify the ROM and joint angles of RSA patients with and
      without impingement with the help of EOS imaging and video motion analysis. The investigators
      can then compare model outputs with measured patient outcomes. Additionally, the
      investigators will investigate how well our software model can predict impingement in
      patients with known postoperative impingement.

      Currently, the software model uses a database of healthy shoulder kinematic motions to
      produce an objective ROM score for a RSA. However, it is not known if healthy shoulder
      kinematics are a suitable reference for quantifying and interpreting RSA kinematics.
      Glenohumeral motions of healthy subjects are already extensively described by Ludewig et al.
      Glenohumeral motions of RSA patients are not yet reported. Also, little is known about muscle
      activation patterns in RSA patients. The second objective is to describe muscle activation
      patterns and shoulder kinematics of RSA patients and compare our measured RSA kinematic
      motions to the healthy kinematic motion data currently used in the software model. Therefore,
      the investigators will perform instrumented 3D motion analysis in conjunction with
      electromyography measurements to incorporate muscle activation patterns into our RSA
      glenohumeral motion analysis. Our additional sub-objective is to compare muscle activation
      patterns between patients with and without limited ROM, with the goal of identifying
      differences between the two groups.

      The third objective is to identify patient-related and implant related factors that influence
      the ROM after a reversed shoulder arthroplasty. Therefore, the investigators will investigate
      clinical factors that could have effect on the ROM after RSA. The different factors (sex,
      birth year, Body Mass Index, generic score EQ-5D-3L, Tampa Schaal voor kinesofobia) will be
      analyzed both across and within patients with and without limited ROM with the goal of
      identifying their relation to ROM. The most important implanted related factor will also be
      investigated and analyzed both across and within groups: implant position in terms of glenoid
      component version, inclination and location of center of rotation.
    
  