
    
      It's a prospective randomized double blind, multicentre, parallel-group in a 1:1 ratio,
      controlled and superiority trial.

      The primary objective is to assess the effect of a Fluticasone Propionate associated with
      Salmeterol using inhalation chamber compared to placebo on respiratory function at 6 months
      in children over six years of age who underwent allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation with a decline of FEV1 ≥ 10% from pre transplantation.

      The primary criterion will be the difference in the FEV1% predicted value from inclusion to 6
      months following the initiation of treatment.

      To assess the effect of a Fluticasone Propionate associated with Salmeterol using inhalation
      chamber compared to placebo in children over six years old underwent allogeneic hematopoietic
      stem cell transplantation with a decline of FEV1 ≥ 10% from pre transplantation baseline to 6
      months following the initiation of treatment, and 6 months after the end of treatment, on
      pulmonary function, respiratory symptoms, Bronchiolitis Obliterative Syndrome (BOS) rate,
      oral steroid exposure and occurrence of infections;

      To assess potential confounding factors associated to the 6-months inhaled treatment efficacy
      from baseline to 12 months, especially:

      - GVHD (Graft Versus Host Disease) occurrence, severity and treatment (steroid dose exposure,
      calcineurins inhibitors dose, second line of GVHD treatment); To assess the safety and
      tolerability of the treatment at baseline, M1, M3 and M6 following the initiation of
      treatment

      All endpoints were collected at baseline, randomization, 1, 3, 6 months during the treatment
      period, and then 3, 6 months after the end of the treatment.

        1. Endpoints relative to respiratory symptoms :

             -  dyspnea will be evaluate at the NYHA (New York Heart Association) scoring;

             -  step test (patient climb up and down step during three minutes at the frequency of
                30/mn) : Respiratory rate, dyspnea Heart rate, SaO2 (oxygen saturation) during the
                exercise.

        2. Endpoints relative to pulmonary function :

             -  FEV1 (Forced expiratory volume) VC (Vital Capacity) , TLC (Total Lung capacity) ,
                RV (Residual volume), FRC (Functional Residual Capacity), sRaw (specific airway
                resistance) DLCO (diffusing capacity of the lungs) using a similar method of
                measurement for static lung volumes (plethysmography)

             -  Number of patients presented with BOS defined as the absence of infection, and FEV1
                < 75% predicted, and the FEV1/ FVC < 0.7, and the RV >120% or air trapping or
                bronchiectasis or small airways thickening on computed tomography

        3. Endpoints relative to GVHD :

             -  Acute and Chronic GVHD manifestations defined on NIH consensus with scoring;

             -  First line of treatment: cumulative dose of corticosteroid systemic exposure and
                cumulative dose of calcineurins inhibitors.

             -  Second line of GVHD treatment exposure will be assessed using the other type of
                treatment.

        4. Endpoints relative to respiratory infections :

           - Number of adverse events.

        5. Endpoints relative to safety and tolerance:

             -  Adverse events during the study period such as treatment tolerance, thrush, death.

      The investigators will study patients over six years of age who underwent allogeneic
      hematopoietic stem cell transplantation with a decline of FEV1 ≥10% from pre transplantation.

      The choice of this range of age is motivated by the fact that PFTs (Pulmonary Function Test)
      requires a degree of cooperation that is age dependent, only children who are 6 years of age
      or older are able to realize reproducible PFTs.

      For children between 6 to 11 years (< 12 years): 50 μg inhaled fluticasone propionate and 25
      μg salmeterol (SERETIDE® 50/25) :two puffs twice a day from randomisation during 6 months
      using inhalation chamber

      - For children between 12 to 17 years (> or = 12 years) : 125 μg inhaled fluticasone
      propionate and 25 μg salmeterol (SERETIDE® 125/25): two puffs twice a day from randomisation
      during 6 months using inhalation chamber For children between 6 to 11 years (< 12 years):
      placebo of SERETIDE® 50/25 :two puffs twice a day from randomisation during 6 months using
      inhalation chamber For children between 12 to 17 years (> or = 12 years) : placebo of
      SERETIDE® 125/25: two puffs twice a day from randomisation during 6 months using inhalation
      chamber
    
  