
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the efficacy of two different schedules (bolus vs "hybrid bolus-infusion") of
      alvocidib followed by cytarabine and mitoxantrone hydrochloride in patients with newly
      diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with poor-risk features.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the toxicities of these regimens. II. To determine the disease-free survival
      and overall survival of patients who demonstrate a response to these regimens.

      III. To compare the pharmacokinetics of alvocidib when administered in two different
      schedules (bolus vs "hybrid bolus-infusion").

      IV. To describe alvocidib-induced alterations in AML blast cell expression of selected target
      mRNA and proteins.

      V. To describe alvocidib-induced alterations in AML blast cell growth kinetic parameters.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to antecedent
      hematologic disorder of >= 6 months duration prior to transformation to acute myeloid
      leukemia (AML) and any prior antecedent therapy for myelodysplastic syndromes or
      myeloproliferative disorder. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive alvocidib IV over 1 hour on days 1-3, cytarabine IV continuously over
      72 hours on days 6-8, and mitoxantrone hydrochloride IV over 60-120 minutes on day 9.

      ARM II: Patients receive alvocidib IV over 30 minutes followed by alvocidib IV over 4 hours
      on days 1-3. Patients also receive cytarabine and mitoxantrone hydrochloride as in arm I.

      Patients achieving partial or complete response (CR) after the first course of treatment may
      receive a second course of treatment 35-63 days following blood count recovery and/or undergo
      allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. Patients >= 50 years of age with t (8;21), inv (16),
      or t(16;16) AML who achieve CR after the first course of treatment may receive 3-4 courses of
      high-dose cytarabine consolidation therapy.

      Bone marrow and/or blood samples are collected at baseline and periodically during study for
      correlative laboratory studies, including pharmacokinetic studies by liquid chromatography
      and tandem mass spectrometry, analysis of blast cell growth kinetic parameters by flow
      cytometry, and blast cell expression of selected target mRNA and protein by quantitative
      RT-PCR and western blotting.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically.
    
  