
    
      Half of those infected with HIV in the United States are over 50 years of age; this is
      expected to increase to 70% by 2020. Yet, few interventions exist for older people living
      with HIV/AIDS that address psychological symptoms, and none that address physical symptoms,
      both of which are prevalent in this population. There is a need to find innovative and
      accessible interventions that can help older people living with HIV/AIDS to manage their
      symptoms. Mind-body interventions, like Tai chi and Qi gong (TCQ), improves both physical and
      psychological health, and might also promote immune functioning. TCQ is a series of slow,
      low-impact meditative movements that integrates breath work, meditation, and stances. The
      investigators propose the refinement, adaptation, acceptability and feasibility testing of a
      standardized TCQ intervention shown efficacious with cancer patients, to an ethnically
      diverse population of older people living with HIV/AIDS, with the goal of enhancing their
      ability to manage psychological and physical symptoms. Thus, this study proposes three aims:
      (i) to refine and culturally adapt a TCQ intervention protocol for a diverse sample of older
      people living with HIV/AIDS (50 years of age or older); (ii) to evaluate the acceptability
      and feasibility of the TCQ intervention, a sham qigong control condition, and a standard of
      care control condition for older people living with HIV/AIDS (n = 60); and (iii) explore any
      preliminary evidence of efficacy of the TCQ intervention and the control conditions on
      alleviating physical and psychological symptoms. Participants will be recruited from a
      federally qualified health center in Miami, Florida. Adaptation of the TCQ intervention, the
      first aim, will be done through qualitative research. An expert panel discussion, key
      informant interviews, and three focus groups will be conducted, and analyzed by thematically
      based content analysis. To address aims 2 and 3, the investigators will conduct a pilot
      study; participants will be randomized to one of 3 conditions: the TCQ intervention, a sham
      qigong condition, and a standard of care condition. This is a pilot study to assess
      feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary efficacy, therefore, analyses will be primarily
      descriptive. The investigators will assess feasibility and acceptability through
      questionnaires and adherence to TCQ. The investigators will assess preliminary evidence of
      efficacy by looking at instruments that measure depression, anxiety, social support, as well
      as clinical outcomes. These will be described through proportions, means, and changes over
      time through graphing techniques. Outcomes will be assessed at baseline, post-intervention,
      and at three months follow up. The investigators will conduct preliminary models that will
      provide information on estimating effect size and power needed for a larger clinical trial.
    
  