
    
      1. INTRODUCTION

      For some neurological and neurodegenerative diseases genetic inheritance is well documented,
      and guidelins have been improved to ensure a quality diagnostic approach. Unfortunately, this
      scenario is not reproducible for most of the neurological and neurodegenerative disorders,
      also when a strong genetic component is documented. This is due to:

        -  Polygenicity, where different genes can contribute to the same phenotype (eg Spastic
           Paraplegia, associated with over 50 genes)

        -  Multifactorial diseases, genetic can explains only a part of the etiology of the disease
           (such as Parkinson's disease in which the identified genes are responsible for only 15%
           of patients with a clinical diagnosis)

        -  Disorders with well established genetic component, but the responsible genes has not
           been identified.

      Therefore, sometimes it impossible or unlikely to complete a molecular diagnosis for patients
      with a classical or complex phenotypes New technologies such as Next Generation Sequencing
      (NGS), allow the analysis of hundreds of genes in a single experiment. The implementation of
      these technologies will help to identify new genes and new variants associate

      2. DESIGN STUDY

      The goal of this study is to improve the diagnostic approach in molecular genetics through
      NGS. This will allow to characterize genomic variations and new genes responsible for
      neurological and neurodegenerative diseases. In particular, NGS will identify:

      1. New genes associated with diseases characterized by genetic heterogeneity, Mendelian and
      polygenic heredity.

      2. New variations responsible for disease or that can increase genetic susceptibility.

      3. EXPERIMENTAL PHASE (Attachment 1)

        1. Neurology and, if required, Genetic Counseling.

        2. Genetic Counseling identifies the molecular analysis for a specific patient. A blood
           sample of 6 milliliters will be collected after informed consent (informed consent
           Neuromed version 2.12.2015).

        3. Specific guidelines for each test will be followed for the first diagnostic approach.
           Molecular analyses are carried out at the Institute of Molecular Genetics Center IRCCS
           INM Neuromed using Sanger sequencing, multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification
           (MLPA) and microsatellites.

        4. If the specific analysis will not detect the mutations, NGS panel consisting in 4,813
           genes associated with known clinical phenotypes (clinical exome, or Mendeliome) will be
           applied.

      4. MATERIALS AND METHODS

        -  DNA/RNA EXTRACTION Genomic DNA will be isolated from peripheral blood leukocytes
           according to standard procedures. Total RNA will be isolated from cultured cells using
           TRIzol Reagent (Invitrogen, Life Technologies) according to the manufacturer's
           instructions. The concentration and purity of DNA/RNA samples will be determinate using
           Nanodrop 2000 (Thermo Scientific, Life Technologies).

        -  MLPA (Multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification) MLPA (Multiplex
           Ligation-dependent Probe Amplification) is a multiplex PCR method detecting abnormal
           copy numbers of up to 50 different genomic DNA or RNA sequences, which is able to
           distinguish sequences differing in only one nucleotide.

      Typical for MLPA is that it is not target sequences that are amplified, but MLPA probes that
      hybridise to the target sequence. In contrast to a standard multiplex PCR, a single pair PCR
      primers is used for MLPA amplification. The resulting amplification products of a SALSA MLPA
      kits range between 130 and 480 nt in length and can be analysed by capillary electrophoresis.
      Comparing the peak pattern obtained to that of reference samples indicates which sequences
      show aberrant copy numbers.

      The MLPA reaction can be divided in five major steps: 1) DNA denaturation and hybridisation
      of MLPA probes; 2) ligation reaction; 3) PCR reaction; 4) separation of amplification
      products by electrophoresis; and 5) data analysis

      • SEQUENCING

      The DNA sample to be sequenced is combined in a tube with primer, DNA polymerase, and DNA
      nucleotides (dATP, dTTP, dGTP, and dCTP). The four dye-labeled, chain-terminating dideoxy
      nucleotides are added as well, but in much smaller amounts than the ordinary nucleotides.

      The mixture is first heated to denature the template DNA (separate the strands), then cooled
      so that the primer can bind to the single-stranded template. Once the primer has bound, the
      temperature is raised again, allowing DNA polymerase to synthesize new DNA starting from the
      primer. DNA polymerase will continue adding nucleotides to the chain until it happens to add
      a dideoxy nucleotide instead of a normal one. At that point, no further nucleotides can be
      added, so the strand will end with the dideoxy nucleotide.

      This process is repeated in a number of cycles. By the time the cycling is complete, it's
      virtually guaranteed that a dideoxy nucleotide will have been incorporated at every single
      position of the target DNA in at least one reaction. That is, the tube will contain fragments
      of different lengths, ending at each of the nucleotide positions in the original DNA (see
      figure below). The ends of the fragments will be labeled with dyes that indicate their final
      nucleotide. After the reaction is done, the fragments are run through a long, thin tube
      containing a gel matrix in a process called capillary gel electrophoresis. Short fragments
      move quickly through the pores of the gel, while long fragments move more slowly. As each
      fragment crosses the "finish line" at the end of the tube, it's illuminated by a laser,
      allowing the attached dye to be detected.

      The smallest fragment (ending just one nucleotide after the primer) crosses the finish line
      first, followed by the next-smallest fragment (ending two nucleotides after the primer), and
      so forth. Thus, from the colors of dyes registered one after another on the detector, the
      sequence of the original piece of DNA can be built up one nucleotide at a time. The data
      recorded by the detector consist of a series of peaks in fluorescence intensity, as shown in
      the chromatogram above. The DNA sequence is read from the peaks in the chromatogram.

      • MICROSATELLITE Microsatellite analysis includes PCR amplification of the microsatellite
      loci using fluorescently labeled primers (6-FAM, TET, HEX, NED); labeled PCR products are
      then analyzed by capillary electrophoresis (ABI PRISM 310 and 3130 XL Applied Biosystem) (CE)
      or electrophoresis to separate the alleles by size.

      The results were processed using the GENESCAN and GENOTYPER5 programs. Once established the
      values of individual alleles, they were assigned to each individual.

      • NEXT GENERATION SEQUENCING (NGS)

      In principle, the concept behind NGS technology is similar to CE sequencing-DNA polymerase
      catalyzes the incorporation of fluorescently labeled deoxyribonucleotide triphosphates
      (dNTPs) into a DNA template strand during sequential cycles of DNA synthesis. During each
      cycle, at the point of incorporation, the nucleotides are identified by fluorophore
      excitation. The critical difference is that, instead of sequencing a single DNA fragment, NGS
      extends this process across millions of fragments in a massively parallel fashion. Illumina
      sequencing by synthesis (SBS) chemistry is the most widely adopted chemistry in the industry
      and delivers the highest accuracy, the highest yield of error-free reads, and the highest
      percentage of base calls above Q30.6-8 The Illumina NGS workflows include 4 basic steps
      (Figure 3):

      o Library Preparation-The sequencing library is prepared by random fragmentation of the DNA
      or cDNA sample, followed by 5' and 3' adapter ligation. Alternatively, "tagmentation"
      combines the fragmentation and ligation reactions into a single step that greatly increases
      the efficiency of the library preparation process.9 Adapter-ligated fragments are then PCR
      amplified and gel purified.

      o Cluster Generation-For cluster generation, the library is loaded into a flow cell where
      fragments are captured on a lawn of surface-bound oligos complementary to the library
      adapters. Each fragment is then amplified into distinct, clonal clusters through bridge
      amplification. When cluster generation is complete, the templates are ready for sequencing.

      o Sequencing-Illumina technology utilizes a proprietary reversible terminator-based method
      that detects single bases as they are incorporated into DNA template strands. As all 4
      reversible terminator-bound dNTPs are present during each sequencing cycle, natural
      competition minimizes incorporation bias and greatly reduces raw error rates compared to
      other technologies.6, 7 The result is highly accurate base-by-base sequencing that virtually
      eliminates sequence-context-specific errors, even within repetitive sequence regions and
      homopolymers.

      o Data Analysis-During data analysis and alignment, the newly identified sequence reads are
      then aligned to a reference genome. Following alignment, many variations of analysis are
      possible such as single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) or insertion-deletion (indel)
      identification, read counting for RNA methods, phylogenetic or metagenomic analysis, and
      more.

      5. STATISTICS

      In order to determine the pathogenicity of the variants, we will be performed:

        -  Molecular test in proband's family.

        -  In-silico analysis by bioinformatics software (Sift: http://sift.jcvi.org/; PolyPhen:
           http://genetics.bwh.harvard.edu/pph2/).

        -  Frequency analysis in the general population with SNPs Banks (dbSNP: https:
           //www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/projects/SNP/; EXAC: http://exac.broadinstitute.org/)

           6. ETHICAL ASPECTS This study follow the ethical standards of Helsinki Declaration and
           its revisions. The study will be conducted taking into account the regulatory
           requirements and compliance with the law. The informed consent already approved
           previously by the ethics committee.
    
  