
    
      The purpose of this study is to optimize the management of diabetic foot infections. In this
      cost conscious health care environment, we believe that equal outcomes can be obtained
      through more cost effective and efficient means. In order to conduct more definitive studies
      of the role of antibiotic therapy regimens in diabetic foot infections, we first must collect
      pilot data to determine both the feasibility and most appropriate methods (sample size, etc.)
      for designing these larger trials.

      Currently, the best way to manage these infections remains elusive; many studies suggest
      medical management is sufficient with surgical management reserved for failure of medical
      management or aggressive foot infections; however, this approach leads to recurrence and
      delays definitive treatment at a significant increase in costs. Several meta-analysis studies
      have tried to find the best antibiotic regimen; however, due to the vast discrepancies in
      study design and endpoints no conclusive evidence exists for which is the best antibiotic
      regimen in patients treated medically, let alone patients with more complicated disease whom
      require surgical management.

      The Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) guidelines have provided recommendations;
      however, the optimal length is not standardized and to date no studies have looked at the
      best regimen for post-operative management of surgically treated diabetic foot infections and
      whether antibiotics help in the healing process. The IDSA guideline suggest that antibiotics
      are necessary for virtually all infected wounds, but specific guidance for surgically treated
      wounds is lacking.

      This is a randomized, single-blinded study (Infectious disease physicians whom will determine
      long-term treatment will be blinded). Randomization will occur by blocked random allocation
      scheme using randomization software and a block size of 10. The study coordinator will keep
      the randomization schedule/log and inform the surgeon which therapy the patient will receive

        -  Treatment group #1: Surgical intervention, short term course of antibiotics (< 2 week
           post-op)

        -  Treatment group #2: Surgical intervention, long term course of antibiotics (> 2 week
           post-op)
    
  