
    
      Secure wound closure is an essential requirement for an uncomplicated and expedient recovery
      after an abdominal operation. The incidence of dehiscence ranges from 0-6% in different
      patient series and the associated mortality rate ranges from 10-35% [1]. Median laparotomy is
      the most common technique of abdominal incisions because it is simple, provides adequate
      exposure, is rapid to open and usually blood sparing [2]. The two common methods of fascial
      closure are continuous and interrupted with absorbable or non-absorbable suture. There is
      little debate that there is no significant difference between the two types of suture
      material. However, there is an ongoing debate concerning the optimal technique for closure.
      Both closure techniques are considered standard of care at this time.

      The best method of wound closure would be one that provides adequate tensile strength to the
      incision until the wound is healed, approximates the tissue in a way that normal healing
      mechanisms can occur under optimal circumstances, remains secure even in the presence of
      local or systemic infection, the suture material is well tolerated on a short and long term
      basis, and, finally, should be done with expediency.

      Previous randomized controlled trials of abdominal fascial closure have failed to determine
      the best technique and ideal suture [3]. Fagniez et al. randomized 3135 patients to receive
      continuous or interrupted sutures and further stratified them according to the type of wound:
      clean, clean-contaminated, and contaminated. This study looked at all patients, elective and
      emergent, and there was no statistically significant difference in wound dehiscence between
      continuous and interrupted suture technique [4]. A similar conclusion for wound dehiscence
      was shown by Gislason et al. where they compared 599 adults with major GI operation who
      received continuous or interrupted sutures [5]. In another prospective randomized trial, 571
      patients were compared for continuous vs. interrupted sutures; again the dehiscence rate was
      not significant between the two groups [1]. The common denominator in all of these trials was
      the inclusion of all patients, elective as well as emergent, undergoing a laparotomy. None of
      the trials have compared the suture technique for patients requiring emergency laparotomy
      with wound dehiscence as a primary outcome. Results of these studies were often conflicting
      and have left many surgeons uncertain about the ideal technique for abdominal fascial
      closure, leave alone patients undergoing emergency surgery.

      There have been no prospective randomized trials that look at the optimal method of fascial
      closure in high risk patients undergoing laparotomy. Through this research study, the
      investigators aim to determine identify the optimal method of fascial closure (interrupted
      vs. running/continuous suture) of a laparotomy incision in high risk patients for
      intra-abdominal complications
    
  