
    
      This is a single-center open-label, sequential group, investigator blinded study of the CNS
      metabolic effects, safety, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of CNM-Au8 in patients who
      have been diagnosed with relapsing multiple sclerosis (RMS) within fifteen (15) years of
      Screening. Patients will be screened over up to a 6-week period.Patients who meet inclusion
      criteria and none of the exclusion criteria may be enrolled into the clinical study. The
      initial cohort of patients (Cohort 1) will begin treatment at a dose of 15mg or 30mg CNM-Au8.
      Upon completion of the first Treatment Period, dose(s) will be selected for the subsequent
      cohort (Cohort 2), based on the results of the 31P-MRS change versus baseline from the first
      cohort. A total of two treatment cohorts may be studied. Investigators and patients will
      remain blinded to study dose until the study database is formally locked. All patients will
      receive daily oral treatment over twelve (12) consecutive weeks during each cohort's
      Treatment Period.

      There will be three study periods per treatment cohort:

        1. A (6) six week screening period (Screening Period);

        2. A (12) twelve-week treatment period (Treatment Period);

        3. A (6) six-week follow-up period (End-of-Study Assessment).

      Patients will be contacted by phone to assess safety and tolerability at Week 2. At Weeks 4,
      8, and 12 patients will return to the clinic to complete PK, PD, visual acuity testing, and
      safety assessments. At the Baseline and Week 12 visits patients will complete 31P-MRS, MRI,
      and OCT imaging assessments, the 9-Hole Peg Test, Timed 25-Foot Walk Test, Visual Acuity
      (high and low contrast letter/visual acuity) and the Symbol Digit Modalities Test (SDMT).
      Following treatment discontinuation at Week 12, patients will complete an end-of-study (EOS)
      visit at Week 18. All patients who are prematurely discontinued from treatment will complete
      the end-of-study visit 4-weeks after discontinuation.
    
  