
    
      This study will evaluate whether end-of-life simulation training of critical care physicians
      and nurses throughout Israel using standardized patients improves communication and
      interpersonal skills leading to improvements in ICU care process, teamwork and family
      satisfaction.

      Design- Simulation training will include approximately 10-15 staff members from 4-5 ICUs
      during the first 12 months of the study (intervention group) who will be compared using a
      stepped wedge design to staff members from another 4-5 ICUs who will not receive initial
      simulation training (control group) in the first year but will receive training during the
      second year. To evaluate whether the simulation training with simulated standardized patients
      improves ICU professional's communication and interpersonal skills, a baseline evaluation
      before the training and an evaluation after the training will be required. Training using 9
      essential skills for communication and interpersonal relationships that the study Steering
      Committee chose include: How to elicit patient preferences (including patient vs. family
      goals of care)? How does one listen? How to be more compassionate, show empathy and respect
      (including how to address emotions)? How to handle unrealistic patient/family expectations
      (including a family requesting "that everything be done")? How to handle prognostic
      uncertainty? How to handle decision making? How to handle conflicts between siblings or
      within the team? Physicians and nurses working together, and Becoming knowledgeable and
      understanding the Israeli Terminally Ill Law.

      Simulation sessions- The simulation sessions include 6 scenarios. The simulation training is
      composed of several teaching sessions interspersed between clinical scenarios with simulated
      standardized patients (actors) performed with the ICU doctors and nurses and several
      subsequent debriefing sessions. The entire interchange between the trainee(s) and actor is
      video-taped for educational purposes and used in the subsequent debriefing.

      Evaluations-

        1. Baseline evaluation will consist of a questionnaire for self-evaluation, ICU process,
           teamwork and family satisfaction and performance testing using a simulation evaluation
           of the 9 skills before the teaching and training session. The trainee questionnaire will
           include demographic information including age, gender, country of birth, profession,
           education, years practicing, hospital type (private, governmental, health fund), number
           of ICU beds, religion, religiosity, previous experiences with death and the Israeli
           Terminally Ill Law. The simulation evaluation will access level of knowledge, skills and
           attitude. The baseline questionnaire will be administered on the morning of the
           simulation training or prior to that date if possible before the training begins. The
           questionnaires will be for the baseline and repeat questionnaires 3-6 and 12 months
           after the training in their units or by mail. The control group will receive their
           questionnaires (for the baseline questionnaire and the repeat questionnaire 3-6 and 12
           months later) during the first year of the study (before the second year when their
           simulation training occurs) in their ICUs or by mail.

           As this is a National Project and we hope to train most ICU doctors and nurses in Israel
           over the next several years, we will try to obtain baseline data for ICU professionals
           around the country. The Israeli Society of Critical Care Medicine has agreed to
           participate in this study. Therefore, we will also be obtaining baseline information
           from all ICUs - those included and not included in the study. ICU doctors and nurses
           will also answer the doctor-nurse questionnaire in their ICU or by mail. It will be
           important to see if there are any differences between units in the study or not. It also
           will be important to repeat the questionnaires in ICUs not in the study after 1-2 years.

        2. Post- training questionnaires- immediately after the simulation training and 3-6 and 12
           months later for the self-assessment questionnaire and 3-6 and 12 months later for the
           ICU process, teamwork and family satisfaction questionnaires. The control group will
           also have post-training questionnaires, ICU process and teamwork evaluations 3-6 and 12
           months after the first assessment during the first 12 months of the study period. It is
           important to evaluate whether the training intervention affects a change for a short
           period (3-6 months) or a more prolonged period (12 months). Potential variables for
           questionnaires include:

      ICU process questionnaires- terminal illnesses as defined by the Law, advanced directives or
      durable power of attorney, designated surrogates, physician or nurse asked about patient
      preferences, documentation patient and/or surrogate preferences, documented family
      conferences, receiving CPR, ventilation, vasopressors or dialysis, deaths preceded by DNRs,
      limitations of life-sustaining treatments or CPR, time from ICU admission to first discussion
      about limitations, to DNR and to death, time from first discussion about limitations until
      death; teamwork questionnaires- will include nurse initiated discussions with doctors, nurse
      initiated discussions with families for patient/family preferences, unrealistic family
      expectations, family conflicts, inappropriateness of care, decisions shared by nurses and
      physicians, nurse involvement in EOL decisions and work autonomy;

      family satisfaction questionnaires- will be completed by family members of ICU patients 2-4
      months after the patient dies or is discharged from the ICU. They include completeness of
      information, listening, trust, respect, asking patient preferences and family opinions,
      inclusion in decision making, quality and frequency of communication, adequate time for
      asking questions, express your fears and emotions, emotional support, compassion shown to
      family, support family decisions, consideration of family needs, achieving appropriate level
      of care and perceptions of the quality of palliative care and quality of death and dying.

      Sample size justification and statistical analyses- The power analysis shown below is not for
      limiting sample size to the smallest required to prove or disprove the hypothetical
      effectiveness of an intervention, rather to estimate our chance of reproducing a significant
      improvement with the sample size suggested by a limited budget and trying to best learn from
      the process. Power analyses will be performed using PowerAndPrecision (version 4.1) using one
      tail and alpha set at 0.05. The following are examples of questions that are likely to be
      answered with current stepped wedge design where each cluster of units will have 30 to 40
      team members:

        1. knowledge of teams regarding the obligation by current law to provide support to
           families of dying patients- Current surveys show that only 50% of teams are aware of
           this legal obligation and that this clearly improves after the workshop. A power
           analysis shows that with an n=30 in each group (control and intervention) we will have a
           91% chance of showing an increase from 50% to 85% (Chi square or Fisher's exact tests).

        2. skill for listening- If at baseline, the capacity to listen is rated by self-assessment
           at 3.5 on a Likert scale of 1-5, power analysis shows that with n=40 in each group
           (control and intervention), we will have a 84% chance of showing a statistical
           significant increase to 4.1 (nearly 20%) by the workshop (t-test).

      We will compare the change in basic skills (self-assessment questionnaires and performance
      testing), ICU processes, teamwork of care and family satisfaction from the baseline period to
      the post-training periods which will serve as the primary outcome of this study. Professional
      demographic and organizational variables will be correlated with the actual improved skill
      performance, ICU processes of care, teamwork and family satisfaction using a multivariate
      analysis to determine the important variables leading to change. The variables that will be
      assessed include: age, gender, profession, country trained, years practicing, religion,
      religiosity, previous experiences with death, large or small ICU (< 10 vs. >10 beds) and
      hospital type (private, governmental, health fund).
    
  