
    
      Proposed activities:

      The primary objective of this study are to assess the clinical features of patients with
      scrub or murine typhus infections presenting to CMCH. The proportion of cases screened for
      malaria and typhus who are diagnosed with scrub and murine typhus during the study period
      will be calculated, and the data made available for future empiric treatment guideline
      preparation.

      Rapid antibody-based tests for scrub typhus and murine typhus will be made available for
      physicians to request alongside malaria testing in CMCH. Consenting febrile patients admitted
      to CMCH will be enrolled and history and clinical examination recorded. A sample will be
      taken for reference diagnostic testing at a later stage (including indirect fluorescent
      antibody (IFA) and real time PCR for scrub typhus and Rickettsia spp.)16. Samples will also
      be taken for testing of markers of pathophysiology (endothelial dysfunction neutrophil
      activation, cell death, cytokines). Where an eschar is found, the scab will be removed for
      real time-PCR. Where possible, patients will be invited back for a follow up 14 days after
      enrolment and a sample collected for paired serology assayed by IFA testing. Ultrasound based
      hemodynamic assessment will be performed to assess volume status and evidence of cardiac
      dysfunction.

      The results of the ultrasound based hemodynamic assessment will be used to provide baseline
      information on patients with O. tsutsugamushi and Rickettsia spp. infection and other
      infections. This information may be used to plan further studies on the fluid management of
      these conditions.

      Study design:

      This is an observational study with no intervention. Febrile patients admitted to CMCH who
      have had malaria film and scrub typhus and murine typhus rapid test will be screened for
      enrolment. If patients meet the entry criteria, they will be enrolled after written informed
      consent has been given. Enrolled patients will then undergo study procedures (blood tests,
      physical examinations, follow-up).

      Overall Description of study Participants:

      The target population of this study is consenting adult patients who have had malaria and
      typhus rapid tests meeting the eligibility criteria admitted in CMCH. All study patients must
      meet the applicable inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      During the study period, we aim to prospectively recruit consecutive patients until 300
      patients are enrolled for whom there are paired admission and convalescent samples.

      Data obtained from the malaria patients and patients without malaria or typhus will be used
      as comparator groups for the patients with typhus. The data from the 300 consecutive patients
      will be used to prospectively assess the sensitivity and specificity of the typhus diagnostic
      tests.

      In addition, 30 healthy subjects with no recent history of fever will be recruited to provide
      control samples for the blood and plasma assays.

      The total sample size is therefore estimated to be 330 (300 with paired serology and 30
      healthy subjects).
    
  