
    
      Reducing medical malpractice in ambulatory care represents a priority area that has been
      relatively neglected in the face of more dramatic and costly inpatient errors. Given shifts
      in care, increasing stresses on office practices, growing evidence of unreliable office
      processes, and recent experience of our malpractice insurance carriers, neither complacency
      nor resignation to the problems of ensuring safe patient-centered office care can be
      justified. Working with the two leading malpractice insurers in Massachusetts, we have
      assembled a consortium to improve patient safety and decrease malpractice risk in ambulatory
      practice-the Proactive Reduction in Outpatient Malpractice: Improving Safety, Efficiency and
      Satisfaction (PROMISES) project. We work with leading quality improvement and safety experts
      to employ state-of-the art approaches and tools to achieve breakthrough changes in
      demonstration practices. The project has the following three specific aims:

      AIM 1. Apply evidence from malpractice claims to identify key failure modes contributing to
      ambulatory medical errors and malpractice suits in order to redesign systems and care
      processes to prevent, minimize, and mitigate such errors in a group of Massachusetts primary
      care practices. We will target problem-prone processes in 3 areas of identified risk: 1)
      medication management, 2) test ordering and results management 3) follow-up and referral
      management.

      AIM 2. Transform communication culture, processes and outcomes in demonstration practices to
      become more patient and family-centered, particularly around proactively seeking out,
      hearing, handling, and learning from patients' safety experiences, concerns and complaints.

      AIM 3. In conjunction with key Massachusetts policy leaders, liability insurers, clinical,
      academic, quality improvement and consumer organizations, we will evaluate and disseminate
      the lessons learned and share successful intervention tools and strategies statewide with a
      broader audience of practices, practitioners, payers, and policy makers. The intervention
      would be designed as a randomized control trial comparing 16 demonstration practices with 9
      control practices, each with 2-5 primary care providers recruited by the malpractice
      insurers. We will measure the effects of the improvement efforts using rigorous quantitative
      and qualitative data from staff interviews, patient surveys and chart review. We will then
      spread the successful tools, improvements, and lessons statewide.
    
  