
    
      The overall goal of this project is improve access to and engagement in quality care for
      military service personnel and Veterans suffering with posttraumatic stress (PTS). Veterans
      who have PTS symptoms after military service are often resistant to referrals to mental
      health care because of the warrior culture of stoicism coupled with the stigma of seeking
      mental health care. Also, Veterans living in rural or remote areas may not have access to
      trained mental health professionals. Thus, Veterans often present to their primary care
      providers with symptoms of PTS and related physical problems. Unfortunately, most primary
      care providers have not been trained to care for Veterans with PTS or communicate with them
      in ways that motivate them to engage in care. This can result in missed opportunities to
      intervene to prevent what may become chronic mental and physical health problems in the
      future, which affect not only the warfighter, but also their families, partners and children.

      In a prior project funded by the Department of Defense (DoD), study investigators created and
      tested a web-based training program to teach primary care providers about how to assess for
      and manage PTS which proved successful in a small pilot study. Nevertheless, primary care
      providers who participated in the training reported that the training was not interactive and
      engaging enough and about 30% did not complete it. Moreover, the pilot study did not use gold
      standard methods to measure study outcomes and because project stakeholders, namely the
      Veterans Administration (VA) and the DoD, did not participate in the development of the
      training, investigators were not able to easily implement and disseminate it to primary care
      clinicians who work in these healthcare systems.

      Virtual World technology is a three-dimensional immersive and highly interactive online
      experience in which users enter virtual environments as self-styled representations of
      themselves, known as avatars. Virtual Worlds are used in some of the most popular and
      engaging commercially-available video games. Virtual World technology is also increasingly
      being used for educational activities, particularly in learning about mental health problems
      and communication techniques. This is because experiences like mental health symptoms such as
      re-experiencing or intrusive thoughts (flashbacks) can be simulated, and participants (as
      avatars) can practice and receive feedback on new communication skills without feeling
      self-conscious. Learners can also practice motivational interviewing techniques such as using
      a stylized virtual scale to literally weigh the pros and cons (represented as blocks) of a
      particular behavior change. These interactive activities afforded by Virtual World technology
      can be used to make the learning experience far more memorable and enduring.

      In this study, investigators propose to design, test and prepare to implement a Virtual World
      PTS and Motivational Interviewing training by taking the following steps: (1) partner with
      stakeholders to iteratively design the training so that is responsive to stakeholder needs
      and takes full advantage of the affordances of Virtual World technology to enhance training
      interactivity, effectiveness, and durability, (2) add a more robust evaluation component,
      including a randomized control trial with stronger provider and patient outcomes to achieve
      more valid results, and (3) summarize findings and prepare for implementation and
      dissemination of the new training by soliciting feedback from primary care providers who
      participated in the training and from original project stakeholders.
    
  