
    
      -  The aim of this double-blind randomized control trial was to evaluate the efficacy of
           occlusal stabilization appliance associated to counseling in the management of
           myofascial pain chronic and in the improvement of the quality of life of patients with
           temporomandibular disorders (TMD).

        -  In order to reduce the likelihood of systematic errors and allow the use of statistical
           tests is used randomization processes or randomization of the volunteers in the
           different groups from a sequence generated by a specific program (Randomization.com),
           and the principal investigator masked for this division. For this, a second researcher,
           appointed to undertake the division of patients into groups that maintain confidential
           information from groups and their participants, revealing only the researcher therapist
           at the time of first therapy session. The number of individuals randomized to the
           experimental group will be equal to the control group.

             1. Study Group Intervention The reversible occlusal therapy by stabilizing appliance
                used by patients in Study Group shall be made by the same dental technician and
                will be adjusted by the same dentist, therapist represented by the researcher. Will
                be played simultaneous occlusal contacts in centric relation position and
                malocclusion by canine and protrusive guides. The patients will be assessed at
                weekly intervals (between the query and the following board installation) and then
                biweekly during the period of 90 days. There shall be a gradual reduction in the
                daily use of the plate, and the first two weeks the device is indicated for 24
                hours a day, being removed only for eating and cleaning. At each visit clinical
                follow-up, shall be established a gradual reduction in the time of use so that the
                last three weeks of treatment are achieved 8h/day use.

             2. Control Group Intervention The non-occlusive splint (placebo) will also be made by
                the same dental technician. They differ by the plates did not interfere with the
                occlusal tooth gear, i.e., do not alter the position of closing jaws. As not lead
                acrylic on the occlusal surfaces of teeth, adequate retention is given by an arch
                wire in orthodontic buccal surface of teeth. They are adjusted based on the
                verification of the occlusion, so that the card does not interfere with movements
                or maximum intercuspation excursive lateral and protrusion, so that only the
                patient's teeth come into contact, without interference from the resin and the
                acrylic staple . The assessment of these patients occur at the same intervals
                recommended for patients in the experimental group being established on the same
                treatment protocol with respect to the daily use of the plate.

        -  In this study, all patients (study and control group) will undergo a counseling
           approach/self-care. Patients receive oral and written instructions about self-care,
           including, in addition to instructions on their condition of TMD and an explanation of
           the possible factors that contribute to the etiology of the same. The program also
           includes self-care guidelines on the use of moist heat or ice, use of soft diet,
           reduction of parafunctional habits (such as clenching and grinding your teeth or chewing
           gum), holding the rest of the postural position of the jaw (teeth apart , lips and
           tongue touching slightly pushing the front teeth), performing simultaneous bilateral
           chewing and modify posture to sleep. This approach will be reinforced verbally at each
           subsequent session.
    
  