
    
      Interventions Interpersonal Psychotherapy (IPT; Klerman et. al., 1984) is an evidence-based,
      time-limited treatment originally developed for treating Major Depressive Disorder, although
      it has been extended and developed for Bulimia Nervosa and recently also for Post-Traumatic
      Stress Disorder. The treatment is structured and focuses on relieving depressive symptoms by
      targeting interpersonal problems in the patients' current life situation. In the first four
      sessions an interpersonal problem area is identified that is asssumed to maintain the
      patient's depression and this problem is agreed upon as a therapy focus. Four types of focus
      areas are used in IPT: grief, role transitions, conflicts, and interpersonal deficits. In the
      middle phase of therapy the agreed upon focus area is worked with in a problem-solving
      fashion, and the patient is also encouraged to seek interpersonal support from his or her
      environment. IPT has been established as an evidence-based treatment for Major Depression
      (Roth & Fonagy, 2005), and a recent meta-analysis concluded that it was slightly superior to
      other established treatments for MDD including Cognitive Behavior Therapy (Cuijpers, van
      Straaten, Andersson & van Oppen, 2008).

      Brief Relational Therapy (BRT; Safran & Muran, 2000) is a relatively new version of
      Short-Term Psychodynamic Psychotherapy, based on relational psychoanalytic theory in
      combination with research on processes of rupture and repair of the therapeutic alliance. The
      therapeutic alliance, operationalized as the positive bond between patient and therapist in
      combination with agreement on tasks and goals of treatment, is the single most robust
      predictor of good outcome in psychotherapy research (Lambert & Ogles, 2004). BRT was
      developed to help patients who had previously failed in psychotherapeutic treatment(s),
      presumably because of trouble in establishing a working therapeutic alliance with their
      therapist(s). Therapists are trained to be highly attentive to the therapeutic relationship
      and to signs of ruptures in the alliance, and to use self-disclosure and meta-communication
      about ruptures in order to repair the therapy alliance and at the same time help patients to
      develop a generalized capacity for observing self and others (mentalization). BRT has shown
      preliminary evidence for efficacy with patients who are at risk of negative outcome in
      psychotherapy (Safran, Muran, Samstag & Winston, 2005) and with patients diagnosed with
      DSM-IV axis II personality disorders (Muran, Safran, Samstag & Winston, 2005). A specific
      manual for BRT in Major Depressive Disorder is currently under development (Holmqvist, in
      preparation).

      Both treatments consist of 16 therapy sessions which are all video-taped for adherence
      checks. The same therapists will provide both treatments, in randomized order.

      Objectives The objectives of the study are to compare the new treatment BRT with the
      established treatment IPT in the alleviation of Major Depressive Disorder. The hypothesis of
      the trial is that BRT will be superior for patients who have more difficulty establishing a
      therapeutic alliance, while IPT will be superior for patients with less difficulty
      establishing a therapeutic alliance. Previous research indicates that baseline self-critical
      perfectionism negatively predicts outcome in IPT as well as several other brief
      psychotherapeutic treatments for depression, and that this is because self-critical
      perfectionism will cause problems in the therapeutic alliance (Luyten, Corveleyn & Blatt,
      2005). The primary hypothesis is thus that baseline self-cricial perfectionism moderates the
      relationship between treatment and outcome. Secondary exploratory objectives are to conduct
      in depth process research on the mechanisms of change in these treatments, as well as
      interaction effects between treatment modality and other patient characteristics.
    
  