
    
      Approximately 10-15% of deliveries are complicated by the passage of meconium around the time
      of delivery.An adverse intrauterine environment with resultant fetal asphyxia is proposed as
      the most common explanation for in-utero passage of meconium.

      Aspiration of meconium into the tracheo-bronchial tree with the onset of respiration results
      in meconium aspiration syndrome (MAS). MAS is defined as respiratory distress in an infant
      born through MSAF with compatible chest x-ray findings whose symptoms cannot be otherwise
      explained.

      Despite current interventions such as intubation and tracheal suction, it is estimated that
      5-20 % of infants born through MSAF develop MAS. It represents a leading cause of perinatal
      morbidity. Approximately 50% of the infants with MAS require mechanical ventilation; 15%-30%
      develop pulmonary air leaks and 5%-12% die.

      There are various proposed mechanisms by which meconium causes lung injury, some of the
      important ones being

        -  Mechanical obstruction of airways

        -  Chemical pneumonitis

        -  Vasoconstriction of pulmonary vessels

        -  Inactivation of surfactant

        -  Activation of compliment

      Finding of meconium below cords or in the trachea has been shown to be associated with
      development of MAS. This resulted in use of endotracheal suction along with
      oro-nasopharyngeal suctioning in all infants born to mothers with MSAF prior to the year
      2000.

      Although, a number of studies performed did not show reduction in incidence of MAS and/or
      mortality even after performing oro-nasopharyngeal and endotracheal suction, the practice was
      continued due to lack of robust evidence.

      Subsequently, as a result of well performed randomized controlled trials and systematic
      review showing no effect of oro-nasopharyngeal suctioning on occurrence of MAS, this practice
      has been abandoned since the year 2005.

      ET suction is currently performed in depressed meconium stained neonates with the idea of
      removing meconium from the upper airways to relieve mechanical obstruction and to prevent
      subsequent development of chemical pneumonitis.

      Since meconium aspiration can occur in-utero as well and with time the aspirated meconium
      migrates peripherally, the effectiveness of ET suction post-delivery in clearing the airway
      is not clear. Furthermore, accumulating evidence points to potential role of
      hypoxia-asphyxia-acidosis with concomitant presence of meconium in the pathogenesis of lung
      disease.

      Current practice of Endotracheal suctioning in non-vigorous babies has not been
      systematically evaluated, till date. No studies have compared the incidence, severity and
      outcomes of MAS in 'suctioned versus non-suctioned' non vigorous meconium stained neonates.
      In addition, the procedure needs expertise to be completed in the stipulated time and has
      potential for complications like vocal cord injury, laryngeal edema, bleeding from upper
      airway secondary to trauma during the procedure and persistent hoarseness of voice even at
      six months of age. The rate of complications is more when performed by people with lesser
      expertise as this is a difficult skill to learn and master.

      In view of the foregoing the contribution of endotracheal suction in preventing MAS and its
      effect on severity of lung disease is not clear. Thus this study is an attempt to evaluate
      the role of endotracheal suction in non-vigorous meconium stained neonates.
    
  