
    
      The pragmatic trial will take place at 6 Family Health Teams (FHTs) to a maximum of 16 FHTs
      in Ontario utilizing a stepped-wedge randomized method with an embedded case study of
      implementation at four sites. The research team will observe provider-patient goal-setting
      visits at the time of onboarding onto the intervention. Additional consent will be obtained
      from the patient and provider prior to initiating the observational visit. In addition, the
      research team will attend FHT rounds at the identified case study sites (when appropriate) to
      observe and document how providers discuss and set goals in an interdisciplinary team
      environment. Using a stepped-wedge design, each FHT will receive the ePRO tool (intervention)
      but will be randomized on when in the stepped-wedge design they will receive the
      intervention. The stepped-wedge randomization will assign (through number generator or coin
      flip) each of the FHTs to either a: 1) 3 month control period and a 12 month intervention
      period, or 2) 6 month control period and a 9 month intervention period; and their respective
      participants will be assigned accordingly.

      Providers and patients recruited at all sites will receive training on how to use the ePRO
      tool prior to the start of the trial. During the intervention period, patients will receive
      one-on-one training with a research assistant; and provider training will occur in a group
      setting. Training will be led by a member of the research team and will take between 30-60
      minutes. Patients and providers will also be provided with a manual and training video on how
      to use the tool and portal, and the patients will be offered refresher sessions (individual
      or group) every 3 months over the duration of the study.

      Following consent, all patients will complete pre and post surveys every 3 months (through
      control and intervention periods). Patients will also complete an additional survey at study
      closeout to capture tool usability feedback. We anticipate survey completion to take 20-35
      minutes.

      Additionally, patients are requested to attend a minimum of two schedule appointments with
      their provider during the study. The first (on-boarding) visit will have the patient and
      provider collaboratively discuss and set monitoring protocols for tracking. The second
      (off-boarding) visit, following the monitoring period, will allow patients and providers to
      privately discuss their experience with the ePRO tool, before participating in their
      respective focus group or interview. As was the case in our usability pilot and exploratory
      trial, we anticipate that patients will have additional appointments with their providers
      during the study at which point they can use the tool to discuss patient progress towards
      goals. All patients are requested to attend 4-5 scheduled appointments with their provider
      during the study. In accordance to earlier study phases on-boarding and off-boarding visits
      typically take 30 minutes. Other scheduled visits take between 10-30 minutes depending on the
      type of visit and provider they are seeing.

      Embedded within the pragmatic trial will be case studies of 4 intervention sites. Provider
      and patient participants at case sites will participate in mid and post-intervention period
      semi-structured interviews to capture implementation enables and barriers. To adequately
      capture organizational level barriers and enablers we will additionally conduct
      semi-structured interviews with organizational leaders (executive directors and/or clinical
      leads). We will also collect relevant documents from all sites (i.e. organizational policies
      regarding the use of mobile applications or provider trainings and manuals in using
      technology as part of usual care).

      This described stepped-wedge design is an update from the initially conceived pragmatic
      cluster trial of 22 sites. This shift was necessary due to site recruitment challenges
      experienced, in particular that sites did not want to be recruited to the study unless they
      could use the technology. As such a stepped-wedge trial was deemed more appropriate. With
      this new design the updated power calculation for the study indicated a new target of 176
      patients across sites whereas the initial calculation was for 660.

      Stepped-wedge sample size calculation:

      Minimum sample size required for the recruitment of sites and patients was determined using
      closed-form analytical formulae with a power of 80% based on: a minimal clinically important
      difference of our core measure of quality of life (the AQoL-4D) of 0.06, an expected standard
      deviation in AQoL of 0.22, an expected ICC of 0.01 (calculated based on total primary care
      utilization over a one year period among a 10% sample of the Ontario population, which served
      here as a proxy measure for patient outcomes), and an expected attrition rate of 10% (rated
      based on previous studies in similar population groups using similar technology). A minimum
      sample size of 176 patients was calculated.
    
  