
    
      Displaced femoral neck fractures are one group of hip fracture patients that are commonly
      treated with cemented hemiarthroplasty (HA) or total hip arthroplasty (THA). Compared to
      those who receive a THA, recipients of HA tend to be less active, more debilitated, and more
      dependent on gait aids and the care of others. In this population, the increased stability
      and decreased operating time associated with HA is thought to be more important than the
      minimal increase in function this population could achieve with THA. Additionally, cemented
      femoral stems in HA are thought to result in less pain, increased function, and less
      periprosthetic fracture risk when compared to cementless stems.

      With the relative pre-injury debility of the femoral neck fracture population, especially
      those receiving HA, it is important to optimize all aspects of patient care to allow them to
      participate in therapy and return them to their preoperative functional level as quickly as
      possible. Furthermore, any intervention in this population should minimize the physiologic
      insult of surgery as much as possible. In the elective hip arthroplasty population, the
      direct anterior approach (DAA) has shown to be effective in helping patients to quickly
      obtain high postoperative function. This approach has also been shown to be effective in
      arthroplasty for displaced femoral neck fractures in a few studies. However, the only studies
      that directly compare two approaches for hip arthroplasty for femoral neck fractures utilize
      the anterolateral approach (ALA) versus posterior approach (PA) or DAA versus PA. No studies
      of which we are aware directly compare the DAA to the ALA. The DAA and ALA are the two most
      popular approaches for bipolar hemiarthroplasty at our institution, so investigators are
      setting out to determine the differences between them.
    
  