
    
      Main endpoints:

      Primary:

      -Proportion of women with undetectable HIV-1 plasma viral load at delivery

      Secondary:

        -  Proportion of women switching therapy up to delivery

        -  Frequency of adverse events, regardless its relationship to the ARV drugs, for mothers
           and babies Frequency of MTCT

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Confirmed HIV infection

        -  No previous exposure to ARV drugs

        -  Plasma viral load ≥1,000 copies/ml

        -  Gestational age ≥ 14 and ≤ 28 weeks (checked by ultrasound)

        -  Age ≥ 15 years Exclusion criteria

        -  Presence of genotypic resistance mutations for 3TC or DTG

        -  Presence of active Hepatitis C

        -  Hepatitis B infection (a positive test for HBcore or HBsurface antibodies)

        -  Anemia (haemoglobin less than 8 g/dL);

        -  Need to use concomitant drugs with potentially relevant DDI, which require DTG dose
           adjustment (e.g., rifampin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital,phenytoin)

        -  Elevations in serum levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) greater than 5 times the
           upper limit of normal (ULN) or ALT >3xULN and bilirubin >1.5ULN (with >35% direct
           bilirubin);

        -  A history or clinical suspicion of unstable liver disease (as defined by the presence of
           ascites, encephalopathy, coagulopathy, hyperbilirubinaemia, oesophageal or gastric
           varices or persistent jaundice);

        -  Subjects with severe hepatic impairment (Class C) as determined by Child-Pugh
           classification

        -  Presence of severe pre-eclampsia, or other pregnancy related events such as renal or
           liver abnormalities (grade 2 or above proteinuria, elevation in serum creatinine CrCl<50
           ml/min), total bilirubin, ALT or AST); After providing a written informed consent the
           woman will be prescribed a 2D regimen (3TC+DTG). They will be evaluated at baseline, and
           every 4 weeks, up to delivery.

      Baseline Screening All consenting participants will have the following information and
      measurements collected at baseline.

        -  Demographics, including education.

        -  Documentation of HIV infection.

        -  CD4+ cell count and CD4%: one measurement within 60 days before inclusion.

        -  Targeted health history including date of first diagnosis of HIV infection, likely mode
           of HIV infection, history of non-AIDS events, history of sexually transmitted diseases
           (STIs) and gestational age.

        -  Brief clinical evaluation including weight, height, sitting blood pressure, pulse, and
           smoking status.

        -  Nadir CD4+ cell count and CD4% and maximum HIV RNA level available in the medical record
           from any time in the past.

        -  Findings from previous genotypic or other form of HIV resistance testing (such as
           virtual phenotype and/or phenotypic resistance testing), if performed and available.

        -  Concomitant medications, including any herbal/traditional remedies.

        -  Use of alcohol and recreational drugs.

        -  HIV transmission risk behavior assessment.

        -  HIV RNA measurement within the 4 previous weeks.

      Additional laboratory assessments (participants should be asked to abstain from food, except
      water, for at least 8 hours prior to providing blood for glucose and lipid measurements):

        -  Complete blood count (CBC): hemoglobin, hematocrit, white blood cell count (WBC) with
           differential and platelets.

        -  CD8+ T-cell count and CD8%.

        -  Renal function: serum creatinine to estimate GFR.

        -  Liver function: alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST),
           alkaline phosphatase, total bilirubin and albumin.

        -  Glucose and glycosylated Hb

        -  Lipids: total cholesterol, low density lipoprotein (LDL), high density lipoprotein
           (HDL), triglycerides.

        -  Dipstick urinalysis for measurement of protein.

        -  Documentation of hepatitis B and C status: hepatitis B surface antigen, core antibody
           and surface antibody; hepatitis C antibody and, if available, genotype and viral load.
           Documented positive tests at any time in the past or documented negative tests in the 6
           months before study entry may be used.

        -  HIV resistance testing Besides the routine medical evaluation they will be asked to
           provide a blood sample at every medical visit (every 4 weeks) to assess WBC, platelets
           count, hemoglobin, creatinine, liver enzymes, and fasting glucose / lipids. HIV-1 plasma
           viral load will also be assessed at the same time intervals. CD4/CD8+ cells count will
           be measured at baseline and after 24 and 36 weeks of gestation, or more frequently, at
           medical discretion.

      According to the Brazilian MOH recommendations, babies will receive oral AZT for 4 weeks, if
      their mothers had a documented HIV RNA plasma viral load <1,000 copies/ml, in the third
      trimester of gestation. For those born from mothers presenting higher viral load, nevirapine
      will be added for the same period of time. In addition, they will be evaluated at delivery,
      after 2 and 6 weeks after the end of prophylaxis for HIV viral load measurements. Blood
      chemistry and hematology will be assessed 2 weeks after prophylaxis.16,17

      Stopping criteria:

      Participants will be excluded from study if the following conditions are met:

      a) HIV-1 plasma viral load decay < 1 log compared with baseline values after 4 weeks of
      therapy, OR b) HIV-1 plasma viral load ≥ 1,000 copies/mL after 8 weeks of therapy Women will
      be recruited in a stepwise approach. Initially, 10 participants will be included, and
      followed up to the end of pregnancy. An interim analysis will evaluate the efficacy of the 2D
      ART regimen after the first 10 patients given birth. The study will be interrupted if 3
      participants meet stopping criteria.

      The second phase will start only if the number of women achieving the stopping criteria is ≤
      3 at completion of follow up for the first 10 participants, and will include 10 additional
      participants.

      The study will have an estimated recruitment period of 4 months plus a maximum 6 months of
      follow up for the last enrolled patient, for each phase. Taken together, the first and second
      phases will require 20 months for enrollment and follow up. An interim analysis following the
      first phase will take one month, and the final analysis / writing reports is planned to last
      3 months. Thus, the total duration of the study will be 24 months.
    
  