
    
      This is a non-blinded, randomized controlled trial. The clinical trial will investigate
      whether a telephone call by the investigator one week prior to urodynamic testing (UDT) will
      decrease patient pre-procedure anxiety, improve patient-reported preparedness and increase
      satisfaction compared to usual care. Patients who are scheduled for UDT will be informed
      about the study. If the patient agrees to participate in the study, she will be randomized to
      one of 2 groups based on the week of her scheduled UDT.

      Group 1: Standard counseling. This group will receive the standard counseling that all Boston
      Urogynecology Associates (BUA) patients would receive if they are scheduled to have
      urodynamic testing. This counseling will include a description of the procedure and a handout
      about urodynamic testing. On the day of their test the participants will be asked to complete
      a brief survey about their experience before and after their testing. The investigators will
      also collect some information from their medical record, such as age and prior urogynecologic
      procedures.

      Group 2: Standard counseling plus the intervention. The participants assigned to be in the
      intervention group will receive the standard counseling that all BUA patients who are
      scheduled for urodynamic testing receive (just like those who are assigned to group 1). This
      counseling includes a description of the procedure and a handout about urodynamic testing. In
      addition, the participants will receive a phone call from the investigators 1 week before
      their testing to talk about the procedure. The investigator calling the participant will
      document the duration of the phone call and any questions asked by the participant. On the
      day of their test the participants will be asked to complete the same surveys as group 1.

      Surveys given to the participants on the day of their UDT appointment will include:

        1. A pre-UDT questionnaire that includes questions on demographics, overall anxiety,
           anxiety about specific elements of procedure, self-reported preparedness and
           satisfaction.

        2. A brief post-UDT questionnaire addressing test experience and pain.
    
  