
    
      Background:

      Pulmonary rehabilitation is a key element in treatment of stable COPD. A Cochrane review from
      2011 showed that early pulmonary rehabilitation for COPD exacerbation 6-10 days after
      discharge, or during prolonged hospitalization significantly reduced mortality and
      hospitalizations without serious side effects. It consist of 9 small studies and larger RCT
      studies is required to establish the effect of early pulmonary rehabilitation.

      AIM: The aim of the study is to investigate whether early pulmonary rehabilitation can reduce
      mortality og hospitalization in patients with acute exacerbation of COPD. Secondary increase
      exercise capacity, reduce symptoms and improve quality of life.

      Methods:

      Design: The study is a single center randomized, controlled, open label trial, with an
      intervention group and a control group. The patients are randomized to either a prespecified
      rehabilitation program, which is standardized to patients with COPD, or usual care. The
      patients' data are being recorded at baseline and visits at 2 and 6 months: Lung function
      (FEV1, FVC), CO in exhaled air, O2 saturation in the blood (and possibly O2 supplement),
      Heart Rate, Dyspnoea (Borg scale and Medical Research Council (MRC scale)), Quality of life
      (CAT), Walk Test (ISWT and ESWT), Daily medication, Outdoor activity. Information on
      mortality, hospital admissions, emergency room visits after 6 and 12 months is obtained from
      relevant databases.

      Population: Patients Hospitalized with an exacerbation of COPD to the department of
      respiratory medicine at Gentofte Hospital. The inclusion criteria are: A diagnose of COPD,
      Age >18, expected discharge to own homes, can walk 10 meters independently (with or without a
      walking aid). Exclusion criteria are: Life expectancy <6 months due to another illness
      (cancer, severe heart disease, etc.), difficulties in understanding and speaking Danish (e.g.
      due to dementia), place of residence outside Gentofte Hospital admission area.

      Randomization: A total of 150 COPD patients will be included. The participants are randomized
      to early rehabilitation or usual care in a 1:1 ratio, using a computer-generated
      block-randomization for each center. The participant is presented with a sealed envelope
      containing a piece of paper with either "A" (= REHAB) or "B" (= usual care). The
      randomization list is stored at Gentofte Hospital in a sealed envelope.

      A participant who is readmitted will not be re-randomized.

      Patients arre introduced to an acute telephone hotline, operated by a nurse.

      The patients in the intervention group will during Hospitalization begin the rehabilitation
      program. The program consist of exercise training, breathing techniques and education. Before
      discharge the patients will be assessed to either A: outpatient rehabilitation in hospital or
      community clinic or B: Rehabilitation in their own homes twice weekly in 7 weeks
    
  