
    
      The aim of the study is to compare the different schemes of double stimulation in patients
      with infertility of the older age group of 37-42 years with the preceding suboptimal
      response.

      Materials and methods. Patients with preserved ovarian reserve of 37-42 years old, who had
      the history of standard stimulation in IVF programs, which produce less 4-7 oocytes. Patients
      will be randomised in two groups. Group 1 - patients of the double ovarian stimulation in the
      same cycle with recombinant gonadotropin (DUOSTIM group). Group 2 - patients of the double
      ovarian stimulation in the same cycle with clomifen and recombinant gonadotropin (modified
      Shanghai Protocol).

      The stimulation protocol in the Group 1 - Follitropin and Lutropin Alfa (Pergoveris) 150 -300
      IU start from day 2 of the cycle up to the day of trigger, gonadotropin-releasing hormone
      (GnRH) antagonist 0,25 mg start from day 7-8 of the cycle up to the day of trigger, final
      trigger of ovarian stimulation - gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist (GnRH-a) 0,2 mg,
      oocyte retrieval 35 hours after trigger, stop period for 5 days, after stop period start
      Pergoveris 150 - 300 IU start up to the day of trigger, GnRH antagonist 0,25 mg start from
      day 6 of ovarian stimulation up to the day of trigger, final trigger of ovarian stimulation -
      GnRH-a 0,2 mg, oocyte retrieval 35 hours after trigger.

      After oocyte retrieval fertilization will be carried out by invitro insemination (IVI) or
      intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI), the development of embryos will be carried out up to
      blastocyst stage, then blastocyst vitrification will be performed. The cycles of double
      ovarian stimulation will be performed until the patient will have not less than 3-5
      blastocysts. Then the embryo accumulation process will be completed and the unfrozen embryos
      transferred in the hormonal replacement cycle or natural ovulatory cycle.

      The stimulation protocol in the Group 2 - Clomiphene 50 mg start from day 2-3 of the cycle up
      to the day of trigger, Pergoveris 150 IU - 6,8, 10 days of the cycle, final trigger of
      ovarian stimulation - GnRH-a 0,2 mg, oocyte retrieval 35 hours after trigger, after stop
      period for 2-3 days start Pergoveris 150 - 300 IU up to the day of trigger, final trigger of
      ovarian stimulation - GnRH-a 0,2 mg, oocyte retrieval 35 hours after trigger. After oocyte
      retrieval fertilization will be carried out by IVI or ICSI, the development of embryos will
      be carried out up to blastocyst stage, then blastocyst vitrification will be performed. The
      cycles of double ovarian stimulation will be performed until the patient will have not less
      than 3-5 blastocysts. Then the embryo accumulation process will be completed and the unfrozen
      embryos transferred in the hormonal replacement cycle or natural ovulatory cycle.
    
  