
    
      This trial is a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled trial to quantify the effects of
      the preoperative administration of tranexamic acid on estimated blood loss and blood product
      utilization in women undergoing cesarean-hysterectomy for suspected MAP. Subgroup analyses
      will be performed for laboratory results (coagulation studies, electrolytes, complete blood
      count), urine output, hemodynamic parameters, return to OR for continued bleeding,
      post-operative complications (thromboembolism, wound separation, infection, fever), and
      length of hospital stay. Eligible patients will be randomized to receive either TXA or
      placebo.

      Women eligible for inclusion will be identified during their prenatal course or on admission
      to the hospital prior to surgery. They will be offered participation in the study after
      appropriate counseling regarding the equipoise regarding TXA and its use in pregnancy, and
      following a question and answer period they will be consented, and assigned a study number.

      A randomization table will be generated by the Texas Children's Hospital Investigational
      Pharmacy, using balanced blocks of 8, and will maintain control of the randomization to
      ensure blinding of participants and the clinical investigators. Randomization will occur when
      an order for study medication will be sent on a paper requisition to the Texas Children's
      Hospital Investigational Pharmacy, and a randomization number will be assigned to correspond
      to the study number. Ideally, this order will be sumbitted 24h prior to scheduled surgery,
      but may be submitted for urgent cases by calling the Texas Children's Clinical Pharmacy, and
      delivering the paper requisition to the 7th Floor Main Pharmacy.

      The Investigational Pharmacy will prepare study medication (Tranexamic acid I.V. or Normal
      saline as placebo) as determined by the randomization. The medication (whether study
      medication or placebo) will be packaged in identical syringes. Sealed, opaque envelopes will
      be available to the PI or an assigned designee to permit unblinding (linking randomization
      number and study number) only in the event of a clinical emergency involving a study
      partipant during times at which the Investigational Pharmacy is closed (nights, weekends,
      holidays).

      Once a patient has been randomized, the outcome in hospital will be collected even if the
      study medication is interrupted or not actually given.
    
  