
    
      Introduction - Morbid obesity is considered an ever growing pandemic. Most morbidly obese
      patients suffer from comorbidities such as hypertension; diabetes mellitus type II;
      dyslipidemia; osteoarthritis; obstructive sleep apnea etc. Surgery is considered the best
      therapy for morbid obesity and its comorbidities, where alterations in lifestyle, diets and
      drugs have failed to achieve weight loss. There are some procedures, some more commonly
      practiced than others, most of them done laparoscopically. The most widely performed in
      Israel is Laparoscopic Sleeve Gastrectomy (LSG), and several studies have reported high
      success rates in reducing weight and improving comorbidities. However, few studies exists,
      mostly retrospective, on the long term results after LSG. These studies have demonstrated
      significant weight loss, significant decrease in excessive body weight and also significant
      improvement in patients' quality of lives (QOL). However, a single comprehensive prospective
      research encompassing all three parameters was not found by us in a preliminary literature
      review. No studies were found regarding the effect of socio-economic status on the late
      results of LSG.

      Goals -The goal of the present study is to prospectively follow patients undergoing LSG and
      to assess its effectiveness in weight loss and in the improvement of comorbidities and
      quality of life. We also plan to evaluate the effect of socio-economic status on the results
      of bariatric surgery, with emphasis on changes in QOL of these patients.

      Material and Methods - In an 18 month long prospective research, a set of two questionnaires
      will be given to each patient undergoing LSG for morbid obesity at three time points: before
      surgery, 6 and 12 months post-surgery. The first questionnaire includes demographic,
      socio-economic and physiological data and health related questions regarding comorbidities
      and their methods of treatment. The second questionnaire is the Short Form 36v2, an accepted
      QOL questionnaire which, using 36 questions. At the end of the research, a statistical
      analysis of the results will be performed.

      Hypothesis - The hypothesis states that the LSG is an effective treatment for achieving
      weight loss, for improving and even curing comorbidities and for improving the patient's QOL.
      Another supposition is that patient's socio-economic status can influence success rates of
      bariatric procedures.

      Importance of the study - Several studies was done reviewing this procedure's efficacy
      according to physiological parameters and improvement in comorbidities and quality of life.
      Most of which are retrospective. A prospective research that encompasses all these three
      parameters was not currently found in the medical literature Keywords - Morbid Obesity,
      Bariatric surgery, Sleeve Gastrectomy, Quality of Life, Comorbidities, Weight loss.
    
  