
    
      Many persons who have sustained moderate to severe TBI and receive medical rehabilitation
      transition to their home and community settings with impaired cognition, perceptual motor
      skills, awareness of disability, self-regulation, and judgment that place them at risk for
      subsequent unintentional injury or harm. Unintentional injuries often result from falls;
      motor vehicle or pedestrian events; improper use of electrical equipment, fire, or sharp
      objects; poisonings; and firearm-related incidents. Risk for harm to self or others also
      results from victimization, loss of money or valuables, property damage, medication errors,
      inappropriate responses to emergency or medical situations, and self-regulation problems.
      Four TBI registry studies have shown that unintentional injury is a leading cause of death
      (18%-20%) in the year following discharge. In one study, 32% of TBI participants (n=504) had
      228 ER visits/hospitalizations from 3-months to several years following discharge due to
      unintentional injuries.

      In order to facilitate independent living and address the safety concerns for persons with
      TBI in the home and community, a targeted, self-management approach that includes injury
      prevention education and compensatory strategy training for instrumental activities of daily
      living (IADLs) is recommended. Institute of Medicine (IOM) and Agency for Healthcare Research
      and Quality (AHRQ) systematic reviews have recommended the need for TBI post-acute
      rehabilitation research to find efficient and effective independent living treatments for
      people with TBI. Rehabilitation investigators recommend evidence-based education that
      includes integrated, consensus-based, prevention strategies from multidisciplinary
      rehabilitation professionals to reduce unintentional injury and harm following TBI.
      Interventions should set goals important to the person with TBI, help the person and family
      to define roles/responsibilities and work as a team, and develop problem-solving skills and
      strategies.

      The Safe@Home self-management intervention program builds upon our previous research on
      safety assessment and causes of unsafe events. This clinical trial will evaluate the
      effectiveness of a person and family-centered intervention to reduce unsafe events and
      increase self-managed activities and participation. The Safe@Home program is comprised of a
      personalized assessment report, prevention education and goal-setting, and in-home activity
      training with a life skills coach. The primary outcomes targeted for this intervention are
      to: 1) decrease unintentional injury and harm, i.e., unsafe events, and 2) increase
      independence in daily activities.

      Participants will be assigned either to a usual care control group or the Safe@Home program
      group. Family members of both groups will be asked to complete assessments and both groups of
      participants and clients and family members will receive a personalized report on their
      strengths and risks, and suggested strategies to improve independence and reduce risk. The
      group receiving the Safe@Home Program will also receive in-home education on injury
      prevention and training on self-selected activities of interest.

      Persons with TBI in the Safe@Home program will also be asked to:

        -  Participate in 2 education sessions to understand their strengths and risks, set goals,
           work as a team, reduce risks in their home, and problem-solve among themselves, their
           family member, and personal transition coach

        -  Participate in 8 in-home visits in which training and supports are provided to help with
           learning activity skills and compensatory strategies.

        -  Receive mobile phone and internet reminders to help work on goals and remember
           strategies.

        -  Complete a brief questionnaire that should take no longer than 15 minutes before the
           program, at the end of the program, and 3-months after the program ends.

      The questionnaire will ask about:

        -  their current abilities

        -  their confidence in their ability to reach goals

        -  working with their family member on their activity goals and tasks

      Family members play an important role in the transition from the hospital to home and have
      firsthand knowledge of the safety issues that each person with TBI faces.

      Family members will be asked to:

        -  Participate in 2 education sessions to understand the person who had a brain injury
           strengths and risks, set goals, work as a team, reduce risks in the home, and
           problem-solve among themselves, their family member who had a brain injury, and personal
           transition coach

        -  Complete a questionnaire that should take no longer than 45 minutes to complete before
           the program, at the end of the program, and 3-months after the program ends.

        -  Complete a very brief report about unsafe events that should take no longer than 1-2
           minutes to complete every 2 weeks.

      This questionnaire will ask:

        -  general background and health information about the family member and the person with
           TBI

        -  the likelihood of certain unsafe situations occurring

        -  the supervision the person with TBI receives

        -  Mayo-Portland Participation subscale
    
  