
    
      In 2007, the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS estimated that 33.2 million people
      were living with HIV/AIDS globally. The U.S. HIV prevalence data reported in October 2008 by
      the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimate that 1.1 million adults and
      adolescents were living with diagnosed or undiagnosed HIV infection in the United States at
      the end of 2006. Nearly half of all U.S. HIV infections (48.1%) were found in men who have
      sex with men (MSM). Given the difficulty of maintaining behaviors that prevent HIV
      transmission over a lifetime and the occurrence of nonconsensual sex, the need for a safe and
      effective vaccine is clear. The primary purpose of this study is to determine the safety and
      efficacy of a VRC DNA/rAd5 vaccine regimen in healthy, at-risk, circumcised men and MTF
      transgender persons who have sex with men.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to one of two arms. Participants in Arm 1 will receive
      a recombinant DNA plasmid vaccine injection at study entry and on Days 28 and 56, followed by
      a recombinant adenoviral serotype vector vaccine injection on Day 168. Participants in Arm 2
      will receive placebo injections at study entry and on Days 28, 56, and 168.

      Participants who do not become HIV infected will be actively followed for a minimum of 24
      months and will continue to be followed by the study for long-term safety surveillance for a
      total of 5 years following enrollment. Participants will be contacted annually during the
      period of long-term safety surveillance.

      Participants who are found to be HIV infected prior to receiving their first injection or who
      receive their first injection but were HIV infected prior to study start will be followed on
      a modified schedule.

      Participants who become HIV infected will be followed for 6 months post-diagnosis.

      At most study visits, participants will undergo a physical exam and blood draw.

      NOTES:

      As of April 2013, all vaccinations in this study have been stopped. Participants have been
      notified of whether they received the study vaccines or placebo. Participants diagnosed with
      HIV infection will attend study visits for 6 months for health monitoring. Participants who
      are not diagnosed with HIV infection will attend planned study visits for 24 months and will
      be followed by the study clinic at least annually for a total of 5 years following study
      enrollment.

      As of June 2017, this study has been closed. Therefore, to avoid further burden on study
      participants, further participant follow-up for the study is suspended.
    
  