
    
      BACKGROUND Pupillary light reflexes have long been used as an important prognostic parameter
      for predicting outcome following severe TBI. Despite this long history, pupillary assessment
      remains an inexact science replete with subjectivity and high inter-rater variability. This
      highlights the need for a reliable, standardized, and accurate measuring procedure.

      The NeurOptics NPi-100 Pupillometer is a handheld portable infrared device that allows for
      objective measurement of pupillary sizes and reflexes. This device utilizes an algorithm
      derived from multiple measurements taken automatically by the pupillometer to generate the
      NPi (Neurological Pupil Index). This index allows clinicians to reliably quantify the various
      aspects of pupillary response to a logical, quantitative scale. Similar devices have
      demonstrated improvements in both inter- and intra-observer reliability in the assessment of
      the pupillary response. Although pupillometry has been shown to be a reliable and early
      indicator of increased intracranial pressure, it is unclear if the results of pupillometry or
      the NPi can reliably predict functional outcomes in patients with traumatic brain injury.

      STUDY OBJECTIVE This is a prospective study designed to determine if the pupillary reflex, as
      measured by pupillometry and quantified by the NPi, is a reliable prognosticator of both
      functional outcome and/or mortality in patients with TBI.

      STUDY POPULATION The patients to be included in this study will be adults 18 years of age or
      older who present to the emergency department (ED) with a traumatic brain injury and who are
      intubated requiring mechanical ventilation.

      STUDY PROCEDURES All patients will undergo initial pupillometry evaluation with recording of
      the NPi in the initial evaluation in the ED as per standard evaluation of all trauma
      patients. Beyond that, pupillometry and reporting of the NPi will be performed every six (6)
      hours (Q4) by the bedside nurse throughout the patient's stay in the TNCC. For the long term
      follow-up phase, functional recovery [as determined by the Functional Independence Measure
      (FIM) and Functional Assessment Measure (FAM)], Activities of Daily Living (ADL), and Quality
      of Life (QoL) among the TBI survivors will be assessed when the patients are discharged from
      the hospital and/or rehabilitation facility. Functional recovery (FIM + FAM) will be assessed
      at discharge from the TNCC and at 30, 60, and 90 days post-injury. ADL and QoL will be
      assessed at 90 days post-injury. Vital status will be recorded at discharge from the TNCC and
      at 90 days post-injury.

      POTENTIAL RISK All interventions are usual practice/standard of care within our institution.
      There is essentially no risk to our patients due to this study.

      Because the investigators are maintaining identifiable information for long-term follow-up
      and assessment, the potential for loss of personal health information exists. To attenuate
      this risk, all identifiable information will be kept on a password-protected hospital
      computer in a locked office.

      POTENTIAL BENEFIT There is little specific benefit to the individual subjects in this study
      other than contributing to the advancement of knowledge. A general benefit would be
      demonstrating the pupillometer to be a reliable predictor of functional outcome of TBI. This
      would better aid physicians in their prognosis evaluation in the acute phase of care and in
      deciding the most appropriate treatment for patients.
    
  