
    
      Background: With appropriate treatment, lung cancer patients can be a long-term survivor.
      However, many patients suffered from post-operative pulmonary complications, limited activity
      tolerance, and poor quality of life. Nurses in a great position to provide individualized
      health education regarding exercise for these patients; therefore to develop and test
      cost-effective nurses-lead lung rehabilitation exercise education programs deserver further
      scientific efforts.

      Aim: To develop and testing a home exercise program for lung cancer survivors to improve
      their exercise tolerance and quality of life during the rehabilitation phase.

      Design: An experimental design will be used in the study. The 90 lung cancer survivors, who
      were diagnosed with lung cancer within one year and have completed their initial cancer
      treatment, will be recruited and randomized to the control or intervention group. After
      pre-test, the intervention participants will receive a 60 minutes of teaching regarding the
      home rehabilitation exercise program, with a printed exercise manual. The intervention
      participant will also receive a weekly phone call from the interventionist to enhance their
      exercise adherence and helping to overcome exercise barriers. The similar outcome measures as
      study one will be assessed on the baseline, 1th month, 3th month, and 6th month.

      Measurements: The study outcomes will be evaluated by three physical measures, six-minute
      walk test, Modified Borg Scale, 30-second Chair Sit-to-Stand Test, and 30-second Chair
      Sit-to-Stand Test, as well as a study questionnaire including Functional Assessment of Cancer
      Therapy-Lung (FACT-L) and FACIT-Fatigue. For study one the following data will be collected
      from the patient'schart: post-operative pulmonary complications, days of chest tube
      insertion, and days of hospitalization.

      Data analysis: Descriptive analysis will be used to describe patients'demongraphics, disease
      variables, and outcome variables. The Chi-square, T-test, and General Linear Mix-effect Model
      will be used to test the efficacy of the study interventions.

      Significance: The study results will provide evidence for the efficacy of pulmonary
      rehabilitation and a home exercise program for enhancing exercise tolerance and quality of
      life in lung cancer survivors.
    
  