
    
      Lung Cancer Cohort:

      NO Breathing Test:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will have a breathing test performed before
      starting radiation therapy, weekly during radiation therapy and, about 6 weeks after the end
      of radiation therapy on the same day of your restaging PET scan. The breathing test measures
      how much NO you exhale while breathing. To complete this test, you will exhale into a device
      called an "NO breath analyzer" for 10 seconds. You will repeat this test 3 times. The results
      of this test will give researchers information about possible inflammation in your lungs. The
      results of this test will be compared to the results of your PET scan.

      For the first exhaled NO testing session, and any session in which you produce a high enough
      NO level, you will have the NO breath test repeated up to 4 times. The staff will ask you to
      exhale at different speeds during these repeated sessions, in order to learn where in your
      lungs the NO is coming from.

      Respiratory Symptoms Questionnaire:

      At each visit when you have NO breathing tests, you will be asked to complete a questionnaire
      about your breathing and any symptoms you may be having. A research assistant will be able to
      help you with completing the questionnaire. It should take about 10 minutes to complete the
      questionnaire.

      PET scans:

      After completing your radiation therapy, you will receive a PET scan as part of this study.
      The PET scan will be scheduled for you between 40 and 50 days after the end of the radiation
      therapy. A study staff member will call you with the PET scan date. Ten (10) participants
      will receive a second PET scan within 2-7 days after the first PET scan in order to check
      reproducibility.

      For up to 6 hours before the PET scan, you must not eat or drink anything except water. A
      small tube will be placed in your arm, and you will receive an injection of a very small
      amount of a mildly radioactive sugar material into your bloodstream. The radioactive nature
      of this injected material allows the scanner to "see" it in certain places in your body.
      After the injection, you will need to rest quietly until it is time for the scan. The amount
      of rest time may vary, but be prepared to wait for between 45 and 90 minutes. During the
      scan, you will lie flat on your back on a table. The scan itself may last up to 1 hour.

      Length of Study:

      You will remain on study for up to 7 months. After you have completed the breathing tests,
      blood draws, questionnaires, and PET scans, your participation on this study will be over.

      This is an investigational study. The device (called an NO breath analyzer) used in this
      study is FDA approved and commercially available for measuring exhaled NO levels in patients
      with asthma. The use of the PET scan and blood test to check lung inflammation is also
      investigational.

      Up to 150 patients (up to 47 with lung cancer) will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at MD Anderson.

      Esophageal Cancer Cohort:

      NO Breathing Test:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will have a breathing test performed before
      starting radiation therapy, about 5 weeks later after radiation therapy is complete (at the
      end of radiation therapy), and the same day of your restaging PET scan. The breathing test
      measures how much NO you exhale while breathing. To complete this test, you will exhale into
      a device called an "NO breath analyzer" for 10 seconds. You will repeat this test 3 times.
      The results of this test will give researchers information about possible inflammation in
      your lungs. The results of this test will be compared to the results of your PET scan.

      For the first exhaled NO testing session, and any session in which you produce a high enough
      NO level, you will have the NO breath test repeated up to 4 times. The staff will ask you to
      exhale at different speeds during these repeated sessions, in order to learn where in your
      lungs the NO is coming from.

      Respiratory Symptoms Questionnaire:

      At each visit when you have 3 NO breathing tests, you will be asked to complete a
      questionnaire about your breathing and any symptoms you may be having. A research assistant
      will be able to help you with completing the questionnaire. It should take about 10 minutes
      to complete the questionnaire.

      Length of Study:

      After you have completed the breathing tests and the questionnaires, your participation on
      this study will be over.

      This is an investigational study. The device (called an NO breath analyzer) used in this
      study is FDA approved and commercially available for measuring exhaled NO levels in patients
      with asthma. Its use in patients with esophageal cancer is investigational. The optional
      SPECT scans using 99m Tc-HMPAO are an FDA approved standard imaging method for infection
      and/or inflammation.

      Up to 150 patients (up to 93 with esophageal cancer) will take part in this study. All will
      be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  