
    
      Objectives General objective: to develop, validate and evaluate the effectiveness of
      navigation, physical activities and reading abilities (the new rehabilitation protocols) in
      Malay adults with primary glaucoma.

      Specific objectives:

        1. To identify problems with navigation, physical activities and reading in Malay adults
           with primary glaucoma

        2. To develop and validate the new rehabilitation protocols for patients with primary
           glaucoma

        3. To evaluate the effectiveness of the new rehabilitation protocols in improving the
           quality of life of primary glaucoma patients

        4. To evaluate the mean changes of total antioxidant level pre- and post-intervention with
           the new rehabilitation protocols in primary glaucoma patients

        5. To evaluate the changes of ocular parameters pre- and post-intervention with the new
           rehabilitation protocols in primary glaucoma patients Research design

      This research project will be divided into 3 phases with different research designs:

      Phase 1: case control study on factors affecting navigation, physical activities and reading
      between primary glaucoma patients and age matched controls.

      Phase 2: development and validation study on new rehabilitation program for navigation,
      physical activities and reading.

      Phase 3: randomized control trial study to evaluate the effectiveness of rehabilitation
      program and exercise on clinical parameters, quality of life and oxidative stress of primary
      glaucoma patients.

      Study area

      A. Glaucoma clinic for patient recruitment, assessment and follow up in:

      Hospital Universiti Sains Malaysia (HUSM), Kota Bharu, Kelantan, Malaysia Hospital Raja
      Perempuan Zainab II (HRPZII), Kota Bharu, Kelantan, Malaysia Hospital Sultanah Bahiyah (HSB),
      Alor Setar, Kedah, Malaysia Hospital Melaka, Melaka, Malaysia

      B. Occupational rehabilitation, Rehabilitation Unit for visual rehabilitation program in:

      Hospital Universiti Sains Malaysia (HUSM) Kota Bharu, Kelantan, Malaysia Hospital Raja
      Perempuan Zainab II, Kota Bharu, Kelantan, Malaysia Hospital Sultanah Bahiyah, Alor Setar,
      Kedah, Malaysia Hospital Melaka, Melaka, Malaysia Study population Reference population:
      Primary glaucoma patients-primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) and primary angle closure
      glaucoma (PACG) Target population: Primary glaucoma patients (POAG and PACG) who attended
      glaucoma clinic in HUSM, HRPZII, HSB and Hospital Melaka Source population: Patients aged 40
      to 70 years old diagnosed with POAG or PACG who are attending the glaucoma clinic, HUSM,
      HRPZII, HSB and Hospital Melaka from June 2020 until February 2020.

      Sampling frame: Glaucoma database in eye clinic of HUSM, HRPZII, HSB and Hospital Melaka
      Sampling method and subject recruitment The sampling method is based on the specific
      objective and phases of the study For objective 1: a simple random sampling will be used. For
      objective 2: convenience sampling.

      For objective 3, 4 and 5: randomized Controlled Trial will be conducted. Using block
      randomization method with sequentially numbered in opaque sealed envelopes (SNOSE), the
      eligible patients will be randomized into:

      Group A: Intervention group Group B: Non-intervention group Primary investigators
      (Postgraduate students) will be blinded.

      Operational definition Primary Open Angle Glaucoma (POAG): A chronic, progressive optic
      neuropathies that characterised by structural changes in the optic nerve head and/ or with
      visual field defect without identifiable causes (Asia Pacific Glaucoma guidelines, 2008).

      Primary Angle Closure Glaucoma (PACG): An eye with an occludable drainage angle and features
      indicating that trabecular obstruction by the peripheral iris has occurred, such as
      peripheral anterior synechiae, elevated intraocular pressure and optic neuropathy (Foster et
      al., 2002).

      Target Intraocular pressure: Target intraocular pressure throughout this study is dependent
      on severity of the disease based on threshold IOP (Sihota et al., 2018). In this study,
      target intraocular pressure will be personalized accordingly.

      Lens status: Phakic is defined as patients with an intact natural lens without visually
      significant cataract. A person with visually significant cataract was defined by having, in
      either eye: any LOCS II grading of ≥2, best-corrected visual acuity of <6/12 in the
      cataractous eye, cataract as primary cause of vision impairment in that eye, and patient
      report that general vision was fair, poor, very poor, or blind (Ritcher et al, 2009).
      Pseudophakic refers to patients who have underwent lens extraction procedure with
      implantation of artificial intraocular lens for more than 3 months prior to recruitment.

      Compliance to treatment: Patients who adhere and persistent to instillation of topical
      intraocular pressure lowering medications as recommended by their physician throughout follow
      up (Robin et al, 2011). Adherence is defined as less than 3 times missed their medication in
      a week. Persistence is defined as continuously on prescribed medication for more than 3
      months.

      Visual rehabilitation: The process of treatment and education that helps individuals who are
      visually disabled to attain maximum function, a sense of wellbeing, a personally satisfying
      level of independence, and optimum quality of life (American Optometric Association, 2004).

      Reading speed: rate at which a person reads written text (printed or electronic) in a
      specific unit of time (Muñoz B et al, 2000).

      In this study, the definition of reading speed will differ according to the task of reading
      and the reading material.

        1. Reading speed in reading the Bahasa Malaysia reading chart: number of words read per
           minute

        2. Reading the newspaper print and pharmacy label print: time taken to finish a reading
           task in minute

        3. Reading book: number of pages read per hour/day Eye movement during reading: movement of
           the eye between the start of first saccade and the end of final saccade during the
           reading (Muñoz B et al, 2000).

      Head movement during reading: all head movement during reading including of
      modulatory-velocity component with eye saccades and constant-velocity component independent
      of eye saccades (Muñoz B et al, 2000).

      Quality of life: The term "quality of life (QoL)" is defined by the World Health Organization
      as individuals' perception of their position in life in the context of culture and value
      systems in which they live in relation to their goals, expectations, standards and concerns
      (World Health Group, 1995). Total scoring and each domain score of Bahasa Malaysia version
      GlauQoL -36 questionnaires will be used to determine the QoL. It has been translated and
      validated and piloted in 96 samples. All 36 translated questions were retained as the
      Cronbach alpha was found to be 0.85 (Chandramohan et al, 2015).

      Depression: a feeling of depressed mood or loss of interest with at least five out of nine
      symptoms present for a diagnosis of major depression. The mGDS 14 questionnaire was used in
      this study to assess depression among primary glaucoma patients.

      Bump: body contact above the knee, excluding the hands-on adjacent objects. Stumble: a change
      in posture or gait due to contact with an object below the knee.

      Data collection method

      This study will be divided into three phases:

        1. Phase 1: identification factor affecting navigation, physical activities & reading

        2. Phase 2: development and validation of rehabilitation for navigation, physical
           activities & reading

        3. Phase 3: evaluation of the effectiveness of rehabilitation on clinical parameters,
           quality of life and oxidative stress Phase 1 A case control study will be conducted
           involving POAG and PACG patients with different severity according to Esterman binocular
           visual field. An age-matched control subjects will also be recruited. We estimated a
           sample size of 40 glaucoma subjects and 40 age-matched controls. Selected patients must
           be physical and mentally fit. Simple random sampling will be applied to patients who
           attend ophthalmology clinic for other ophthalmological conditions except for glaucoma
           especially those who were on follow-up for dry eye, non-visually significant cataract,
           pseudophakic patients. Patients that fulfil the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be
           selected during their follow up. These patients will be grouped as controls.

      Ocular examination: Baseline examination will be conducted in all subjects including visual
      acuity assessment, contrast sensitivity, stereoacuity and Esterman binocular visual field.

      Navigation & physical activities: A stimulated area will be created using the existing
      facility in occupation rehabilitation unit, HUSM. Similar set up will be conducted in HRPZII,
      Hospital Sultanah Bahiyah and Hospital Melaka. Glaucoma patients and age-matched control
      subjects will be asked to navigate in the stimulated area and several areas will be equipped
      with closed circuit television (CCTV).

      A predefined obstacle course navigation will be used to measure mobility performance among
      glaucoma and control groups. Subjects will be instructed to walk through the course as
      quickly and safely as possible while avoiding all obstacles in their path. The course will be
      constructed in a maze form, 30m length in total and seeded with obstacles made with styrofoam
      that represent objects in a patient's home environment. The illumination along the path range
      from 100 to 300 lux. Before walking through the course, participants will be given
      instructions and directions to ensure that they understood the path.

      Mobility performance will be assessed by the time required to complete the obstacle course
      and the number of mobility incidents, which included bumps, stumbles, and orientation
      problems. A bump will be defined as a body contact above the knee, excluding the hands. A
      stumble will be defined as a change in posture or gait due to contact with an object below
      the knee. An orientation problem will be defined as a change in direction that was not
      consistent with the instructions. A trained observer will be following the participants
      closely behind to record time and bumps. Surveillance system comprising video camera to
      record the activities will be implemented as well. Errors are quantified on a 3 point scale,
      where errors were scored as 1 point if the subject made contact with an obstacle but was able
      to correct in ≤ 5 sec, 2 points if the subject took 5-15 sec to correct errors, and 3 points
      if the subject took > 15 sec to self-correct or required the assistance of one of the
      research assistants to correct the error. Travel time will be converted into walking speed
      (meters per second) by dividing the distance of established travel path by the time to
      complete the course. The converted measure permits a direct comparison of mobility
      performance across other routes and studies.

      Special exercise: A special exercise will be designed that is safe for person with
      constricted visual field; combination of isometric and aerobic exercise. IOP will be taken at
      baseline and at certain phases of the exercise. If there is an increase of more than 20% from
      baseline IOP at certain phase of the exercise, that phase will be excluded or replaced
      accordingly.

      Reading: Subject will be asked to read at 40cm (reading distance) with the reading material
      on a special pedestal. Reading materials include:

        1. Universiti Teknologi Mara -Malay related words (UiTM-MrW)

        2. Universiti Teknologi Mara- Malay unrelated words (UiTM-MuW)

        3. Different sizes of text of common reading materials (Bahasa Malaysia):

             -  Pharmacy label print (0.131° print)

             -  Newspaper print size (0.26° print)

             -  Small newspaper headline/heading size (0.525° print)

             -  Large newspaper headline size (1.71° print)

        4. A book in Bahasa Malaysia will be selected Reading speed will be assessed using Matlab
           version 8.3 programme. Eye and head trackers will be used (Polhemus Visiontrak Desktop
           300) to document the head and eye movement. Reading will be done in a fix light
           intensity (500-600lux). A rehabilitation reading regime with or without low vision aid
           will be designed.

      Phase 2

      From phase 1 findings, a special rehabilitation device and programme will be designed for:

        1. Navigation and mobility

        2. Exercise

        3. Reading A user friendly and inexpensive device and program with minimal usage of low
           vision aid will be designed and piloted for 30 glaucoma patients and 30 controls. Simple
           random sampling will be applied on the patients and control subjects recruited for phase
           1 study. An advertisement is also attached here(phase 2).

      Devices will include wearable body sensor vibrator and special smartphone apps for
      recognition of objects. The control subject will be using the special glasses (available in
      the department) that simulated constricted visual field. For the pilot study, the
      effectiveness will be considered based on the evaluation conducted for phase 1. The recruited
      subjects will be asked to practice according to the rehabilitation protocol for 2 weeks.
      Improvement will be made based on the outcome of the pilot study.

      Validation process:

      After development or modification of the program, the recruited subjects will be trained and
      asked to perform it at home for two weeks. They will be provided with a dairy (to ensure that
      they have conducted it daily). They will be seen after two weeks and the rehabilitation
      method will be assessed using specific questionnaire. Tentative questionnaire is attached
      here.

      Navigation and physical activities- Any step of the program will be eliminated from the
      program if it is deemed dangerous (20% of the subjects reported bumping, stumbling, fall or
      near fall), difficult to manoeuvre (20% of the subjects have difficulty or expressed
      difficulty in performing the step) and impractical (20% of the subjects expressed infrequent
      of performing the step at home). Assessment will be made based on simple questionnaire, which
      will be made once the rehabilitation program has been developed.

      Exercise - IOP will be obtained from the patients before and 10min after performing each
      important step of the exercise using tonometer. If any step of the exercise cause elevation
      of IOP of more than 2mmHg from the baseline IOP will be eliminated and replaced (if deem
      necessary). Patients will also be asked on the feasibility and practicality using the
      questionnaire.

      Reading- if the reading material (book) is found to difficult, the material will be replaced.
      Any new movement of the eye or head that is scored difficult to manoeuvre or impractical will
      be removed. A questionnaire with Likert score scoring will be developed after completion of
      phase 1.

      Definition of acceptable rehabilitation regime are as below:

      Navigation and physical activities- reduction of at least 40% of bumping or stumbling to
      objects or fall in simulated area. An increase of 40% of total step per day based on
      accelerometer.

      Exercise - An increase of 30% of based on accelerometer. Reading -An increase of 20% of
      reading task and reading speed.

      Phase 3

      A randomized single blinded control trial study will be conducted using the newly developed
      rehabilitation programme from phase 2. A known case of POAG and PACG patients who are
      compliance to treatment and follow up will be selected. Patients involved in phase 1 will not
      be recruited into this study. A total of 300 patients will be involved (100-navigation and
      mobility, 100- exercise and 100-reading). Based on the most recent reliable Humphrey visual
      field, only those who has more than 10 degree from fixation using Estermann binocular
      analysis will be selected. Other selection includes best corrected visual acuity of 6/60 on
      the better seeing eye, pseudophakic or phakic (without visually significant cataract) and
      without history of surgical intervention 3 months prior to recruitment. Those with severe
      hearing impairment, physical disabilities such as stroke, limbs amputation, macular and
      retinal pathology, and on low vision aids will be excluded. Using block randomization method
      with sequentially numbered in opaque sealed envelopes (SNOSE), the eligible patients will be
      randomized into:

      Group A: Intervention group Group B: Non-intervention group In both groups, their usual
      topical treatment will be continued. They will be advised to be compliance to the existing
      treatment. This study will take 6 months to complete.

      Baseline assessment An introductory session will be conducted to all selected subjects. The
      purpose of the study will be explained, and compliance will be emphasized. Venesection will
      be conducted and 3cc of blood will be obtained. The blood will be kept in the plain bottles
      and analysed for the level of total anti-oxidant capacity (TAC).

      Patients (in group A & B) will be given the GlauQol-36 and mGDS-14 questionnaire in Bahasa
      Malaysia (Appendix A & B) and be given adequate time to read and answer the questionnaire. If
      the patient does not understand the questionnaire, they can obtain clarification from the
      primary investigators (SMCM & NS). The GlauQoL-36 questionnaire consists of 36 questions
      grouped into 7 domains (daily life, driving, psychological well-being, self-image, anxiety,
      burden of treatment and confidence in healthcare). Each question was given 4- and 5- point on
      the Likert scale. The total score from each domain was summed and the score calculated. The
      mGDS-14 questionnaire consists of 14 questions. It has a yes/no answer and is scored 1 or 0
      for each question. Patients with the score of 8 and above are considered depressed.

      Accelerometer will be given to the patients with the instruction to wear it all day long
      except for sleeping and bathing. A baseline reading speed, visual span, eye and head movement
      will be obtained in those involved in reading rehabilitation program using the reading
      charts, newspaper and pharmacy label print. These assessments will be conducted twice; before
      the rehabilitation program and after 6 months of the program. Reading materials in Bahasa
      Malaysia (a book to read) will also be given. Clinical parameters including IOP and ONH
      imaging to assess the RNFL thickness and ONH parameters will also be conducted.

      Rehabilitation regime

      A.Navigation & mobility:

      The rehabilitation sessions will be conducted in the Rehabilitation Medicine Unit of HUSM,
      HRPZII and Hospital Melaka provided by the Occupational Therapy division. The patient is
      expected and encouraged to come with a carer (who live together with the patient) during the
      early part of the sessions. After randomization, patients in the group A will be assessed
      using modified Barthell index, the patient's limitations in daily activities with special
      attention to the components related to restricted visual field. An introductory session will
      be conducted by the occupational rehabilitation therapist (baseline), patients will be asked
      to practice it at home.

      Depending on the respective limitations the patient will be taught of ways to get around the
      problems, emphasizing on the Visual Perception and Sensory Motor Ability as outlined by the
      Chessington Occupational Therapy Neurological Assessment Battery to maximize function, health
      and wellbeing. A set of realistic goals will be established together with the patient whether
      using the restorative or compensatory methods to promote motivation and enhance confidence.
      Restorative method includes restorative visual field training, optokinetic training and and
      search task training focussed at improving the loss in visual field or disability arises from
      the loss of patient's eye field. Interventions involve compensation which are strategies to
      minimize mismatch in the patient's ability with task difficulty; and substitution which can
      include environmental modifications to enhance vision such as adjustment of lighting.
      Subsequent sessions will involve consolidation of the concepts with supervised practices
      comprising indoor and outdoor activities to enhance patients' understanding and confidence
      and encourage participation.

      Rehabilitation education and activities include:

        1. Dressing Light closet to improve acuity. Hang matching clothes together. Pin socks
           together when placing them in the washer so they will stay matched.

        2. Feeding Provide high contrast. Ensure that plates contrast with table surface. Avoid
           patterned table clothes. Arrange food on the plate in a clockwise fashion and orient the
           person to the arrangement.

        3. Personal hygiene and grooming activities Reduce clutter in bathroom and kitchen
           cabinets. Use high contrast bathmat and minified mirrors

        4. Communication and environmental hardware adaptations Use talking watches or clocks to
           tell time and high contrast doorknobs.

        5. Functional mobility Mobility is eased with the clearing of pathways and the minimizing
           of clutter and furniture. Lighting in hallways and entryways is also needed. The person
           with constricted visual field needs to optimize visual scanning abilities by learning to
           turn and position the head frequently when mobile or participating in an activity.

        6. Scanning activity or search task While focusing on a point central to the visual axis,
           the patient is asked to arrange wooden cubes forming vertical and horizontal lines one
           at a time. The instruction will be given to arrange from left to right, then right to
           left, top to bottom and lastly bottom to the top. Patient's visual field is estimated
           and described to the patient. Patient is advised on the 'danger area' outside the visual
           field that can pose various risks to the patient.

        7. Room orientation and memory This is applied to a small area such as a bedroom or a
           toilet. The patient is asked to stand inside a simulated room in the Rehabilitation Unit
           and describe the names of the objects that he/she can see. Emphasizing on the location
           of the objects and their directions from the patient (right, left, in front, behind),
           patient is trained to systematically orientate himself in the room relative to those
           objects. Certain objects are highlighted to the patient as a precaution to avoid
           stumbles and falls. For safety, cleaning supplies should be placed separately from food
           supplies.

        8. Orientation and mobility This activity covers a larger area that the patient will be in
           which is the patient's home. Patient will be instructed regarding room familiarisation
           according to the house's structure as described by patient's carer with the help of a
           drawing. For example, the patient is taught to memorize the number of steps needed to be
           made to get to the toilet from his room, and in what direction.

        9. Reading (this is not part of the reading rehabilitation) Patient will be taught to label
           the things that are of importance to them at home to aid recognition, for example
           bottles of spice. The letters should be of appropriate size deemed legible by the
           patient according to the patient's field of view, and of high contrast. For patients on
           medications, they are advised to use medication organizer to get them organized.

       10. Eye-hand coordination To enhance hand-eye coordination, a pegboard is used as a form of
           exercise for the patient. Patient is asked to match coloured pegs into its corresponding
           holes according to a reference template. This training also allows the patient to get
           used to the extent of field of view that he possesses.

       11. Optokinetic training programme This programme is built based on the knowledge that eye
           and body movements are coordinated by the same parts of the brain, which is important in
           maintaining stability and balance. Repeated training helps to re-teach the body of its
           responsible actions, by the means of precise eye movements. This is done via optokinetic
           eye programme to accelerate physical and mental fitness. Fortunately, the high
           functional adaptability of the brain permits positive training and learning as the
           person ages.

      Occupational therapist will conduct a home visit if necessary. A diary will be given to
      assess their compliance. Reassessment will be done for every 2 weeks for 2 months and every
      month for the next 2 months. Another home visit will be conducted if the patients show poor
      understanding or compliance during the re-assessment evaluation.

      Patients in group B will also be given a diary to record their activities. In both groups,
      their usual topical treatment will be continued. They will be advised to be compliance to the
      existing treatment.

      B. Special exercise:

      An instruction course will be conducted and a CD (with step by step exercise demonstration)
      will be given to the patients in group A. They will be asked to come for another session in 2
      weeks. Then they will be asked to conduct the exercise for at least three times a week.
      Exercise diary and accelerometer will also be given to patients of both groups.

      C. Reading regime:

      A briefing will be given to all the patients involved in this regime. Patients in both groups
      will be asked to complete a reading task (reading the given book) a day; number of pages
      completed in an hour per day, and time taken to complete a page in the given book. They will
      be asked to record the time they have completed the task in their reading diary. Any extra
      reading task will also be recorded this include reading Quran and newspaper.

      Final assessment At 6 months post recruitment, patients in group A and B will be asked to
      complete the Malay version of Glau-QOL 36 and MGD14. Accelerometer reading will also be
      documented. The number of pages read for the given task will be compiled. The reading diary
      will be evaluated. Reading speed will be calculated daily and the mean reading speed will be
      used for analysis. Another venesection will be conducted to examine the level of TAC.
      Clinical assessment including IOP, RNFL thickness and ONH parameters will be conducted.

      Serum TAC analysis Level of TAC analysis will be conducted using using QuantiChromTM
      Antioxidant Assay Kit (DTAC-100). It will be centrifuged 10 min at 14000 rpm, the plasma will
      be used as sample for calculation of total antioxidant capacity (TAC). Plasma can be stored
      in a freeze at -80°C in the laboratory (stable for 1 month) for future analysis if required.
      After preparing the reagent provided from the test kit (DTAC-100), patient plasma will be
      mixed with the diluted reagent in a plate which will be read at optical density of 570nm. The
      result obtained will be plotted against the standard concentration and a standard curve is
      obtained. By using the graph plotted and a formula provided in the test kit, the serum TAC
      will be calculated. Serum total antioxidant capacity will be calculated at baseline and at
      six months post recruitment.

      Data Entry and Statistical Analysis The data entry and analysis will be performed by using
      Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) version 22 licensed to USM. For numerical
      data, paired t-test will be used to compare the changes at baseline and 6 months post
      intervention. Multivariate analysis will also be conducted
    
  