
    
      Despite recent efforts to expand reach of smoking cessation treatment options beyond clinic
      based care, smoking cessation treatment including the use of smoking cessation aids remain
      greatly underutilized. If cessation programs are to have significant impact (Impact = Reach X
      Efficacy) on changing health behavior at the population level, there is a fundamental need to
      develop new and innovative strategies to increase treatment intensity, access, and
      participation. The use of intensive behavioral therapies, such as contingency management
      (CM), have demonstrated efficacy for reducing smoking in difficult-to-treat populations, but
      have had limited reach given the need to verify abstinence multiple times daily via clinic
      based monitoring. The development of a mobile health (mHealth) platform to provide CM has
      made the use of intensive CM approaches portable and feasible. The primary goal of the
      current study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a proactive tele-health intervention that
      combines evidenced based treatment for smoking cessation with smartphone based, portable
      contingency management on smoking rates. The central hypothesis is that increasing the
      intensity of available tele-health smoking approaches through the addition of mobile CM will
      be an effective way to reduce smoking rates in Veterans returning from the Iraq/Afghanistan
      wars. Guided by strong preliminary data, this hypothesis will be tested in a comparative
      effectiveness trial with a two-group design in which 260 Veteran smokers will be randomized
      to receive either an "mCM" intervention which combines evidence-based cognitive-behavioral
      telephone counseling (TC), a tele-medicine clinic for access to nicotine replacement (NRT),
      and mCM administered through a smart phone or to a control condition that will provide
      controls for therapist, medication, time and attention effects. Specific aims are to evaluate
      (1) the impact of mCM on rates of abstinence from cigarettes as measured by bio-verified,
      self-reported prolonged abstinence at 3-month, 6-month, and 12 month post-randomization
      follow-up, (2) the relative cost-effectiveness of the mCM intervention in quality adjusted
      life years (QALY), and (3) potential treatment mediators including self-efficacy and
      treatment process mechanisms. The approach is innovative because it builds upon advances in
      mHealth technology and will be the first evaluation of smart phone based mobile CM in
      conjunction with other evidence-based smoking cessation treatment for OEF/OIF/OND Veterans.
      There is a surprising lack of research aimed at evaluating multi-component smoking cessation
      interventions that integrate CM with evidence-based cognitive-behavioral treatment and
      smoking cessation aids such as NRT. Cigarette smoking remains the most lethal substance use
      disorder in the United States and military veterans are at particular high risk for smoking
      related morbidity and mortality. The significance of identifying cost-effective approaches to
      decreasing tobacco use in the relatively young and at-risk cohort of returning Veterans could
      be tremendous as it will prevent significant morbidity and mortality.
    
  