
    
      The measurement of arterial blood pressure (BP) is of paramount importance when caring for
      critically ill patients, as BP, especially mean BP, is the driving force of blood flow
      through all the organs. The reference method is the invasive method that measures BP
      continuously and directly in an artery (most often the radial artery), through an indwelling
      arterial catheter. A popular, less invasive method, most often used in emergency situations
      or during the first hours of care in the intensive care unit (ICU), is the non-invasive
      oscillometric method (NIBP) using an arm cuff (some have shown that the cuff could also be
      placed around the calf, just above the ankle), that provides only intermittent measurements.
      In between the above 2 techniques, the place of continuous non-invasive BP monitoring devices
      using a different technology (plethysmography and volume clamp technique) and a cuff placed
      around a finger is uncertain. It would be interesting to evaluate whether the 2 non-invasive
      techniques (using arm or finger cuff) can be advantageously combined either to replace
      invasive monitoring or to reinforce non-invasive monitoring (in patients in whom an arterial
      catheter is not envisaged). In the critically ill patient, reliable detection of low BP is
      often the most important task assigned to BP monitoring devices, at least in the initial
      phase of management. It is conceivable that if the finger cuff (ClearSight™ device) was not
      infallible in measuring BP, low BP could still be detected sufficiently reliably by the
      finger cuff (even with weak accuracy), giving an early warning. The arm measurement could
      then confirm hypotension in a robust, on-demand manner, since the ability of the arm cuff to
      detect hypotension has already been demonstrated. The ability to detect hypotension using a
      combined non-invasive approach (finger and arm cuff) has never been explored with the
      ClearSight™ device. This combined approach could similarly detect high blood pressure or a
      rapid change in BP as a result of cardiovascular intervention. In addition, the automatic
      cuff cannot always be placed around the arm (presence of wounds, burns, fractures or surgery
      of the upper limb, venous catheter, etc.) for intermittent NIBP measurements, and is then
      placed around the calf. However, this commonly observed practice exposes the NIBP measurement
      to less accuracy. The finger cuff could be an alternative to the calf cuff. However, the
      accuracy of finger measurement has never been compared to the accuracy of oscillometric
      measurement at the calf.
    
  