
    
      We aim to predict the development of spinal anesthesia related hypotension in subjects
      already receiving a prophylactic infusion of phenylephrine (PE) who are having a cesarean
      delivery (CD). Hypotension arising in this fashion may signify that a subject is actually
      relatively fluid-deplete, and might benefit from intravenous (IV) fluid replacement. We will
      observe the association between hypotension and results of pre-anesthesia tests with two
      non-invasive monitors used in conjunction with a dynamic cardiovascular fluid challenge (by
      using a passive leg raise (PLR) maneuver). The use of any therapeutic intervention such as a
      fluid infusion would be the object of a subsequent study.

      We propose that a minority of parturients present for elective CD being relatively fluid
      deplete. It is our hypothesis that the characteristics of passive leg raise (PLR) induced
      changes in the plethysmography variability index (PVI generated by the Masimo Radical 7™) and
      cardiac output (CO as derived from the Non Invasive Cardiac Output Monitor (NICOM) produced
      by Cheetah Medical™) will identify these subjects and that without large volume fluid
      administration they are likely to develop hypotension despite the use of a prophylactic PE
      infusion

      Justification: Hypotension is the most common cause of spinal anesthesia related morbidity in
      cesarean delivery. Hypotension is very common and without treatment can affect over 80% of
      women. The mechanism is usually twofold: Firstly preload to the right ventricle (RV) is
      reduced as a result of venodilation from spinal sympathetic blockade. Unfortunately
      attempting to improve preload by infusion of IV fluid alone doesn't make much difference to
      the rates of hypotension (only 16% reduction in one large study). The second mechanism
      results from afterload reduction through arterial vasodilation which directly causes a
      reduction in blood pressure (BP). The treatment for this is most commonly a PE infusion, and
      when used this makes a significant difference reducing rates by over 50%. Unfortunately again
      there are a few who don't seem to respond (the residual of hypotension remains about 30%).
      Increasing the doses of PE only increases the rate of side effects, without affecting
      hypotension rates. However, giving both fluid and a PE infusion does seem to prevent
      hypotension in almost all subjects, suggesting that those who were resistant to PE alone
      actually did need some fluid. These subjects however are the exception not the rule, and
      giving fluid to these relatively "fluid deplete" as well as the rest may result in an
      increase in fluid related side effects. We believe that fluid therapy could be tailored
      better if we could identify which subjects are actually fluid deplete in the first instance.

      Testing to predict fluid responsiveness has been studied in the intensive care unit (ICU) but
      not in obstetric subjects. Using a PLR increases the return of blood to the right ventricle
      (RV). In a fluid deplete individual this significantly improves venous return such that CO
      changes dramatically. In a well hydrated individual venous return is already adequate so the
      change in CO is less. The NICOM will directly detect the CO change induced by a PLR. The
      Masimo detects variations in the pulse oximetry plethysmograph trace that result from subtle
      variations in the cardiac output caused by changes in the intrathoracic pressure from
      breathing. Intrathoracic pressure increases during expiration in a spontaneously breathing
      subject and causes a reduction in venous return to the RV which causes a subsequent fall in
      CO. The variation in the plethysmography signal with respiration is displayed as a percentage
      index of the baseline signal strength which correlates with how much venous return to the RV
      is affected by respiration. If a subject's preload is low the plethysmography variability
      index (PVI) will be high from the dramatic fluctuation in CO with changes in intrathoracic
      pressure. Unfortunately with spontaneously breathing subjects this value is not consistent
      enough between individuals for PVI itself to give an accurate indication of fluid volume
      state. However changes induced in the PVI within an individual subject from a challenge such
      as fluid infusion or a PLR appear to be better at indicating fluid responsiveness.

      We plan to use both the NICOM and the Masimo in conjunction with a PLR to assess fluid state
      (deplete or otherwise) preoperatively. We will then observe whether or not the pre-anesthesia
      testing correlates with development of PE infusion resistant hypotension during the routine
      spinal anesthetic.

      The primary objective of this study is to correlate the results of pre-anesthesia testing
      with actual development of PE infusion resistant hypotension. Secondary outcomes are
      discussed in statistical analysis below.
    
  