
    
      Study Components and Objectives:

      This study will be conducted in two phases:

        1. Formative phase: The objective of this phase is to assess the existing care seeking
           practices and care provision for childhood diarrhea and pneumonia and identify the
           existing barriers and facilitators for care seeking for childhood diarrhea and
           pneumonia.

        2. Cluster Randomized Trial: (CoMIC Trial - Community Mobilization and Community
           Incentivization): The objective of this phase is to assess the impact of a community
           engagement and demand creation strategy involving an community-based incentive scheme on
           adherence to recommended preventive and curative practices for diarrhea and pneumonia
           among children under five years of age.

      Study site: This study will be conducted in Tando Muhammad Khan, which is a rural district in
      the province of Sindh. This would a three and half year study with two year of intervention
      period.

      Study design: This study will follow a mixed methodology approach with a formative research
      component followed by a prospective two arm cluster randomized controlled trial (cRCT).

      Formative Phase: The following activities will be conducted in the formative phase:

        -  GIS Mapping: for the whole district to map all the government health facilities,
           schools, major religious places (mosques), water supply sources and roads.

        -  Qualitative research: comprising of focus group discussion (FGDs) and in-depth
           interviews (IDIs) with all stakeholders. These would also identify the potential
           non-cash incentives that the community wants and could be attractive

        -  Baseline Household Survey: Baseline survey will be conducted at the household level and
           will gather information on health care practices pertaining to childhood diarrhea and
           pneumonia, immunization, socio-economic indicators, childhood nutrition indicators and
           WASH indicators. LHWs working in the study area and their geographic spread will also be
           identified.

      Randomized Controlled Trial:

      -Randomization: After the mapping and formative research, the clusters (villages) will be
      randomly allocated to two intervention arms and a control arm by an independent statistician
      in the ratio of 1:1:1.

      Sample size: The sample size was calculated with a power of 0.8 and alpha of 0.05 giving 14
      clusters per arm (maximum sample size). These clusters will be randomly allocated to three
      arms.

      Intervention:

      Arm 1: In Arm 1, separate male and female village committees (VC) consisting of prominent
      members of the community including local elites/leaders (6 to 8 in a group) in all the
      villages will be formed and they would be trained on specific messages regarding the
      prevention and management of childhood diarrhea and pneumonia. The VCs would carry out
      awareness and motivational activities for the uptake of the identified interventions. They
      would also facilitate two hour group meetings to be held twice every month in every village
      of their catchment area and focus on issues pertaining to childhood nutrition, WASH, vaccines
      and management of diarrhea and pneumonia in children. Apart from these, there would
      researcher led awareness sessions in this intervention cluster and specific sessions for
      children would also be conducted. These sessions would focus on providing education and
      encourage community participation. Group activities would also identify community level
      health, nutrition and sanitation problems, and to find locally feasible strategies to address
      them.

      Arm 2: In the second intervention cluster; in addition to the interventions in Arm 1, the
      areas which improve the practices for preventive and curative strategies for diarrhea and
      pneumonia will receive community-based incentive. This would be a unique incentive scheme as
      all the previous financial incentive programs whether conditional or unconditional cash
      transfers, voucher schemes, social insurance schemes have targeted individuals and all these
      incentives were based on improving individual practices. The financial incentive proposed is
      unique as this initiative which would benefit the community as a whole and incentives based
      on improvement in the composite coverage of three indicators:

        -  Age-appropriate immunization 12-23 months

        -  ORS use for diarrhea

        -  Sanitation index (which is a score based on personal, household and environmental
           hygiene) The incentives would include structural benefits linked to health including
           tube wells, water supply, toilets in community/schools, water storage facility or any
           other incentive as decided with the respective village committees. The total cost of
           these incentives would be shared by the project (75%) and the community (25%), to
           improve ownership. The contribution from the community could also be in-kind including
           labor etc.

      Arm 3: This arm will receive routine standard of care.
    
  