
    
      People with spinal cord injuries (SCI) are at greater health risk for major health conditions
      and poorer health outcomes than the population without disabilities. For people with SCI,
      physical activity is critical for both physiological and psychosocial well-being, however 75%
      of persons with SCI are not active enough to achieve activity-related health benefits. While
      current exercise guidelines for persons with SCI are limited and vary, health authorities and
      literature have focused more on recommendations for moderate-intensity exercise, however
      recent studies have shown that, due to the reduced exercise capacity of the active muscles
      used in persons with SCI, moderate-intensity exercise alone is inadequate to stimulate
      meaningful improvements in cardiovascular disease risk. An alternative exercise approach that
      has demonstrated significant reductions in cardiovascular disease risk and morality is
      high-intensity interval training (HIIT). Participating in exercise protocols of higher
      intensity may offer a more effective and time-efficient method of increasing cardiovascular
      fitness and metabolic health in persons with SCI. However, few studies have evaluated the
      efficacy of HIIT protocols to increase exercise intensity and clinically improve cardio
      metabolic health and fitness in this population. The WheelMill System (WMS) is a wheelchair
      roller-based system that allows persons with SCI to use their personal manual wheelchair for
      wheelchair training or endurance exercise. With this study, we aim to assess the efficacy of
      a HIIT intervention conducted on a wheelchair roller-based system in improving
      cardiorespiratory and metabolic function, psychosocial well-being, and exercise intensity for
      manual wheelchair users (MWUs) with SCI. We also aim to determine if the roller-based system
      is a feasible platform for delivering HIIT for MWUs with SCI as well as identifying the
      perspectives of the participants on the recruitment and enrollment process, the assessment
      methods, and tolerance and acceptance of the intervention protocol. The long-term goal of
      this research is to increase cardiorespiratory fitness and reduce cardiovascular and
      metabolic disease risk in MWUs. This study will serve as the initial step toward that goal by
      pilot testing a HIIT intervention to increase exercise intensity of MWUs with SCI to promote
      physiological and psychosocial activity-related health benefits. We will recruit, enroll, and
      randomize MWUs with SCI into a roller-based Intervention Group (IG) or the Control Group
      (CG). Participants in the IG will complete an initial exercise education session and a
      12-week (3 sessions/wk) evidence-based HIIT program using the roller-based system.
      Participants in the CG will complete an initial exercise education session and enroll in a
      12-week (3 sessions/wk) independent workout program at an accessible community-based fitness
      facility. This study will measure the potential physiological, functional, and psychosocial
      health benefits of participating in a HIIT program designed for MWUs with SCI. We will then
      use the findings to define how exercise training at a higher intensity can support health
      outcomes and improve therapeutic and community-based interventions to promote
      cardiorespiratory and metabolic health and well-being of people with SCI.
    
  