
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of clofarabine when administered with melphalan and
           thiotepa followed by allogeneic stem cell transplantation in patients with high-risk
           and/or advanced hematologic malignancies. (Phase I)

        -  Determine the 1-year disease-free survival of patients treated with this regimen. (Phase
           II)

        -  Determine the efficacy of this regimen, in terms of antileukemic potential and relapse
           rate, in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate the incidence and severity of nonhematologic toxicity of this regimen in these
           patients.

        -  Evaluate the incidence and severity of graft-versus-host disease in patients treated
           with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of clofarabine followed by an open-label,
      phase II study. Patients are stratified according to HLA-compatible donor type (related vs
      unrelated).

        -  Cytoreductive therapy: Patients receive clofarabine IV over 2 hours once daily on days
           -9 to -5, thiotepa IV over 4 hours on day -4, and melphalan IV over 30 minutes once
           daily on days -3 and -2.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of clofarabine until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: Patients who undergo bone marrow or
           peripheral blood stem cell transplantation receive tacrolimus IV continuously over 24
           hours or orally every 8-12 hours beginning on day -3 and methotrexate IV on days 1, 3,
           6, and 11. Patients who undergo UCB transplantation receive tacrolimus IV continuously
           over 24 hours or orally every 8-12 hours beginning on day -3 and mycophenolate mofetil
           (MMF) IV or orally 2 or 3 times daily on days -3 to 45 followed by a taper until day 100
           (unless there are signs of acute GVHD). Patients who undergo UCB transplantation without
           GVHD continue tacrolimus for 6 months followed by a taper and discontinued 1 year after
           transplantation.

        -  Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) or allogeneic umbilical cord
           blood (UCB) transplantation: Patients undergo allogeneic HSCT (bone marrow or peripheral
           blood stem cells) or double UCB transplantation on day 0. Patients also receive
           filgrastim (G-CSF) IV or subcutaneously beginning on day 7 and continuing until blood
           counts recover.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Approximately 2 months after transplantation patients with ALL, M4
           or M5 AML, and those transplanted with AML in bone marrow relapse receive cytarabine
           intrathecally (IT) monthly for up to 5 doses. Patients with a history of CNS leukemia
           receive cytarabine IT once monthly during months 2-12 after HSCT.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for at least 4 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 42 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  