
    
      To address the hypothesis that dietary misalignment among young adults has detrimental
      short-term effects on glucose metabolism, participants will consume a meal rich in high GI
      carbohydrates on two separate days either at breakfast (7:00) or at dinner (20:00). Glycaemic
      responses will be monitored by a continuous glucose monitoring device (CGM) (G6, Dexcom,
      Inc., San Diego, CA). The CGM electrochemically measures subcutaneous interstitial glucose
      concentrations of each participant during the whole study. A blood glucose meter will be used
      to verify the functionality of the CGM (CONTOUR®NEXT ONE).

      The caloric content of the meals will be tailored to the energy needs of the participants
      based on their age, sex and anthropometric measurements. Participants will be requested to
      consume the meals without any break. During the controlled nutrition trial, participants will
      be asked to abstain from alcohol consumption and heavy exercise and not consume any food in
      addition to that provided or drinks that should be explicitly avoided.

      To objectively corroborate their chronotype participants will be asked to wear an
      accelerometer (E4 wristband, Empatica) attached to the wrist during the controlled nutrition
      trial. Moreover, participants are asked to record their bed times, meal timings, daily
      routines, and physical activities during the trial. On day 1 and day 8, anthropometric
      measurements will be performed to compare the body composition (Bioimpedance Analysis, SECA
      mBCA) before and after the controlled nutrition trial. On day 4, fasting blood samples will
      be collected. Before the controlled nutrition trial will start, questionnaires on daily
      routines, food frequency, and chronotype will be carried out.

      The chronotype is defined as mid-sleep point and assessed by the Munich Chronotype
      Questionnaire, which is a validated questionnaire. Earlier and later chronotypes will be
      defined as 20% of the participants with each the earliest and later mid-sleep points among
      the participants of the ChroNu cohort.
    
  