
    
      Many studies have shown that patients with schizophrenia have poor cleanliness and negligible
      appearance, which leads to negative body image and low self-esteem. However, there are few
      researches in Taiwan that nurse facilitated face care group in patients with schizophrenia to
      improve their body image and self-esteem.This study was to explore the effectiveness of a
      nurse facilitated face care group in patients with schizophrenia in improving their body
      image and self-esteem.A total of 96 patients with schizophrenia in a mental hospital in
      southern Taiwan were recruited in this study. The participants were divided into experimental
      and control groups through block randomization. In addition to participating in routine
      functional treatment activities, the experimental group is required to receive an additional
      50 minutes of face care grou every two weeks led by the nurse. The patients in control group
      received routine functional treatment activities, a facial cleansing instruction and five
      facial cleansing videos. The research tools include demographic data, the subscale in MBSRQ -
      Appearance evaluation and Appearance orientation, FACE-Q - Appearance-related psychosocial
      distress. FACE-Q - Satisfaction with outcome. FACE-Q - Psychological function. FACE-Q -
      Satisfaction with skin. FACE-Q - Social function. Rosenberg self-Esteem scale (RSES). A
      questionnaire survey of body image and self-esteem was conducted before the intervention, 12
      weeks after the intervention and one month after the end of the intervention.The collected
      data were analyzed by IBM SPSS 24.0 statistical software. The descriptive statistics include
      mean, minimum, maximum, standard deviation, frequency distribution, and percentages; the
      Generalized estimating equation (GEE) were employed to explore the effectiveness of a nurse
      facilitated face care group in patients with schizophrenia after controlling demographic
      data.
    
  