
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the effect of cyproheptadine hydrochloride in the prevention of cancer- or
           treatment-related weight loss (defined as ≥ 5% reduction in weight from baseline
           measurement) in children who are initiating a course of moderately or highly emetic
           chemotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  To investigate the effect of cyproheptadine HCl on the change in weight for age scores
           after 8 weeks of study drug administration in comparison to placebo.

        -  Investigate the relationship between the secondary outcome variables (prealbumin,
           triceps skin fold, mid-upper arm circumference, and weight loss)from baseline to end of
           treatment in each group (treatment and placebo) separately.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to enrolling center
      and steroid use with cancer treatment (yes vs no). Study agent can start anytime up to and
      including day 28 after the first dose of chemotherapy.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral cyproheptadine hydrochloride twice daily for 8 weeks.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive an oral placebo twice daily for 8 weeks.

      Patients undergo weight and height measurements at baseline and at each follow-up visit in
      weeks 4 and 8 to evaluate the effect of cyproheptadine hydrochloride and duration of
      response. Patients or parents complete medicine logs at each follow-up visit in weeks 4 and 8
      to evaluate drug compliance and tolerance. Patients also undergo measures of nutrition; and
      measures of body composition, lean body mass, and fat percentage using standardized equipment
      and procedures for measuring triceps skin fold and mid-arm muscle circumference at baseline
      and at the end of the study.

      Patients undergo blood sample collection at baseline and at the end of the study for
      biomarker studies. Samples are analyzed for pre-albumin levels.
    
  