
    
      Radiation Therapy Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a dose
      level of radiation therapy based on when you join this study. Three (3) dose levels of
      radiation therapy will be tested. Three (3) participants will be enrolled at each dose level.
      The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose level. Each new group will be
      randomly assigned (as in the roll of dice) to one of the dose levels, and the assignment will
      also depend on how the previous participants have done. Participants will not be assigned to
      one of the higher 2 of the 3 dose levels unless the lower dose level is found to be
      tolerable. The first and second groups will receive 12 treatments and the third group will
      receive 14 treatments (Monday through Friday for about 2½ weeks). Your doctor will tell you
      how many treatments you will receive.

      You may be given drugs to help prevent side effects. The study staff will tell you about
      these drugs, how they will be given, and the possible risks.

      Study Visits:

      About 2-4 days before you start radiation therapy, you will have a simulation. During the
      simulation session, a mask will be made of your face and head to keep you still. You will
      also have a computed tomography (CT) scan. This process allows the radiation planning to take
      place. Sedation by an anesthesiologist (anesthesia doctor) will be used if needed for young
      children to allow the radiotherapy to be delivered safely.

      One (1) time a week for 3 weeks, and then 1 time a month (30 days +/- 10 days) for 2 months
      or unless the disease gets worse:

        -  You will have a neurological exam.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will fill out the quality-of-life questionnaire.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have had.

      You will have a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of the brain within 1 month after
      joining the study.

      Length of Treatment:

      You may continue receiving radiation therapy for 12 or 14 treatments. You will no longer be
      able to receive radiation therapy if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects
      occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Follow-up Visits:

      One (1) month after you finish radiation therapy, at 6-8 weeks, then every 2-3 months after
      that from then on, you will have an MRI scan to check the status of the disease. The MRI scan
      will include advanced imaging to learn if the tumor has come back or if there is brain tissue
      damage from the radiation. With this type of imaging, a temporary infusion line with a bigger
      than standard size needle will be inserted to your vein if you do not already have a power
      port-a-cath in place. This may take between 20-30 minutes.

      This is an investigational study. Radiation therapy in this study is delivered using
      FDA-approved and commercially available methods. It is investigational to find the best dose
      of radiation therapy to use for repeat radiation therapy.

      Up to 30 participants will be enrolled in this study.
    
  