
    
      Materials and Methods :

      Subjects:

      Adult ambulatory patients (18 years of age and older) with a clinical diagnosis of myotonic
      dystrophy type I were investigated prospectively as part of routine follow-up, from april
      2008 to june 2010. Patients were clinically evaluated in the department of "Internal
      Medicine" and lung function was assessed in the department of "Pulmonary Function Testing",
      both from the University Hospital of Nancy. Pulmonary tests were ordered for clinical
      indications, not part of a study protocol. The supine evaluation was added of the
      conventional lung function testing. All individual were examined and categorized according to
      a standardized five-point muscular-impairment rating scale, in which a score of 1 indicates
      no muscular impairment, 2 minimal signs without distal weakness except for digit flexors, 3
      distal weakness without proximal weakness except for elbow extensors, 4 moderate proximal
      weakness, and 5 severe weakness (MIRS).

      Lung and respiratory muscle function:

      All pulmonary function tests met or exceeds applicable standards of the European Respiratory
      Society / American Thoracic Society.

      Spirometry was performed in the upright-seated position and in the supine position.
      Respiratory function data were compared with the predicted normal values obtained by the
      European Community for Steel and Coal and expressed as percentage of the normal value. The
      flow/volume curve and lung volumes were respectively assessed by an open-circuit spirometry
      and plethysmography.

      Maximal Inspiratory Pressure (MIP) and Maximal Expiratory Pressure (MEP) were both measured
      in the seated position using a standard flanged mouthpiece.MIP was measured from Residual
      Volume (RV) and MEP was measured from Total Lung Capacity (TLC), both in a standard manner.
      The manoeuvres were repeated at least three times, or until two identical readings were
      obtained, and the best value was taken. Respiratory Muscle Strength (RMS) was defined as the
      mean of MIP and MEP expressed as a percent of the predicted values.

      Arterial sampling and blood gas analysis :

      Arterial blood gases were drawn at rest from the radial artery of the nondominant arm while
      the patient was comfortably seated for at least 10 minutes. A sterile, self-filling and
      disposable pre-heparinized system was used to take 1.5 ml of arterial blood.

      Arterial oxygen partial pressure (PaO2) and arterial carbon dioxide partial pressure (PaCO2)
      were determined within 10 minutes after sampling. Room temperature and barometric pressure
      were recorded on a daily basis and were used to adjust calibrations and measurements. Quality
      control of the blood-gas equipment was performed twice a day, using standard solution.
    
  