
    
      Neoadjuvant therapy is the standard treatment for locally advanced breast cancer and has
      adopted in early breast cancer treatment. A meta-analysis showed no difference between
      neoadjuvant therapy and adjuvant therapy in terms of survival and overall disease
      progression. Therefore, neoadjuvant treatment can be offered as a standard treatment and as
      an alternative to adjuvant treatment to all patients who are expected to be candidates for
      adjuvant systemic chemotherapy. Patients achieved pCR after treatment have superior outcome.

      The taxanes were introduced into clinical practice in the early 1990s, and recent
      meta-analysis showed that compared with anthracycline-containing chemotherapy,
      taxanes-containing regimens significantly reduced the annual breast cancer recurrences and
      deaths. Right now, TAC regimen has widely accepted as adjuvant or neoadjuvant chemotherapy
      regimens in breast cancer treatment.

      Metformin, an inexpensive oral agent commonly used to treat type 2 diabetes, has been
      garnering increasing attention as a potential anti-cancer agent. In neoadjuvant treatment of
      breast cancer, a retrospective clinical study from MDACC reported a significantly increased
      pCR rates to standard neoadjuvant chemotherapy in diabetic breast cancer patients who were
      receiving metformin (24% pCR) compared to diabetics not receiving metformin (8% pCR), with
      intermediate rates in non-diabetics who did not receive metformin (16% pCR), indicating
      metformin may increase pCR rate with neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

      Base on these data, we initiate a prospective study to evaluate docetaxel, epirubicin and
      cyclophosphomide (TEC) with TEC plus metformin in neoadjuvant treatment of breast cancer
      patients. Our aim is to evaluate whether metformin can increase the pCR rate combination with
      TEC regimen in neoadjuvant setting.
    
  