
    
      The new drug options for advanced melanoma include oncogene-targeted therapy (such as
      dabrafenib, trametinib and vemurafenib) and immune checkpoint blockade (such as
      pembrolizumab, nivolumab and ipilimumab). These drugs have shown remarkable efficacy and have
      regulatory approval for metastatic disease. However, most patients with advanced disease
      eventually progress. It is unknown if earlier treatment with systemic therapy after surgery
      improves long term survival or what is the optimal sequencing or combination of therapy. An
      efficient method of assessing drugs and combinations in humans is critical, particularly as
      combinations of molecularly targeted and/or immune therapies may have similar signals for
      efficacy in pre-clinical models, and recapitulation of the human immune system in animal
      models is limited.

      Neoadjuvant clinical trials in patients with resectable but bulky stage III/IV melanoma
      allows for the rapid evaluation of drug activity in humans utilising multiple clinical
      endpoints (metabolic response with Positron Emission Tomography [PET], clinical response with
      Computed Tomography [CT] imaging, pathological response, relapse-free survival and overall
      survival) and translational endpoints (morphological, genetic and immunophenotyping of tumour
      and blood).

      Surgery remains the standard of care for resectable Stage III or IV melanoma, despite the
      recent drug therapy advances described above. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has
      recently expanded the approved use of ipilimumab to include a new use as adjuvant therapy for
      patients with resectable stage III / IV melanoma, to lower the risk of relapse following
      surgery. Neoadjuvant therapy in this group of patients may also result in improved survival
      rates and in the duration of local and distant disease control, with reduced surgical
      morbidity and the potential for early elimination of microscopic metastatic disease.

      There is an emerging and rapidly growing evidence base of the value of combining targeted and
      immunotherapies in a number of histological subtypes of cancers. The support for a potential
      synergy between the two treatment modalities has been established, as has the increased
      toxicity profile. Both single agent BRAF inhibitors and combined BRAF and MEK inhibitors
      induce a marked clonal T cell infiltrate in responding melanoma metastases early during
      treatment (day 7-15), which is transient, and is not present at progression. Concurrently,
      melanoma tumour antigen and the programmed death-ligand 1 (PDL1) expression increase early
      during treatment.

      It is unknown whether there is potential for converting a subset of patients who fail either
      immunotherapy or targeted therapy alone into long-term responders by treating with programmed
      cell death protein 1 (PD-1) inhibitors in conjunction with mitogen-activated protein kinases
      (MAPK) targeted therapies. Furthermore, it is unclear whether the PD-1 inhibitor would be
      best combined sequentially or concurrently with MAPK inhibitors. Mouse models have provided a
      clear rational for combining these treatments upfront, however there is no human tissue
      evidence to guide best combination strategies.

      The question of how best to maximize clinical outcome via concurrent versus sequential
      targeted and immune therapy may be explored efficiently in the human neoadjuvant setting,
      with detailed interrogation of multiple biopsies early during treatment. Immunological,
      proteomic and genetic features in tissue and blood provide an in vivo assessment of tumour
      responsiveness to therapy. This may enable more selective application of therapeutic agents
      to patients who are more likely to benefit. Such findings would improve the therapeutic index
      and cost effectiveness of these agents. Earlier systemic therapy prior to surgery also means
      earlier targeting of distant micrometastases that could become the source of future disease
      relapse.

      The rationale for this study design is therefore based on the hypothesis that one week of
      targeted therapy may be sufficient to induce an enhanced tumoral immunity to result in a
      higher pathological and clinical response using the 'Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid
      Tumors' (RECIST) guidelines when followed sequentially with pembrolizumab, than either
      pembrolizumab alone or the combination of targeted therapy and pembrolizumab upfront.

      The potential for toxicities that could affect adherence to the combined study treatments are
      recognised, as additive, overlapping or unforeseen adverse events may occur with the triple
      combination. The adverse event profiles and safety-related interruption to treatment will
      therefore be assessed in conjunction with the objective responses.

      The clinical and translational findings from this study have the potential to inform rational
      decisions regarding combinations of treatment both in the metastatic and the adjuvant
      settings. This is a critical study to inform future practice and future phase 3 clinical
      trials. The translational research performed on tissue biopsies and blood will provide
      mechanistic information to guide the selection of optimal combinations of therapies for phase
      3 studies in the advanced and the adjuvant setting.

      This is a phase II, randomised, open label, three arm, parallel group, clinical trial of
      neoadjuvant combined targeted and immune therapy for patients with BRAF V600 mutant
      resectable stage III (bulky regional stage IIIB-D, but excluding in transit disease)
      melanoma.

      This translational study explores pathological and RECIST response rates for a 6-week
      duration of neoadjuvant therapy across 3 treatment arms. The key secondary outcomes to be
      measured include a detailed analysis of immunologic, proteomic and genetic biomarkers in
      tumour tissue and peripheral blood at weeks 1, 2 and 6 compared to baseline and correlated
      with clinical, metabolic and pathological response to neoadjuvant treatment, and relapse and
      overall survival to adjuvant treatment. In patients who relapse within 40 weeks of adjuvant
      treatment, further analysis of tumour tissue (if possible) will be undertaken. Relapse free
      and overall survival, surgical outcomes and adverse event profile will also be determined.

      Sixty patients will be randomised to one of three treatment groups in a 1:1:1 ratio, with 20
      patients in each treatment arm:

        -  "Sequential immunotherapy": Dabrafenib 150mg orally twice a day + Trametinib 2mg orally
           once a day for 1 week, then followed by treatment with Pembrolizumab 2mg/kg delivered
           intravenously at weeks 1, 3, and 6, then once every 3 weeks from week 6 for 50 weeks.

        -  "Concurrent immunotherapy": Dabrafenib 150mg orally twice a day + Trametinib 2mg orally
           once a day + Pembrolizumab 200mg intravenously once every 3 weeks for 6 weeks then
           Pembrlizuamb alone for a further 46 weeks after surgery.

        -  "Immunotherapy alone": Pembrolizumab 200mg intravenously once every 3 weeks alone for 52
           weeks.

      Allocation of treatment will be concealed prior to randomisation which will be performed via
      a web based system in permuted blocks and stratified by BRAF V600E mutation versus non BRAF
      V600E mutation (i.e. V600D, V600K, V600R, V600M).

      Neoadjuvant treatment for all three arms will be administered for 6 weeks, followed by
      complete resection of tumour to no evidence of disease. Surgery is followed by 46 weeks of
      pembrolizumab adjuvant therapy or until disease relapse, death, intolerable adverse drug
      reactions or by withdrawal of patient consent. After 52 weeks of the study treatment phase,
      patients will be followed 3 monthly for relapse (and progression, following relapse) and
      survival for 5 years.

      The biomarker component of this study will require blood samples and core biopsies of tumour
      tissue at the following time points:

        -  Baseline (PRE)

        -  Week 1 (EDT 1)

        -  Week 2 (EDT 2)

        -  Week 6 - complete lymph node dissection specimen (POST)

        -  At Relapse (RELAPSE) if applicable and available

      Surveillance of disease during the 6 week neoadjuvant period will be undertaken with surgical
      assessments and with ultrasounds of the affected lymph node basin.
    
  