
    
      STUDY POPULATION

      This is a multi-centre study involving institutions in British Columbia, Ontario and Quebec.
      The study population will be drawn from patients cared for as inpatients or outpatients at
      the participating hospitals. Such patients will have a test positive for Clostridium
      difficile and will be receiving treatment. The trial will involve only adult patients 18
      years of age and older.

      Criteria for Recruitment

      The microbiology laboratory will notify the study team about a positive CDI test via
      telephone, email, or fax. The nature of recruitment will then depend on the inpatient status
      of the patient at the time of the test.

      Inpatients:

      Pre-existing approval for approaching patients for this study will be obtained from the
      relevant department heads. The study team will speak with a member of the inpatient treating
      team (resident physician or faculty physician as appropriate) to determine if the patient is
      appropriate for recruitment. If this seems to be the case, the patient's file will be rapidly
      screened to determine eligibility and if the patient is eligible they will be approached for
      consent.

      Outpatients:

      The physician who ordered the C. difficile test will be contracted to determine if the
      patient is appropriate for recruitment. At the invitation of this physician, the
      investigators will then contact the patient via telephone to evaluate suitability for
      inclusion and arrange an intake visit.

      RANDOMIZATION

      For patients who have enrolled in the study, randomization will occur centrally at McGill via
      an existing internet application (such as https://cloudtrials.mchi.mcgill.ca/) and will be
      performed by permuted block with randomized block sizes. This randomization will be
      stratified for first episode or first recurrence at study entry to ensure these factors are
      properly balanced.

      TRIAL SCHEDULE

        -  Day 1: Patient diagnosed with C. difficile -> Determine eligibility and obtain
           permission for approach

        -  Day 7-10 (Patient's C. difficile has improved and meets eligibility): Consent obtained;
           randomization; distribution of study drug for day 14 start -> Collection of
           demographics, storage of stool.

        -  Day 14-28 -> Receipt of study therapy

        -  Day 28: In person visit

        -  Day 56: In person visit -> Primary outcome determined, quality of life questionnaire

        -  Day 90: Study ends for the patient -> Secondary outcomes can be determined

        -  weekly until Day 56: Brief questionnaire -> By email/text/phone

        -  biweekly after Day 56: Brief questionnaire -> By email/text/phone

        -  Ad hoc: If patient has symptoms of recurrence of C. difficile -> Review by ID physician
           in clinic if possible, otherwise usual doctors or emergency room

      Patients will be able to come be assessed for potential relapse by infectious diseases
      physicians at each site (who may or may not be a part of the study) or could see their usual
      doctors.

      SAMPLE SIZE AND STATISTICAL METHODS

      The estimated number of CDI cases available has been based on fiscal year 2016 data: total of
      1770 per year.

      The risk of recurrence is estimated at 25%. The investigators aim to demonstrate that an
      initial tapering regimen is associated with an absolute decrease in the risk of relapse of at
      least 10% (number needed to treat of 10) which would be similar to than the effect seen
      within 40 days in the fidaxomicin trial. This estimate accounts for our longer period of
      follow up and will allow some flexibility in the actual recurrence rate found in our control
      arm. With 80% power and a type 1 error of 5%, this would require 276 patients to complete
      follow up in each arm (total 552).
    
  