
    
      Rationale & hypothesis - Both, management of multi-morbidity and efficient collaboration
      between specialized care and community-based services are unmet needs that can be overcome by
      implementation of structured, but flexible, service workflows. That is, an ACM approach, as
      well as appropriate patient health risks assessment and stratification.

      The service workflow has two sequential phases with specific target outcomes for each of
      them: i) Short-term (30 and 90 days after hospital discharge) prevention of hospital-related
      events after hospital discharge; and ii) Intervention aiming at long-term enhanced CCP
      management.

      Objectives - To assess the impact of ICT-supported ACM on: i) reduction of early
      hospital-related events including hospital re-admissions, visits to emergency department and
      mortality; and, ii) Health value generation of the long-term intervention, defined as target
      outcomes achieved relative to their costs.Detailed outcomes include the eleven indicators
      recommended by the Spanish Health System covering the following dimensions: i)
      Characteristics of the study groups and health status (i.e, Users attended in primary care
      and, Health-related quality of life of patients and caregivers); ii) Intermediate outcomes
      (Emergency Department visits; General Practitioner visits; Cumulative days per year admitted
      in hospital; Poli-medication; Potentially avoidable hospitalizations; Hospital readmissions;
      Needs for social support); iii) Empowerment (Unhealthy life styles); and, iv) Structure
      (Access to ICT-supported integrated care). Moreover, through the program lifespan progresses
      consolidated by the International Consortium for Health Outcomes Measurement (ICHOM) will be
      incorporated.

      Study design - The large-scale deployment will be evaluated as an observational study with a
      matched control group. Assessment will be done by an independent team. The number of patients
      to be included in the implementation study is approximately one-thousand individuals per
      year, including both conventional hospitalization and home hospitalization as recruitment
      sources.

      Intervention - The general structure of the service workflow for the intervention group is as
      follows:

      Case identification. Identification of candidates for inclusion into the program following
      the pre-defined inclusion/exclusion Case evaluation. During hospital admission or home
      hospitalization. A holistic characterization should be performed covering a threefold aim: i)
      Comprehensive assessment of each individual's need for health and social support; ii)
      Individualized pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatment, including adherence and
      self-management interventions needs; iii) Identification of short and long-term clinical
      requirements; and, iv) Assessment of barriers that may limit fulfilment of the program.

      Personalized work plan definition - Personalized action plan based on case evaluation.

      Work plan execution, follow-up and event handling with the support provided by information
      and communication technologies (ICT) that facilitate the program follow up and the handling
      of unexpected events by: i) fostering patient empowerment for self-management; ii) enhance
      patient adherence to the program; iii) facilitating remote supervision; and, iv) allowing
      patient monitoring.

      Discharge - At the end of the program evaluation.Eventually, it can be moved to other types
      of integrated care services depending upon his/her needs.

      The intervention is implemented by a multidisciplinary team from the hospital and from the
      Primary Care, of advanced-practice nurses, physicians, physiotherapists, community nurses,
      social workers having a general practitioner as a reference.

      The collaboration between specialized care and primary care is guided by the reform of
      specialized care in the healthcare sectors initiated in 2006. Both teams share ICT-supported
      tools.

      The intervention during hospital admission includes four key features: 1) A comprehensive
      assessment of the patient at entry; 2) A two-hour educational program administered at entry
      by a nurse followed by distribution of patient-specific support material.

      Intervention after hospital discharge a) Phone call at 24 hours; b) Home visit at 72 hours
      after discharge. Accessibility to the point of care available 24 hours/day; PHF, as
      self-management tool and appointment at 1m after discharge.

      After the transitional phase, the advanced-practice nurses perform regular training sessions
      to the community-based care teams, facilitate high accessibility to specialized care as
      needed and support functionalities of the PHF for the patients admitted into the program.

      The number of home care visits, as well as access to specialized care, during the follow-up
      12 month period is individually tailored, and dynamically adapted, to patient needs.
      Moreover, planned visits by specialized professionals can be scheduled through the day
      hospital or home visits if this was deemed necessary by primary care teams.

      ICT- Support - The three main actors, namely: i) the healthcare professionals with access to
      an adaptive case management system for work plan prescription, follow-up, coaching, and
      care-coordination across healthcare tiers; ii) the adaptive case management system supporting
      execution of the patient work plan and providing a bridge of interoperability and
      collaborative tools among the patient (through the PHF), the case manager and the electronic
      medical record; and, iii) the patient, with access to the PHF wherein she/he can answer
      questionnaires, perform monitoring through mHealth apps, and have access to a follow-up
      reports and tailored educational information.

      Control group - Patients assigned to usual care will follow conventional treatment, being
      managed by their physician without support by the multidisciplinary team, as described above
      for the intervention group.

      Clinical assessment - Evaluation will be done by an independent team at baseline and after
      the 12-month follow-up. The questionnaires are those used by the integrated care team with
      additions designed to capture patient empowerment characteristics: mental status, activities
      of daily living, anxiety and depression, health-related quality of life; acute episodes
      requiring emergency department consultations and/or hospital admissions within the healthcare
      sector will be assessed using shared registries from the public health system. Moreover, core
      outcomes, will be assessed from public registries.

      Data analysis- A sample size of 200 patients per group was necessary to recognize
      statistically significant effects of the intervention. The estimated number of patients
      identified during the screening process (one-thousand per year) is markedly higher than
      minimum required, thus ensuring enough statistical power.

      Results will be expressed as mean and standard deviation (SD), or as number and percentages,
      in the corresponding categories. Comparisons between the two study groups on admission and at
      12 months will be performed using unpaired Student t-test for continuous variables, if
      variables to be compared have two categories; and, chi-square tests for non-continuous
      variables. Changes within each group were assessed by paired analysis (for example using
      paired t test). The effects of the intervention on mortality and time to admission will be
      analyzed respectively using multivariate logistic and Cox regression models, adjusted for
      baseline differences between groups. We will build saturated models introducing all of the
      covariates which result statistically significant during bivariate assessment. After this, we
      will build parsimonious models by excluding, one to one, all of the variables not significant
      according to the Wald test p-value. Finally, we will decide the final model, comparing the
      saturated with the parsimonious models, according to the likelihood ratio test.Statistical
      significance is set at a p value less than 0.05. Analyses will be done with SPSS release 20.

      Additionally, qualitative assessment of technology will be done using standard questionnaires
      and through focus groups.
    
  