
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate time to prostate-specific antigen (PSA) progression based on Prostate Cancer
      Working Group (PCWG2) criteria.

      II. To evaluate PSA response (proportion of patients achieving a PSA decline > 50% according
      to PCWG2 criteria in patients receiving linsitinib [OSI-906]).

      III. To evaluate overall response rate (ORR) in patients with Response Evaluation Criteria in
      Solid Tumors (RECIST)-defined measurable disease receiving OSI-906.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the effect of OSI-906 on time-to opiate use for cancer pain. II. To evaluate
      the effect of OSI-906 on radiographic progression-free survival (rPFS) of patients with
      asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic (non-opioid requiring) castrate-resistant prostate cancer
      (CRPC).

      III. To evaluate the overall survival (OS) of patients with asymptomatic or mildly
      symptomatic (non-opioid requiring) CRPC receiving OSI-906.

      IV. To further evaluate the safety of OSI-906 in patients with asymptomatic or mildly
      symptomatic (non-opioid requiring) CRPC.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the effects of OSI-906 in the levels of androstenedione,
      dehydroepiandrostenedione (DHEA), DHEA-sulfate, p insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor
      (IGF-IR), and p-insulin receptor (IR). (Exploratory) II. To describe the effects of OSI-906
      in the levels of transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta (b1), interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor
      necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha (a), and monocyte chemotactic protein 1 (MCP-1) as markers of
      metastatic progression. (Exploratory) III. To describe the effects of OSI-906 on the number
      of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and endothelial cells (CECs). (Exploratory) IV. To use
      ribonucleic acid (RNA) extracted from CTCs to evaluate effects on downstream targets of
      IGF-1R signaling after OSI-906 treatment. (Exploratory) V. To measure the effect of OSI-906
      on the expression of IGF-1R on CTCs. (Exploratory)

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive linsitinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every
      28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo
      serum and plasma sample collection at baseline, on day 1 of courses 2 and 4, and after
      completion of study treatment for correlative studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year,
      every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  