
    
      The conceptual framework for the study is built on a foundation of three models found in the
      literature. The first of these is Gross's model of emotional regulation (ER), a goal-oriented
      linear process allowing for interventions at different phases in the experience. The
      individual has choices to: (1) avoid a situation all together; (2) deflect or distract from
      the situation; (3) reframe the situation; (4) or manage the physiological reactions. Adding
      on to this model, Koole expanded the framework, and reclassified the processes as tasks
      toward a goal, while adding an array of functions for each task. This includes where he/she
      is focusing, what he/she is thinking, and how he/she is responding. This allows the
      individual more choices in managing the emotions, depending on what he/she is trying to
      achieve. Finally, applying a taxonomy developed by Webb et al. (2012) of interventions to
      this framework, the identification of types of interventions is clarified. The framework is
      then applied to the proposed intervention, CARESS.

      The proposed study will investigate a specific intervention and its efficacy at managing the
      acute effects for cravings, drug and drinking refusal self-efficacy, physiological responses,
      and affect disturbance for those with problematic substance use behaviors. The intervention
      is a one-time treatment session using CARESS in comparison to a control group who do not
      receive CARESS for those with problematic substance use behaviors. The aim is to investigate
      the difference in variances between pre, post, and follow up measurements for cravings, drug
      and drinking refusal skill self-efficacy, affect disturbance, and physiological responses for
      a one-time treatment session using CARESS in comparison to a control group for those with
      problematic substance use behaviors.

      This is the initial study with respect to CARESS overall
    
  