
    
      Background:

      Obesity is rapidly becoming one of the more serious public health challenges of this century,
      especially when considering that overweight and obese children are likely to stay obese into
      adulthood and are at a higher risk of developing chronic diseases at a younger age. The need
      for changes to modifiable risk factors associated with obesity and chronic diseases is
      paramount. Physical activity is associated with the reduction of several chronic diseases in
      adults, including breast cancer, colorectal cancer, CVD, stroke, high blood pressure, type 2
      diabetes, osteoporosis, and hypertension. In children 5 to 17 years old, physical activity
      and high physical fitness help guard against high blood pressure, high blood cholesterol,
      metabolic syndrome, low bone density, depression, injuries, and obesity. Unfortunately in
      Canada, well over half the adult population, and almost half the child population, are not
      active enough to reap these health benefits. Children spend considerable time within the care
      of their parents, and indeed parents appear to be the 'gatekeepers' of children and their
      experiences during family time. Our review of 34 intergenerational studies showed that
      parental support was synonymous with physical activity in their children. Thus, focusing on
      the parent as a means to changing youth physical activity appears a necessity. At present,
      physical activity interventions focused on the family are limited and have resulted in
      negligible changes. A recent review of these studies demonstrated very low success in
      producing behavior change - considerably lower than the comparable adult literature. The
      authors suggest that focused research attention needs to be placed on the family in order to
      improve our current practice of physical activity promotion. Our pilot study [15], which
      serves as the template for this research proposal, demonstrated that focused planning on
      when, what, how, where, and overcoming other expected barriers followed by prompts and cues
      resulted in a significant change in physical activity over the more standard
      persuasion/education approach. The following proposal is an extension of this line of
      successful research with improvements to the methodological rigor and sample generalizability
      used in the pilot study.

      Target population:

      The targeted population will be inactive families within the Greater Victoria Area, British
      Columbia.

      Sample size:

      A total of 160 families will be recruited (n=80 per group).

      Intervention:

      The intervention will follow the prior work conducted in our successful pilot trial. The
      standard (comparison group) package will consist of Canada's family guide to physical
      activity guidelines recommending 60 minutes of activity a day in bouts as short as five to
      ten minutes for children and a breakdown of ways for the family to achieve this physical
      activity (structured, unstructured, endurance, strength, activities, less than 60 minutes of
      sustained sedentary activity, reduce screen viewing by 30 min per day) commensurate with this
      guide. This will include the new insert by CSEP. The guide also contains arguments and
      information about the benefits of physical activity.

      The intervention condition will receive the same guidelines as the comparison condition but
      will also be provided with family physical activity planning material. This material will
      include skill training content (workbook how to plan for family physical activity) and
      practical material to create a plan (i.e., a colourful dry erase wall calendar for family
      activities with fridge magnets). The skill training material for planning is based on several
      streams of prior work in the adult physical activity literature. Families were instructed to
      plan for "when," "where," "how," and "what" physical activity will be performed commensurate
      with the creation of implementation intentions/action planning. The workbook, however, also
      focuses on problem solving barriers to physical activity which is more akin to coping
      planning and traditional goal setting. The design of all material was created for the pilot
      study and features graphic design and colour images that represent family physical activity.
    
  