
    
      This is an open-label, single arm pilot study in participants prescribed low or medium dose
      ICS/LABA inhaled therapy and poorly controlled asthma to quantify hyperpolarized 129Xe MRI
      VDP before and after six weeks of therapy with FF/UMEC/VI 200/62.5/25 ug QD. Male and females
      between 18 and 70 years of age will provide written informed consent to five visits including
      screening (Visit 1 week -2), baseline (Visit 2 week 0), mid-study Visit 3 in week 3, study
      end (Visit 4, week +6) and safety follow-up (Visit 5 week +8). The general study procedures
      are the same for Visit 1/Day -14, Visit 2/Day 0 and Visit 4/Day 42. Visit 3/Day 21 is an
      optional clinic visit or phone call. Visit 5 is a phone call check-in for adverse events.

      For Visits 1, 2 and 4, participants are to withhold their medication as previously described.
      Vital signs will be recorded at the beginning of the visit. FeNO, spirometry,
      plethysmography, FOT, MBNW and 129Xe MRI will be performed pre-bronchodilator. FeNO will be
      performed before all other pulmonary function testing. Following 129Xe MRI, all participants
      will inhale 4 puffs (100mcg each) of a bronchodilator and quietly rest for 15 minutes. After
      15 minutes, participants will undergo post-bronchodilator 129Xe MRI, and once MRI is
      complete, participants will undergo post-bronchodilator spirometry, plethysmography, FOT and
      MBNW. SGRQ, ACQ-6 and AQLQ will be administered after post-bronchodilator assessments are
      completed. For Visit 3, participants who choose to attend an in-person visit are to withhold
      their medication as described and the process for Visits 1, 2 and 4 will be followed.
      Participants who choose a phone call Visit 3 will be asked a series of questions regarding
      their breathing, asthma control and general health and they will complete the SGRQ, ACQ and
      AQLQ. For all participants, Visit 5 will entail a phone call check-in for adverse events. CT
      will be acquired at Visit 2, whilst MRI will be acquired on Visits 2, 4 and for those who
      prefer an in person visit, on Visit 3.
    
  