
    
      This study consists of two periods:

        1. Run-in Period (7-14 days): During the Run-in Period, subjects will maintain their
           current inhaled short-acting B2-agonist and inhaled corticosteroid therapies. All
           long-acting b-agonists (LABA) will be prohibited and replaced with a short-acting
           B2-agonist (Ventolin-HFA) and an inhaled corticosteroid, for a minimum of 7 days. Such
           LABA replacement therapy is not considered as violation of the asthma stability. The
           current orally inhaled corticosteroids may be maintained at the prescribed dosing
           regimen. All concomitant medications must be compliant or adjusted to the restrictions
           and washout time limits per Appendix II. Subjects will document their daily asthma
           symptom scores, treatment regimens, concomitant medications, PEF records, and adverse
           events if any.

        2. Study Period (4 wk): During the 4-week Study Period, subjects will be randomized into
           one of the following 2 double-blinded treatment groups:

             -  Treatment T (Albuterol-HFA, N=24): 216 mcg albuterol sulfate (equivalent to 180 mcg
                albuterol base), oral inhalation, QID;

             -  Treatment R (Proventil-HFA, N=24): 216 mcg albuterol sulfate (equivalent to 180 mcg
                albuterol base), oral inhalation, QID.

      During the Study Period, subjects will document their daily asthma symptom scores, treatment
      regimens, concomitant medications, PEF records, and adverse events if any. Three Clinical
      Visits are to be conducted, for measurement of treatment efficacy with serial spirometry (at
      Clinical Visit 1 and 3); for monitoring safety and compliance (at Clinical Visit 1, 2 and 3);
      and for evaluating pharmacokinetic profiles in part of the study population (greater than or
      equal to 6 subjects per Arm) using a population PK approach (PPK) with a sparse blood
      sampling regimen (at Clinical Visit 3).

      STUDY POPULATION

      Sufficient enrollment will be planned to obtain 48 subjects as "Per protocol population",
      with 24 in Albuterol-HFA (Arm T) and 24 in the Proventil-HFA (Arm R). Qualified subjects
      should be:

        1. Male and female patients aged 4 - 11 years (upon screening), and female patients being
           premenarchal upon Visit-1.

        2. With documented mild-to-moderate asthma for at least 6 months prior to screening;

        3. Being able to reliably perform spirometric FEV1 test;

        4. Consent, under supervision of a parent or a legal guardian, to participate in the study;

        5. Having a baseline forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) that is 50.0%-100.0% of
           predicted values at screening (Screening Baseline FEV1);

        6. Demonstrating a greater than or equal to 12.0% FEV1 reversibility in the Reversibility
           Test, at 30 min after inhaling 180 mcg of Ventolin-HFA;

        7. Satisfying the criterion of asthma stability, defined as no significant changes in
           asthma therapy and no asthma-related hospitalization or emergency visits, over 4 weeks
           prior to the screening;

        8. Satisfying the Run-in Period requirements;

        9. Satisfying all other inclusion/exclusion criteria, as specified in Section 4.2.

      TREATMENT REGIMENS

      Enrolled subjects will be randomized to receive one of the 2 double-blinded treatments:
      Albuterol-HFA (Treatment T) or Proventil-HFA (Treatment R).

      CLINICAL VISITS:

      The entire study consists of a Screening Period, a Run-in Period, and a Study Period which
      consists of three (3) Clinical Visits. The three (3) Clinical Visits are scheduled with 14±3
      days intervals, as Visit 1 (Day 0 of treatment), Visit 2 (Day 14), and Visit 3 (Day 28). The
      Clinical Visit 1 will be held within 7-14 days after Screening Visit. Serial FEV1 are
      performed at Visit 1 and 3. Safety and compliance are evaluated at all 3 Visits. Population
      PK (PPK) blood sampling is conducted at Visit 3.

      METHODOLOGIES AND SPECIFIC MEASUREMENTS

        1. Forced Expiratory Volume at 1st Second (FEV1)

           Spirometry is to be used to determine Forced Expiratory Volume in the 1st second (FEV1).
           Patient may choose either a standing or a sitting position for FEV1. The position, once
           chosen, should be kept consistent for the entire study. Nose clips will be worn for the
           FEV1 measurements.

           Each FEV1 is measured in triplicate at a given test or a given time point. The highest
           FEV1 volume, from the triplicate attempts, is used as the representative value. The
           highest and second highest FEV1 attempts should not differ by greater than 0.2 L. Up to
           2 additional attempts may be measured if necessary, with a total of 3-5 attempts allowed
           for a given test. The accepted attempts have to be technically conforming to the current
           spirometry standards from the American Thoracic Society (ATS). The current clinical
           normative lung volumes in conformity with the ATS guidelines will be used for
           calculating the predicted percentage.

        2. Peak Expiratory Flow (PEF) Rate

      PEF will be measured as a means of monitoring safety and asthma control. PEF will be measured
      in triplicate, with additional attempts if necessary. The highest PEF volume is used as the
      representative value. Two measurements of PEF are made daily, once prior to the first AM dose
      and once prior to the last PM dose of the study drug. Subject will be standing for PEF
      measurements. No nose-clips will be needed for PEF.

      2) Screening Baseline FEV1

      Passing the Screening Baseline FEV1 test is one of the prerequisites for enrollment, and is
      to be conducted at the Screening Visit by all subjects. The Screening Baseline FEV1 should
      fall within 50.0%-100.0% of the predicted value to qualify the subject.

      3) Reversibility FEV1 Test

      Reversibility FEV1 Test will be performed at the Screening Visit. Within 30 min after the
      Screening Baseline FEV1 is obtained, the subject will self-administer 180 to 360 mcg
      Ventolin-HFA (2-4 inhalations). To qualify for the study, the subject needs to demonstrate an
      FEV1 reversibility of greater than or equal to 12.0%, from the (same-day) Screening Baseline
      FEV1, with 3 to 8 attempts, at 30 min after inhaling Ventolin-HFA. Reversibility is defined
      as:

      % Reversibility = [(FEV1 postdose ~ FEV1 predose)/FEV1 predose] x 100%

      Up to two-time re-tests of the Reversibility FEV1 Test will be allowed if the highest
      attempted reversibility value is less than 12.0% but greater than or equal to 6.0, if deemed
      necessary by the investigator, with screening period extendable to a total of 21 days.

      4) Serial FEV1 measurements of study drug efficacy

      Response to the study drugs (T and R) is examined by serial spirometric measurements of FEV1
      post-dose. Serial FEV1 will be conducted at each of the following time points during Study
      Visits 1 and 3:

        1. at baseline (within 30 minutes prior to study drug dosing).

        2. at 10, 30, 45, 60, 120, 180, 240, 300, and 360 minutes after dosing.

      POPULATION PHARMACOKINETIC (PPK) EVALUATION

      At clinical Visit 3, a sufficient number of patients will be subject to a population
      pharmacokinetic (PPK) study to obtain a minimum of 6 subjects per arm with complete and
      correct 4 PK samples. An indwelling IV catheter may be used, as an alternative to repeated
      venipunctures, for PPK samples. An appropriate anticoagulant may be used to maintain the
      catheter patency. Four blood samples (~5.0 mL each) will be taken from a hand or forearm vein
      of the subject, at pre-scheduled 4 time points: 2, 4, 6 and 8 hr post-dose (each with a ±15
      min window). No inhalation of the study drug or rescue medication should take place until
      completion of the 8-hr PK sampling, unless needed for rescue, at which point the subject will
      not be considered evaluable for the PK endpoint.
    
  