
    
      Up to 6 sequential ascending dose cohorts are planned to be dosed in a sequential manner in
      Part 1 of the study. Eight subjects will be treated with a single dose of the study drug per
      dose cohort (6 subjects per cohort will receive BCX9930 and 2 subjects per cohort will
      receive matching placebo). Escalation to the next higher dose level will occur only after
      completion of a review of clinical safety and pharmacokinetics by the Sponsor and PI.

      Up to 7 ascending, multiple dose cohorts will be enrolled in a sequential manner in Part 2 of
      the study. In Cohorts 1 through 3, twelve subjects will be treated with either a 7-day or
      14-day course of study drug (10 subjects per cohort will receive BCX9930 and 2 subjects per
      cohort will receive matching placebo) administered orally. In Cohorts 4 through 7, twelve
      subjects will be treated with a 3-day course of study drug (10 subjects per cohort will
      receive BCX9930 and 2 subjects per cohort will receive matching placebo) administered orally.
      The daily dose may be split into 2 times daily (BID) or 3 times daily (TID) dosing for the
      multiple ascending dose part as needed. Escalation to the next higher dose level in Part 2
      will occur only after completion of a review of clinical safety and pharmacokinetics by the
      Sponsor and PI.

      Part 3 of the study consists of up to 2 sequential ascending multiple dose cohorts of up to 8
      subjects; each cohort may enroll up to 4 subjects with PNH who are naïve to both eculizumab
      and ravulizumab and up to 4 subjects with PNH who are currently being treated with either
      eculizumab or ravulizumab. In each cohort, subjects will receive one daily dose of BCX9930 on
      Days 1 to 14 and a higher daily dose on Days 15 to 28. Cohort 2 will start after independent
      data monitoring committee (DMC) review of Cohort 1 data and communication of their evaluation
      to Part 3 investigators. In South Africa, subjects that have clinical benefit from BCX9930
      will be allowed to continue dosing for up to 48 weeks.
    
  