
    
      Postoperative incision complications and surgical site infections are risks for patients
      undergoing surgery. While most surgical incisions heal without complications, postoperative
      complications, such as erythema, blistering, maceration, scarring, necrosis, and infection,
      interfere with the normal healing process. Preventing such complications must be a priority,
      as they may contribute to longer recovery times, as well as increased hospital stays, costs,
      and morbidity.

      Ideally, surgical incision dressings should exhibit the following characteristics:

        -  promote a moist environment;

        -  be absorbent, but transparent so fluid accumulation and other complications may be
           observed;

        -  be permeable;

        -  be low adherent to facilitate removal from skin;

        -  act as a complete barrier to bacteria and water, but not to moisture vapor; and

        -  feature some flexibility to avoid restricted limb movement and postoperative edema in
           the incision area [Chen et al; Collins].

      However, despite advances in wound dressing designs, there is no consensus regarding the
      ideal surgical incision dressing. One emerging dressing modality exhibits these key
      characteristics. This novel activated carbon cloth dressing is low-adherent, comprised of
      100% pure activated carbon and also conforms to body contours to maintain contact with the
      incision surface.

      This randomized, prospective clinical trial will compare this activated carbon cloth dressing
      to two other commercially-available wound dressings, including a non-adherent antimicrobial
      alginate dressing with silver and a non-adhering knitted cellulose acetate mesh dressing
      soaked in Povidone-iodine. The primary endpoint is incision coaptation/closure. Secondary
      endpoints include incision/scar appearance, such as inflammation and edema, odor, pain,
      patient satisfaction, and number of dressing changes.
    
  