
    
      Breast-cancer related lymphoedema (BCRL) is a common phenomenon. Estimates of incidence rates
      have varied over time, especially since the progression to less invasive techniques as
      sentinel node procedures and radiotherapy. According to a review article of DiSipio the
      incidence of arm lymphedema was about four times higher in women who had an axillary lymph
      node dissection (18 studies; 19.9%, 13.5-28.2) than in those who had sentinel lymph node
      biopsy (18 studies; 5.6%, 6.1-7.9). Several other risk factors are already suggested as
      having a negative impact on the development of lymphedema such as BMI and chemotherapy. A
      comprehensive overview of all treatment related risk factors and patient related risk
      factors, including demographics, has not been reported yet.

      Lymphedema is identified with upper limb volume measurements eg circumference measurements,
      water displacement and perometer. Bioimpedance spectroscopy can also be used to assess the
      extracellular fluid. A 10% limb volume change has been reported as the most accurate
      threshold to diagnose lymphedema. However, with this definition an underestimation of the
      incidence rate of lymphoedema is made. Therefore, recently a threshold of 5% limb volume
      change is proposed.

      A study by Rockson et al suggested that in almost 75 % of the cases, lymphoedema is
      established in the first year after breast cancer treatment. But up to two years after
      surgery, there still is a possibility to develop lymphoedema.

      Early diagnosis and treatment is very important to alter the normal progression of this
      disease. A threshold (>= 3% volume change) that recognizes subclinical lymphedema is
      promoted.

      When the lymphedema is diagnosed late, options for treatment are diminished as fibrous tissue
      is formed.

      During near-infrared fluorescence lymphography (lymphofluoroscopy), a fluorescent substance
      is injected subcutaneously in the hand and the transport of lymph is visualized from the hand
      up to the axilla. A normal transport is defined as a linear image and an abnormal transport
      as a dermal backflow image. The dermal backflow image is divided in three different
      classifications according to the severity.

      Preoperative investigation with near-infrared fluorescence lymphography can show an
      abnormality. Even if a linear transport is visualized, velocity of the transport can be
      diminished or a different pathway than normal can be visualized. Such an extensive evaluation
      has not been performed yet.

      This lymphofluoroscopy gives an opportunity to detect lymphedema earlier than clinically
      visible (subclinical).

      The investigators hypothesize that the evolution of lymphedema can be altered if treatment is
      started in the subclinical phase.
    
  