
    
      This was a phase-3, multicenter, multinational, randomized (patients are assigned different
      treatments based on chance), active-controlled, double-blind, multiple-ascending-dose,
      parallel-group study in adult patients with cancer pain who receive and/or require strong
      oral or transdermal opioid analgesics (60-540 mg of oral morphine equivalents daily). This
      study consisted of 2 phases: an initial immediate release (IR) phase and a subsequent slow
      release (SR) phase. Eligible patients were randomized 1:1 to receive either OROS
      hydromorphone HCl or morphine sulfate (immediate release formulation in the immediate release
      phase, slow release formulation in the slow release phase). In the immediate release phase
      (2-9 days), patients were started on the appropriate initial dose of immediate release
      medication every 4 hours (q4h), (6 doses/day) using a 5:1 conversion ratio (morphine
      equivalents:hydromorphone dosage). If the patient had greater than 3 breakthrough-pain
      episodes requiring additional pain medication in 24 hours, the study medication dosage was
      increased, at most once a day. When the patient had achieved dose-stable pain control (2 days
      with 3 or less than 3 breakthrough-pain episodes per day), the patient was permitted to
      continue into the slow release phase. The patient was given an equivalent dosage of a slow
      release formulation of the same drug (OROS® hydromorphone HCL each day or morphine sulfate
      slow release two times per day), administered using a double-dummy technique. Dosage
      increases were permitted every 2 days if the patient had more than 3 breakthrough-pain
      episodes in 24 hours. To complete the slow release phase, patients had to achieve dose-stable
      pain control for at least 2 days.Safety assessments of physical examination, labs and adverse
      event reporting were done. OROS hydromorphone HCL slow release 8, 16, 32, and 64mg tablets;
      Morphine sulfate immediate release10, 20, 50 mg capsules;Morphine sulfate slow release 5, 30,
      60, 90, 120, 160, and 200mg capsules;hydromorphone immediate release 2, 4, 8 mg;The immediate
      release medications orally every 4 hours;The OROS hydromorphone slow release formulation
      orally every 24 hours and morphine slow release orally twice daily.
    
  