
    
      Intestinal plasma fatty acid binding proteins (i-FABP) have been introduced as a powerful
      marker for the diagnosis of intestinal ischemia. Based on several small studies, this marker
      is referred to as a sensitive indicator for intestinal ischemia. I-FABP is characterized by
      its short half-time of eleven minutes in blood circulation, which might allow "real-time"
      monitoring of necrotic intestinal segments.

      Subjects meeting the in-/exclusion criteria will undergo five to six blood collections: one
      baseline assessment before revascularization, three assessments directly after angiographic
      intervention (5/30/120 minutes), and one assessment after 24 hours. An additional blood
      collection will be performed in patients who underwent subsequent surgery. In addition,
      clinical exams of the patient are carried out.

      Subjects will be observed for 72 hours after percutaneous revascularization and
      retrospectively classified depending on the clinical course: recovering patients or patients
      undergoing surgery without signs of necrotic segments will be attributed to group A. Patients
      in whom intestinal necrosis is confirmed by surgery or autopsy will belong to group B. For
      all patients, clinical and laboratory findings will be reported in a descriptive manner.

      To evaluate whether the post-interventional course of plasmatic i-FABP is a reliable
      predictor for successful revascularization, the minimum level of i-FABP at the time points 5,
      30 and 120 Minutes is divided by the baseline (= before intervention) level of i-FABP. This
      ratio (R) reflects the decrease (or increase) of i-FABP after revascularization. Receiver
      operating characteristic (ROC)-analysis will be carried out and the area under the curve will
      be determined for different R-values (e.g. 0.3, 0.5, 0.7).

      We postulate that patients with fully re-established intestinal blood flow and vital
      intestines will display a significant drop of plasmatic i-FAPB within 24 hours, while
      patients requiring subsequent intestinal resection due to irreversible bowel necrosis will
      not.
    
  