
    
      It is generally agreed that the increasing incidence of obesity mainly is caused by the
      adoption of a sedentary lifestyle combined with excessive caloric intake. So far, preventive
      measures and interventions based on lifestyle modifications have not been able to affect the
      western lifestyle to a degree that remedies the increasing prevalence of obesity. Likewise,
      no medical interventions have yet been able to induce and maintain significant major weight
      loss in obese populations. In contrast, bariatric surgery prompts a significant and often
      sustained weight loss, which frequently triggers remission of obesity-related comorbidities.
      However, bariatric surgery is invasive, irreversible and costly. Aspiration therapy was
      introduced as a less invasive and cheaper treatment for obesity. According to some studies,
      aspiration therapy is nearly as effective as Roux-en-Y gastric bypass in terms of excess
      weight loss after one year. Thus, aspiration therapy may aspire as an alternative treatment
      option for obesity with lower risk of complications than bariatric surgery.

      The risk of developing impaired glucose tolerance and overt type 2 diabetes rises along with
      increasing obesity. The estimated risk of developing type 2 diabetes increases 3-fold with a
      body mass index (BMI) of 25-29.9 kg/m2 (overweight) and ~20-fold with a BMI >35 kg/m2
      (severely obese) compared to a normal BMI (<25 kg/m2) (6). Type 2 diabetes is a complex,
      multi-organ metabolic disorder and is associated with serious complications, reduced quality
      of life and early death. The disease is characterized by hyperglycaemia and, thus, elevated
      haemoglobinA1c (HbA1c) (>6.5% or >48mmol/mol), which is a blood parameter used clinically as
      a measure of mean blood glucose over time (~3 months). Studies have shown that up to 70% of
      the mean plasma glucose levels is caused by postprandial plasma glucose excursions. Moreover,
      postprandial hyperglycaemia in itself seems to be associated with an elevated risk of
      cardiovascular disease due to unfavourable effect on both small and large blood vessels.
      Accordingly, postprandial hyperglycaemia has been suggested to constitute a better predictor
      of mortality risk than fasting plasma glucose concentrations in both patients with type 2
      diabetes and individuals with normal glucose tolerance. Since the prevalence of impaired
      glucose tolerance is ~2-fold higher in obese compared to lean individuals, postprandial
      hyperglycaemia poses a great risk of developing severe comorbidities such as cardiovascular
      disease and type 2 diabetes for obese individuals and may increase mortality in this group.
      It is yet unknown whether aspiration therapy can attenuate the plasma glucose response to a
      meal. Due to the reduced amount of food reaching the intestine after aspiration, it seems
      likely that aspiration therapy reduces postprandial plasma glucose excursions and thereby
      prevents potential postprandial hyperglycaemia.

      It is well known that an orally administered glucose load elicits a greater insulin secretion
      response compared to an intravenous infusion of glucose resulting in identical plasma glucose
      elevations. This phenomenon is called the incretin effect. The incretin effect is primarily
      driven by the insulinotropic gut hormones glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and
      glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP). These so-called incretin hormones play
      crucial roles in regulation of glucose homeostasis and appetite. GLP-1 is produced in the
      intestinal mucosa by the so-called enteroendocrine L cells, which are predominantly localised
      in the distal part of the small intestine and the colon. GIP originates from enteroendocrine
      K 5 cells in the gut mucosa. K cells are assumed to be predominant in the proximal part of
      the small intestine. Both GLP-1 and GIP are secreted in response to ingestion of nutrients
      and have strong glucose-dependent insulinotropic effects on pancreatic beta cells. The
      incretin hormones are of interest in the present study, because impaired incretin effect is
      an early sign of dysmetabolism in obese individuals and a distinctive feature of type 2
      diabetes, suggesting that the impaired glucose tolerance of these patients is, at least in
      part, due to a defective incretin system. Whether aspiration of gastric content after a meal
      affects postprandial incretin hormone response has not been elucidated. The investigators
      plan to investigate meal-induced incretin hormone excursions in plasma with and without
      aspiration therapy and compare the results to a matched control group.

      In addition to GLP-1 and GIP, several other gut-related hormones are known to regulate
      glucose homeostasis and appetite. Glucagon is a peptide hormone secreted from the pancreatic
      alpha cells. Glucagon acts opposite to insulin by promoting hepatic gluconeogenesis and
      glycogenolysis causing increased plasma glucose concentrations. Oxyntomodulin and pancreatic
      peptide YY3-36 (PYY) are peptide hormones secreted by the enteroendocrine L cells in response
      to feeding and both suppress appetite. Gastrin is a hormone secreted by G cells localised in
      the pyloric antrum, duodenum and pancreas. Gastrin stimulates acid (HCl) secretion and
      gastric emptying by increasing gastric motility. Cholecystokinin (CCK) is a peptide hormone
      secreted by the enteroendocrine I cells in the duodenum. CCK promotes bile release from the
      gallbladder and also acts as an appetite suppressant. To this point, it is unknown how
      aspiration therapy affects these appetite- and glucose-regulating hormones during a meal. The
      investigators aim to investigate this during standardised mixed meal tests with and without
      aspiration.

      Furthermore, it is relevant to examine the effect of aspiration therapy on satiety. Thus, the
      investigators aim to evaluate the effect of aspiration therapy on satiety before, during and
      after a mixed meal as well as food intake after the MMT with and without aspiration evaluated
      through an ad libitum meal provided at the end of the experimental days.
    
  