
    
      Public health policies in most European countries are concerned with how to keep older people
      living independently with a qualitatively good life in the community as long as possible.
      Apart from its personal and human cost, osteoporosis is a major public health problem, which
      has an enormous social and economic impact. Osteoporosis(OP) is a common condition among
      older people,and a non-fatal condition that leads more to changes in the quality of life than
      to change in the length of life. Osteoporosis is a skeletal disorder characterized by
      decreased bone mass. The World Health Organization (WHO) Study Group on Osteoporosis has
      defined osteoporosis as "a hip BMD level of more than 2.5 SDs below the mean BMD for young,
      white, adult women". Using the WHO definition, approximately 30% of postmenopausal women have
      osteoporosis.

      The most common consequences of osteoporosis are fractures. Furthermore the most common
      conditions associated with osteoporosis are back pain, limitations in physical functioning,
      and psychosocial impairment. Thus, the purpose of this study is to record the effect of the
      programme on mobility, balance, the disease-specific and generic health-related quality of
      life for women with osteoporosis and a history of vertebral fractures. The programme consist
      of a three-hour educational session and a three-month course of exercises in accordance with
      guidelines for women with an increased risk of falls and postmenopausal osteoporotic women
      with a history of fractures.

      Our hypothesis that a three-month course of exercises and a three-hour lesson on how to cope
      with osteoporosis will have a significantly positive effect on the generic and
      disease-specific quality of life, as well as the balance and mobility, of elderly (≥60 years)
      women with postmenopausal osteoporosis and a history of vertebral fractures, both 3 months
      after the intervention and after one year.

      The sample would be recruited from the Osteoporosis Outpatient clinic at the Ostfold
      Hospital, Norway and they their body mineral density (BMD) has been measured using
      Dual-Energy X-Ray Absorptiometry (DXA). The design of the study is a randomized controlled
      trial and the sample would be randomized to an intervention group or a control group.

      Subjects in the control group are asked to maintain their current lifestyle. No restrictions
      are placed on their exercise activities. Subjects in the intervention group must participate
      in a training course consisted of 24 sessions over 3 months. The exercises include aerobic,
      stretching, balance and functional training, i.e. circuit exercises focus been on: the
      prevention of falls and fractures, improving balance and coordination, improving posture, and
      informing subjects about risk factors for falls and for osteoporosis and fractures.

      A 3-hour session of information and supervision will be hold for the intervention group by
      the same physiotherapist who leads the training sessions. The focus is on body awareness and
      ergonomic advice in specific, daily-life situations (e.g. lifting/carrying, resting
      positions).
    
  