
    
      Study design: This work were conducted in physical therapy department of Imbaba general
      Hospital and in outpatient clinic of National Institute of Laser Enhanced Sciences, Cairo
      University Design of the study: It is a clinical study. Eighteen women's with postpartum
      pelvic girdle pain was participate in this study, and were randomly into three equal groups.

      Eligibility Criteria:

      Female participants at least ≥18 years old. Group (A): composed of 30 patients who low level
      laser therapy and pelvic stabilization exercises For 12 sessions over six week's period by 2
      sessions per week, Group it is the study group. (B): composed of 30 patients, who low level
      laser therapy only for 12 sessions, over six week's period by 2 sessions per week. Group(C)
      .composed of 30 women's ,who received pelvic stabilization exercises only, For 12 sessions
      over six week's period ,by 2 sessions per week. The ethical committee clearance and an
      informed consent of the subjects will be taken Subjects will have all rights to withdraw from
      the study at any time without any responsibility.

      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Ongoing sacral pain with onset during the preceding pregnancy reported on a present pain
           drawing.

        2. Pain intensity ≥4 cm as worst during the past week on a 10 cm visual analogue scale
           (VAS).

        3. One positive pain provocation test of either Posterior Pelvic Pain Provocation test,
           Patrick's Faber test.

        4. Provoked pain by a gentle pressure on the ischial spine, ipsilateral to reported sacral
           pain, at least unilaterally.

      Exclusion criteria: The criteria for excluding potential research subjects included:

        1. Nerve root affection in the lumbo-sacral spine

        2. Inflammatory disease with pelvic bone and/or spinal manifestation

        3. Known endometriosis, gynecologic cancer or ongoing malign disease.

        4. Previous surgery of the lumbar spine.

        5. Incapacity to complete the questionnaires.

        6. Age <18 years.

        7. Body mass index ≥35 kg/m2.

        8. Intolerance to the treatment dose or negative reactions of the laser treatment.

        9. A new pregnancy, during treatment or between the follow-ups. Study methods
           Instrumentation

      Low-Level Laser Therapy (LLLT) parameter:

      Laser medium: Semiconductor - Gallium Aluminum- Arsenide (Ga Al As). Model & manufacture:
      Sundom Laser-(Taiwan) RG - 300IB. Wavelength: 810 nm. Output power: 500 mw±20 Mode:
      Continuous Wave (CW) Spot diameter: ≤ 10 mm Treatment: 12 applications of LLLT will give on a
      twice weekly. Assessment procedures: Full medical history including age, BMI date of onset,
      medical history will collected and all patients will assessed before and after treatment
      program.

      Outcome Measures: Primary Outcome Measure:

      Pain intensity: By Visual analogue scale (VAS): Pain will assessed by using VAS that is a 10
      mm calibrated line with zero representing no pain and10 representing worst pain. [Time Frame:
      Baseline to 6 weeks after treatment.] (Crichton 2001)

      Secondary Outcome Measures:

      Posterior pelvic pain provocation test (PPPPT): Used to determine the presence of sacroiliac
      dysfunction. It is used (often in post pregnant women) to distinguish between pelvic girdle
      pain and LBP: Time Frame: Baseline to 6 weeks after treatment.] (Gutke, Hansson et al. 2009)
      FABER Test (Patrick's test ( Flexion, Abduction and External Rotation. These three motions
      combined result in a clinical pain provocation test to find pathologies at the hip, lumbar
      and sacroiliac region. [Time Frame: Baseline to 6 weeks after treatment]. (Bagwell, Bauer et
      al. 2016) Pelvic Girdle Questionnaire The Pelvic Girdle Questionnaire (PGQ) is a
      condition-specific measure for women with pelvic girdle pain (PGP). The PGQ includes items
      relating to activity/participation and bodily symptoms and has reliability, validity, and
      feasibility for use in research and clinical practice. [Time Frame: Baseline to 6 weeks after
      treatment] (Stuge, Garratt et al. 2011)

      Serum cortisol level:

      Cortisol is a hormone secreted by the adrenal gland. It is the major corticosteroids. It is
      responsible for about 95% of all glucocorticoids activity in the body.(Pool and Axford 2001)
      It released into our body when we are under stress. Cortisol is high in subjects suffering
      from pain as compared with healthy and pain free subjects, as there is positive correction
      between the intensity of pain and increased plasma cortisol level. The blood sample will take
      for the measurement of plasma cortisol from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Each patient will be drawn two 5
      ml blood samples from cubital vein two times: Time Frame: Baseline to 6 weeks after
      treatment. (Thabet, Hanfy et al. 2008) Treatment procedures: Eighteen women's were randomly
      classified into three groups.

      Group (A): (study group) consist of 30 patients who received Low Level Laser Therapy and
      Pelvic stabilization exercise for 12 sessions .Two sessions per week over six week's period.

      A) Class IV low-level laser therapy device (sundom300IB). The device delivers its energy by 2
      wavelengths, 20% of the beam with 650 nm (nanometer) and 80% of the beam with 810 nm. Energy
      given will tested before the start of the study and once every 6 months, using Thor labs
      power meter PM100D and the photo sensor S 121 C, to make sure the device works correctly. The
      treatment applied to the sacral region by a standard laser probe at the top, and to the
      anterior pelvis. The physical therapist and the participant use safety eyewear during all
      treatment sessions and the treatment administration area is closed, have restricted access
      and no reflective surfaces. During treatment at sacral points, the standard probe moved 1
      cm/second from a starting point to an end-point repeatedly during treatment time,
      bilaterally. Fluency of irradiation of 10 J/cm2, exposure of 100 seconds per point, 6 points
      of irradiation on the pelvic area the standard probe held perpendicular to the body surface
      and pressed to the skin. (Monticone, Barbarino et al. 2004) B) Pelvic stablisation exercises
      as in-group (C). Group (B) consist of 30 patients who received Low Level Laser Therapy only
      for 12 sessions .Two sessions per week over six week's period.

      Group (C): (control group) consist of 30 patients will receive treatment special program of
      pelvic stabilization exercises only Two sessions per week over six week's period. pelvic
      stabilizing exercise will done by all patients in the group (C): depending on exercising of
      transverse abdominal in addition to co activation of lumbar multifidus muscles at the
      lumbosacral area ., exercising of oblique abdominal, gluteus Maximus, latissimus dorsi
      muscles, quadratus lumborum, erector spinae, also, hip abductors and adductors. (Mukkannavar
      2013).The stress was on exercising of transverse abdominal muscles, in form of bridging
      exercise, posterior pelvic rocking exercise, bilateral hip abduction and adduction exercise,
      hip shrugging, and bilateral knees elevation. The patient lying on the side, kneeling, four
      points, sitting, and standing. The subjects were encouraged to activate the transversely
      oriented abdominal muscles regularly during daily activities. They performed two sets of
      exercise from 10-15 times (firstly 10 times in the 12 sessions after that15 times, for the
      others 12 sessions). Rest for 30-second to one minute between each set. Home program session
      performed for 10 minutes twice a day. Each session lasted 45 minutes.
    
  