
    
      This study is a prospective and observational clinical trial investigating the efficacy and
      safety of catheter ablation in combination with left atrial appendage closure in treating
      patients with atrial fibrillation. The investigators and sponsors will work together to
      develop research protocols, case report forms, research medical records, and informed consent
      in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. Research related materials will be reported
      to the Medical Ethics Committee for review and approval. All included patients will sign the
      informed consent form and followed-up regularly for clinical outcomes and adverse events.

      This study will be conducted in accordance with the following procedures:

        1. Screen out 360 patients in accordance with the inclusion and exclusion criteria. The
           screening period begins with the subject signing the informed consent form and until the
           subject begins receiving treatment. Usually, the subject's written informed consent must
           be obtained prior to any trial-related procedures. If the subject has received physical
           examinations and laboratory tests within 2 weeks prior to screening after admission, the
           participants may also sign informed consent and use the results as screening data. After
           obtaining informed consent, the subject's basic information is recorded in the "subject
           screening form." The following screening assessments should be made: demographic data,
           medical history, physical examination, vital signs data, the height and body weight,
           laboratory parameters, ECG examination, assessment for medication and evaluation for
           inclusion/exclusion criteria.

        2. After enrollment, participants will be nonrandomly divided into two cohorts according to
           patients' medical conditions and willingness to the therapeutic approaches, receiving
           radiofrequency ablation and the radiofrequency ablation in combination with left atrial
           appendage closure respectively. Participants will be assessed and observed carefully
           during and after the operation.

        3. The participants will be followed-up in the third, ninth and twelfth months after the
           treatments. The main follow-up includes the review of ECG, 24h Holter, echocardiography,
           transesophageal echocardiography, coronary CT et al., and brain CT or MRI if necessary.
           participants' medication and symptoms will also be observed and recorded. The incidence
           of stroke, systemic embolism, and cardiovascular death; the rate of patients maintaining
           sinus rhythm, hospitalization due to heart failure, and perioperative complications such
           as pericardial tamponade, wound hematoma and long-term surgery-related complications
           will be recorded. Adverse events during the trial will also be assessed and recorded.

        4. Collect research data and perform the statistical analysis. For Statistical analysis,
           the sample size calculation is based on the overall incidence of stroke, systemic
           embolism, and cardiovascular death events. The study included multiple endpoint tests
           that would use a 5% significance level with a test efficacy of 90%. Assume that 10% of
           patients have withdrawn from the middle and 10% have lost follow-up. According to the
           literature and most experts, the total proportion of stroke, systemic embolism, and
           cardiovascular death in patients with atrial fibrillation is 6.3/100 person-years. The
           investigators estimate that with the use of radiofrequency ablation in combination with
           left atrial appendage closure, the proportion of events is 2.0/100 person-years.
           According to the sample size estimation formula, the number of trials should be 360
           patients (180 in each group).

      The overall timing of the trial: patients' enrollment and treatment will be completed from
      January 2019 to December 2020. The last participants will be followed-up for 1 year after
      completion of the treatment. It is expected that the trial will be completed in a total of 36
      months by December 2021.
    
  