
    
      Introduction: Shoulder disorders are the third most common musculoskeletal reason for seeking
      medical care and accounts for approximately 1% of all visits to the general practitioner and
      for up to 10% of all referrals to physiotherapists. The prevalence of shoulder disorders has
      been reported to range from 7% to 26% with some indication that the prevalence increases with
      age. Subacromial impingement syndrome (SIS) is usually described as a symptomatic irritation
      of the rotator cuff and the subacromial bursa, and it is considered as one of the most common
      shoulder disorders. Patients with SIS may present symptoms such as pain during activity, pain
      at night, loss of muscle strength, and stiffness. Because the shoulder stabilizes the upper
      limb in its activities, these symptoms affect the performance of tasks essential to daily
      living. Shoulder disorders produce significant impairments in function and health related
      quality of life (HR-QoL), and results in substantial health care utilization. SIS frequently
      affects the working population and is an important cause of sick leave.

      Treatment of SIS consists of either conservative- or surgical treatment. Conservative
      treatments include rest, physiotherapy, non-steroid anti inflammatory drugs (NSAID) and
      glucocorticoid injections, while surgical treatment consists of arthroscopic or open
      subacromial decompression, bursectomy and rotator cuff repair. Physiotherapy interventions
      are recommended as first choice of treatment, while surgical treatment can be considered for
      those who fail to respond to conservative treatment after 3-6 months. Several studies
      comparing the effect of arthroscopic subacromial decompression (ASAD) and supervised
      physiotherapy exercises, have found no significant differences in outcomes between the two
      treatment strategies.

      In Denmark, the number of patients with SIS has increased by 36% from 2006 to 2010. The
      number of patients treated surgically has increased by 60% to approximately 6500 a year in
      the same period. Similar increases are reported in other countries.

      The literature indicates that some patients do not benefit from ASAD, and success rates
      between 65-80% have been reported. In Denmark, 10% of employed patients retire prematurely
      within two years after surgery. Results of studies investigating if ASAD is more effective in
      selected subgroups of patients showed that clinical and radiological factors and patient
      characteristics such as sociodemographic, duration of symptoms and duration of sick leave,
      were associated with the effect of treatment. In addition, psychological factors are reported
      to impact outcome in both shoulder patients, and other orthopaedic patients. A preoperative
      scoring system to select patients for ASAD has been developed. However, this focuses on
      clinical and radiographic factors, and does not consider patient characteristics and
      psychological factors. Knowledge about predictors for the effect of ASAD in a broader
      perspective will be of great importance, from both a patient- and an economic perspective.

      Aim: The overall aim of the study is to identify patient characteristic and clinical and
      psychological factors that preoperatively can predict which patients will achieve effect of
      ASAD. Furthermore, to investigate the quality of objective methods to assess shoulder
      function, and the association between patient reported outcome measures (PROMs) and objective
      outcome measures.

      Power considerations: Based on data extracted from the Central Denmark Region Electronic
      Patient Journal (Mid EPJ) an estimation of 150 patients annually undergo ASAD at Aarhus
      University Hospital. With a planned inclusion period of two years and a drop out rate of 10%,
      it means that 270 patients will be included. Using an estimate of 20% it is expected that 54
      out of 270 patients will not benefit from ASAD. The number of patients without the effect of
      ASAD will affect the number of potential predictors that can be analyzed.

      Outcome assessment: Effect of surgical treatment will be assessed with two instruments: 1)
      patient evaluated success of treatment with the response options: much improved, moderate
      improved, unchanged, moderate worse, and much worse and 2) the Oxford Shoulder Score (OSS).
      Effect of surgical treatment will be defined as a much - or moderate improvement evaluated by
      the patient, or an improvement of more than 12 points in OSS between baseline and follow-up.
      The 12 point criterion is previous used to develop a preoperative scoring system to select
      patients for ASAD.
    
  