
    
      The proposed study aims to test the efficacy of the Amigas Latinas Motivando el Alma (ALMA)
      intervention in a randomized control trial. ALMA is an 8-week program offered in a group
      format to teach women new coping strategies and enhance their social ties and social support
      to prevent and reduce their depression and anxiety. Aim 1 of the proposed study is to refine
      the ALMA intervention and study procedures, using information learned from focus groups and
      cognitive interviews with Mexican immigrant women. Aim 2 is to determine the efficacy of the
      ALMA intervention to reduce depressive and anxiety symptoms using a randomized control study
      design. We will recruit women from community-based organizations serving Latino immigrants to
      participate in the program, which will be offered in community settings. We will assess
      process outcomes of recruitment, retention, fidelity, and participant satisfaction through
      observations and in-depth interviews with participants. We will assess the efficacy of the
      intervention by comparing changes in women's depressive and anxiety symptoms in the
      intervention and attention control groups at four time points (pre-intervention,
      post-intervention, 3 months, 6 months). Aim 3 is to assess the potential impact of the
      intervention on both individual (stigma, stress, coping strategies) and interpersonal (social
      support, social ties) factors, and whether the impact of the intervention is mediated by
      these factors. The research team includes investigators in psychology, medicine, social work
      and public health, as well as community-based organizations serving Latina immigrants. The
      study uses rigorous methods to test an innovative program that integrates both culturally
      relevant and evidenced-based strategies to address significant mental health disparities in a
      high-risk and underserved population. Findings will help inform future research and practice.
      Given the growth of the Latino population, identifying interventions that reduce mental
      health disparities among Mexican immigrant women can have a significant public health impact.
    
  