
    
      Patients with autonomic failure cannot regulate blood pressure properly. Upon standing, their
      blood pressure drops (i.e. orthostatic hypotension) and may cause symptoms such as
      lightheadedness, dizziness, changes in vision, weakness, fatigue, trouble concentrating, and
      shoulder and neck pain. Orthostatic hypotension can be severe and disabling; it can lead to
      frequent loss of consciousness and falls. These symptoms can make it difficult to perform
      activities of daily living resulting in significant impairment of the patient's quality of
      life. Thus, the assessment of orthostatic symptoms using validated questionnaires has been
      one of the main tools to determine the efficacy of treatment approaches for orthostatic
      hypotension. However, its usefulness may be limited by several factors including difficulty
      in the categorization of symptoms and rating of their severity, particularly in patients with
      some degree of cognitive impairment; the confounding effect of factors not related to
      orthostatic hypotension on patient's symptoms; difficulty in performing an accurate
      comparison of the severity of symptoms before and after treatment or between treatments;
      underestimating symptom burden by not reporting symptoms that are not included in the
      validated questionnaires or by problems in the patient recall.

      The objective of this study is to find a more objective and accurate way to assess the
      efficacy of the treatment for neurogenic orthostatic hypotension. The main hypothesis is that
      the quantification of upright time (standing and walking) with an activity monitor would be
      useful in the assessment of the severity of neurogenic orthostatic hypotension and the
      efficacy of the treatment for this condition and whether it would be superior to the
      assessment of symptoms using validated questionnaires.

      Patients with autonomic failure and neurogenic orthostatic hypotension on treatment with
      either midodrine or atomoxetine will be eligible for this study. The study will take place at
      the participant's home with the assistance of his or her caregiver and frequent oversight
      from the investigative team. Participants will be studied for two separate weeks, one week
      with placebo and one week with their regular treatment (midodrine or atomoxetine at their
      usual doses), with one week in between for washout (the period of using participants' usual
      medication without any study measurement performed). The order of the study weeks with
      placebo or regular treatment will be randomized and the study medications will be blinded. On
      each study week, participants will be asked to wear an activity monitor (Activpal) on one of
      their thighs to measure the amount of time they spend in the upright posture (walking and
      standing), number of steps, activity and other characteristics related to the quantity and
      quality of walking and standing. Participants will be guided to write down the times of their
      daily activities, such as waking, sleeping, eating, and taking medication. At the end of each
      study week, the participants will be guided to fill out some questionnaires, and to take
      blood pressure measurements while lying down, sitting, and standing.
    
  