
    
      The goal of the study is to conduct an initial efficacy study of a promising therapist and
      caregiver-implemented communication intervention to improve language and school readiness
      skills in low-income Spanish-speaking children with receptive and expressive language delays
      (ages 30 to 36 months). This randomized trial compares the effects of a caregiver plus
      therapist implemented EMT en Español intervention to a community based "business as usual"
      control group at four time points (pre- intervention, post-intervention, 6 month follow-up,
      12 month follow-up) in a sample of 84 low-income, Spanish-speaking families and their
      toddlers with receptive and expressive language delays.

      The target population of children for this study is multiply at-risk for persistent language
      delays and later language-related academic difficulties. First, before age three, the
      identified children have significant delays in both receptive and expressive language
      abilities. Significant delays in both domains of language by 30 months of age places children
      at-risk for persistent language impairment at school entry and beyond. Second, these
      children's families are low-income ethnic minorities residing in the U.S. As such, these
      families and children are more likely to live in segregated communities with limited
      neighborhood resources, poorer quality schools, and less access to quality health care.
      Finally, these children's caregivers are Spanish-speaking immigrants who are likely to face
      discrimination based on their own language use and to face cultural and linguistic barriers
      in accessing needed services for their children. We note that the population for this study
      differs from children who are considered at-risk because they are from low-income ethnic
      minority families. The target population for this project is young children who already
      evidence significant delays in both language understanding and production in addition to
      coming from low-income families. This is a population for whom there are no current
      evidence-based interventions and for whom early, effective language intervention is essential
      to their later academic learning. The intervention, EMT en Español, utilizes intervention
      strategies adapted from Enhanced Milieu Teaching, an evidence-based naturalistic
      communication intervention, to promote home language and improve children's language
      useacross the day in home routines, play, and book sharing in individual sessions with a
      therapist and in caregiver training sessions. The current study builds on two preliminary
      studies of EMT in Español and evidence from an RCT of EMT with English-speaking toddlers with
      receptive and expressive language delays. The caregiver training component of the
      intervention utilizes an evidence-based caregiver instruction and coaching protocol to
      deliver the EMT en Español intervention in families' homes in Spanish.

      A randomized clinical trial (RCT) design is proposed to compare the effects of EMT in Español
      to a community business as usual (BAU) control group. The immediate and long-term effects of
      the intervention on children's language development and on their caregivers' use of
      naturalistic teaching strategies including linguistic input will be examined over the 18
      months of the study. Note that the population of children for this study are monolingual
      Spanish-speakers at30 months, who may have some limited exposure to English. Children in this
      study will likely be dual language learners when they enter preschool. All outcomes and
      measures account for children's language abilities across languages.
    
  