
    
      Investigators will recruit babies who are in the Neonatal Unit at St. Peter's Hospital.
      Babies will be clinically stable from a cardio-respiratory point of view. They will also be
      requiring incubator care (so they will weigh less than approximately 1400g) but not requiring
      additional humidification. This effectively excludes babies born less than 30 weeks gestation
      who are routinely humidified for the first week (if 28-30 weeks gestation) or two weeks (if
      less than 28 weeks gestation). Some term babies may also be eligible for the study if they
      are being nursed in an incubator for clinical reasons.

      Identification and recruitment of babies will be carried out by the attending Consultant
      Neonatologist and the research team.

      For twins, consecutive enrolment will be possible if only one mOm incubator is available.

      There will be two arms to the protocol. The first arm will consist of standard incubator
      care, where the care of the baby is unchanged, but non-invasive, more frequent (hourly)
      temperature and other physiological measures of stability than would normally be collected in
      routine care (nominally every three hours) will be collected. The second arm will be the baby
      receiving normal care in the mOm incubator, with another set of hourly detailed,
      non-invasive, observations. The planned care and monitoring of the baby will be otherwise
      unchanged. No additional blood tests or any other invasive testing or monitoring are
      required. The clinical team will have full control and responsibility for the baby's care and
      can terminate the study for the baby at any time for any reason.

      In addition, investigators will collect the views of staff on the baby's comfort, visibility,
      care, usability and acceptability during each arm of the study.

      For each arm of the study, the secondary outcome measures are:

      (1) pulse rate (as a measure of clinical stability) (2) respiratory rate (as a measure of
      clinical stability) (3) apnea and bradycardia episodes recorded by nursing staff (clinical
      stability) (4) temperature (as a measure of clinical stability) (4) adverse events related to
      incubator performance (5) cleaning ease and time took (6) set up time (7) staff structured
      feedback

      36 eligible babies will be recruited into the study at a single site, being identified by the
      clinical team. All 36 will experience a 24 hour period in each of the two incubators (mOm and
      standard) (48 hours in total), in a randomly allocated order. Babies will act as their own
      controls in this cross-over study design. If any babies fail to complete the 48-hour study
      procedures (e.g. due to data incomplete or baby withdrawn) further babies will be recruited
      to achieve 36 complete datasets.
    
  