
    
      Fibromyalgia (FM) is the most common cause of diffuse pain in the bones and joints, with a
      prevalence in general adult populations estimated at between 0.7% and 3.3%. In Spain, the
      prevalence of FM is 2-3%; it affects mainly women, with new diagnoses peaking between the
      ages of 40 and 49 years. In certain populations, however, the prevalence may be much higher,
      as in 15% of patients referred from internal medicine units or 12% of patients referred to
      rheumatology specialists in Spain.

      Fibromyalgia produces various degrees of disability and pain. It also has a clear impact on
      health-related quality of life (HRQoL). Burckhardt et al. observed lower HRQoL among patients
      with fibromyalgia than among healthy subjects. Indeed, the HRQoL for those with FM was
      similar to that of patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus or chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease. Among patients with non-cancer chronic pain referred to the pain
      management unit at our institution, those with bone and joint pain and with FM had the worst
      progress 6 months after diagnosis as measured by HRQoL.

      The characteristics of FM, such as its complex and unknown etiology, wide range of symptoms
      and signs, and multiple comorbidities make identifying effective therapies particularly
      difficult. As a result, no consensus yet exists regarding the best therapeutic approaches,
      and treatment of FM presents a challenge for clinicians. Clinical research suggests that
      pharmacologic treatment alone is not the best approach for FM, and that an integrated
      biopsychosocial approach that includes non-pharmacologic therapies along with pharmacologic
      therapies improves outcomes in these patients.

      In our hospital, between 5% and 10% of patients newly diagnosed with FM are referred to the
      pain management unit. We established a clinical trial in this population to assess
      improvement in HRQoL following 6 months of interdisciplinary treatment compared to the usual
      treatment, as well as to identify predictors for improvement in HRQoL.
    
  