
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is among the most common medical diagnoses among
      Veterans. Approximately half of those who carry a diagnosis of COPD are prescribed inhaled
      corticosteroids (ICS), despite ICS having no role among those patients without fixed airflow
      obstruction (AFO) and a limited role among those who do. Guidelines explicitly state that ICS
      for COPD patients should be limited to those with severe AFO and those with frequent
      exacerbations. Even this benefit comes at a cost, as ICS use has been shown in multiple
      randomized controlled trials to increase rates of pneumonia. After prolonged exposure, ICS is
      also associated with higher bone fracture risk, incidence of cataracts and poor diabetes
      control. Among patients without disease or with mild-moderate AFO and low risk of
      exacerbation, ICS have no demonstrated efficacy, but retain the risk of harm. For this
      reason, evidence-based guidelines specifically recommend against their use in mild-moderate
      AFO.

      The goal of this project is to improve the delivery and safety of care by de-implementing the
      ineffective use of ICS among Veterans with a diagnosis of COPD who otherwise lack a clinical
      indication for the medication. The primary aim is to reduce ICS use among Veterans with
      limited clinical indication for the medication. Investigators will test an intervention to
      de-implement unnecessary use of inhaled corticosteroids in Veterans with chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease (COPD) by having pulmonologists assume more responsibility for supporting
      COPD patients. The investigators will compare a substitution approach using proactive
      patient-tailored electronic consult (E-consult) compared to usual care with a single-session
      education outreach, which represents a non-intensive unlearning approach. The investigators
      are targeting the intervention to Patient Aligned Care Team (PACT) providers who are
      randomized to either receive the intervention or not receive the intervention. For patients
      within intervention PACTs, the project clinicians will leverage the VA's integrated
      healthcare informatics system using specialist support through proactive patient-tailored
      electronic consults (E-consult) and inputting unsigned orders on behalf of Primary Care
      Providers (PCPs) to recommend and facilitate de-implementation of ICS. Primary care providers
      will have final say in accepting (signing), modifying, or declining the recommendations.
    
  