
    
      Actinic keratoses are pre-malignant skin lesions, which may develop to squamous cell
      carcinomas (SCC). They are usually small, thin, erythematous, de-squamating lesions on light
      exposed atrophic skin and the lesions are often multiple.

      Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is the selective destruction of abnormal cells through light
      activation of a photosensitiser in the presence of oxygen. These cells accumulate more
      photosensitiser than normal cells. The photosensitiser generates reactive oxygen species upon
      illumination.

      For skin diseases, such as actinic keratosis (AK), there has been an increasing interest in
      using topically applied precursors of the photoactive porphyrins (PAP). The most commonly
      used precursors have been 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) and its derivatives. The present test
      drug contains methyl aminolevulinate, which penetrates the lesions well and shows high lesion
      selectivity.

      Different light sources (i.e. CureLight, Aktilite CL16 and Aktilite CL128) have been used for
      the activation of PAP, which absorbs light in the range of 400-700 nm. The present study uses
      the Aktilite CL 128 lamp. Aktilite 128 is based on LED technology and emits a narrow red
      light spectrum with an average wavelength of 630 (+/-5) nm. This study is similar to two
      other studies performed, on which the U.S. approval of Metvixia® cream is based except for
      the light source used. This study is one of two studies performed to document the safety and
      efficacy of the Aktilite CL 128 lamp when used in combination with Metvixia® cream.

      Previous studies have shown that the risks attributed to Metvixia® PDT are few and related
      mainly to transient pain and local erythema during and shortly after treatment. These
      reactions are part of the expected local phototoxicity reaction. PDT offers an advantage to
      other treatment modalities for actinic keratosis, being a non-invasive treatment available on
      an outpatient basis. Several separate lesions can be treated simultaneously and the same
      lesion(s) can be treated repeatedly with success. There are no known systemic toxicity or
      interaction with other medication. The treatment is also lesion selective, leaving the
      surrounding tissue intact and functional, also allowing excellent cosmetic results after
      treatment.
    
  