
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine feeding tube dependency at 12 months in patients with locally advanced head
           and neck cancer treated with induction chemotherapy comprising docetaxel, cisplatin, and
           fluorouracil followed by cisplatin and reduced-dose radiotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the progression-free, disease-free, and overall survival of patients treated
           with this regimen.

        -  Determine the pattern of failure in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Evaluate the quality of life of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Assess pre- and post-treatment swallowing ability of patients and the impact on their
           quality of life.

      Tertiary

        -  Quantify salivary flow rates of patients receiving chemotherapy with radiotherapy for
           head and neck malignancy.

        -  Evaluate the quality of saliva by examining total protein concentrations.

        -  Quantify proangiogenic cytokines (interleukin [IL]-1, IL-6, IL-8, and vascular
           endothelial growth factor) in the saliva of these patients.

        -  Determine the degree of mucositis and xerostomia of patients receiving chemotherapy with
           radiotherapy for head and neck malignancy.

        -  Compare salivary flow rates with the grade of mucositis and xerostomia of patients
           receiving chemotherapy with radiotherapy for head and neck malignancy.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot study.

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour and cisplatin IV over 1
           hour on day 1 followed by fluorouracil IV continuously on days 1- 4. Patients also
           receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) on days 5-14 or pegfilgrastim SC on day
           5. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression
           or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving a partial or clinical complete response
           proceed to chemoradiotherapy 3 weeks later.

        -  Chemoradiotherapy: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats
           every 3 weeks for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity. Patients also undergo concurrent reduced-dose radiotherapy 5 days a week for 6
           weeks.

        -  Surgery: Approximately 6 to 8 weeks after completing chemoradiotherapy, patients with
           residual neck disease or disease initially staged at N2 or greater undergo neck
           dissection.

      Saliva is collected periodically to measure flow rates and quality; quantify proangiogenic
      cytokines (interleukin [IL]-1, IL-6, IL-8 and vascular endothelial growth factor); and
      examine the grade of mucositis and xerostomia.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, before chemoradiotherapy, 1 month after the last
      radiation treatment, every 3 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months for 1 year.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 5 years and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 36 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  