
    
      In many Western hospitals, including St. Michael's Hospital, fasting for 12-14 hours is the
      standard protocol for patients entering elective surgery. Fasting results in a depletion of
      energy stores and consequently, a patient enters surgery in a catabolic state. Furthermore,
      the human body reacts to surgery by producing a variety of stress hormones and other
      hormone-like proteins that enable the body to react to stress or injury appropriately. One of
      the changes that occurs with surgery is related to how the body stores and metabolizes
      glucose. During and after surgery, muscle and adipose tissue become less sensitive to the
      action of insulin (insulin resistant). Insulin resistance results in a reduced uptake of
      glucose by these tissues and subsequently to a rise in circulating blood glucose levels.
      Sustained high levels of blood glucose have been associated with post-surgical complications
      and less favourable outcomes. Previous studies have found that fasting before surgery
      exacerbates insulin resistance during and after surgery. The recent development of a
      carbohydrate drink for consumption prior to elective surgical procedures has been shown to be
      well tolerated and pose no additional risk of pulmonary aspiration when ingested two hours
      prior to surgery. Furthermore, there appears to be metabolic, psychological and possibly
      clinical benefits in pre-operative carbohydrate loading compared to fasting, including
      improvements in insulin resistance. However, the studies done to date have been limited by
      their small sample size, their lack of clinical outcome data and their reliance upon
      predominantly surgeries of shorter duration and reduced metabolic stress where insulin
      resistance is lower. Therefore, there is a need to investigate the effect of carbohydrate
      loading on insulin resistance and clinical outcomes in patients undergoing surgery of
      extended duration and complexity.

      Patients undergoing major cardiac and spinal surgery are ideal for studying the effects of
      pre-operative carbohydrate loading since this type of operation is of long duration and
      relatively high surgical stress resulting in the development of significant insulin
      resistance, and thus potentially benefit from pre-operative carbohydrate loading. Therefore,
      we will be conducting a larger randomized trial investigating the effects of pre-operative
      carbohydrate loading in comparison with fasting on insulin resistance and clinical outcomes
      in patients undergoing invasive cardiac and spinal surgery at St. Michael's Hospital.

      We hypothesize that consumption of a pre-operative carbohydrate load will reduce
      postoperative insulin resistance by 40% (measured by the standardized short insulin tolerance
      test). As secondary outcomes, we hypothesize that pre-operative carbohydrate loading will
      reduce circulating markers of inflammation and stress as well as improve clinical outcomes
      such as blood product utilization, incidence of hyperglycemia, rates of adverse events and
      length of stay in comparison with standard pre-operative fasting. This study will provide
      important information regarding the clinical benefits associated with the consumption of a
      pre-operative carbohydrate load. Many European centres have already liberalized their
      pre-operative treatments; this study will help to optimize the perioperative management and
      outcomes of surgical patients at our institution.
    
  