
    
      Hospital acquired infection and death of healthcare workers is an alarming problem during the
      COVID-19 pandemic. Avoiding transmission of COVID-19 to front-line health care workers in
      Ontario with optimal Protective Personal Equipment (PPE) is a public health priority to
      prevent attrition of the health care work force at a time when it is most needed to care for
      the needs of Ontarians.

      Health care workers performing Aerosol Generating Medical Procedures (AGMPs) (e.g.
      endotracheal intubation, bronchoscopy and tracheostomies) are at particularly high risk of
      infection. During AGMPs, medical personnel are contaminated with virus-loaded micro-droplets
      that may be suspended in the air for up to 3 hours.

      Use of effective PPE is paramount in protecting health care workers during these high-risk
      procedures. Limited world-wide supplies of PPE and disruption of supply chains is a current
      concern. Having local sources of PPE production could help secure supply and protect
      Ontario's health care work force.

      Current standard PPE equipment used during high-risk procedures in Ontario includes a
      fit-tested N95 mask, an open face shield, a procedure gown and double extended-cuff gloves.
      This level of PPE leaves certain areas of the head and neck exposed to contamination with
      viral aerosol and droplets, and could be a source for self-contamination despite meticulous
      donning and doffing. In fact, extensive contamination of the front surfaces, the neck,
      forearms, wrists and hands has been previously identified during simulation of medical
      procedures.

      Contamination of the upper body, especially the head and neck, hands and wrists poses the
      highest risk of potential infection as viral contaminants in these parts of the body are most
      likely to reach the mucosal surfaces of the mouth, nose and eyes, which are the recognized
      entry points of viral infection.

      The investigators propose to design and test a protective hood to be used in place of the
      open shield to provide enhanced coverage of the upper body during high risk procedures. This
      hood would be used along an N95 mask, procedure gown and double extended-cuff gloves,
      allowing for effective barrier protection against SARS-CoV-2 rich droplets and microdroplets
      by providing the physician with a barrier that covers his/her upper torso from contamination.

      In partnership with 2 Ontario companies (MVF & Associates and Piedmont Plastics), the
      investigatorshave designed a hood to cover the entire upper body from the head down to the
      elbows. The hood is made of polypropylene spunbond nonwoven fabric, a waterproof, air
      permeable material and a polycarbonate visor.

      The use of a hood could positively impact the safety of airway management and other AGMPs
      during the pandemic by reducing contamination of the upper body. The proposed study is
      important because it is the first one to evaluate the potential impact of a hood to enhance
      PPE. Ultimately, decreased levels of contamination by droplets may effectively reduce the
      risk of health care worker infection by SARS CoV2 virus after an AGMP such as endotracheal
      intubation.
    
  