
    
      Emotional disorders (EDs;including anxiety disorders, unipolar mood disorders, and related
      disorders) are the most prevalent mental disorders in the general population. In Spain,
      anxiety disorders and mood disorders affect approximately two million (4.1%) and two and half
      million (5.2%) individuals, respectively. As a result of their prevalence in the society, EDs
      have become an alarming health problem due to their associate costs. These disorders have a
      direct cost of 22.000 million euros (500 euros per capita and year). The total expense of
      these disorders entails 2.2% of the Gross Domestic Product in Spain. Due to the excessive
      demand for treatment, mental health services of our National Health System (NHS) are
      collapsed with large waiting lists, which results in a great difficulty to dedicate the
      recommended time to attend patients who require psychological treatment. Therefore, it is
      needed to find solutions for the effective and cost-effective treatment of EDs in our NHS. In
      the last years, several solutions have been proposed to alleviate this important health
      problem.

      The general objective of this project is to contribute to the dissemination of evidence-based
      psychological treatments in our Public National Health System for the most prevalent mental
      disorders in our society, emotional disorders (EDs). The investigators will study the
      efficacy, cost-effectiveness, and implementation characteristics (acceptability, usability,
      and utility) of a blended intervention which will enhance face-to-face treatment by
      incorporating an app-based intervention onsite treatment. Based on the most recent clinical
      advances in the treatment of EDs, the investigators will use the Unified Protocol (UP) for
      transdiagnostic treatment of EDs in the blended intervention (UP-APP). The investigators
      hypothesize that the blended intervention will be superior to the treatment as usual
      (face-to-face, specific-disorder treatment) because patients in the UP-APP condition will
      continue working with the app at home between sessions. In sum, this project is composed of
      three connected studies: a validation study in a clinical sample of patients with EDs, two
      pilot studies to help develop the app based on the UP principles, and a multicenter,
      randomized and controlled clinical trial that will be conducted by 12 clinical psychologist
      working in 8 different provinces in Spain.
    
  