
    
      Motivation of the study A previous cross sectional analysis of the national HIV program in
      Rwanda, described the HIV care continuum as a "multitrajectory pathway" with many
      opportunities for patients to exit and return to care between diagnosis and viral
      suppression. The authors concluded that the weakest point in the continuum is the transition
      from diagnosis to linkage to care where only half of newly diagnosed patients link to care
      within 6 months of receiving their diagnosis.

      This study also estimated that 82.2 percent of patients on ART achieve viral suppression.
      Overall, half of the HIV-positive population in Rwanda in 2013 was assumed to be virally
      suppressed. This estimate of viral suppression is based on an analysis of EMR data for a
      subset of 21,995 patients. Correspondence with one of the study authors clarified that 9,680
      of these patients were eligible for viral load testing, and 3,066 of eligible patients had
      recorded viral load data. This suggests that two-thirds of patients eligible for viral load
      testing do not have viral load results recorded in the EMR. The study do not estimate any
      type of treatment failure (virologic, immunologic, clinical), and investigators are not aware
      of any such estimates for Rwanda.

      Studies in Botswana, Malawi, Uganda, South Africa, and Cameroon found that 15 to 25 percent
      of patients had recorded plasma HIV RNA concentrations in excess of 400 copies per mL within
      3 years of starting first-line ART. More recently, kenyan study found that among a large
      cohort of Kenyan patients on ART, 11.6 percent had evidence of immunological treatment
      failure during the 12-month study period.

      In the Kenya study, investigators randomised 7 of 13 clinics using EMRs to an intervention
      group that received alerts and reminders about immunological treatment failure. The rate of
      appropriate clinical action in response to treatment failure increased from 30 percent in the
      control group to 54 percent in the intervention group. The authors also reported a 72 percent
      relative reduction in the time from the detection of treatment failure to appropriate
      clinical action. Investigators did not estimate the impact of the CDSS on treatment outcomes
      such as viral suppression and survival.

      With the proposed study in Rwanda, investigators see an opportunity to use low-cost decision
      support tools to increase the rate of linkage to care from diagnosis, improve data quality
      and completeness for laboratory data such as viral load, demonstrate the efficacy of these
      decision support tools for prompting timely clinical intervention following treatment
      failure, and demonstrate that early intervention can lead to positive clinical outcomes for
      patients.

      Intended/potential use of study findings The study findings will inform the Rwandan
      government on the performance, clinical impact and costs of the systems they have been
      implementing, and should help them decide on future eHealth investments for a variety of
      locations. The results will also help to inform such investments in a wide range of other low
      and middle income countries managing HIV and other diseases.

      Design/locations Investigators will conduct a cluster-randomized trial to estimate the
      treatment effect of the enhanced EMR packages on structural, process, and clinical outcomes
      related to HIV care in Rwanda.

      Research questions and outcomes

      Investigators will ask four primary research questions about the effect of the decision
      support intervention on process, structural, and clinical outcomes:

        1. Do alerts and reminders improve the linkage from HIV testing to care?

           Outcomes:

           a. Rate of linkage to care among HIV-positive patients within 3 months after diagnosis
           b. Time from HIV+ test result to linkage to care

        2. Do alerts and reminders improve the quality and completeness of routine lab results in
           the EMR?

           Outcomes:

             1. Percent of patients on ART completing their 6th month of treatment who have viral
                load results recorded in the EMR within 2 months of this initial milestone.

             2. Percent of patients on ART who get an annual VL test and have the results recorded
                in the EMR within 2 months of this annual milestone.

        3. Do alerts and reminders following treatment failure detected by CD4 or viral load
           improve clinical action?

      Outcomes:

        1. Percent of ART patients who have a recorded clinical action within 1 month of detected
           treatment failure

        2. Time from treatment failure to recorded clinical action

           4. Do alerts and reminders following treatment failure detected by CD4 or viral load
           improve therapeutic outcomes such as viral suppression?

           Outcome:

           Percent of patients who experience treatment failure who are fully suppressed 4 months
           after the point of failure

           Hypotheses With the proposed study in Rwanda, investigators hypothesise that low-cost
           decision support tools can increase the rate of linkage to care from diagnosis, improve
           data quality and completeness for laboratory data such as viral load and CD4, and timely
           clinical intervention following treatment failure.

           Investigators will implement several levels of randomisation to answer different
           research questions mentioned above.

           I. Do alerts and reminders improve the linkage from HIV testing to care? Randomize
           included facilities to two arms: Intervention 1 (Int1) and Control (Ctrl1). Facilities
           assigned to the Ctrl1 will not receive any additional equipment, software tools,
           training or other forms of support. Facilities assigned to the enhanced package for Int1
           will receive alerts and reminders to promote linkage from diagnosis to care.

           II. Do alerts and reminders improve the quality and completeness of lab results in the
           EMR? Randomize the Intervention 1 group into two additional arms: Intervention 2 (Int2)
           and Control (Ctrl2). Facilities assigned to Int2 will also receive alerts and reminders
           to improve lab reporting as part of their enhanced package.

           III. Do alerts and reminders following treatment failure detected by CD4 or viral load
           improve clinical action? Randomize the Intervention 2 group into two additional arms:
           Intervention 3 (Int3) or Control (Ctrl3). Facilities assigned to Int3 will also receive
           alerts and reminders to improve clinical response to the detection of treatment failure
           as part of their enhanced package.

           IV. Do alerts and reminders following treatment failure detected by CD4 or viral load
           improve clinical outcomes such as viral suppression? (no additional randomisation)

           Investigators believe that this cascading randomisation is needed because interventions
           designed to improve services at the beginning of the HIV care continuum could have
           downstream effects that might make it challenging to estimate the effect of each
           additional intervention in isolation. For instance, providing facilities with tools to
           improve the linkage from HIV testing to care (Int1) could improve a facility's data
           capture more generally and potentially improve ordering and recording of lab results
           (Int2), which would bias the results. Therefore, investigators propose to randomise to
           Int2 from within the subset of facilities assigned to Int1.

           For 90% power with alpha of 0.05, an ICC of 0.15, equal allocation to the final study
           arms, and 10 patients per cluster who experience treatment failure during the study,
           investigators could detect a shift in the percentage of patients who achieve viral
           suppression following treatment failure of 30 percentage points from 30% to 60%. These
           numbers are minimum targets and the investigators plan to enrol more sites if feasible
           to increase the power of the study.

           Definition of Primary Outcomes and Patient Cohorts

           1a. Rate of linkage to care among HIV-positive patients Cohort: Every new adult patient
           (18 or older) who tests positive for HIV from the start of the trial through month 9.
           Outcomes for last "enrolled" patients measured in study month 12.

           Baseline situation: a study in Rwanda reported that 50% of diagnosed cases were linked
           to care within 3 months.

           Impact: Shift proportion from 50% to 75%

             1. b. Time from HIV+ test result to linkage to care

                Cohort: All adults with HIV positive test results recorded in the EMR at a study
                facility. Same timeline as 1a.

                Endpoint: Linked to care at a study facility within 3 months (N3 N4) Baseline
                situation: No data Impact: 50% decrease

             2. a. percentage of ART patients have viral load results in EMR (initial)

           Cohort: Every existing ART patient who completes their 6th month of treatment from the
           start of the trial until study month 10. Outcomes for last "enrolled" patients measured
           in study month 12.

           Baseline situation: Based on data presented in one study done in Rwanda and
           correspondence with one of the study authors, investigators estimate that approximately
           two-thirds of patients eligible for viral load testing do not have viral load results
           recorded in the EMR.

           Impact: 30% increase

           2b. Percentage of ART patients have viral load results in EMR (annual)

           Cohort: Every existing ART patient who completes 12 months of treatment (annual) from
           the start of the trial until study month 10. Outcomes for last "enrolled" patients
           measured in study month 12.

           Baseline situation: Same as 2a Impact: 30% increase

           3a. Percentage of ART patients with treatment failure experience clinical action Cohort:
           Every existing ART patient who has been on ART for at least 12 months and experiences
           treatment failure between the start of the sub-trial and study month 11. Outcomes for
           last "enrolled" patients measured in study month 12.

           Baseline situation: No data Impact: 50% increase

           3b. Time from detection of treatment failure to clinical action

           Cohort: Every existing ART patient who has been on ART for at least 18 months and
           experiences treatment failure between the start of the trial and study month 11.

           Endpoint: Time in days from treatment failure (N6e) to recorded clinical action.

           Baseline situation: No data Impact: 50% decrease in time from treatment failure to
           clinical action

           4. Percentage of patients who experience treatment failure who are fully suppressed 4
           months after the point of failure Cohort: Every existing ART patient who has been on ART
           for at least 12 months and experiences treatment failure between the start of the
           sub-trial and study month 8. Outcomes for last "enrolled" patients measured in study
           month 12.

           Baseline situation: Assumed to be 30% in power calculation Impact: 30 percentage points
           from 30% to 60%

           Analysis

           Investigators will analyse the data using individual-level and cluster-level approaches:

           Individual-level

           Investigators will estimate intent-to-treat (ITT) treatment effects via logistic
           regression of the primary outcomes on cluster assignment to treatment (see contrasts in
           Table 1) blocking strata, and a vector of facility-level and patient-level baseline
           covariates. Standard errors will be clustered at the facility-level. Investigators will
           run sensitivity analyses with multilevel modelling approaches. Investigators will also
           use Kaplan-Meier methods to calculate time-to-event; to test the null hypothesis that
           there is no difference between the survival curves, investigators will use the log rank
           test.

           Cluster-level Investigators will estimate the ITT treatment effects via ordinary least
           squares regression of the primary outcomes on cluster assignment to treatment (see
           contrasts in Table 1) blocking strata, and a vector of facility-level covariates.

           All research questions, hypotheses and study endpoints recorded here have been approved
           by the IRBs in Rwanda and at CDC prior to 1/1/2018.

           Data Management

           All study facilities will have EMR systems by design. Therefore, most data will be
           collected by facility staff via routine care procedures. To gain access to this data,
           investigators will create automated scripts that create a study ID for each patient and
           extract de-identified data from the EMR. MOH EMR specialists will review the scripts to
           ensure that data are properly de-identified.
    
  