
    
      Traditional DBS is performed without general anesthesia with the patient awake. Local
      anesthetic is used to numb the skin and tissue where the incision is made, and the patients
      are given mild sedatives to alleviate anxiety and discomfort. Parkinson's patients need to be
      off their medications during awake DBS in order to obtain single-unit cellular recordings to
      locate and map the desired target. The process of electrophysiological mapping can result in
      multiple brain penetrations during lead placement, and the entire procedure may last anywhere
      from 4-6 hours on average. The concept of being awake during brain surgery and being off
      medications are significant concerns for some patients. In addition, it is widely recognized
      that microelectrode recording increases the risk of hemorrhage during DBS surgery.

      Recently, there has been increasing interest in performing DBS under general anesthesia,
      where the stimulated targets are located anatomically (i.e. on MRI) rather than
      physiologically via microelectrode recordings. This technology has been termed "asleep" DBS
      and is performed with the patient under general anesthesia. Intraoperative imaging is
      utilized to verify the stereotactic accuracy of DBS electrodes placement at the time of
      surgery. Because stereotactic accuracy (and surgical safety) is the surgical endpoint, there
      is no need for the patient to be off medication and awake during the procedure.

      Traditional DBS is performed without general anesthesia with the patient awake. Local
      anesthetic is used to numb the skin and tissue where the incision is made, and the patients
      are given mild sedatives to alleviate anxiety and discomfort. Parkinson's patients need to be
      off their medications during awake DBS in order to obtain single-unit cellular recordings to
      locate and map the desired target. The process of electrophysiological mapping can result in
      multiple brain penetrations during lead placement, and the entire procedure may last anywhere
      from 4-6 hours on average. The concept of being awake during brain surgery and being off
      medications are significant concerns for some patients. In addition, it is widely recognized
      that microelectrode recording increases the risk of hemorrhage during DBS surgery.

      The safety and efficacy of the two approaches to DBS surgery have been equivalent, and we are
      at a position of equipoise with regard to what to offer to patients. To date, there have been
      no randomized, controlled clinical trials comparing the efficacy and functional outcomes of
      the two DBS methods. After informed consent is obtained, the patients will undergo routine
      DBS pre-operative evaluation and diagnostic testing. This includes a pre-operative 3T-MRI
      with and without gadolinium as well as pre-operative medical clearance by the patient's PCP
      or general practitioner and/or other medical specialist if necessary. They will also receive
      a baseline clinical evaluation including both motor function (Unified Parkinson's Disease
      Rating Scale on and off antiparkinsonian medication) and quality of life (Parkinson's disease
      Questionnaire-39) if not already completed as part of the routine DBS candidacy evaluation
      within 2 months of surgery. Patients who elect to participate in this trial will undergo a
      routine pre-operative neurocognitive evaluation consisting of the following routine
      evaluative tests: Wechsler Test of Adult Reading, Mattis Dementia Rating Scale 2nd Edition,
      Wechsler Abbreviate Scale of Intelligence 2nd Edition; Wechsler Memory Scale 3rd edition,
      Digit Span, Stroop Neuropsychological Screening Test, Trail Making Test, Wisconsin Card
      Sorting Test, Controlled Oral Word Association Test, Animal Naming, Boston Naming Test,
      Wechsler Memory Scale 4th Edition, Logical Memory, Hopkins Verbal Learning Test - Revised,
      Brief Visuospatial Memory Test - Revised, Hooper visual Organization Test, Judgment of Line
      Orientation, Beck Depression Inventory, Beck Anxiety Inventory, Questionnaire for
      Impulsive-Compulsive Disorders in Parkinson's Disease, Apathy Evaluation Scale; Epworth
      Sleepiness Scale, The subjects will then be randomized to 2 groups by using random numbers in
      an envelope system. We anticipate that 120 total patients will need to be enrolled in this
      pilot study (60 awake, 60 asleep), and thus the numbers 1-120 will be placed in envelopes. An
      odd number will correspond to the awake DBS procedure, and an even number will indicate an
      asleep DBS procedure.

      The purpose of the proposed study is to demonstrate that the functional outcomes of the
      "asleep" technique are not inferior to those reported for traditional "awake" DBS technique.
      The primary data points for this study will include six month functional outcomes using
      accepted metrics for Parkinson's disease, including both motor function (Unified Parkinson's
      Disease Rating Scale [UPDRS] obtained in the medication "on" and medication "off" states) and
      quality of life (Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire-39). The null hypothesis is that asleep
      DBS results in inferior UPDRS-III scores at 6-months after surgery. Our secondary aim will be
      to evaluate any cognitive changes associated with DBS surgery selection (awake vs. asleep) in
      PD patients. Current standard of care for patient selection in DBS focuses primarily on the
      evaluation of motor symptoms and currently there is no guidance for how a patients' DBS
      surgery selection (awake vs. asleep) would impact on subsequent neurocognitive function.
    
  