
    
      Background

      AL-108 is an intranasal drug product containing NAP, an 8 amino-acid peptide
      (Asn-Ala-Pro-Val-Ser-Ile-Pro-Gln; NAPVSIPQ, MW=824.9) fragment of the much larger (approx.
      124KD) Activity-Dependent Neuroprotective Protein (ADNP), which participates in
      neurodevelopment and neuroprotection. In mice, ADNP knockouts are lethal exhibiting CNS
      dysgenesis. ADNP mediates its effects in part through interaction with microtubules. Because
      of its large size, ADNP is assumed to not penetrate the BBB and thus cannot be used
      pharmacologically. NAP was chosen because it represents the epitope most associated with
      microtubule interaction and neuroprotection. NAP is absorbed following IV or intranasal
      administration, and has been shown to cross the BBB.

      Rationale for NAP treatment: tubulin function in brain function

      The cytoskeleton plays a key role in maintaining the highly asymmetrical shape and structural
      polarity of neurons that are essential for neuronal physiology. The cytoskeleton is made up
      of microfilaments, intermediate filaments and microtubules. Microfilaments (4-9 nm diameter)
      are made up of actin monomers and they function mainly to provide mechanical support and
      locomotion to the cell. Intermediate filaments are cytoplasmic fibers of ~10nm diameter. They
      provide supporting framework within the cell. Microtubules (~24nm diameter) consist of
      tubulin and microtubule associate proteins. They function to transport nutrients and chemical
      messengers along the cell. Neurofibrillary tangles are twisted bundles of neurofibrils formed
      when the microtubule-associated protein, tau, dissociates from microtubules and clusters to
      form an insoluble mass. Under normal conditions tau binds to microtubules, stabilizing
      neuronal structure and integrity.

      Hyperphosphorylation of tau is assumed to be the cause for the formation of neurofibrillary
      tangles. Although neurofibrillary tangles are most associated with cognitive dysfunction in
      Alzheimers disease, some increase in neurofibrillary pathology has also been reported in
      schizophrenia, potentially as consequence of antipsychotic medication (1). Thus, mechanisms
      underlying microtubular function may be relevant to schizophrenia as well. In association
      with tubulin polymerization into microtubules, NAP influences tau dynamics by increasing the
      ratio of non-phosphorylated tau to phosphorylated tau, implying a dynamic process of cellular
      maintenance of the microtubular network, which is essential for the survival of the cell.

      In brain, tubulin frameworks are stabilized by recently described STOP proteins (2) (aka
      MAP6). Linkages to allelic variation in STOP genes has been reported in schizophrenia, along
      with altered STOP protein expression in some brain regions (3). STOP knockdown mice show
      disturbances in dopaminergic neurotransmission (4) along with deficits in PPI and
      hypermotility that were partially reversed with clozapine (5). Thus, neuropathological
      features of schizophrenia may be due, in part, to abnormal STOP-related stabilization of
      microtubular structure, and NAP may stabilize STOP-related abnormal neurophysiological
      processes in schizophrenia.
    
  