
    
      Preliminary data suggest that cholesterol and retinoid metabolism are tightly linked in these
      cells, prompting us to examine this relationship in the setting of obesity and diabetes.
      Specific aims have been developed to test the following hypotheses: 1) Quantifying liver
      fibrosis as a continuous variable will predict clinically significant outcomes in fatty liver
      disease related to metabolic syndrome; and 2) In a prospective cohort of patients, quantified
      liver fibrosis will correlate more strongly with tissue and circulating retinoid metabolites
      than with other, commonly measured serum markers.

      This study offers a major innovation by performing accurate fibrosis quantification without
      any human intervention or post-analysis correction. In addition, we can test whether subtle
      differences in quantified fibrosis impact outcome for a given clinical stage of disease
      severity, possible because we are measuring fibrosis as a continuous variable, not a
      categorical one. We are using a disease-independent approach to evaluate anti-fibrotic agents
      in clinical trials and for evaluating other diagnostic markers.

      We are also testing whether a novel diagnostic marker, retinoid storage, correlates with
      liver disease progression in humans. We propose to extend the study to address fatty liver
      disease, NAFLD/NASH, in the context of adult patients with abnormal liver tests, fatty liver
      identified on imaging, physical obesity, and diabetes. Clinical variables and outcomes to be
      recorded and analyzed include: morphology (age, gender, ethnicity, height, weight/BMI, waist
      circumference and steatosis on imaging studies); biochemistry (glucose intolerance or
      diabetes, complete blood counts, metabolic panels, liver function tests, cholesterol panels,
      insulin, and vitamin D levels); clinical outcomes (date of liver disease diagnosis and
      estimated duration of disease, listing on liver transplant list, occurrence of liver
      transplant or re-transplant, presence of cancer, and death); medications (current or previous
      prescribed, herbals, supplements taken for diabetes, dyslipidemia, hypertension,
      cardiovascular disease, or stroke); and disease exacerbation/modifying factors (presence of
      other chronic liver diseases such as NASH + HIV, liver toxins such as alcohol consumption,
      weight gain, or worsening diabetes).

      Data will be collected from subjects who complete eight visits over a 24-month period.
      Assessments will include morphometric measurements, blood collection for laboratory analysis
      and completion of dietary history report.
    
  