
    
      PandrTB is an observational study nested in the endTB trial, a randomized study that will
      evaluate five 9-month, injectable-sparing regimens that could transform the treatment of
      MDR-TB. As part of PandrTB: the plasma concentrations of the experimental arm drugs (the new
      and repurposed drugs bedaquiline, delamanid, clofazimine and linezolid, as well as
      levofloxacin, moxifloxacin and pyrazinamide) will be measured; MICs will be determined in
      baseline isolates; and MGIT cultures, additional to those in the endTB study, will be
      performed at weeks 6 and 10. Nonlinear mixed-effects models will describe the population PK
      of the drugs and a pharmacodynamic (PD) model of treatment response of Mycobacterium
      tuberculosis(Mtb) load over time. Recursive partitioning methods will evaluate baseline MICs
      and PK measures as drivers of treatment response (as described by the parameters of the PD
      model of initial treatment response of Mtb load over time, and the endTB trial endpoints:
      time to culture conversion, longer-term outcomes, and acquisition of phenotypic resistance).
      Thus the key drugs and plasma drug exposure thresholds for activity will be defined, and
      exposure-dependent synergy or antagonism identified. The risks of toxicities (as assessed in
      the endTB study) will be estimated, by plasma drug exposure and important comorbidity
      (including HIV infection). In this way, the PK-efficacy and PK-toxicity analyses will allow
      definition of target plasma drug exposures. Simulations will predict optimal doses. To
      advance the understanding of drug penetration, we will develop approaches to measure free
      drug plasma concentrations. Drug-drug interactions will be described. Thus PandrTB will
      inform how best to use these new and repurposed drugs in combination, to create the most
      effective and least toxic regimens while minimizing the development of further drug
      resistance.
    
  