
    
      Nicotine is one of the main components of cigarettes and affects the central nervous system
      mainly via nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. It has further effects on neuromodulation by
      regulating the release of dopamine, serotonin, glutamate and adrenaline. In studies, it has
      been shown that nicotine improves attention and working memory in animals and humans, while
      nicotine withdrawal leads to reduced working and verbal memory capacity in otherwise healthy
      tobacco smokers. In schizophrenics and patients suffering from attention deficit
      hyperactivity disorder, nicotine improves cognitive performance. A likely basis of the
      nicotinic effects on cognitive functions is its effect on cortical excitability and activity.
      Here, neurophysiological studies mainly base on animal experiments and have shown in vitro
      that the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors elicit neuronal depolarisation by inducing
      transmembrane cationic inward currents (Calcium), thus being involved in induction and
      modulation of neuroplasticity and cortical excitability.

      Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation: is a non-invasive brain stimulation technique
      that has shown positive results in the treatment of depression, schizophrenia, and more
      recently addiction. Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation uses alternating magnetic
      fields to induce electric currents in the cortical tissue. Low-frequency as one hertz
      repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation is believed to inhibit neuronal firing in a
      localized area and is used to induce virtual brain lesions. High-frequency as more than three
      hertz repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation is believed to be excitatory in nature and
      can result in neuronal depolarization under the stimulating coil. However, the effects of
      repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation are not limited to the site of stimulation and
      can induce changes in distant interconnected sites of the brain, and consequently may
      influence subcortical regions.
    
  