
    
      We propose to start with infants 32-34 weeks of gestation. Within this group, we will test
      the electrodes for increasing lengths of time. The first group will have the electrodes in
      place for 10 minutes. After doing this on two separate infants without issue, the length of
      time will increase to 1 hour, 4 hours, and end with 8 hours. To move up to the next time
      increment, safety will be documented in two infants. In all of the time groups tested we will
      enroll 2 infants, but with the final time group of 8 hours we will aim for 5 infants. Infants
      will be tested within the first 5 days of life. The neonate's gestational age will be
      recorded and the neonate assigned a study number. Information about the ease of use of the
      device, how it was fitted, and any effects it had on the skin. In addition, the head
      circumference, and the birth weight or weight at time of application will be collected. This
      will be the only medical information collected.

      After this group has been completed, we will enroll 30-32 week infants and follow the same
      protocol of time increments, with the same numbers needed to move up, and also with the goal
      of 5 infants in the final group of 8 hours.

      There will be a nursing evaluation form for the bedside nurse to complete accessing skin
      integrity and erythema after device removal, and also ease of use, and possible interference
      with cares and other devices. One clinical nurse will be the sole person placing and removing
      the net but the bedside nurse and will still do an evaluation evaluating the skin under and
      around the dense array every 30 minutes. The neonates head will be turned every 30 minutes
      following the skin check to avoid pressure injury related to the array. A brief optional
      questionnaire will be given to the bedside nurse to validate that the device did not
      interfere with the bedside nursing care (see questionnaire).

      Inclusion criteria will be infants 30-34 weeks gestation. Exclusion criteria will be any
      infants with evidence of pre-existing skin condition, breakdown, rashes, or problems with
      skin integrity. Infants with a known neurological condition (hydrocephalus, Dandy Walker
      malformation, craniosynostosis, AV malformation) will be excluded as well. Also, secondary to
      the nature of the device and the surface area it takes up, infants on CPAP will be excluded
      as well.
    
  