
    
      Altered regulation of the transition-metal copper (Cu) may lead to an overproduction of
      reactive oxygen species (ROS) with subsequent development of a nonischemic cardiomyopathy
      (NISCM). Myocardial Cu levels are elevated in NISCM, and Cu levels are highest in the
      "diabetic cardiomyopathy." In humans, zinc (Zn) is an essential component of proteins
      critical for regulating myocardial cytoskeleton turnover and cellular proliferation. Zn also
      serves as an antioxidant and indirect regulator of redox-active Cu. By upregulating the
      chelator metallothionein, Zn reduces the levels of free Cu implicated in oxidative myocardial
      damage.

      Transgenic over-expression of the antioxidant metallothionein has been shown to reduce
      ROS-induced myocardial damage. In diabetic cardiomyopathy, Cu chelation improves left
      ventricular (LV) diastolic relaxation abnormalities. However, it is unknown if Zn
      supplementation could alter the progression of LV systolic dysfunction through Cu depletion
      and ROS reduction. The aim of this pilot study is to assess the impact of a novel
      intervention, Zn supplementation, on myocardial remodeling by examining changes in serum
      levels of the types I (PINP) and III (PIIINP) collagen N-terminal propeptides. The primary
      study hypothesis is that Zn supplementation will have a favorable impact on the
      pathophysiology of NISCM by either repleting a Zn deficiency/insufficiency or by reducing
      myocardial damage and adverse remodeling in the setting of redox-active Cu excess.

      Stable outpatients (n=40) with chronic NISCM (ejection fraction ≤40%) will receive daily oral
      Zn-acetate (50 mg po tid) for 10 months. Serum PINP, PIIINP, and markers of inflammation
      (CRP, sedimentation rate, myeloperoxidase) and oxidative stress (8-isoprostane, superoxide
      dismutase) will be obtained at baseline and following 10 months of Zn supplementation.
      Changes in collagen turnover will then be correlated with changes noted in LV systolic and
      diastolic function by echocardiography. Finally, we will examine for a differential treatment
      effect of Zn therapy in a diabetic subset (n=20) with NISCM compared with the nondiabetics.
    
  