
    
      In China，the incidence of leukemia is 2.76/100,000. Leukemia ranks first in the mortality
      rate of malignant tumors in children and adults under 35 years old. With the aging of
      society, the incidence of elderly leukemia in China has been increasing year by year. The
      elderly patients with Acute Leukemia have poor basal state, and there are many important
      organ diseases such as heart, liver and kidney. The incidence of infection and hemorrhage is
      high in elderly patients after chemotherapy. These characteristics make the treatment of
      elderly leukemia difficult.In 1995, Japanese scholar Yamada proposed the CAG protocol
      (granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) combined with low-dose cytarabine (Ara-C) and
      aclacinomycin (ACR)) for the treatment of Acute Myeloid leukemia in elderly patients.when a
      better response rate was obtained, the side effects were significantly reduced. Although the
      application of G-CSF in the CAG protocol reduces the incidence of granulocytopenic
      co-infection in elderly patients, thrombocytopenia, another common side effect of
      chemotherapy in elderly patients, still limits the efficacy and safety of treatment in
      elderly patients. Recombinant human thrombopoietin (rhTPO) is approved for thrombocytopenia
      after solid tumor chemotherapy, but there are few studies on Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML).So
      we propose a new treatment plan by using the therapy that rhTPO may promote the leukemia
      cells into the division cycle.We use the synergistic effect of G-CSF and rhTPO to promote
      leukemia cells into the division cycle, thereby the cells can be killed by cytotoxic drugs.
      At the same time, G-CSF and rhTPO are used to promote the growth of granulocytes and
      platelets, therefore the side effects of treatment of elderly leukemia can be
      alleviated.Recent studies have found that erythropoietin and G-CSF act on the cardiovascular
      system.By mobilizing bone marrow stem cells to repair ischemic myocardium,they promote
      cardiomyocyte regeneration and neovascularization in the ischemic area. In addition to
      promoting platelet growth, rhTPO can also reduce the cardiotoxicity of anthracyclines in
      elderly patients with CAG.We provide a safe and effective chemotherapy for elderly leukemia
      patients, so that more elderly patients receive chemotherapy,which has important practical
      significance.

      The cycle of this trial is 8 cycles.After all the treatments completing, the patients are
      followed up to observe the bone marrow.In the first year,the patients will be reviewed every
      3 months;In the second year ,They will be reviewed every 6 months, and two year later,they
      will be reviewed every year, including morphological analysis of bone marrow.After the trial
      is completed, the survival information of the patients will be followed up by telephone or
      through the trial center every 3 months.

      About combined medication:1) During the whole test period, patients are not allowed to
      receive other anti-tumor measures other than test drugs, including radiotherapy,
      chemotherapy, targeted therapy, immunological preparation, hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation, etc.;2) The investigator can take appropriate supportive treatment after
      evaluating the relationship between adverse events and trial medication. The start and
      duration of supportive treatment are recorded in the original record. These treatments
      include antiemetics, antidiarrheal, antipyretic, antiallergic, diabetes treatment, use of
      antihypertensive drugs, use of analgesics, use of antibiotics, and other uses such as blood
      products;3)The patients can be given symptomatic treatment when hematological toxicity is in
      level 3 or after the investigator has judged the condition, and record in the combined
      medication;4)The patients can be given symptomatic treatment when non-hematological toxicity
      is in level 2 and record in the combined medication;5) Basic diseases should be given to
      maintain treatment;6) All concomitant medications, generic names, medication purposes,
      dosages, and medication time received by the patient should be fully recorded in the original
      record;7) It is forbidden to use other clinical trial drugs during the trial.

      The use of TPO in new technologies may increase the incidence of thrombosis. In this trial,
      rhTPO will be discontinued when platelets > 50*109/L. Because of chemotherapy, bone marrow
      suppression and thrombocytopenia are observed. At the same time, newly diagnosed leukemia
      often combined with thrombocytopenia. No special medication will be needed to prevent
      thrombosis, and platelet level should be closely observed. Other technologies, other risks
      and response plans are the same as traditional treatment plans The cost of patient medication
      in this trial is similar to that of traditional treatment . The chemotherapy drugs used are
      all listed drugs
    
  