
    
      This study has three major aims (Aims 1, 2 and 3)

      Aim 1: Carry out a formative qualitative study to assess barriers and facilitators to TB
      medication adherence, and identify optimal SMS reminders, notifications, and initial
      feasibility of real time adherence monitoring. 35 TB patients will be recruited from the TB
      clinic in Mbarara Regional Referral Hospital (MRRH), and up to 15 social supporters specified
      by the TB patients (one per TB patient). Drawing from technology adoption and behavioral
      change models, the investigator will use semi-structured interviews to assess the initial
      feasibility and acceptability of the intervention, as well the barriers and facilitators to
      TB medication adherence, and how they can be addressed using the proposed intervention. The
      purpose will be to inform the development the technology necessary to conduct a real-time
      intervention involving a wireless monitor and SMS reminders and notifications (Aim 2 and 3).

      Aim 2: Develop a TB medication adherence intervention based on SMS reminders (fixed and/or
      linked to real-time detection of missed doses) and assess its acceptability, feasibility and
      preliminary impact on adherence.

      The Investigators will use real-time electronic adherence monitoring (i.e., Wisepill) to
      follow 60 TB-infected individuals initiating TB treatment in Mbarara Regional Referral
      Hospital (MRRH) for six months. Using a 1:1:1 manner, participants will be randomized to one
      of the following three study arms (details of each intervention will be informed by the data
      collected in Aim 1):

        1. Intervention Arm A: SMS reminders on a fixed schedule

        2. Intervention Arm B: SMS reminders linked to missed doses

        3. Control: No SMS reminders.

      Qualitative interviews to understand the patients experiences with Wisepill adherence
      monitoring and the SMS reminders will be carried out, depending on the study arm to which
      they are assigned. The first set of interviews for Arms A and B will be conducted at the end
      of Month 3 of the study. The second set of interviews is planned to be conducted within two
      weeks after the first 24+ hour lapse in Wisepill signal for the participants in the
      intervention arms (A and B). If there is no 24+ hour lapse, the interview will take place at
      the end of the study. The control participants in Arm C's interview will occur at a
      convenient time during Months 3-6. The effect sizes will be estimated by comparing adherence
      at the end of six months between each intervention group and the control group. The primary
      outcome will be percent adherence.

      Treatment outcomes will be defined according to WHO definitions, where cure and completed
      treatment are defined as successful treatment outcomes (WHO 2014). Unsuccessful treatment
      outcomes for active TB treatment will include death ascertained from hospital death registry,
      treatment failure (sputum smear positive at 6 months) and loss to follow-up. Treatment
      outcomes will be compared for both intervention and control arms.

      Aim 3: Develop a social support intervention linked to real-time adherence monitoring and
      assess its acceptability, feasibility and preliminary impact on adherence. Members of
      pre-existing social support networks for the same 40 TB-infected individuals in the two
      intervention arms described in Aim 2 above will be recruited to receive real-time SMS
      notification of sustained non-adherence (i.e., gaps of >24 hours) over the latter four months
      of follow-up. The investigators will continue to follow the 20 TB-infected individuals in the
      control group (i.e., electronic monitoring alone) to estimate the effect size of the
      intervention on adherence at the end of the six-month period. Qualitative interviews to
      understand the experiences of participants in each study arm and the social supporters with
      special emphasis on understanding mechanisms of effects of the SMS reminders, forms and
      dynamics of support, experiences with the SMS reminders/notifications, and technical problems
      encountered will be conducted. The results of Aim 3 will be used to determine the types of
      SMS (fixed versus linked SMS), and the nature of social support that shows the most promise
      for real time intervention on anti-TB medication adherence and cure.
    
  