
    
      Bone is the third most common organ involved by metastatic disease behind lung and liver. In
      breast cancer, bone is the second most common site of metastatic spread, and 90% of patients
      dying of breast cancer have bone metastasis. Breast and prostate cancer metastasize to bone
      most frequently, which reflects the high incidence of both of these tumors, as well as their
      prolonged clinical courses.

      Post cancer survival has increased with improvement in early detection and treatments. As a
      consequence, the number of patients developing metastatic bone disease during their lifetime
      has also increased. Patients with bone metastasis from breast cancer have an average 2-year
      survival from the time of presentation with their first bone lesion. In patients who die from
      breast, prostate, and lung cancer, autopsy studies have shown that up to 85% have evidence of
      bone metastases at the time of death.

      Current treatments for patients with bone metastases are primarily palliative and include
      localized therapies (radiation and surgery), systemic therapies (chemotherapy, hormonal
      therapy, radiopharmaceutical, and bisphosphonates), and analgesics (opioids and non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs). Recently, radiofrequency ablation has been tested as a treatment
      option for bone metastases. The main goals of these treatments are improvement of quality of
      life and functional level. These goals can be further described: 1) Pain relief, 2)
      Preservation and restoration of function, 3) Local tumor control, 4) Skeletal stabilization.

      The study hypothesis is that treatment with the MRgFUS, which is delivered by a strappable
      transducer, is a safe and potentially effective non-invasive treatment for metastatic bone
      tumors with a low incidence of co-morbidity. Based on the results of this study the Sponsor
      will initiate a larger study in an attempt to obtain regulatory approval for the treatment of
      metastatic bone tumors as an indication for the MRgFUS ExAblate strappable system.
    
  