
    
      This study involves a test - re-test design. Subjects will be tested in their physical
      performance. These measures include a general assessment of joint mobility, muscle strength,
      motor coordination, and performance assessment utilizing functional movement screens. The
      physical examination is similar to a physical examination performed clinically in sports
      performance testing and also in the practice of Physical Therapy. The initial baseline
      measure will provide objective scores that can be utilized to assess for change over time.
      Additional information to be gathered includes demographic information on the subject
      including age, previous injury history, and level of exposure to physical performance
      training. These variables are associated with injury risk and also impact the potential for
      change with physical performance training. In addition, information on mental factors
      including stress, fear of failure, and burnout will be collected. It is hypothesized that
      these variables also factor into athletic performance. It is not known how these variables
      impact injury risk. Information on training load will be gathered weekly during the training
      period. Training load has a direct impact on muscle performance, and is hypothesized to
      impact injury risk. The subjects will be re-tested at the end of the training period to
      measure changes in physical performance and injury risk.

      Project Procedures

      Study population: High school athletes, ages 14 to 18, who are participating in an organized
      sports training program. The target subject enrollment is 250 high school athletes.

      Inclusion criteria will be athletes who have completed a pre-participation sports physical,
      are enrolled in a sports elective or a member of a sports team, and have volunteered to
      participate in the study providing both verbal and written consent.

      Exclusion criteria for participation include athletes who have not submitted a
      pre-participation sports physical to the high school training staff, student athletes who are
      currently suffering from an acute neuromusculoskeletal injury with restrictions on athletic
      participation, an athlete who has undergone surgery within a 3 month period of the program
      start date, an athlete who presents with a cardiovascular condition that would exclude
      exercise participation (systolic BP > 180, diastolic BP > 100), or athletes who are currently
      pregnant.

      Study Methodology

      Participants will complete a self-report questionnaire collecting demographic data including
      age, gender, primary and secondary sport activity, and previous injury history. Participants
      will also complete the Perceived Stress Scale to measure self-appraised stress, the Sports
      Mental Training Questionnaire to measure mental preparation skills, and the Athlete Burnout
      Questionnaire to assess emotional/physical exhaustion at the beginning and end of the 8 week
      program to assess psychological stressors associated with sport participation that may impact
      motivation to participate and perceived internal training load.

      The structured physical performance assessment will include functional movement testing,
      motor coordination testing, joint mobility screen, muscle strength testing, and agility
      performance testing. Video analysis will be included with the functional movement testing
      utilizing software to assess reliability of the neuromuscular impairment screen.

      Research project specific measures:

      Functional movement testing includes:

        1. Forward flexion/hinge

        2. Standing trunk rotation

        3. Bilateral squat

        4. Forward lunge

        5. Lateral lunge

        6. Lower extremity functional reach test

        7. Upper extremity movement pattern (shoulder mobility test)

        8. Quadruped trunk rotary stability test

      Mobility testing includes:

        1. Ankle mobility testing (DF, PF, IV, EV, first ray extension)

        2. Hip mobility testing (flexion, extension, abduction, IR, ER)

        3. Cervical mobility testing (flexion, extension, side bending, rotation, flexion rotation

        4. Thoracic mobility testing (seated trunk rotation)

        5. Shoulder mobility testing (flexion with scapular mobility assessment, abduction with
           scapular mobility assessment, IR, ER)

        6. Elbow mobility testing (flexion, extension, supination, pronation)

        7. Wrist mobility (flexion, extension)

      Muscle strength testing:

        1. Hip strength (flexion, extension, abduction, ER, IR)

        2. Knee strength (flexion, extension)

        3. Ankle strength (PF, IV, EV)

        4. Shoulder strength (IR, ER, AB)

        5. Scapular strength (middle trap, lower trap)

        6. Elbow strength (flexion, extension)

      Performance testing:

        1. Jump testing (bilateral long jump, unilateral jump, drop box jump)

        2. Upper extremity closed chain reach testing

        3. Shuttle run

      Intrinsic and Extrinsic training load will be recorded weekly for subjects participating in
      the research study. Data will be utilized to calculate the training load associated with the
      school based strength and conditioning training program.
    
  