
    
      Multiple inflammatory lesions caused from orthodontic treatments are commonly found in these
      patients and the irritations from the insertion of the orthodontic wire are hard to apply the
      topical cream or gel. Standard treatment to prevent oral mucosal irritation caused from
      orthodontic brackets and wires is an orthodontic wax to cover the appliances. However, the
      covering wax is just a prophylactic measure to protect the mucosal irritation. Thus, the
      patients still need a specific treatment for their oral inflammatory condition. Developing a
      product that can treat entire inflammatory areas in oral cavity, promote oral hygiene, and
      anti-fungal would be beneficial and useful for the orthodontic treatment. Anthocyanins, one
      of a natural compound from red, blue, purple vegetables, fruits, and flowers, have many
      beneficial effects including anti-inflammation and the most important effect superior to
      steroid usage is anti-candidiasis. Interesting in anthocyanins as the natural treatment, has
      drawn attention due to the benefits in oral inflammation. Previous study on the effect of a
      topical anthocyanin gel demonstrated positive effect of topical anthocyanins gel against oral
      inflammation in human subjects at 6 weeks. Unfortunately, anthocyanin is not stable and
      easily to be degraded. Therefore, stabilized anthocyanin oral formulation needs to be
      developed and the formulation needs to provide stable and active anthocyanins in suitable
      oral formula. This study aims to prepare and investigate effects of anthocyanin complex in
      order to formulate the mouthrinse for anti-inflammation caused by orthodontic treatment.
      Thus, to prepare and investigate the effects of anthocyanin activities after forming
      complexation in order to formulate the mouthrinse would be evaluated. In addition, the
      examination of anti-oral inflammation caused by orthodontic treatment by anthocyanin complex
      in clinical trial will be conducted.
    
  