
    
      Steroids have been used to reduce inflammation and tissue damage in a variety of conditions,
      have potent immunomodulatory effects, and are a mainstay in the treatment of acute allograft
      rejection. Dexamethasone has been shown to be a safe and effective anti-emetic therapy for
      patients undergoing cesarean section surgery with spinal anesthesia containing morphine.

      However, recent evidence suggests that dexamethasone may also play a role in reducing
      post-operative pain and opioid consumption. Early studies in patients undergoing dental
      procedures showed that glucocorticoids were effective in reducing postoperative pain and
      edema. Multiple recent studies have also investigated the potential analgesic benefit of a
      single perioperative dose of dexamethasone, but the results have been inconsistent. The
      effect of single-dose, intraoperative, intravenous dexamethasone therapy on post-operative
      pain and opioid consumption has not yet been studied in patients undergoing cesarean section.

      Pain is a significant source of morbidity for many women following cesarean section, and has
      serious consequences beyond the immediate post-operative period. Patients with
      poorly-controlled pain may have difficulty with ambulation that can lead to atelectasis,
      pneumonia, and venous thromboembolism.

      Poor maternal pain control may also affect the infant by interfering with bonding and
      breastfeeding. Reduction of post-operative opioid consumption is desirable because it may
      also reduce the incidence of opioid-induced side effects such as sedation, constipation,
      nausea, vomiting and pruritus. Some evidence suggests that the severity of post-operative
      pain following cesarean section may predict progression to chronic pain, and postpartum
      depression.

      Although 10 to 18% of women who undergo cesarean section will experience chronic pain
      following surgery, it is difficult to predict those patients who will experience this
      complication. Recent investigations have shown that patient responses to standardized painful
      stimuli prior to surgery help predict severity of post-operative pain and possibly
      progression to chronic pain. This type of information could potentially help to tailor the
      clinical management of patients at risk for severe and/or chronic post-operative pain to
      improve outcomes for these patients. Landau and colleagues have described a simple and
      minimally-invasive method of assessing response to noxious stimuli using a von-Frey filament
      to obtain a mechanical temporal summation score.
    
  