
    
      Bronchoalveolar carcinoma has been traditionally used to refer to a subset of adenocarcinoma
      distinguished by its peripheral location, typical "lepidic" growth pattern and tendency for
      both bronchogenic and lymphatic spread. For the purpose of this discussion and consistency
      with the revised 2011 criteria, BAC subtypes will be collectively referred to as early
      adenocarcinoma.

      The clinical presentation of early adenocarcinoma subtypes is highly variable ranging from a
      small solitary nodule to extensive lobar consolidation. Many peripheral lesions have a
      characteristic ground glass opacity appearance on Chest CT, which may correlate with an
      improved prognosis. The reported five-year disease-free survival after resection for isolated
      lesions may approaches 100%.

      Preoperative diagnosis of such lesions is complicated by several limitations. First, the
      differential diagnosis is broad including an extensive number of inflammatory and infectious
      processes. Second, positron emission tomography (PET), which identifies regions of increased
      metabolic activity, may be falsely negative due to the slow growth of early adenocarcinoma
      lesions. Transbronchial needle biopsy is also unreliable to confirm or exclude disease in
      non-solid type lesions.

      The proportion of lung cancers classified as adenocarcinoma has steadily increased and now
      comprises nearly ½ of cases. However, the proportion of adenocarcinoma in situ is uncertain.
      Previous reports range from 5-10% in a large series to as high as 24% in the large
      Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results database. Thus, these early adenocarcinoma lesions
      may represent a disproportionately large number of lung cancers which are PET negative yet
      carry an excellent prognosis after early resection. The early adenocarcinoma subtypes
      represent a clinical entity requiring further characterization to distinguish lesions more
      likely to be malignant from benign.

      Telomerase is activated aberrantly in most lung cancers and mutations in telomerase
      components predispose to solid malignancies. For patients with non-small cell lung cancer,
      numerous studies correlate increased tumor telomerase activity with increased likelihood of
      Stage IIIB and Stage IV disease and/or reduced survival. Furthermore, telomerase inhibition
      is currently being studied in clinical trials of patients with advanced non-small lung
      cancer.

      Problem:

      The semi-solid lung lesion may represent early stage adenocarcinoma which has an excellent
      prognosis upon early diagnosis and prompt surgical resection. However, the semi-solid lesion
      has a broad differential diagnosis and preoperative features characteristic of adenocarcinoma
      are needed to distinguish malignant from benign lesions.

      Objective:

      To study telomere length and telomerase activity in patients with suspected early
      adenocarcinoma of the lung whom are referred for surgical biopsy of lung lesions.
    
  