
    
      This phase I, multisite, pilot study will test whether infusions of human cord tissue derived
      MSCs (hCT-MSC) are safe in children with multisystem inflammatory syndrome (MIS-C).

      The study population will consist of six patients 18 to <21 years old with a life expectancy
      ≥ 72 hours and COVID-19 related MIS-C that is refractory to treatment with intravenous immune
      globulin (IVIG).

      Multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) is a newly recognized, serious,
      hyper-inflammatory syndrome that is occurring in small numbers of children, many of whom are
      within a month or so of recovering from a COVID-19 infection. While the clinical presentation
      varies, affected patients are typically previously healthy individuals who are less than 21
      years of age. The diagnostic criteria include fever, laboratory evidence of inflammation, and
      multisystem involvement requiring hospitalization. Up to 75% of patients present with an
      element of cardiogenic shock requiring inotropic support, with some also requiring intubation
      with mechanical ventilation. Reported supportive treatments have included intravenous immune
      globulin (IVIG), tocilizumab, methylprednisolone, and aspirin. In the limited cases reported,
      up to 50% of children with MIS-C have antibodies to COVID-19 in their blood and may or may
      not be PCR positive on a nasal swab or throat culture. The disease is incompletely understood
      but currently believed, at least in part, to be a hyper-immune response to a recent COVID-19
      infection.

      In laboratory experiments, MSCs have been shown to inhibit T-cell proliferation and decrease
      production of pro-inflammatory cytokines. In animal models, up to 70% of infused cells are
      engulfed by lung macrophages, leading to secretion of anti-inflammatory molecules by these
      macrophages. These observations have led to the hypothesis that MSCs may work through both
      anti-inflammatory, immune-modulatory, and regenerative mechanisms.

      Over the past several months, MSCs have been tested in small cohorts of adult patients with
      COVID-19 Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome to determine if the cytokine storm hypothesized
      to cause this complication could be suppressed by MSCs. Early results are encouraging, and
      formal clinical trials are underway. Extending this work into the pediatric population, the
      hypothesis of this study is that infusion of hCT-MSC can reverse the pro-inflammatory state
      in children with MIS-C.

      This is a 6 patient, multisite, pilot study to test whether infusions of hCT-MSC are safe in
      pediatric patients with MIS-C. Information will also be gathered about the duration and
      severity of the participant's multisystem inflammatory syndrome. hCT-MSCs will be
      manufactured at Duke University Medical Center in the Robertson GMP Cell Manufacturing
      Laboratory and shipped frozen to the treatment site, where they will remain stored in the
      vapor phase of liquid nitrogen until the day of dosing.

      The baseline evaluation will include vital signs (heart rate, blood pressure, temperature,
      respiratory rate), echocardiogram, ECG or telemetry strip, HLA typing, Panel Reactive
      Antibody (anti-HLA antibody), inflammatory markers, blood counts, blood chemistry,
      coagulation, and COVID-19 PCR and antibody tests.Patients will be dosed with 2x10^6
      hCT-MSCs/kg. Doses will be given on days 1, 2, 3, and a fourth, optional dose may be given on
      day 7 at the discretion of the investigator and the treating physician. Prior to the
      infusion, premedications (Benadryl, Hydrocortisone, 0.5mg/kg each) will be administered. The
      hCT-MSCs will be administered intravenously over 30-60 minutes via a syringe pump. Pulse
      oximetry will be monitored continuously throughout the infusion and IV fluids will be managed
      by the care team. Afterwards, the participant will continue to be monitored in their care
      setting per institutional standards. Participants will be evaluated by study staff the day
      after the infusion to assess for any infusion-related adverse reactions or complications.

      The participant will be monitored by study staff to assess for any infusion related adverse
      reactions or complications until discharge. Additional follow-up will occur on days 14, 28,
      and 90. Follow up testing will include assessment for adverse events as well as the tests
      done at baseline (with the exception of HLA typing and COVID PCR.
    
  