
    
      Signs of early onset GBS infection of the newborn appear during the first week of life.
      Usually, the bacteria pass from a GBS carrier mother to the newborn during labor. The
      infection can cause multi-system problems such as pneumonia, meningitis and even death of the
      newborn. The prevention of the disease is best achieved by prophylactic antibiotics
      administered to the mother during labor.

      In order to prevent early onset GBS infection of the newborn, pregnant women are treated with
      preventive antibiotics during labor based on either of two protocols:

      A. Risk factors: Women with risk factors such as premature birth, prolonged premature rupture
      of membranes, intra-partum maternal fever or a previous child with GBS infection are treated.

      B. Universal screening: Towards the end of pregnancy, at 35 - 37th week, a vaginal/anal swab
      for GBS is taken, and those found positive will be treated.

      According to the Israeli Ministry of Health regulations' from July 2005 it is not accepted to
      routinely perform screening for GBS in pregnant women at 35-37th week of pregnancy.
      Therefore, the Israeli approach to prevent early neonatal GBS infection is based mainly on
      antibiotic prophylaxis treatment during labor of all pregnant women with risk factors.

      In a study conducted at the Western Galilee Medical Center in the city of Nahariya and
      published in 2006, there was a significant increase in the GBS carrier state rate compared to
      previously published studies. It was also found that higher GBS carrier state rates prevail
      among Arab women compared to Jewish women.

      The primary question of this study is to calculate GBS carrier state prevalence among
      pregnant Arab women attending the labor ward at the Nazareth Hospital at the 34 to 40th week
      of their pregnancy.

      A vaginal / anal swab will be taken from all eligible participants to identify GBS carriers
      by PCR (polymerase chain reaction) test.
    
  