
    
      Dry eggplant extract(Solanum melongena) has been used by the population as an alternative
      treatment for dyslipidemia. It is a vegetable rich in flavonoids, which are polyphenol
      anti-oxidants found in foods. Studies suggest an inverse relationship between the ingestion
      of foods rich in flavonoids and mortality from coronary artery disease. The aim of this study
      was to assess the effect of administering eggplant extract capsules on the lipid profile of
      healthy individuals after an oral lipid overload test.

      Participants underwent a baseline clinical evaluation conducted by a doctor, who assessed
      whether the volunteer was apt to participate in the study. Diabetics, smokers and users of
      hypolipidemic medication were excluded. After signing an informed consent form, 59 healthy
      volunteers of both genders were randomized to take either capsules containing 450 mg of dry
      eggplant extract or placebo. Both interventions were administered in quantities of two
      capsules, twice a day, for 14 days, and both patient and doctor were unaware of the drug in
      use.

      The main outcome measure was lipid profile, which was checked during fasting on days 0 and
      14, and also during postprandial period on the 14th day, when participants underwent a lipid
      overload test immediately after ingesting 900 mg of eggplant extract or placebo, as per prior
      randomization. The nutritional analysis of the meal contained 361 kcal and 22.5g of total
      fat, 14.5 g of which was saturated and 251mg of cholesterol. Laboratory exams were taken
      (total cholesterol, triglycerides, HDL-C). LDL-C was calculated according to the Friedewald
      formula: LDL-C = CT - HDL-C - TG/5. The nutritional value of food records was conducted with
      the help of Diet Win for Windows nutritional evaluation software.

      Anthropometric evaluation was also performed, including body weight, height and abdominal
      circumference, at baseline and on day 14, by the same investigator, blinded to the
      intervention.
    
  