
    
      Opioid use disorder (OUD) is characterized by non-remitting cycles of remission and opioid
      abuse relapse. It is associated with a high rate of psychiatric and physical co-morbidity
      when left untreated. Buprenorphine and buprenorphine/naloxone are effective opioid
      maintenance therapy (OMT) for OUD, however, treatment of acute post-surgical pain in patients
      taking buprenorphine is perceived to be challenging. Although not substantiated in clinical
      studies, the combination of high receptor binding affinity, long half-life, and partial mu
      opioid receptor agonism with buprenorphine/naloxone are thought to inhibit the analgesic
      actions of full mu opioid receptor agonists, potentially making standard postoperative pain
      control strategies less effective. There is no evidence based standard of care for optimal
      acute pain management strategies for patients taking buprenorphine and most recommendations
      are based upon provider opinion- occasionally conflicting along specialty lines. Some
      providers, mainly consisting of surgeons and anesthesiologists, recommend that buprenorphine
      should be discontinued at least 72 hours prior to elective surgery and replaced with low dose
      opioid agonists, in the interim. Other providers, mainly comprising of psychiatrists, contend
      that these patients should be maintained on buprenorphine throughout the peri-operative
      period at either a full or reduced dose to prevent an indeterminate risk of substance abuse
      relapse that can occur as consequence to the abrupt termination buprenorphine in the highly
      stressful surgical period. This study aims to inform this important unresolved question in
      the clinical care of this growing population. The investigators seek to determine the
      effectiveness of managing postoperative pain in patients with OUD where
      buprenorphine/naloxone is continued perioperatively compared to patients where
      buprenorphine/naloxone is reduced to a lower dose. Longitudinally, the investigators also
      intend to determine if there is a difference in substance abuse relapse in patients where
      buprenorphine/naloxone is continued vs. held by using self assessments and communication with
      the participant's buprenorphine provider.
    
  