
    
      STUDY OBJECTIVES:

      Primary:

      The primary objective is to evaluate the complete response rate following 4 cycles of
      FCR-Lite plus lenalidomide in previously untreated patients with CLL.

      Secondary:

      The first secondary objective is to evaluate the toxicity of patients with previously
      untreated CLL treated with FCR-Lite plus lenalidomide, followed by lenalidomide. The second
      is to evaluate the overall response rate and overall survival of patients with previously
      untreated CLL treated with FCR-Lite plus lenalidomide followed by lenalidomide. The third is
      to determine whether adding lenalidomide as a consolidation/maintenance therapy will
      eliminate bone marrow minimal residual disease in CR patients and whether patients who have a
      PR after 6 cycles of FCR-Lite plus lenalidomide will respond to 12 months of lenalidomide.
      The final secondary objective is to determine whether the expression of ZAP-70, CD38, and
      chromosomes correlate with response rate, duration of response, and survival for previously
      untreated patients with CLL.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      2-stage phase 2 study-design. 19 subjects are treated in stage-1 with FCR-Lite plus 5mg
      lenalidomide increasing to 10mg and 15mg in subsequent cycles depending on toxicity. If there
      are at least 5 CRs the study will accrue an additional 35 subjects (see statistical section).
      A secondary objective of this study will be to determine if MRD positive patients will become
      MRD negative with lenalidomide consolidation/maintenance and whether PR patients will convert
      to CRs Lenalidomide will begin 2 months after the last dose of FCR-Lite in all subjects with
      CR. It may begin as soon as 1 month after FCR-Lite plus lenalidomide in subjects with PR.
      Lenalidomide is given in 28 d cycles increasing the dose from 5 mg/d to 10 mg/d in cycle 2
      and to 15mg in cycles 3-6 if well- tolerated (no grade-3 or -4 toxicity). Patients with
      creatinine clearance ≥30ml/min and <60ml/min will start at 2.5mg daily increasing to 5 and
      10mg in subsequent cycles . Reduction to the prior dose is allowed for grade-3/-4 toxicity.
      MRD will be studied by flow cytometry from bone marrow and peripheral blood samples following
      4 and 6 cycles of FCR-Lite and after 6 and 12 months of lenalidomide in CR patients.
    
  