
    
      Background:

        -  A pilot study of PET imaging with Tc-94m sestamibi to assess activity of the multidrug
           transporter, MDR-1 (Multi Drug Resistance Protein 1)/P-glycoprotein, an ATP (adenosine
           5'-triphosphate)-binding cassette protein that transports drug out of the cell, thereby
           reducing intracellular drug accumulation.

        -  Tariquidar is a safe, nontoxic antagonist of P-glycoprotein. Previous studies
           demonstrated that tariquidar increased retention of the radioimaging agent, Tc99
           sestamibi in normal liver and in a subset of tumors. These studies were limited by the
           semiquantitative nature of total body imaging by conventional radionuclide scintigraphy

        -  In collaboration with the Clinical Center Nuclear Medicine Department, a PET imaging
           agent has been developed, Tc-94m sestamibi, and the FDA (Food and Drug Administration)
           has granted approval for its use in humans.

      Objectives:

      -To evaluate the feasibility of Tc-94m sestamibi as a PET imaging agent, which should allow
      greater resolution and quantitation and thereby make possible direct quantitative comparisons
      of tumor uptake before and after treatment with a P-glycoprotein antagonist.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients over 18 years of age, who are eligible for, or have completed enrollment in an
           active NCI (National Cancer Institute) protocol for treatment of cancer.

        -  Negative pregnancy test within 24 hrs of Tc-94m injection.

        -  An index lesion greater than 2cm will be required to optimize the PET images.

        -  Prior treatment with a P-glycoprotein antagonist is allowed.

      Design:

        -  Designed as a feasibility study. Patients meeting the eligibility criteria and signing
           informed consent will undergo a PET sestamibi imaging scan in the Department of Nuclear
           Medicine. Seventy-two hours later, a dose of tariquidar will be administered before a
           repeat imaging study.

        -  Blood will be obtained for analysis of the pharmacokinetics of Tc-94m sestamibi, and for
           isolation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells to assay P-glycoprotein inhibition in
           circulating CD56+ cells. These assessments are needed to confirm the impact of
           tariquidar on P-glycoprotein in normal cells - for example, those involved in drug
           excretion and in circulating mononuclear cells. These results will then be used to
           inform the findings in the PET imaging study.

        -  Fifteen patients will be enrolled and pairwise comparisons will be made between the
           sestamibi residence times in tumor, normal liver, kidney, and heart. All comparisons are
           noted to be exploratory.
    
  