
    
      The pain felt during labour is influenced by many physiological and psychosocial factors and
      often requires some form of relief. Pain can be intensified for labour inductions as the
      body's natural pain-relieving endorphins are not readily released in response to the
      increasingly strong and painful uterine contractions- leading to earlier and more frequent
      requests for analgesia. Induced labour has also been reported as being significantly longer
      than spontaneous labour. Current evidence suggests that epidural, combined spinal epidural
      and inhaled analgesia effectively manage pain in labour, but may give rise to adverse effects
      for both the mother and neonate. Despite this, epidural analgesia is considered the gold
      standard in the treatment of labor pain and has a role in labour inductions. Opioids are
      often added to epidurals to improve the quality of analgesia because of their faster onset
      and superior pain relief. When combined with opioids, lower concentrations of local
      anesthetic are needed. Such combinations provide adequate analgesic effect while allowing the
      parturient to maintain maximal motor function.

      In studies assessing the safety and efficacy of labour analgesia, neonatal outcome is a
      primary concern and the use of opioids for labour analgesia is controversial because of the
      potentially negative effects on neonates. Common indicators of poor neonatal outcomes include
      a lower Apgar score, a lower Neurological and Adaptive Capacity Score (NACS), and a lower
      umbilical artery or vein pH value.

      Fentanyl is the most widely investigated adjuncts to epidural local anesthetics. Various RCTs
      comparing epidural local anesthetics with and without fentanyl have found no significant
      differences in neonatal Apgar scores at one and five minutes between the groups. A recent
      meta-analysis of twenty-one RCTs involving epidural Fentanyl and Sufentanil concluded that
      there was no difference in the incidence of Apgar scores < 7 at one and five minutes, no
      significant differences in the NACS at two hours and at 24 hours, and no significant
      differences were found in umbilical cord artery pH between the epidural opioid and control
      groups. This meta-analysis concluded that the common doses of Fentanyl (total dose of 100-500
      mcg) and Sufentanil (total dose of 7.5-30 mcg) used with an epidural/spinal technique are
      safe for neonates up to 24 hours after delivery. Despite reassuring findings regarding
      epidural opioids, other investigators have found an association between epidural opioids and
      neonatal respiratory distress and the use of epidural fentanyl has been associated with a
      NACS that failed to improve by 24 hours in one study. Furthermore, the use of epidural
      opioids was associated with reduced rates of breastfeeding in some observational studies, but
      evidence is unclear and debated.

      Given the heightened implications for the mother and neonate in situations requiring
      induction of labour, the desire for a positive outcome whilst still providing adequate
      maternal analgesia is paramount. This study thus aims to investigate whether a preliminary
      epidural Fentanyl bolus at the initiation of the epidural may help to improve analgesia for
      women undergoing labour inductions for post-term pregnancy in a safe manner. Importantly, the
      main rationale of this proposed practice being that by achieving adequate epidural analgesia
      earlier in the labour induction, this may lead to better pain control overall and less
      overall requirements for epidural PCEA boluses and epidural "top-ups" as the induction
      progresses.
    
  