
    
      The sampling frame will consist of adults, age 18 or older, with limited English proficiency
      (LEP), with an upper extremity injury or disorder, that have been referred to occupational
      therapy (OT) at Midwest Orthopaedics at Rush (MOR), require services that span four weeks or
      more, agree to use of interpreter services, agree to completing a paper and pencil survey at
      the end of four weeks, and agree to be interviewed after four weeks of occupational therapy
      services, following completion of the survey. LEP is determined by a preference to receive
      medical information in a non-English language. Sampling frame is four participants. The
      sampling frame will be purposive. As LEP individuals present for OT services they will be
      recruited for participation. Recruitment could happen simultaneously or in tandem.

      The comparison group sampling frame will consist of adults, age 18 or older, proficient in
      English, with an upper extremity injury or disorder, that have been referred to OT at MOR,
      and require services that span four weeks or more. English proficiency is determined by use
      of English as preferred language. Sampling frame is four participants. For each LEP
      individual recruited, the following English-speaking individual will be asked to participate.
      When participants in each group are recruited, further recruitment will cease. The total
      sampling frame will be eight. Enlisting an English proficient individual following
      recruitment of an LEP individual ensures having equal participation in each group.

      A paper and pencil survey will be administered in person at MOR after the initial
      occupational therapy visit and at the end of four weeks of OT services to the 4 Limited
      English proficient subjects and 4 English-speaking subjects, for 16 completed surveys.
      Completion will take place in a private room in the OT department. Subjects will self-select
      a 4 digit identification code that they will write in at the top of the survey. The sole
      purpose of the code is to match the pre-OT satisfaction survey with the post-OT satisfaction
      survey. No personal identification markers will be used on the surveys. Interviews will be
      conducted with each LEP individual following four weeks of OT services and after completion
      of the paper survey. No personal identification markers will be placed on the interview form.
      The interviews will be conducted in person at MOR, in a private room in the OT department.
      The primary investigator will present the open-ended questions with the assistance of Rush
      University Medical Center (RUMC) interpreter services. The documented data will be reviewed
      by the primary investigator for emerging themes that may provide insight and additional
      information.
    
  