
    
      The purpose of this study is to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the NeuRX RA/4
      Diaphragm Pacing Stimulation (DPS) System in conditioning the diaphragm of an ALS patient to
      improve the quality of life and slow the progression to respiratory failure.

      Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS, also known as Lou Gehrig's disease or Motor Neuron
      Disease) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease of unknown cause. One of the most
      important effects of progressive neuromuscular weakness in patients with ALS is the effect on
      respiration. Although ALS has no direct effect on the lung, it has devastating effects on
      mechanical function of the respiratory system. ALS affects all of the major respiratory
      muscle groups: upper airway muscles, expiratory muscles, and inspiratory muscles. Therefore,
      all patients with ALS are at significant risk for respiratory complications. Progressive
      inspiratory muscle weakness in ALS inevitably leads to carbon dioxide retention, inability to
      clear secretions and hypercarbic respiratory failure, the major cause of death in ALS.

      Synapse Biomedical, in conjunction with Case Western Reserve University and University
      Hospitals of Cleveland, have evaluated activating the diaphragm with percutaneous
      intramuscular electrodes implanted laparoscopically. This eliminates any direct contact with
      the phrenic nerve, allows all circuitry and electronics to remain outside the body, and
      provides direct, selective activation to each hemidiaphragm. The NeuRx-RA/4 DPS System
      provides an electrical signal to the motor point of the muscle that causes the diaphragm to
      contract and allows patients to breathe more naturally.

      The NeuRx RA/4 DPS System has been implanted in over 10 individuals with ALS, in a pilot
      study at the University Hospitals of Cleveland that began January, 2005.

      The NeuRx RA/4 DPS System platform, also used for respiratory support for individuals with
      high-level spinal cord injury, has over 56 years of cumulative active implantation time. The
      longest term patient was implanted March 6, 2000 and has been using the DPS System as his
      sole means of respiratory support for over six years.

      Given patient results to date the data supports safety and efficacy to proceed to pivotal
      study in this patient population. With no unexpected significant adverse events reported, the
      NeuRx RA/4 DPS System has performed reliably and safely.

      Device Description: The NeuRx RA/4 Respiratory System is manufactured by Synapse Biomedical.
      The NeuRx RA/4 System comprises the following components: an external, battery powered
      Stimulator Device, an associated Programmer/Controller, Intramuscular Electrodes, associated
      percutaneous Lead Wires, a Surgical Placement Tool Set, and a surgical Mapping Station.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Age 18 or older

        -  Participants with familial or sporadic ALS diagnosed as laboratory-supported probable,
           probable, or definite according to the World Federation of Neurology El Escorial
           criteria will be eligible

        -  Bilateral phrenic nerve function clinically acceptable as demonstrated by bilateral
           diaphragm movement with fluoroscopic sniff test or with EMG recordings and nerve
           conduction times

        -  Forced Vital Capacity (FVC) between 50 - 85% of predicted values to begin screening
           procedures.

        -  FVC greater than 45% of predicted value at time of surgery.

        -  No underlying cardiac or pulmonary diseases that would increase the risk of general
           anesthesia greater than the expected risk of the patient with ALS

        -  Negative pregnancy test in females of child-bearing potential

        -  Informed consent from patient or designated representative

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  Preexisting implanted electrical device such as pacemaker or cardiac defibrillator.

        -  Underlying pulmonary diseases that were present prior to ALS that would effect pulmonary
           tests independent of ALS.

        -  Active cardiovascular disease that would increase the risk of general anesthesia

        -  Current pregnancy or breastfeeding

        -  Hospitalization for a treated active infection within the last 2 months

        -  Significant decision making incapacity preventing informed consent by the subject due to
           a major mental disorder such as major depression or schizophrenia, or dementia such as
           having Alzheimer's disease.

        -  Marked obesity
    
  