
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the recommended safe phase 2 dose of venetoclax + decitabine and cedazuridine
      (ASTX727) defined as the highest dose level in which one or fewer dose limiting toxicities
      (DLTs) are experienced among six patients. (Phase Ib) II. To determine and compare the
      preliminary efficacy of venetoclax +ASTX727 versus (vs.) standard anthracycline induction
      therapy ('7+3') with a primary endpoint of event-free survival (EFS). (phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. (Phase Ib) II. To determine the complete
      response (complete response [CR] + complete response with incomplete bone marrow recovery
      [CRi]) rate in patients with treatment naive FLT3WT acute myeloid leukemia (AML) treated with
      venetoclax and ASTX727 vs. standard anthracycline induction therapy ('7+3'). (Phase II) III.
      To determine the duration of response (DoR) in patients with treatment naive FLT3WT AML
      treated with venetoclax and ASTX727 vs. standard anthracycline induction therapy ('7+3').
      (Phase II) IV. To determine the progression free survival (PFS) of patients with treatment
      naive FLT3WT AML treated with venetoclax and ASTX727 vs. standard anthracycline induction
      therapy ('7+3'). (Phase II) V. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) in patients with
      treatment naive FLT3WT AML treated with venetoclax and ASTX727 vs. standard anthracycline
      induction therapy ('7+3'). (Phase II) VI. To determine the overall survival (OS) of patients
      with treatment naive FLT3WT AML treated with venetoclax and ASTX727 vs. standard
      anthracycline induction therapy ('7+3'). (Phase II) VII. To identify mutational burdens in
      venetoclax +ASTX727 sensitive vs. resistant AML leukemia initiating cells (LICs). (Phase II)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify transcriptomic signatures in venetoclax +ASTX727 sensitive vs. resistant AML
      LICs.

      II. Determine the utility of high-throughput phenotype-based assessment of drug efficacy for
      predicting patient response to venetoclax +ASTX727.

      III. Determine if treatment failure is a function of therapy sequence or results in
      resistance to the alternative therapy by conducting a co-clinical trial via patient-derived
      xenograft (PDX).

      IV. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of venetoclax. V. To determine the morphologic
      leukemia-free state (MLFS) rate in patients with treatment naïve FLT3WT AML treated with
      venetoclax and ASTX727 vs. 7+3 therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib dose de-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

      PHASE Ib: Patients receive decitabine and cedazuridine orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days
      1-4 or 1-5 and venetoclax PO QD on days 1-28 or days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days
      for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive decitabine and cedazuridine PO QD at the recommended phase II dose
      and venetoclax PO QD on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive cytarabine intravenously (IV) over 24 hours on days 1-7 and
      daunorubicin IV over 10-30 minutes on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 5
      years.
    
  