
    
      Critically ill patients, who are mechanically ventilated, suffer not only from their acute,
      potentially devastating illness, but also from the lack of ability to communicate in an
      effective manner. This is the direct result of the orotracheal tube or tracheostomy required
      for the mechanical ventilation, which does not allow speech to be produced. On top of the
      mechanical change in air flow, communication challenges result from sedation, neurological
      injuries (primary brain injury or secondary encephalopathy), and delirium.

      Lack of communication can lead to increased frustration, anxiety, and overall psychological
      stress and could continue to the development of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). On top
      of the subjective discomfort, the inability to communicate in an effective manner may impair
      medical care-for example, by failure to assess symptoms such as pain or breathing discomfort
      by behavioral cues only.

      Currently, the solutions for communication deficits in mechanically ventilated patients are
      mainly using yes/no communication, attempting to write, and communication boards that allow
      people to point at defined pictures or letters. Recently, technological advancements led to
      incorporation of more sophisticated communication devices, proving the feasibility of an
      eye-tracking approach, for example.

      The EyeControl is a new, wearable, eye-tracking device that facilitates communication by
      means of internal feedback to the patients with a bone-conducting speaker. In this way, the
      device can ask the patient what he or she wants to say, and the patient replies by eye
      gestures such as blinking or moving the eyes in a certain direction. This approach eliminates
      the need for calibration, as most eye-tracking devices that use a screen require, and is
      relatively easy to operate.

      This study will assess the safety, tolerability, and ease of use of the EyeControl device.
    
  