
    
      This women-centered study designs a "humanized service program", to give women care and
      respect, and protect women's privacy and their rights to know; the space design is
      women-concerned, warm and homelike-layout; its furnishings are well-designed in order to
      facilitate access for women to use, and give every effort to maintain women's safety, comfort
      and self-esteem. The main purpose of this space is to provide the women who receive
      transvaginal ultrasound "the human-based check-up service program", in order to see how it
      affects the physical and psychological experiences of these women, its service quality and
      service satisfaction.

      This study adopts a quasi-experimental research method and takes the ultrasound examination
      rooms of the obstetrics and gynecology department of a medical center in northern Taiwan as
      the sites of collecting case data. The studied targets are the women who came to the
      obstetrics and gynecology clinic as outpatients and were required to undergo transvaginal
      ultrasound. The women in the control-group were offered with "the routine service", and the
      experimental group, the "humanized service program". The study results compare differences
      between the control group and the experimental group with regard to their respective basic
      information concerning their physical and psychological experiences, their opinions on its
      service quality and service satisfaction, discuss about the effectiveness of this program,
      and explore the inter-relationships among the physical and psychological experiences, service
      quality and service satisfaction. The research tools include the humanized service programs
      and the research questionnaires. The research questionnaires include a basic information
      scale, a physical and psychological experiences scale, a service quality scale and a service
      satisfaction scale. Scales of humanized service programs and basic information adopt expert
      validity for validity evaluation; the physical and psychological experiences scale, the
      service quality scale and the service satisfaction scale adopt expert validity and internal
      consistency reliability and construct validity for reliability and validity evaluation. The
      results show that its reliability and validity both fall within acceptable ranges.

      Chi-square test analysis reveals that the cases in the two groups have homogeneity. From the
      descriptive statistics, it can be learned that the 9 most common existing feelings the women
      had who received transvaginal ultrasound are the following: sense of tension over the whole
      body, feeling nervous, feeling awkward , feeling shy, feeling embarrassed, worrying about
      discomfort, worrying about pain, fear of infection and lower abdominal fullness feeling. The
      outpatients in the two groups perceived the service quality dimensions as such: the highest
      dimension is the Empathy, and the lowest is the Tangibles. The highest dimension of the two
      groups concerning the check-up service satisfaction is the Staff's Attitude, and the lowest
      is the environment and the Waiting Time for Check-Up. Independent-samples T test analysis
      shows that the points of the cases in the experimental group are significantly higher than
      the ones of the control group in these three aspects: physical and psychological experience,
      service quality and service satisfaction. This study results demonstrates that the
      human-based check-up service program is effective for physical and psychological experiences,
      service qualities and satisfaction. It lessens the physical and psychological negative
      feelings of the women when they underwent transvaginal ultrasound, and at the same time
      improves the transvaginal ultrasound service quality and satisfaction. Structural Equation
      Modeling (SEM) analysis of the relationships among the three, physical and psychological
      experience, service quality and service satisfaction, shows that there is a significant
      positive correlation between service quality and physical and psychological experiences, also
      between service quality and service satisfaction. Moreover, the service quality produces an
      indirect effect on service satisfaction through the physical and psychological experience.
      There is also a significant positive correlation between physical and mental feelings and
      service satisfaction; this indicates that increase in service quality may affect the physical
      and psychological experience of women to tend to be positive, and enlarge service
      satisfaction; when women have more positive physical and mental feelings, it will also
      increase their satisfaction with the services.

      The physical and psychological experience scale designed in this study can be applied to
      other assessments of women's physical and psychological feelings under the situations of
      necessary perineal area exposures, such as Pap smear, colposcopy and so on. "The humanized
      service program" can offer the transvaginal ultrasound examinees better service; besides, it
      can be used in various female-based obstetrics and gynecology-related check-ups. Within other
      medical divisions, this concept can also be applied in order to provide more superior medical
      service and care.
    
  