
    
      Scarring typically occurs after trauma, burn injury or surgery. Hypertrophic scars (scars
      with excessive amounts of a protein called collagen) and keloids (hypertrophic scars that
      grow beyond the boundaries of the original wound) are types of abnormal scarring that are
      termed "dermal fibroproliferative disorders" - disorders of abnormal growth of fibrous tissue
      in the dermis, a layer in normal skin. These disorders present as raised, red and itchy
      lesions which variably respond to various treatment modalities, such as corticosteroids,
      pressure garments, laser therapy, the use of silicone sheets and radiotherapy. Surgical
      excision of hypertrophic scars or keloids often leads to recurrence resulting in cosmetic
      deformities and contractures.

      In a previous study involving a hypertrophic scar rabbit model, it was found that collagen
      deposition could be reduced by increasing the activity of a molecule called MMP-1 (matrix
      metalloproteinase 1), an enzyme inside body cells. The investigators also know from the
      investigators previous work that a molecule called kynurenine, a breakdown product of
      amino-acids, can reduce collagen deposition and possibly stimulate MMP production.

      Kynurenine is a breakdown product (catabolite) of the essential amino acid tryptophan used in
      the production of niacin - an organic compound and essential human nutrient found in food.
      Kynurenine is made by the enzyme indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) which is found in many
      tissues in response to activation of the immune systen, and also by the enzyme tryptophan
      dioxygenase, which is found in the liver. Kynurenine is further converted to kynurenic acid,
      or "Fibrostop 2" (FS2), carry out many functions in the body, including dilating blood
      vessels during inflammation and regulating the immune response.

      The investigators have hypothesized that improved healing outcomes in the investigators
      rabbit model were due to kynurenine and by-products stimulating MMP, which in turn acted on
      cells (fibroblasts) to reduce collagen production. This hypothesis lead to a study
      investigating the effects of topical 0.5% kynurenine cream treatment on MMP-1 and MMP-3
      expression in fibrotic rabbit ear wound model. The results showed marked improvement in scar
      formation suggesting the possible use of kynurenine as an anti-fibrogenic treatment against
      scarring.

      Toxicity, pharmacodynamic, and pharmacokinetic data has been completed, and the investigators
      institution is now preparing to conduct its first Phase I clinical trial. The investigators
      objective is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of topically applied FS2 in healthy
      human subjects by conducting a double-blinded acute and chronic sensitivity study involving
      patch testing.
    
  