
    
      The objectives of the study are to: 1) test the effectiveness of an automated intervention
      system called COMPACT for improving pain-relevant outcomes including physical functioning and
      pain intensity; 2) determine whether opioid monitoring promotes guideline concordant care;
      and 3) examine key components of the intervention process to inform future implementation.

      This study is a randomized, controlled, multi-site, factorial design trial of a technology
      supported treatment program called COMPACT relative to enhanced usual care (EUC) in the PACT
      setting. Participants will include 380 Veterans receiving chronic opioid therapy (COT) and
      reporting chronic musculoskeletal pain of at least moderate severity. Outcomes of interest
      include pain-related physical functioning, pain intensity, presence of guideline concordant
      care practices, and provider satisfaction. Enrolled participants will be randomized to
      receive COMPACT treatment or EUC. At baseline, 12 weeks (post-treatment), 24 weeks
      (follow-up) and 36 weeks (follow-up) all participants will undergo an opioid risk evaluation
      and assessment of all outcome variables. Participants randomized to COMPACT treatment will
      received interactive voice response (IVR)-based pain self management training and monthly
      opioid risk monitoring. Throughout treatment COMPACT participants will undergo automated
      monthly opioid risk monitoring and collection of patient reported opioid use, pain intensity,
      physical functioning, emotional functioning and quality of life data. Monthly opioid risk
      monitoring information will be made available to PACT clinicians via automatic entry into
      CPRS prior to a scheduled opioid renewal appointment. Participants in the EUC condition will
      undergo assessment of outcome variables and opioid risk assessment at 12-, 24- and 36-weeks
      post baseline only; they will not receive treatment or opioid monitoring.
    
  