
    
      Lysosomal acid lipase (LAL) is encoded by LIPA gene located on chromosome 10q23.3-q23 and
      consists of 10 exons. LIPA mRNA (messenger RiboNucleic Acid) (GenBank accession number
      NM_000235) is 2782 bp long and encodes a mature protein of 375 residues (GenBank accession
      number NP_000226). The sequencing of all 10 exons of LIPA gene will consist of 10 PCR
      (Polymerase Chain Reaction) amplification reactions (for the 10 exons and the proximal
      promoter) followed by 20 sequence reactions (forward and reverse sequencing) with appropriate
      primers designed to include the intron-exon boundaries. This analysis will be performed in
      about 250 FH pediatric subjects as specified in project description.

      The sequencing work will be performed taking advantage of 2 automated 8 capillaries automated
      DNA Sequencer (3500 Genetic Analyzer, Thermo Fisher Scientific, Monza, Italy) currently
      available in the laboratory of the Units involved in the project.

      In case of identification of unreported sequence variants, the presence of these mutations
      will be assessed in a sample of at least 100 normolipidemic subjects of the population, in
      order to define whether the nucleotide changes are rare sequence variations (with a putative
      functional effect) or represent common polymorphisms. In case of finding of rare variants in
      the coding regions, an in silico analysis will be performed by using two different softwares
      (Polyphen, http://genetics.bwh.harvard.edu/pph/ and Panther, http://www.pantherdb.org/) to
      predict the putative damaging role of the mutations on the protein. In case of intronic
      variants, the specifically designed software Automated Splice Site Analysis will be applied
      (https://www.splice.uwo.ca/).

      Putative causal mutations will be also tested for co-segregation in available families in
      affected and unaffected members.

      In order to test the effect of variants on enzyme activity LAL-activity will be assayed with
      dried blood spot (DBS) technique using the inhibitors Lalistat 2 in carriers and non carriers
      of these mutations belonging to available kindred.
    
  