
    
      The LifeWalker Upright is a walker that has been designed to address fall risk, slouching,
      and user confidence and comfort. The LifeWalker has adjustable armrests and handles that
      enable users to stand tall and look ahead, providing support and stability that is designed
      differently than conventional walkers. The LifeWalker Upright's design allows the user to
      walk within the walker. This allows people to walk inside the walker as opposed to behind the
      walker.

      The purpose of this project is to evaluate if the LifeWalker Upright walker is improves
      walking and reports of pain compared to a conventional rollator and predicate walker device

      Aim 1: Perform in-laboratory training on the Life Walker and testing to compare functional
      gait outcomes with the Life Walker compared to a conventional rollator and predicate
      assistive mobility device. We expect that participants will be able to walk longer and will
      perform more efficiently on measures of gait function when using the Life Walker.

      Aim 2: Perform in-laboratory testing to compare self-reported pain with the Life Walker
      compared to a conventional rollator and predicate assistive mobility device. We expect that
      participants will report less pain because they will have a more efficient and upright
      posture when using Life Walker.

      Aim 3: Perform in-laboratory testing to compare measures of quality of life with the Life
      Walker compared to a conventional rollator and predicate mobility device. We expect that
      participants will report better outcomes on quality of life measures because they will
      experience better self-esteem due to better mobility when using Life Walker.

      Participants will first complete a series of gait testing. Gait testing will include the six
      minute walk test and the 10 meter walk test. In addition there will be hand and forearm load
      and grip testing using load sensors. Participants will also be asked to be videotaped during
      their training sessions. After all the testing is complete, participants will be asked to
      complete a set of self-report questionnaires. During each device session, participant heart
      rate, blood pressure and blood oxygenation will be measured. All of these procedures will be
      repeated with each device.
    
  