
    
      The Mood, Mother and Infant Study is a prospective observational cohort study that began
      enrollment in May of 2013. Women were recruited in the 3rd trimester of pregnancy and
      followed prospectively through 12 months postpartum. Mother-infant pairs who completed the
      12-month visit will be invited to participate in the current Psychobiology of Resilience in
      Maternal-Child Pairs follow-up study. The trial described here is a randomized controlled
      trial embedded within the Psychobiology of Resilience study.

      Non-pregnant women will be randomized to either 24 IU of nasal oxytocin (OT) or placebo. The
      Investigational Drug Service (IDS) will use a random number generator to prepare a
      randomization table. Participants will be block randomized by risk status at enrollment in
      the Mood, Mother and Infant (MMI) study, as verified by structured clinical diagnostic
      interview (No history of depression or anxiety, Past depression or anxiety, current
      depression or anxiety). Both participants and study personnel will be blinded to allocation
      group. At the end of the protocol, participants will be asked which condition they believed
      they were in ('oxytocin,' 'control,' 'not sure') to ascertain success of blinding. Forty
      minutes after treatment, women will undergo the Trier Social Stress Test (TSST), comprised of
      a speech task and a math task; the TSST reliably induces large and consistent HPA and
      cardiovascular responses. The TSST is administered as follows: Pre-Task Instructions: (5
      minutes) Subjects will be introduced to 3 people (the 'selection committee') and asked to
      assume the role of a job applicant. Anticipation Period: The subject prepares her speech for
      3 minutes in the presence of the committee. Speech: The committee asks the subject to deliver
      her talk for 5 minutes while being video and audio-recorded. If the subject finishes early,
      the committee responds with prepared questions to ensure that she speaks for the entire 5
      minutes. These questions are designed to be non-harassing but to create a feeling of lack of
      predictability/controllability (e.g., "Do you have any enemies?") Serial Subtraction (PASST):
      The committee will ask the subject to subtract the number 7 from 2000 as quickly and
      accurately as possible for 5 minutes. For each mistake, the committee says "Stop -- mistake
      -- start over at 2000." Stress Recovery: The subject sits quietly alone for 20 minutes.

      Blood will be collected at baseline, during the speech and math tasks, and at 10 and 20
      minutes of recovery, as HPA-axis responses are reliably found 10-30 minutes following the
      TSST. Evidence regarding optimal timing of stress testing is conflicting. Visits will be
      scheduled for 1 pm to increase likelihood of detecting a stress response unopposed by the
      circadian influence, based on the experience of investigators in our laboratory and published
      studies of postpartum women. These investigators have found menstrual cycle phase does not
      affect TSST results; therefore, the date of last menstrual period and hormone use will be
      recorded, but visits will not be scheduled based on cycle phase.
    
  