
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Coronary heart disease (CHD) is a complex disorder constituting a major health problem in
      Western societies. The study assesses the unknown genetic background of CHD by investigating
      the most common familial dyslipidemia predisposing to CHD, familial combined hyperlipidemia
      (FCHL). The population prevalence of FCHL is estimated to be 1-2 percent and the disorder
      affects 10-20 percent of families with premature CHD. In FCHL, serum cholesterol,
      triglycerides, or both are elevated. Both environmental and genetic factors are suggested to
      affect the complex FCHL phenotype. Since the molecular basis of FCHL is unknown, a
      significant number of genetically predisposed individuals remain unidentified and exposed to
      premature CHD. The study uses samples from the genetically isolated population of Finland.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The investigators will use the unique study samples from the genetically isolated population
      of Finland and apply molecular genetic tools to first restrict the genetic locus they have
      identified and then to characterize the causative gene underlying the FCHL disorder on
      chromosome 1q21. Specifically, they first aim to further restrict the region by dissecting
      the different component traits. They will genotype an extended study sample consisting of all
      available family members of 61 FCHL families with dense sets of microsatellite markers and
      single nucleotide polymorphisms to fully utilize the refined quantitative phenotype
      information in fine mapping. Second, they aim to build a transcript map over the critical
      region on 1q21-q23 and to identify the causative FCHL gene among the regional candidate
      genes. This region on 1q21-q23 is orthologous to a region on mouse chromosome 3, where a
      locus (Hyplip 1) for combined hyperlipidemia has been identified. They have analyzed the
      human homolog of the Hyplip 1 gene but disappointingly, the human Hyplip 1 gene was found 10
      Mb from the peak linkage markers and no evidence emerged for Hyplip 1 as a causative gene for
      FCHL. Their targets to identify the FCHL gene are currently the genes showing strongest
      association near the linkage peak. The FCHL gene will then be functionally characterized to
      prove the biological dysfunction. Characterizing one gene for FCHL would improve their
      understanding of molecular mechanisms of cardiovascular disease, and potentially lead to more
      accurate diagnosis, treatment and prevention.
    
  