
    
      In published surveys throughout the world the majority of patients with hypertension do not
      achieve target blood pressure. According to most guidelines including NICE, target blood
      pressure is 130/80 mmHg in patients with diabetes, 140/90 mmHg in other patients. In the UK
      there are currently at least 3 million people with treated hypertension whose blood pressure
      is not controlled. A significant number of these patients will have drug resistant
      hypertension, defined as:

      "a blood pressure that is not adequately controlled to recommended treatment targets despite
      treatment with maximal recommended and tolerated doses of 3 drugs according to the current
      BHS/NICE guidelines and treatment algorithm, i.e. (*ACE-inhibitor or *ARB or direct renin
      inhibitor + *CCB + Diuretic (any diuretic except spironolactone), i.e. A+C+D)".

      (*where ACE-inhibitor=angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, ARB=angiotensin receptor
      blocker, CCB=calcium channel blocker)

      The causes of treatment resistance are unknown, and the choice of fourth-line drug almost
      entirely empirical. At present there is little comparative data for available drugs. There is
      considerable evidence pointing to Na+ retention as a common culprit, and some data supporting
      additional diuretics, or alpha blockade in resistant hypertension, though mainly added to two
      rather than three drugs.20,29,30 A retrospective analysis of two-drug combinations in trials
      reported that it makes no difference what is combined with what. 31 However, this conclusion
      conflicts with the view that drugs for hypertension fall into two main categories, acting
      respectively on the renin and volume components of hypertension, and that most benefit can be
      derived from combining drugs from different categories.10,32

      Despite the successful adoption of the BHS/NICE treatment algorithm for the treatment of
      hypertension, there remains substantial clinical uncertainty about the preferred clinical
      management of people with drug resistant hypertension. This is an important question because
      such patients are at the highest risk for cardiovascular events. The current guidelines
      acknowledge that there is currently no adequate clinical trial evidence upon which to base
      recommendations for the preferred 4th line drug treatment for those with resistant
      hypertension.

      It is possible that it makes no difference what drug is added as fourth-line treatment and
      that the response, on average, will be the same for all classes. Alternatively, it is also
      possible that one class of drug will always be superior to all the others because the
      mechanism underpinning resistant hypertension is common to all patients. In this regard, a
      popular view is that resistant hypertension is invariably due to excessive sodium retention
      and thus "further diuretic therapy" will always be the most effective treatment. A third
      possibility is that resistant hypertension is a heterogeneous state and that the study of
      average responses in cohorts in clinical studies masks substantial individual patient
      differences.

      With regard to this, this study will address the hypothesis that the renin status of the
      patient defines the response to 4th line treatment in resistant hypertension, i.e. that low
      renin predicts sodium retention and the best response to diuretic therapy, whereas high renin
      predicts a better response to drugs that suppress renin, i.e. a β-blocker.

      Hypothesis and Novel Aspects of the Trial

      The primary hypothesis of the study is that the commonest cause of resistant hypertension is
      excessive Na+-retention, and that further diuretic therapy (spironolactone used in this
      study) will be superior to other potential "add-on drugs" for people with inadequate blood
      pressure control despite treatment with optimal or highest tolerated doses of the three drug
      classes recommended by the BHS/NICE treatment algorithm, i.e. A+C+D.

      The main secondary objective is to use plasma renin measurements to evaluate an 'α, β, ∆'
      rule for the selection of the 4th line drug for patients with drug resistant hypertension -
      where α represents α-blockade, β represents β-blockade and ∆ represents "further diuretic
      therapy" as cited above. The main secondary hypothesis states that plasma renin (measured on
      a background of 3 drugs, i.e. A+C+D), will predict the most effective 4th line drug. We
      propose that:

      α-blockade will be the most effective 4th line drug at lowering BP in patients in the
      mid-tertile of plasma renin, expected to be ≥20mU/L but <100mU/L; β-blockade will be the most
      effective drug when renin is in the top tertile (expected to be ≥100Mu/L) as the drug blocks
      renin secretion; Further diuretic therapy with spironolactone will be most effective when
      plasma renin is in the lowest tertile (expected to be <20mU/L), indicative of excessive
      sodium retention.

      The study will also evaluate whether the routine use of plasma renin to predict best
      treatment in individual patients with resistant hypertension will be more cost-effective than
      using further diuretic therapy indiscriminately as the preferred 4th line drug for all
      patients.

      Finally the study will investigate whether non-invasive assessment of haemodynamic parameters
      indicative of sodium retention and volume status, i.e. cardiac output, peripheral resistance
      and bioimpedance, can be used to predict the response to each drug in the α, β, ∆ sequence.
    
  