
    
      Tranexamic acid is a promising agent, easy to administer, cheap, and can be added to the
      other routine management in hospitals deliveries. This study aims to document the efficacy of
      intravenous tranexamic acid in reducing blood loss during and after caesarean section in
      placenta praevia major patients and to assess the Hb and platelet change after its
      administration.

      General objective:

      To investigate the effect of prophylactic IV tranexamic acid in reducing blood loss during
      Caesarean section for placenta praevia major

      Specific objectives:

        1. To evaluate the effect of prophylactic IV tranexamic acid in reducing blood loss during
           Caesarean section up to 2 hours after Caesarean section.

        2. To evaluate the drop in Haemoglobin level postoperatively with the use of prophylactic
           IV tranexamic acid for Caesarean section for PP major

        3. To examine the effect of tranexamic acid on platelet level for caesarean section for PP
           major

        4. To observe the side effects of tranexamic acid

      This study will be conducted at University Kebangsaan Malaysia Medical Centre (UKMMC).
      Patients who meet the inclusion criteria will be invited to participate in the study. Patient
      will be given the information sheet regarding the study and consent will be taken if
      agreeable to participate. Patients' demographic data will be recorded.

      Patients will be classified randomly into two groups using a computer-generated randomization
      system (Microsoft Office Excel). The list of randomization will be concealed and numbered on
      sealed opaque envelopes. Each number will be given a readily prepared 10ml syringe of
      colourless solution, which could either contain the tranexamic acid or placebo.

      Each patient will be assigned a serial identification number. The data will be analysed using
      the Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS).
    
  