
    
      THE STUDY DRUG:

      Daptomycin is an antibiotic designed to treat a variety of bacterial infections that are
      difficult to treat.

      STUDY TREATMENT:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be given daptomycin by
      vein over 30 minutes every 24 hours for at least 7-14 days, depending on the type of bacteria
      that you have.

      The central venous catheter (CVC) will either be removed, or it will be exchanged over a
      guide wire. The decision to remove or exchange the CVC and timing of the placement of the CVC
      will be decided by your primary physician and the willingness of you to remove or exchange
      your infected CVC. This will be done within 96 hours after your first positive blood culture
      (first blood drawn that showed bacteria). A CVC is a sterile flexible tube that will be
      placed into a large vein while you are under local anesthesia. Your doctor will explain this
      procedure to you in more detail, and you will be required to sign a separate consent form for
      this procedure.

      If the study doctor and/or your primary doctor suspects that you have a mixed infection (2 or
      more certain types of bacteria) or pneumonia, you will also be treated with different types
      of antibiotics, by vein or mouth, in combination with the study drug. These antibiotics may
      include aztreonam, cefepime, imipenem, meropenem, ciprofloxacin hydrochloride, bactrim,
      and/or amoxicillin/clavulanate (a combination antibiotic).

      If you are discharged from the hospital before completing the study medication, arrangements
      will be made to provide infusions on an outpatient basis (by a nurse, yourself, or a family
      member). You and/or a family member will be taught (by a nurse) how to take the study
      medication at home. Before you are discharged from the hospital, you will receive the kits
      that include enough supplies for you and/or a family member to give daptomycin by vein. If
      medication will be given at home, a prescription will be given to you to pick up your
      medication from the pharmacy before you discharge from the hospital. If possible, your
      primary doctor may arrange for you to receive medication at the M. D. Anderson outpatient
      treatment center, or a nurse will be scheduled to visit you at home to give you the
      medication.

      STUDY TESTS/PROCEDURES:

      During each week of treatment, you will have the following exams/procedures performed once a
      week.

        -  You will have blood drawn (about 1 tablespoon) for routine tests. It may be drawn from
           the CVC, if the CVC is still in place. The CVC exit site will be examined at each visit
           until you have no more signs or symptoms of infection.

        -  You will also have blood drawn (about 1 tablespoon) for a blood culture every other day
           until it no longer shows signs of infection.

        -  You will be asked about any symptoms or illnesses that you may have experienced since
           your last visit.

      LENGTH OF STUDY:

      Participation on this study will last for no more than 60 days (about 2 months).
    
  