
    
      Treatment of RVVC is difficult due to the multi-factor nature of recurrences and of the
      poorly understood local immune dysfunctions that may arise. The oral or topical antifungal
      maintenance treatment usually recommended is for a period of 6 months, though the VVC relapse
      rate is high, with 60 to 70% of women presenting with a recurrence within 2 months following
      termination of treatment. Moreover, antifungal agent-related adverse events are frequent and
      their long-term use can be conducive to the onset of bacterial vaginosis (BV).

      The vaginal administration of probiotic strains (Lactobacillus) capable of regenerating the
      vaginal flora and of inhibiting the development of Candida albicans and/or its adhesion to
      the vaginal epithelium, would appear to be an interesting therapeutic alternative for
      preventing VVC recurrences.

      The trial medicinal product (Lcr Regenerans®) is obtained from the culture of a strain of
      Lactobacillus rhamnosus Lcr35®. By virtue of the freeze-drying technique, Lactobacillus
      rhamnosus Lcr35® is a live bacterium administered with its culture medium.

      It should be noted that Lcr Regenerans® is already marketed as a medical device (EC marking:
      0499). It helps to regenerate the vaginal flora thanks to its physical and chemical effects
      (lowering the vaginal pH).

      A number of in vitro and in vivo studies have demonstrated the ability of Lactobacillus
      rhamnosus Lcr35®:

        -  to establish itself in the vaginal epithelium, along with the durability of this
           establishment.

        -  and to inhibit the growth of pathogenic organisms responsible for causing bacterial
           vaginosis (Gardnerella vaginalis and Prevotella bivia) but also for mycoses (Candida
           albicans), by synthesising various microbicidal substances.

      This research follows on from the Candiflore observational study in which 514 patients were
      monitored and which demonstrated a clearly positive result in favour of the use of vaginal
      Lcr Regenerans® for preventing recurrences of VVC.

      The purpose of this new research is thus to demonstrate the efficacy of Lcr Regenerans®, in
      the prevention of vulvovaginal candidiasis recurrences in patients with a history of VVC with
      recurrent episodes, in view of obtaining a marketing authorisation.
    
  