
    
      The Intermountain Heart Institute will collaborate with Savvysherpa Inc to develop a
      sensor-based digital platform based on MAWDS. (MAWDS is Intermountain's acronym that stands
      for Medications, Activity, Weight, Diet, Symptoms; used across Intermountain Healthcare to
      represent the most important concepts and skills to teach heart failure patients) This will
      be used to deliver simple, home-based interventions via an app on the subject's iPhone. The
      app will be programmed to send notifications to the subject to enter their MAWDS data and
      perform a 6-minute walk test at specific time points during the study. Written informed
      consent will be obtained from each subject prior to participation. A study team member will
      register eligible subjects as well as assist them with the iPhone and HealthKit set-up and
      train them on the app usage. Protocol-required information will be obtained from subject's
      medical records (collected as part of their usual medical care). Subjects will be asked to
      enter data into the MAWDS iPhone app at specified intervals for a period of 3 months. The
      data, with the date and time it was entered, will be posted to a study-specific database.
      Periodically, the MAWDS app will query activity data from HealthKit and post that to the same
      database. Scheduled notifications will appear in the iPhone's Notification Center, reminding
      the subject to use the app. To assess subject engagement, the app will collect and store
      standard usage statistics provided by the iOS (e.g., number of times and duration the app is
      used per day, number of data entries, etc). The subjects' electronic medical records will be
      reviewed for a period of 3 months following enrollment, focused on healthcare utilization
      (e.g., hospital readmissions, mortality, changes in Intermountain HF (heart failure) Risk
      Score, etc). All information will be made part of the study-specific database. Follow-up
      phone calls will be done, as needed, within the first 2 weeks after enrollment to remind
      subjects to activate the app, ensure that the subjects are using the app appropriately, and
      address any issues noted on monitoring the data collected via the app. Subjects will have no
      other research-related clinic visits or in-person follow-up evaluations, other than the visit
      for obtaining informed consent, registration and setting up of the app, and follow-up
      telephone calls as needed. Upon completion of the study, the app on the subject's iPhone will
      be disabled and Savvysherpa will disconnect the "backend" data capture. Data will no longer
      be collected from the subject and his/her medical records will no longer be accessed.
    
  