
    
      Cardiac transplantation has been successful in improving survival in end stage heart failure.
      But graft rejection has limited survival after transplantation. In the first year, acute
      cellular rejection and infection remain the most common causes of morbidity and mortality.
      Afterwards, cardiac allograft vasculopathy (CAV), as a result of chronic vascular rejection,
      is the major cause of morbidity and mortality. Within the first year post-transplantation,
      almost two-thirds of recipients will experience at least one rejection episode. At five years
      post-transplantation, nearly 50% of survivors will have CAV. Clinically, the symptoms of
      acute rejection are relatively nonspecific (fatigue, dyspnea, fever). Most CAV patients
      remain asymptomatic until they develop serious problems such as myocardial infarction, heart
      failure, ventricular dysrhythmias or sudden cardiac death. Presently, the gold standard for
      diagnosing acute cardiac allograft rejection is right ventricular endomyocardial biopsy. This
      is an invasive method of diagnosis subject to morbidity and random sampling and
      interpretation error. Likewise, the gold standard for diagnosing CAV is cardiac
      catheterization with intravascular ultrasound, an invasive procedure also subject to
      morbidity. Noninvasive methods such as electrocardiography, echocardiography, and nuclear
      studies all have been studied, but have been unsuccessful, thus far, for either condition.
      Peripheral blood evaluations of cytokines and cytoimmunologic markers have also been
      unsuccessful in either condition. This clinical trial studies the feasibility of using
      functional genomics and proteomics to identify genes and proteins respectively that can serve
      as reliable biomarkers of acute cardiac cellular rejection and CAV. We plan to recruit
      subjects who are on the transplant waiting list. We will analyze the blood of these patients
      pre-transplant and serially post-transplant over one year and then regularly on a yearly
      basis. By correlating putative biomarkers with clinical, histological, and imaging based
      evidence of allograft disease we hope to build a database comprised of functional genomics,
      cytokine, cytoimmunologic and proteomics data relevant to the immunologic relationship
      between the donor organ and recipient. With this database we hope to obtain a minimal subset
      of differentially expressed genes, cytokines, cytoimmunologic and protein change profiles
      that is most predictive of both acute allograft rejection and CAV. This will eventually serve
      as the basis for a diagnostic blood test. Thus, with the application of functional genomics,
      cytokine, and cytoimmunologic analysis and proteomics we hope to derive a noninvasive method
      to detect both acute cellular cardiac allograft rejection and CAV, thereby minimizing the
      need for invasive methods of diagnosis. Further better understanding the genetic programs
      triggered and protein changes induced during rejection may lead to the identification of
      target pathways for developing new therapeutic approaches aimed at prevention.

      Recently, several published reports have established that detection of donor DNA in recipient
      s blood can serve as a diagnostic tool of graft injury. The level of donor DNA measured as
      percentage of circulating cell-free donor DNA (%ccfdDNA) accurately diagnoses acute rejection
      with a high sensitivity and specificity, at times several months before the diagnosis by
      examining endomyocardial biopsies. The ability of cell free DNA to diagnose graft injury
      early opens a new window to re-examine markers of rejection. These markers are traditionally
      evaluated using biopsy results, often positive late during rejection. %ccfdDNA offers an
      opportunity to better characterize our analyses.
    
  