
    
      This is a randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled Phase 1 study that aims to evaluate the
      impact of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) on startle response . MDMA is an
      experimental drug and is illegal to possess outside of research; when sold illegally it is
      referred to as Ecstasy or Molly (material supposedly containing MDMA). MDMA may make it
      easier to face unpleasant memories and reduce anxiety.

      This study will enroll healthy participants. At visit 1 all participants will undergo a
      1-hour startle test. Acoustic startle will be measured through assessing eye-blink response
      from the orbicularis oculi muscles in response to a 106 dB noise, using sensors under the
      eye. While watching the computer monitor, the participant will also experience several brief
      blasts of air directed at the throat. At visit 2, 24 hours later, participants will be
      randomized to receive 100 mg of MDMA or inactive placebo, after which they will undergo
      another startle task. Participants enrolled in the study who agree to do this will have their
      blood drawn to measure levels of oxytocin, and possibly other hormones or proteins, such as
      cortisol or brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Measuring oxytocin will be blind to
      condition, and the decision will happen before randomization to either condition. Blood will
      be drawn before MDMA or placebo administration, and eight times afterwards.The researchers
      will measure pulse, blood pressure and temperature once before and six times after receiving
      MDMA or placebo, and study participants will complete a questionnaire about their experience.
      At visit 3, participants will return for a final startle test and recall task. Sleep will be
      measured via self-report and Fittbit during study participation.

      The primary objective of this study is to assess whether MDMA affects startle response
    
  