
    
      Acutelines is a prospective biobank including patients with a broad spectrum of acute
      conditions. Its aim is to facilitate interdisciplinary research on the etiology and
      development of acute diseases with the aid of systematically collected biomaterials and
      medical data over various timepoints, both during the course of the patient's disease and
      after recovery. Clinical data, imaging data and biomaterial (i.e. blood, urine, feces, hair)
      are collected for patients presenting to the Emergency Department (ED) with a broad range of
      acute disease presentations. A deferred consent procedure (by proxy), is in place to allow
      collecting data and biomaterials prior to obtaining written consent. The digital
      infrastructure in place and the software used ensures automated capturing of all bed-side
      monitoring data (i.e. electrophysiological waveforms, vital parameters), and the secure
      importation of data from other sources, such as the electronic health records of the
      hospital, ambulance and general practitioner, municipal registration, health insurance
      companies and pharmacy. Follow up data are collected for all included patients during the
      first 72-hours of their hospitalization and 3-months, 1-year, 2-years and 5 years after their
      ED visit.

      Data and materials to be collected includes:

        -  Demographic and health data (i.e. [experiences] health, quality of life, functional
           status)

        -  Medical history (i.e. co-morbidity, intoxications, medication use)

        -  Admission reason to emergency department

        -  Physical examination and vital parameters

        -  Clinical diagnostic data (i.e. [point-of-care] ultrasound, X-ray, CT-scan, laboratory
           results)

        -  Electrophysiological waveforms (i.e. electrocardiogram [ECG], plethysmography)

        -  Biomaterials

        -  Treatment (i.e. medication use, non-pharmacological treatment, treatment decisions,
           length-of-stay in hospital, admission to intensive care unit [ICU])
    
  