
    
      Adult cervical deformity (ACD) is an uncommon but potentially severely debilitating condition
      with a broad range of causes that include but are not limited to spondylosis, inflammatory
      arthropathy, trauma, infection, iatrogenic, neoplastic, congenital, and neuromuscular
      processes. In general, sagittal plane deformities typically produce kyphosis, and coronal
      plane deformities result in scoliosis. Cervical kyphotic deformities are most commonly
      encountered in the setting of prior surgical destabilization, while cervical scoliosis is
      most commonly associated with congenital and neuromuscular conditions.

      Cervical kyphosis may be progressive and can result in neurological symptoms, including
      myelopathy. The most severe forms, such as those associated with spondylotic arthropathies,
      can produce "chin-on-chest" deformity, which can compromise horizontal gaze, swallowing, and
      breathing. Even in the absence of these conditions, cervical deformity is often associated
      with pain and functional disability. For adult thoracolumbar deformities, substantial efforts
      have been made to characterize clinical presentations, develop standardized classification
      systems, define optimal treatment approaches, describes operative complication rates, and to
      present structured clinical outcomes. However, despite the potential for profound impact of
      cervical deformity on function and health-related quality of life, there remains a remarkable
      paucity of high-quality studies that address these complex conditions.

      Health professionals providing nonoperative and surgical care for these patients are left to
      make important treatment decisions based on a combination of personal experience, anecdotal
      experience of colleagues and experts, and relatively small, often single-surgeon or
      single-center, retrospective case reports or case series in the literature. Recent systematic
      reviews have high-lighted the lack of studies relevant to cervical deformity and have failed
      to identify any prospective studies.

      The International Spine Study Group (ISSG) consists of orthopedic and neurological spine
      surgeons with a practice emphasis on spinal deformity patients. These surgeons, from 12 busy
      surgical centers, meet regularly to design and perform clinical research focused on spinal
      deformity, including successful prospective enrollment of more than 1,000 adult thoracolumbar
      deformity patients into the ISSG database. This group has a proven track record and regularly
      presents a substantial number of abstracts to the major spine meetings and has an extensive
      publication record.

      The ISSG members have currently enrolled more than 150 patients into the first generation
      prospective cervical deformity database and have produced approximately 50 abstracts and more
      than 25 manuscripts to date with the resulting data. The group has learned extensively from
      this first-generation database, but there is much yet to learn, as the literature remains
      relatively sparse on the topic of adult cervical deformity. Based on what we have learned
      from the first generation database; we have substantially modified the inclusion criteria for
      this second generation database. In addition, several new outcomes measures and functional
      assessments will be collected at baseline and follow-up intervals as part of this current
      proposal.

      The resources of the ISSG offer an unprecedented opportunity to create a prospectively
      collected multicenter database of cervical deformity patients that includes standardized
      health-related quality of life measures at baseline and regular follow-up, clinical and
      surgical parameters, and complications. The database and questionnaires have been carefully
      redesigned based on what we have learned in order to better collect data that will help to
      clarify many of the unresolved issues that are important for the care of cervical deformity
      patients. This project has substantial potential to significantly impact the field of
      cervical deformity and the care of deformity patients beyond what we have already been able
      to accomplish based on the first generation cervical deformity database. Herein we propose
      the second iteration for this project that promises to further advance our evolving
      understanding of these complex deformities.
    
  