
    
      Scientific Background:

      Postoperative fatigue (POF) is a common phenomenon following abdominal surgery and is
      currently under investigation at the department of surgery, Middlemore hospital, Auckland.
      POF in patients undergoing major abdominal procedures is very common. It has been reported
      that 92% of patients who have undergone abdominal surgery report increased fatigue reports
      immediately after the procedure, dropping to about 10% in 3 months. POF comprises of
      unpleasant symptoms that impact on the patient's quality of life.

        1. It can create difficulties in performing activities of daily living.

        2. The symptoms of POF include tiredness, lack of energy and sense of debilitating muscle
           weakness.

        3. POF is thought to be associated with poor physical, psychological and functional
           outcomes.

        4. The aetiology of POF is thought to be multi-factorial. Biological, psychological and
           social factors all contribute.

      The biological aspect of POF can be divided into the physiological stress response to the
      trauma of surgery, postoperative nutritional deficits and the loss of previous cardiovascular
      fitness subsequently after surgery. Various methods have been investigated over the last two
      decades to address and "dampen" the physiological response in order to enhance postoperative
      recovery.

      There are two possible ways of communication between the periphery and the brain. One is the
      hormonal route and the other is the neural route. The later route is projected via paracrine
      action of local cytokines on the afferent nerve endings 5. In the abdominal cavity, there are
      two types of afferent endings 6. These are the vagal afferents and spinal afferents. Vagal
      and spinal afferent fibres transmit sensory information from the GI tract to the CNS.
      Afferents from the vagus nerve conduct neuronal messages from the intra-peritoneal cavity to
      the CNS.

      Vagal afferents have cell bodies in nodose ganglia and enter via the brainstem. In comparison
      cell bodies of the spinal afferents are located in the dorsal root ganglion and project to
      the dorsal horn of the cord. They follow the paths of the sympathetic and parasympathetic
      efferents to the gut wall.

      Vagal afferents are either intramuscular or intraganglionic. Spinal afferents on the other
      hand are located in the serosa, mesenteric attachments and the submucosa of the tract.

      The surgical stress response produces alterations in the haemodynamic, metabolic and immune
      response of patients 7. The biochemical cytokine response to surgical trauma is well
      understood and summarised well by Ni Choileain.

      There are elements of immune over stimulation resulting in a cascade of cytokine activation
      following surgery. These cytokines include tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a) and
      interleukin 1B (IL-1B). These can stimulate the production and release of other cytokines
      including interleukin 6 (IL-6). IL-6 results in the production of C-reactive protein (CRP)
      and other acute phase proteins through the hepatic component of this response.

      Therapeutic strategies are aimed at restoring these physiological imbalances associated with
      surgery.

      In the rat sub diaphragmatic vagotomy has prevented the effects of intraperitoneal IL-1
      administration which prevented increases in body temperature and the increase in secreted
      hypothalamic norepinephrine (NE), and markedly attenuated the increases in plasma ACTH and
      corticosterone 8. This is thought to have reduced the "sickness response" to intraperitoneal
      cytokine administration. Similarly, administration of localised partial body exposure to
      irradiation in vagotomised rats resulted in decreased hypothalamic, thalamic, hippocampal and
      cortical IL-6, IL-1b and TNF-a compared with non-vagotomised rats 9. It is therefore thought
      that the vagus plays a major role in the surgical stress response although it is important to
      point that the vagus is not thought to be solely responsible for the activation of
      hypothalamic activity 10.

      A pro-inflammatory cytokine pathway after abdominal surgery, with direct action of cytokines
      on the vagus nerve as a major vehicle in this response, is therefore, a feasible explanation
      for contributing to POF.

      In the clinical context, recent developments in elective large bowel surgery include the use
      of Fast Track (FT) or Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) protocols. The use of such
      protocols is generally said to affect metabolic, neural and other organ activities in order
      to reduce morbidity, increase recovery time and result in shorter hospital stays.

      There are numerous elements to these protocols, given there are multiple contributors to POF,
      as already discussed. In brief, some of these interventions include extensive preoperative
      counseling and preparation psychologically, no preoperative fasting, carbohydrate loading,
      use of epidural anaesthesia, avoidance of peri-operative fluid over load, early removal of
      catheters, drains and early mobilisation with physiotherapist. 11.

      Other interventions, such as pre-operative steroid administration, are currently being
      trialed as part of an ERAS surgical protocol at the Manukau Surgery Centre (MSC), Middlemore
      Hospital, Auckland. The purpose is to enhance recovery by decreasing the cascade of
      pro-inflammatory post surgical response using the immunosuppressive properties of this agent.
      As discussed earlier, pro-inflammatory responses are hypothesised to contribute to POF.

      Local anaesthetic (LA) agents, when applied in sufficient concentration at the site of
      action, prevent conduction of electrical impulses by the membranes of nerve and muscle12. In
      order to obtain a clear picture of the fundamental blocking mechanism, knowledge of the
      channel-binding kinetics of the drug is necessary. The application of LA agents to the
      intraperitoneal cavity has been investigated in several trials to decrease post operative
      pain and enhance recovery 13-18. Unfortunately there are few studies if any looking at the
      application of local anaesthesia in open procedures compared with laparoscopic
      gastrointestinal procedures. It is therefore an area where trials are needed.

      It is not unreasonable that the application of local anaesthesia to the intraperitoneal
      cavity should play a role in ERAS protocols. In order to reduce postoperative pain and reduce
      intra-abdominal to CNS signal transmission we will produce a transient "chemical
      affarenectomy". As part of the already established ERAS protocol at the Manukau Surgical
      Centre (MSC), my aim is to look at the effects of instillation of local anaesthesia to the
      intra-peritoneal cavity immediately after opening the abdominal cavity and we propose an
      ongoing LA infusion with an intraperitoneal catheter and external pump postoperatively.

      Objectives:

        1. To be involved in running the already established ERAS program at Manukau Surgical
           Centre (MSC).

        2. Conduct a randomised double blinded controlled trial to investigate the effect of
           intra-peritoneal local anaesthesia application on postoperative pain and POF in patients
           under the ERAS protocol.

      Methods and Outcomes:

      There is already an established ERAS perioperative care plan at the MSC. Patients are usually
      recruited from surgical outpatients clinics at Manukau Super Clinic. Patients who are
      undergoing colonic operations are recruited in the ERAS program under the supervision of the
      primary consultant colorectal surgeon. My aim is to be involved in data gathering and
      clinical aspects of maintaining this protocol.

      Summary of ERAS perioperative care plan at MSC conducted by Zargar et al. (Table 1)

        -  Pre-Operative Information and counseling

        -  Carbohydrate Loading

        -  Avoidance of Mechanical Bowel Preparation

        -  Continuous Bupivacaine thoracic epidural analgesia

        -  Limited IV fluid therapy (ERAS anaesthetic protocol)

        -  Avoidance of prophylactic nasogastric tubes

        -  Early Post operative oral intake

        -  Dietary Supplementation

        -  Avoidance of opioids

        -  Early mobilisation according to mobilisation protocols

        -  Discharge Criteria

      Research Design:

      Randomised double blinded clinical trial to investigate the effects of washing and infusing
      the intraperitoneal cavity with local anaesthesia on postoperative pain and fatigue scores on
      patients undergoing open colonic procedures.

      Ethics:

      Ethics approval for this project has been obtained.

      Sample size:

      Using the data from a previous study in measuring post-operative fatigue following colonic
      surgery, in order to detect a reduction of post-operative fatigue by 30% on day 7
      post-operatively with alpha of 0.05 and power of 0.8, 21 patients are required in each group,
      we will aim for 30 patients in each arm anticipating for possible drop outs.

      Brief Method:

      Patients will be randomised by computer generated random numbers and opaque envelope method.
      In the treatment arm patients will receive 10mls 0.75% ropivacaine diluted to 50mls with 0.9%
      saline soon after the creation of the laparotomy or in the placebo arm, receive 50mls of 0.9%
      normal saline in a similar fashion. One theatre staff nurse who will not be involved in
      patient care will be given the blinded envelop and prepare the lidocaine or saline mixtures
      in the theatre drug room. The mixtures will be unlabelled and appear similar in color. These
      will be given to the surgeon during the procedure. All members of the staff involved in
      patient care including the anaesthetist will be blinded to the solution administered.

      The theatre staff nurse will then prepare a small infusion pump. The mixture used in the pump
      will be pre-mixed by one of the clinical pharmacists at Middlemore hospital who will not be
      involved in patient care. The staff nurse will be un-blinded to the contents of the mixtures.
      The nurse will prepare the pump and load either the anaesthetic or saline solution. At
      closure, two small 2mm catheter will be placed in the peritoneal cavity at the site of the
      operation to infuse local anaesthetic. This will penetrate through the skin once closure is
      complete. This will be attached to a small infusion pump (On-Q pain buster). This pump will
      contain either a 270mls of 0.2% ropivacaine or 270mls of 0.9% saline. All members involved in
      patient care including surgical, anaesthetic and nursing teams will be blinded to the
      contents of this pump. The pump will be activated at a set rate of 4mls/hr immediately once
      the patient is in the post anaesthesia recovery room. The pump will run continuously. The
      patient will continue recovery on the ward as per ERAS protocol. After 68 hrs the pump will
      be stopped and the catheter will be removed in a similar fashion as routine drain removal.

      Endpoints:

        -  Assessment of postoperative pain using Visual analogue scale (VAS) 1 hour, 2 hours, 4
           hours, 6 hours, 8 hours, day 1, day 2 and day 3 post operatively.

        -  Forced expiratory volumes using a peak flow meter immediately pre-operatively in the
           anaesthesia room and 1 hour, 2 hours, 4 hours, 8 hours, day 1, day 2 and day 3
           postoperatively (best of 3 attempts for each measurement will be used)

        -  Fatigue assessment will be done using the Identity Consequence Fatigue Scale (ICFS)
           pre-operatively and on day 1, 2 and 3, 7, 30 and 60 postoperatively respectively.

        -  Serum Glucose, cytokines and local anaesthetic level at 8, 20, 48, 72 hours post op.

        -  CRP, Albumin at 20, 48 and 72 hours post op.

      Resources:

      Consultant Colorectal Surgeons at Middlemore Hospital involved in the project: Associate
      Professor Andrew Hill, Mr Andrew Connolly and Mr Lincoln Israel.

      Consultant anaesthetist:

      Matthew Taylor Patients- approximately 100 major colorectal resections are performed at MSC
      per year.

      Manukau Surgical Centre staff facilities University of Auckland facilities
    
  