
    
      Globally, nurses are the largest workforce in the healthcare system that are directly engaged
      in the provision of newborn care. They should be conversant and competent in neonatal
      resuscitation. However, the majority of nurses are not skillful in the respective field. The
      situation is not very different when we are talking about nursing students. Who are our
      future workforce, hence are found incompetent in emergency newborn management and neonatal
      resuscitation. It is well documented that effective educational programs in preservice
      settings such as schools of midwifery, nursing, and medicine, established more active forms
      of lifelong learning to improve the quality of care. While the transformation of theoretical
      knowledge into clinical practice requires effective teaching in the field of resuscitation is
      a vital element for all undergraduate students. However, like many other developing countries
      in Pakistan, mostly traditional methods are following in nursing education. While the
      traditional method of teaching is insufficient to meet the educational demands of nursing
      students in clinical practice. Hence, Nursing students often are unprepared and lacking
      confidence in simple, yet life-saving procedures such as neonatal resuscitation. Therefore,
      incorporating an effective model and framework in nursing education is needed that could
      enhance nursing students' skills and improve clinical outcomes. The "Learn, See, Practice,
      Prove, Do, and Maintain" (LSPPDM) pedagogy is one of such frameworks synthesized after
      intensely reviewing the literature. This framework is acting as a guiding path for educators
      in teaching and learning procedural skills. As Knowledge is considering a prerequisite for
      competence in skill performance and to evaluate the effectiveness of an educational program
      self -efficacy measurement is an important tool. Thus, the important variables knowledge,
      self-efficacy, and skill have been selected for this study. Thus, the study objective will
      be:

      To compare the knowledge, skill, and self-efficacy among undergraduate nursing students
      learning of neonatal resuscitation through "Learn, See, Practice, Prove, Do, Maintain
      pedagogy" as compared to those who will learn through the traditional method.

      This study will contribute essentially to determine the effectiveness of an adapted
      pedagogical framework in the teaching and learning of neonatal resuscitation skills,
      especially in a resource-limited society. Moreover, the study findings will help the
      organization to develop strategies for improving nursing education.
    
  