
    
      Purpose and rationale The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of high dose
      Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS)-antagonists and beta-blocker treatment for the primary
      prevention of cardiac events in a population of patients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM)
      with no evidence of a preexisting cardiac disease. An additional aim is to demonstrate an
      interaction between concentrations of amino-terminal pro-B type natriuretic peptide
      (NT-proBNP as a surrogate of imminent cardiac risk) and treatment effects and the economic
      impact of the intervention overall and in the biomarker stratified subgroups.

      Primary objective Superiority of high dose treatment with RAS-antagonists and beta-blockers
      compared to conventional therapy regarding the reduction of unplanned hospitalization or
      death due to a cardiac event in T2DM patients with a NT-proBNP > 125pg/ml.

      Co-primary objective Superiority of high dose treatment with RAS-antagonists and
      beta-blockers compared to conventional therapy regarding the reduction of unplanned
      hospitalization or death due to a cardiac event in T2DM patients in the whole population
      Secondary objective Dependency of treatment efficacy (reduction of unplanned hospitalization
      or death due to a cardiac event in T2DM patients) on the NT-proBNP concentration (interaction
      effect between NT-proBNP concentrations and treatment).

      Population The study population will consist of patients with T2DM without any history or
      signs of cardiac disease. Patients from approximately 20 centers worldwide will be included
      into the study and randomized 1:1 to intensive or conventional therapy. It is estimated that
      about 3000 patients have to be screened In order to include 2400 patients. The screen failure
      rate is anticipated to be approximately 20%.

      Investigational and reference therapy All eligible patients will be randomized to receive
      either a high dose of RAS-antagonists and beta-blockers (as defined in the section
      investigational drugs) on top of standard diabetes therapy or solely standard diabetes
      therapy. The use of RAS-antagonist and beta-blocker therapy at randomization is allowed in
      the control group (with the exception of maximal dosage), but prescription or titration
      during the study period is not encouraged. However, if the investigators feel that further
      prescription or up-titration is required a thorough justification is mandatory. Every attempt
      should be made to use other blood pressure lowering drugs than RAS-antagonists or
      beta-blockers in the control group.

      Study design This study is a randomized open-label, parallel group, active-controlled,
      two-arm, long-term morbidity and mortality trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of high
      dose RAS-antagonist and beta-blocker therapy (as defined in the section investigational
      drugs) compared to standard diabetes therapy in patients with diabetes without any history or
      sign of a cardiac disease.

      The goal is to include 2400 patients. The observation period is planned to last for two
      years. However, the trial is event driven and will continue until predefined event rate is
      reached. The total trial duration is expected to last for four years (two years of
      recruitment and a two year observation period after last patient in). Every patient will
      remain in the study for two years after randomization.

      Visit 1 Screening At the first visit eligibility to enter the study will be assessed by the
      investigator. All inclusion/exclusion criteria will be evaluated. Informed consent will be
      obtained. Demographic data and drug prescription will be assessed. Blood will be obtained.
      Blood chemistry will be assessed locally. NT-proBNP will be determined by a point of care
      system locally. The investigator will be blinded to the result, which will be sent to the
      central computer. Blood will be obtained for the core lab, centrifuged and stored at -80°
      Celsius at the local unit. Vital signs will be obtained. Randomization will be performed
      electronically, this way randomization can be performed immediately.

      Visit 2 (3 months) At visit 2 vital signs will be obtained. Blood will be drawn. Blood
      chemistry parameters will be assessed locally for safety reason. Drug prescription will be
      documented.

      Visit 3 (12 months) At visit 3 vital signs will be obtained. Blood will be drawn. Blood
      chemistry parameters will be assessed locally for safety reason. Drug prescription will be
      documented.

      Visit 4 EOS (end of study) (24 months) At visit 4 vital signs will be obtained. Blood will be
      drawn. Blood chemistry parameters will be assessed locally for safety reason. Additional
      blood samples will be sent to the core laboratory. Drug prescription will be documented.

      Visit 1-4 is mandatory for all patients. Long-term follow-up Patients with be further
      followed by population register or telephone contact respectively until completion of the
      study to determine long-term mortality and hospitalizations.

      Unscheduled visits for the treatment group The treatment group will have additional visits
      for up-titration of RAS-antagonists and beta- blocker between visit 1 and visit 2. The
      frequency is up to the treating physician and dependent on the titration steps. A visit is
      not mandatory for each titration step. Patients will receive a logbook by the investigator,
      with weekly up- titration steps of the drugs. Additionally, patients will receive a diary for
      daily documentation of blood pressure, heart rate and symptoms if measurement is technically
      feasible for the patient. Based on own measurements, these data and laboratory results the
      investigator will decide if further up-titration of medication is possible. Systolic blood
      pressure should not decrease permanently below 100 mmHg and heart not below 60bpm
      permanently. Recommended drugs and recommended dosages are outlined in the section
      "Treatment". At each visit, blood chemistry for eGFR, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen (BUN),
      sodium and potassium will be obtained for safety reason.

      Details of the eye-substudy:

      The PONTIAC Eye Study is a masked longitudinal follow up of previously 1:1 randomized study
      patients participating in the PONTIAC 2 study. It is planed to include 130 consecutive
      patients for biannually visits over a study period of 2 years. Study patients (n=130) will be
      assigned to the Department of Ophthalmology and Optometry of the Medical University Vienna
      once they are included in the PONTIAC 2 Study in one of the participating Centers in Vienna.
      The investigators will be masked to the patient's randomization.

      The primary objective of the sub-study is: Superiority of the treatment arm with
      RAS-antagonists and beta-blockers compared to conventional therapy regarding thickness-change
      in the retinal nerve fiber layer or outer nuclear layer measured in spectral domain optical
      coherence tomography.
    
  