
    
      Introduction:

      Labor induction, an iatrogenic initiation of labor is one of the most common obstetric
      procedures performed nowadays. The rate of induction of labor more than doubled from 1990
      through 2010 from 9.6% to 23.8% in the United State alone. There are many methods to promote
      labor induction, including mechanical and pharmacological methods that can be used alone or
      in conjugation. Choosing the right method for the right patient can be challenging, and up
      until now there is limited information regarding the most suitable and effective approach for
      cervical ripening and labor induction. Out of the vast options for cervical ripening, the
      Foley catheter and vaginal prostaglandins are frequently used. To date, few clinical trials
      have compared the different methods to evaluate the effectiveness and the risk in each
      method. Two randomized controlled trials compared the Foley catheter method with the vaginal
      dinoprostone method. In one study, the Foley catheter was found to be superior to the vaginal
      dinoprostone with regards to time to delivery, whereas in the other study no difference was
      found. In an additional trial, Foley bulb with vaginal Misoprostol was compared to
      Misoprostol alone. The first treatment resulted in a shorter time to delivery. These finding
      did not correlate with previous trials that either found no difference or superiority to
      Misoprostol alone. A recent study comparing Foley catheter with PGE2 in term oligohydramnios
      pregnancies showed that time to delivery was shorter in the PGE2 group. A meta-analysis
      comparing Misoprostol with dinoprostone showed that the first is more effective, but the
      latter is safer. Since in some obstetrics conditions such as preeclampsia and Intrauterine
      growth restriction (IUGR) an expeditious induction of labor may be needed, a combination of
      methods may fasten the induction to delivery interval. A recent study presented as an oral
      presentation at the society of maternal fetal medicine a month ago used a combination of
      Foley catheter and prostaglandins to induce labor. They found that this arm had the shorter
      induction to delivery time and had no serious side effects.

      In this study, The investigators intend to compare the mechanical (Foley catheter combined
      with Oxytocin) method, to a pharmacological one (dinoprostone-PGE2) and to a combination of
      the two methods in cervical ripening in an unfavorable cervix. The investigators will also
      examine if using the two methods in tandem will provide an additive effect.

      The study will include 3 groups; in each group about 100 participants will be enrolled, which
      will be suited to the including and excluding criteria. The investigators have about 200
      inductions per year of primigravida women. The investigators expect to enroll 300
      participants in about 2 years' time.

      On enrollment the patient will receive a number and will be assigned to one of the three
      groups. All the participants will be assigned to a 20 minute reassuring monitor before
      insertion the device.

      A perineal US will be performed before the intervention to evaluate Angle of progression
      (AOP), cervical length and head position.

      Group 1: Foley and Oxytocin protocol The patient will lie in a lithotomy position and will be
      covered by sterile sheets. A direct visualization of the cervix will be achieved with sterile
      speculum, the cervix will be sterilized with iodine, if the patient is allergic to iodine
      "septal- scrub" will be used. The Foley will be inserted through the internal cervical os,
      filled with 80 ml of normal saline, and taped to the patient thigh with gentle traction. An
      hour after placing the Foley bulb, monitor will be performed. If less than 3 contractions per
      10 min interval appears in the monitor the patient will be transferred to the delivery room
      and Oxytocin will be administrated. If 3 contraction or more appear in 10 min. interval,
      further intervention will be personalized according to medical decision.

      The Foley catheter will be removed if any of the following will occur:

        1. Expulsion

        2. Non reassuring fetal heart rate, NRFHR

        3. Tachysystole

        4. spontaneous rupture of membranes, SROM

        5. If 24 12 hours elapsed since placement.

      Group 2:

      Foley with dinoprostone protocol. First the Foley bulb will be placed as instructed above. An
      hour after placing the Foley bulb, a monitor will be performed. If less than 3 contractions
      per 10 min. interval appears in the monitor a propess tape will be placed in the posterior
      fornix. The patient will be left recumbent for 30 minutes. One hour after placing the
      dinoprostone, fetal monitor will be performed. If less than 3 contractions per 10 min
      interval appears in the monitor the patient will be remained for observation and a monitor
      will be performed every 6 hours. If after placing the Foley bulb 3 contractions or more
      appear in 10 minutes interval the patient will be excluded from the research and further
      intervention will be personalized according to medical decision

      Group 3 Dinoprostone protocol Dinoprostone will be removed from the freezer in direct
      connection with insertion. The patient will lie in a lithotomy position. Dinoprostone will be
      inserted to the posterior vaginal fornix using small amount of water soluble lubricant
      according to the manufactory protocol. The reminding of the tap will be inserted to the
      vagina. The patient will be left recumbent for 30 minutes. An hour after placing the
      dinoprostone, fetal monitor will be performed and then every 6 hours. If less than 3
      contractions per 10 min interval appears in the monitor the patient will be transferred for
      observation and a monitor will be performed every 6 hours. If 3 contraction or more appear in
      10 min. interval the patient will be examined and in dilatation of 3 cm or more will be
      transferred to the delivery room.

      The dinoprostone will be removed if any of the following will occur:

        1. NRFHR

        2. Tachysystole

        3. SROM

        4. If 24 hours elapsed since placement In all the groups, if after 24 hours since the start
           of the study, the bishop score will be still less than 6 and active labor will not
           initiate the same method (study arm) will be repeated. If after the second try the
           cervix is still unripe the patient will be defined as failed induction.
    
  