
    
      The study is planned to commence in March 2010 after obtaining Ethics Committee approval.
      Patients will be randomised to a three month course of dronedarone or placebo. 1:1 double
      blinded randomisation will be undertaken. At three months, after a one week washout period,
      the patients will cross-over treatment groups. To achieve a power of 0.8 with a type one
      error rate 5% detecting a relative difference of 10% primary outcomes the study will require
      42 patients. 50 patients in total will be enrolled in the study. The study will take place at
      Eastbourne District General Hospital. The study duration per patient is 7 months. The overall
      study duration will be 1 year.

      STUDY OVERVIEW Appropriate patients with DDDRP pacemakers with an AF burden of 1-50% detected
      on pacemaker holters will be identified from the pacing clinic list and the Cardiology
      Outpatient Department at the Eastbourne District General Hospital. They will be invited to
      take part after a verbal explanation of the study has been given. If agreement is obtained
      each patient will be given the Patient Information Sheet and allowed time to consider their
      participation in the study and to ask relevant questions. If they are still in agreement they
      will be asked to sign the Patient Consent Form.

      Initially, all patients will have all baseline parameters assessed. All patients will stop
      taking their anti-arrhythmic drugs for a period of one week. Patients will then have a three
      month course of either dronedarone or placebo according to randomisation in a double blinded
      fashion. Randomisation will be performed by use of random number tables. At three months data
      will be collected from patient questionnaires and pacemaker Holter.

      There will be a one week washout period at this time. Patients will then cross-over to
      dronedarone or placebo for a three month period. Data from patient questionnaires and
      pacemaker Holters will be collected at three months after cross-over.

      Patients will then undergo a further week washout period before re-initiating their original
      anti-arrhythmic therapy.
    
  