
    
      To develop a biophysical model the investigators will recruit patients based on their known
      histopathology diagnoses, from each of 6 skin-cancer categories: basal cell carcinoma,
      squamous cell carcinoma, melanoma, atypical nevus, actinic keratosis, and benign skin.
      Patients with non-cancer diagnosis such as psoriasis, eczema / dermatitis, lichen planus or
      lupus will also be recruited. Recruitment will include 5 patients from each of these
      categories, giving a total of 20 patients. Measurements for the biophysical models are
      conducted on skin tissues that have been excised from the patients. Furthermore, these skin
      tissues are excised tissues that under standard screening procedure will be biopsied by the
      dermatologist. Therefore, patients are not undergoing extra & unnecessary biopsies, and will
      not be exposed to any risk involved with the microspectroscopy measurements.

      To determine the diagnostic accuracy of MMS, MMS data will be collected from six clinical
      groups, each with a preoperative diagnosis: 1) malignant melanoma (MM), 2) basal cell
      carcinoma (BCC), 3) squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), 4) pre-cancerous lesions (AK), 5) benign
      or atypical nevi, or 6) other lesions or conditions (rare skin cancers such as merkel cell
      carcinoma, and inflammatory conditions such as psoriasis). The aim is to collect MMS data
      from a minimum of 240 patients (40 patients for each of the 6 groups), which will be split to
      training and validation datasets. Since several biopsies are required to diagnose a single
      skin cancer, it is anticipated that the actual number of pre-cancerous, benign and
      inflammatory lesions sampled will be much higher than our target total of 240, to be around
      300. We will also collect data from non-skin cancer skin conditions: 1) psoriasis, 2) eczema
      / dermatitis, 3) lichen planus and 4) lupus. For the non-skin-cancer part of the study, we
      will enroll 20 patients from each of the categories, with a total target of 80 patients.
    
  