
    
      Congenital heart disease (CHD) survivors constitute one of the fastest growing populations in
      adult cardiology practices. This population is vulnerable to gaps in care, particularly as
      they graduate from the pediatric to adult healthcare system, yet their healthcare needs are
      complex, costly, and chronic. With this submission, we focus on transitions in care (TiC)
      from pediatric to adult healthcare with a research plan designed to optimize TiC outcomes.
      Despite universal health insurance, clinical programs have insufficient resources to provide
      transition preparation for adolescents with cardiac disease. This likely reflects a lack of
      human and financial resources, geographic distance for patients and families living in rural
      communities, and/or a "process" problem wherein no one is directly accountable for
      transition. Nonetheless, Canadian policy mandates transfer to the adult healthcare system at
      age 18 regardless of transition readiness.

      2.1 Design. Cluster RCT with 2 arms conducted in accordance with CONSORT guidelines within a
      mixed methods convergent design. The cluster design will minimize cross-contamination. The
      qualitative and quantitative data will be collected concurrently, and the data merged to
      ensure that intervention effectiveness is fully understood.

      2.2 Planned trial interventions. This study will compare (i) access to the app vs. our team's
      established 1-on-1 nurse-led TiC intervention.

      The App: Content of the app will be developed during Phase 1 in conjunction with the PFAC. A
      study registered nurse (RN) will orient participants to the app, provide them with a unique
      username and password, and help them create an individualized MyHealth passport (note that
      CHD transition guidelines recommend the use of health passports). The anticipated duration is
      30 minutes. A research assistant (RA) will be available to participants throughout the study
      period to answer questions about the app. System-generated automatic text messages will be
      sent to participants every month to remind them about the app. The RA will check in with
      participants every 3 months. Those who do not use the app over a 3-month period will be
      flagged to identify psychological and environmental barriers to app use.

      Nurse-led TiC intervention: There will be two cardiology RNs, each with adolescent
      experience, at each site who are different from the RN working with participants in the app
      group, to avoid cross contamination. The intervention will be provided during a single 60-75
      minute session with the RN; this was the time required in the CHAPTER 1 and 2 Studies.
      Sessions will occur on the same day as a clinic appointment. Sessions will be interactive and
      engaging. Individual sessions, in contrast to a group, allow for the content to be
      participant-specific and at a pace compatible with the participant and their cognitive and
      social abilities. This intervention, already refined by our study team, will focus on
      increasing knowledge about the adolescent's CHD and promotion of self-management and
      self-efficacy skills.

      Prior to the session, the RN will review the medical record to become familiar with the
      participant's cardiac history. The intervention addresses both education about the
      participant's CHD (steps i-v) and self-management skills (steps vi-viii). Specific elements
      include: (i) introduction to transition and its importance, (ii) creation of a MyHealth
      Passport, including name of CHD, prior cardiac interventions, and healthcare provider contact
      information, (iii) diagram of participant's cardiac anatomy, (iv) discussion of three
      potential future cardiac complications that are diagnosis-specific and individualized, (v)
      introduction to the iHeartChange CHD transition website (iheartchange.org) developed by team
      member Kovacs, (vi) discussion of the concept of self-management, (vii) viewing and
      discussion of three professionally developed 1-minute videos that demonstrate interactions
      between a healthcare provider and a young adult with poor communication skills (i.e., what
      went wrong, how to handle this better) and three 1-minute videos demonstrating assertive
      communication skills (i.e., strengths, successes), and (viii) adolescent practice of a
      "3-sentence summary" about their CHD, with feedback from the RN.

      Nurse-led intervention fidelity and quality assurance (Nurse-led intervention group only).
      This will be performed in the same manner as the CHAPTER 2 study. Months 13-15 will be a
      quality assurance (QA) phase. Role-modeling of an intervention with a standardized patient
      will be led by team member Kovacs, who will provide in-person training to study RNs. Each RN
      will then practice with a standardized patient with audio taping for review and feedback by
      Kovacs and Dimitropoulos. Subsequently, 20 participants will be enrolled and receive the
      intervention (2 patients per study RN x 2 RNs per site x 5 study sites). These sessions will
      also be audio taped with participant permission. After each session the RN will complete a
      fidelity checklist and nursing intervention log to record completion of each intervention
      component as described above. Nurse-generated field notes will record RN's observations of
      their interactions with adolescents, including the adolescent's confidence, engagement, and
      emotional responses. Sessions will be digitally audio-recorded with participant permission;
      1/5 will be randomly selected for evaluation of treatment fidelity. Evaluation of treatment
      fidelity will be based on review of nursing intervention logs, fidelity checklists, field
      notes and audiotapes monthly by Kovacs and Dimitropoulos. Participants enrolled from months
      16-27 inclusive will contribute to study outcomes.

      2.3 Group allocation. Participants will be randomized by clusters defined by week of
      attendance in the pediatric cardiology clinic, as per CHAPTER 1 and 2 Studies. As week
      (rather than individual participant) is the unit of randomization, this is a cluster
      randomization design. This method of randomization prevents two adolescents in the same
      waiting room being allocated to different groups, with adolescents in the app group
      potentially preferring to be in the nurse intervention group (or vice-versa). Each
      cardiologist has a weekly clinic and therefore a given cardiologist's patients will be
      allocated to each study arm equally, preventing potential bias by cardiologist
      co-intervention. We anticipate average enrolment of 1-2 participants per site per week, i.e.
      cluster size will be ≤ 2. To determine "app weeks" vs. "nurse intervention weeks", a
      biostatistician will prepare the randomization sequence. Permuted-block randomization with
      varying block sizes and equal allocation ratio will be used to ensure balanced allocation of
      weeks (randomization unit) between the 2 treatment arms. Blocks of sizes 2 and 4 will be
      randomly mixed to overcome the problem of predicting the allocation for the last few entries
      in each block. Since five centers are participating in the trial, a randomization schedule
      will be provided for each center.Randomization will be stratified by center to ensure a
      similar number of participants are allocated to each group within each site; this will
      mitigate the potential impact of center-specific confounders.

      2.4 Protecting against sources of bias. Participants, their parents, and study RNs will be
      aware of group allocation as blinding is not feasible. However, adolescents and parents in
      both groups will be unaware of the primary outcome and therefore will not be able to
      consciously influence this outcome. Intervention occurs on the same day as a clinic
      appointment, but clinic RNs and pediatric cardiologists will not be informed of group
      allocation, and this approach has been feasible in the CHAPTER 1 and CHAPTER 2 studies. Study
      RNs will be instructed to not inform clinicians of app vs. nurse-intervention weeks.

      2.5 Inclusion/exclusion criteria: described elsewhere

      2.6 Duration of intervention. As per section 2.2, participants in the app group will meet
      with an RN for ~30 min and then have access to the app for ~ 18 months. Participants in the
      nursing intervention will meet once with a study RN (60±15 min). All RN contact will be
      coordinated with a clinic appointment.

      2.7 Frequency and duration of follow-up. Participants in both groups will complete
      questionnaires at enrollment (baseline), 1, 6, 12, and 18 months post enrollment (see below).
      Eighteen months was chosen because our CHAPTER 1 and 2 studies yielded benefits at or before
      this time.

      2.9 Measurement of outcomes at follow-up. Participants will complete follow-up online
      questionnaires at home, independently of their parents. For adolescents not having home
      Internet access, we will arrange for access via their school or local library. Adolescents
      not completing the follow-up questionnaires will be contacted by mail, email, or text
      (depending on their preference) every 2 weeks for a total of 3 times, and then telephoned
      once, to be reminded. A $25 gift card (iTunes, Tim Hortons or Amazon) will be provided to
      participants at each time point to acknowledge their time and commitment to questionnaire
      completion.
    
  