
    
      BACKGROUND: General anesthesia has been widely used in clinics, while its mechanism is not
      fully clear.Delayed emergence from general anesthesia happens from time to time, which
      increases the occurrence of complications and economic burden of patients. The analeptics
      currently used in clinic have some side effects. Recently,studies have shown that orexin can
      facilitate emergence from general anesthesia.Because of its complex chemical structure and
      difficulty of synthetic process, a mountain of works needs to be done before its use in
      clinic. Doxapram has been widely used as a respiratory stimulant on patients. Recently the
      investigators found in patient that intravenous injection of doxapram would shorten the
      emergence time from general anesthesia, while its associated mechanism is unclear. Based on
      our previous discovery that injection of doxapram in patients could increase the plasma level
      of orexin - A, the investigators hypothesized that doxapram probably facilitate emergence
      from general anesthesia by promoting the release of orexin.

      DESIGNING: Forty patients with ASA physical status I or II scheduled for elective lumbar
      surgery under general anesthesia (lasting for 2h to 4h) were enrolled. Anesthesia was induced
      with propofol 1-2mg/kg and sufentanyl 0.2-0.3μg/kg. Following muscle relaxation with iv
      cisatracurium besylate 0.2mg/kg endotracheal intubation was performed. Anesthesia was
      maintained with sevoflurane (inhalational concentration: 0.8-2.0 MAC) and target controlled
      infusion remifentanil (targeted concentration:2-6ng/ml ) along with an oxygen/air mixture
      (FiO2 =0.5). Muscle relaxation was maintained with intermittent. Inhalational concentration
      of sevoflurane and injected target concentration were titrated to maintain the bispectral
      index (BIS) between 40 and 60 during anesthesia. The end-tidal carbon dioxide level was
      maintained between 30 and 40 mmHg by controlled mechanical ventilation. When the surgery was
      completed the investigators adjust the concentration sevoflurane to 0.8MAC of the patient and
      targeted concentration of remifentanil to 2ng/ml then stop all anesthetics and adjust the
      oxygen flow to 6.0 L/min, at the same time the doxapram group iv doxapram 1mg/kg, the
      controlled group given equal volume of saline. Record time from stopping anesthetics to
      emergence. Arterial blood (2ml) was collected at the following time,such as before and 1h
      after induction of anesthesia, at emergence (1 min after tracheal extubation) and half an
      hour after tracheal extubation. This was centrifuged at 3000 rpm for 15min at -4 ◦C in order
      to separate plasma then stored at -80 ◦C until assay for orexin A concentrations.

      EXPECTED RESULTS: The plasma orexin A of the doxapram group will be higher with the emergence
      time shorter than the controlled group.
    
  