
    
      Oligofructose (OF) is a fructose- based oligosaccharide and defined in the European Union as
      a dietary fibre. Enzymatically derived from the longer chain inulin in chicory, it is
      commonly used in processed food to improve mouth feel in fat-free products. OF is poorly
      digested and absorbed in the small bowel so passes to the colon where it is fermented by the
      bacteria usually resident in the colon, termed the microbiota. This process produces gases
      such as hydrogen and sometimes methane, and short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) which have a
      variety of roles including nutrition to colonocytes, immunological effects and modulation of
      intestinal motility. Its presence in the colon alters the composition of the microbiota, with
      reported potential benefits to health, leading to its description as a 'prebiotic'.

      Recently, however, such poorly digested carbohydrates grouped together by the term FODMAP
      (fermentable oligo-, di-, mono-saccharides and polyols) have been proposed to exacerbate
      symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) such as abdominal discomfort and bloating. Dietary
      exclusion of foods containing FODMAPs, such as wheat, dairy and certain fruit and vegetables,
      has been proposed as a treatment for IBS, with some evidence to support this. FODMAPs are
      thought to induce symptoms either by drawing water into the small bowel by osmosis, or
      through gaseous distension of the large bowel or a combination of these along with metabolite
      effects on motility.

      The Nottingham GI MRI group has been at the forefront of elucidating the actual effects of
      FODMAPs on gastrointestinal (GI) physiology. We have published techniques to measure small
      bowel water content, colonic volume and gas volume and whole gut transit time. We have
      recently demonstrated that a single, large (40g) dose of inulin leads to an increase in
      colonic volume, mainly through an increase in colonic gas. Such a dose is beyond the usual
      range of dietary variation, however. Last year we piloted a model more similar to dietary
      practice. Participants supplemented their usual diet with 5g OF twice daily for a week. The
      most striking result was an 18% increase in fasting colonic volume. This could not be
      explained by changes in colonic gas and may represent proliferation, and increased mass, of
      the microbiota. That study was an open label, uncontrolled case series so we now wish to test
      the hypothesis in a double-blind, randomised controlled trial. For explanatory purposes we
      will also measure whole gut transit, colonic gas volume and hydrogen and methane expired in
      the breath. For exploratory purposes we will also collect stool and urine samples to allow
      assessment of the effect on microbiota and their metabolic output.
    
  