
    
      Dose has emerged as a key factor promoting functional recovery after stroke. Currently, a
      lack of data on the dose-response relationship impedes progress in the field of stroke
      rehabilitation. The goal of the proposed project is to define the range of doses of movement
      practice that produce the greatest improvements in outcomes in people with chronic stroke.
      Borrowing from animal models of stroke, dose in humans can be quantified by the number of
      repetitions of task-specific practice.

      Our central hypothesis is that there exists a range of doses for people with stroke, below
      which, there is minimal benefit, and above which, further practice does not result in further
      benefit. The range of beneficial doses is likely to vary based on the severity of motor
      deficits and the presence of non-motor deficits in other domains. Using a randomized,
      parallel dose-response design, we will evaluate the benefits of four different doses of
      task-specific upper extremity training with matched schedules of 1 hr sessions, 4 sessions/wk
      for 8 wks, in 100 people with chronic stroke. Total repetition doses to be evaluated (3200,
      6400, 9600, & individualized-maximum) are based on our preliminary data. The
      individualized-maximum group may extend their sessions beyond 8 wks until meeting defined
      stop criteria.

      Our primary aim will test whether larger total doses result in better outcomes than smaller
      total doses. Benefits of the four doses will be evaluated at the impairment, activity, and
      participation levels, since understanding the dose-response relationship at all levels of
      measurement is critical for advancing rehabilitation research. We hypothesize that
      improvements will be greatest in the 9600 and individualized-maximum, followed by the 6400,
      and then the 3200 repetition dose groups. Our secondary aim is to characterize the
      dose-response relationship of upper extremity task-specific practice. With data from multiple
      assessment points, individual curve modeling will be used to estimate dose ranges, below
      which, there is minimal benefit, and above which, further practice does not result in further
      benefit. Furthermore, we will determine how various factors modify the dose estimates. We
      hypothesize that the severity of motor deficits will be the primary modifier of the
      dose-response relationship, with larger doses needed for those with more mild motor deficits.
      We further expect that needed doses will be larger for those with depression and hemispatial
      neglect.

      Our team is well-positioned to investigate the critical issue of dose because of our
      expertise in stroke rehabilitation research and measurement, our understanding of the
      challenges of clinical practice and clinical research, and our ready access to this patient
      population. Expected outcomes from this project are empirically-driven estimates indicating
      the amount of movement practice required to drive maximal improvements and how these
      estimates can be individually modified for people undergoing stroke rehabilitation. Our
      estimates will immediately impact rehabilitation research and clinical practice. The
      importance of this project transcends stroke rehabilitation; our primary results will be of
      high value to many other rehabilitation populations also impeded by the lack of knowledge
      regarding dose-response relationships.
    
  