
    
      Antibodies targeting citrullinated proteins are found to be highly specific for the diagnosis
      of RA (Riedmannet al,2005). Citrullinated antigens are thought to play a pivotal role in the
      pathogenesis of RA as they are expressed in inflamed joints and, anti-citrullinated protein
      antibodies are present before clinical disease and are highly specific for RA(van Gaalen et
      al,2005).

      These autoantibodies predict clinical and radiological severity and may be implicated in the
      pathogenesis of RA ;however, they have a high value in the early diagnosis and early
      treatment of RA ( Agrawal et al ,2007).

      Indeed, it has been demonstrated that anti-citrullinated protein antibodies are produced by
      plasma cells in the synovial tissue, as concentrations are more than seven fold higher in
      synovial tissue than in serum (Masson et al,2000).

      Rheumatoid factor is not specific to RA, as it is present in patients suffering from other
      autoimmune and infectious diseases, also found in apparently healthy elderly patients(urusm
      et al, 2008). Anti- CCP has been shown to be a specific prognostic marker for RA and predict
      the erosive or non-erosive progression of the disease. Overall, anti-CCP antibodies are a
      useful marker for aiding the diagnosis of early RA, especially in seronegative(RF negative)(
      poulsom and charles,2007) Thus, it is a useful tool for the optimal therapeutic management of
      RA patients.

      The diagnosis of RA has been improved by the introduction of other standardized immunoassays
      for the detection of auto-antibodies against different citrullinated antigens as anti-mutated
      citrullinated vimentin antibodies .Anti-MCV antibodies have been recommended to be better
      diagnostic marker for early arthritis (Luime et al,2010). Vimentin is an intermediate
      filament that is widely expressed by mesenchymal cells &Macrophages and easy to detect in the
      synovium. Modification of the protein occurs in macrophages undergoing apoptosis, and
      antibodies to citrullinated vimentin may emerge if the apoptotic material inadequately
      cleared(Khalifa et ai 2013).

      A significant correlation has been established between anti-MCV antibodies titers and both
      the severity of RA and the disease-activity score (DAS28) ,anti-MCV-positive patients
      exhibited significantly lower reduction in disease activity and a greater number of swollen
      joints. Thus, it appears that, anti-MCV antibodies may have the advantage of correlating
      better with disease activity and patient outcome(Al-Shukaili et al,2012)

      The anti-mutated citrullinated vimentin antibody ELISA isa recently developed assay for the
      detection of IgG antibodies to a vimentin-based peptide .Anti-MCV antibody has been reported
      with a sensitivity of 65-82%, specificity of 80-95%.Anti-MCV antibody concentrations have
      also been reported as correlating with disease activity score , prognostic for disease
      severity, and being treatment sensitive, enabling their use in monitoring response to therapy
      (Bang et al,2006)
    
  