
    
      Asthma, a chronic but treatable disease, affects 18.7 million US adults. Asthma-related
      deaths, hospitalizations, and ED visits are more prevalent in low-income and minority
      patients, especially African Americans and particularly among older adults, many with
      co-morbidities.

      The Expert Panel Report 3 (EPR3) Guidelines for Asthma Diagnosis and Management, currently
      undergoing revision, is primarily directed at children and young adults. It overlooks older
      patients, many with comorbidities and many who live in poverty. Action plans are infrequently
      used and their benefits, strongly recommended by guidelines, have not been evaluated in older
      or low-income minority adults. Regular use of inhaled steroids, endorsed by the Guidelines
      for all but the mildest asthma is limited by social and economic barriers, e.g. cost and
      accessibility of medication. Failure of guidelines to address the barriers of poverty,
      limited education, poor housing and communication infrastructure, and suboptimal public
      transportation may promote non-adherence by clinicians.

      For these vulnerable adults, the investigators recently demonstrated the feasibility,
      acceptability, and evidence of effectiveness of two separate interventions to improve access
      to care, patient-provider communication, and asthma outcomes: 1) a patient advocate (PA)
      (HAP2 Study (R18 HL116285)) to prepare for, attend, and confirm understanding of an office
      visit, and 2) community health workers (CHWs) (ARC Study (PCORI AS 1307-05218)) to assess
      home barriers to asthma management and coordinate care between home and clinic. Both
      protocols, well-accepted by patients and clinicians, allow prompting, delivery, and testing
      of guideline recommendations in a tailored real-world setting. Although these studies were
      designed and initiated separately, patient advocates in the clinic-based study felt that
      understanding the home circumstances would be beneficial to clinicians making guideline-based
      recommendations, while the CHWs visiting homes in the second study wanted more communication
      with treating clinicians. The proposed project combines these interventions by offering all
      "PA activities", called the Clinic Intervention (CI) and randomizing half to Home Visits
      (HV). Additionally, in a factorial design half of patients will be randomized to have their
      clinician receive feedback on guideline-relevant domains recommended for discussion with
      patients at appointments. The proposed interventions facilitate communication between
      clinicians and patients, enriched by understanding of the home environment, the unique view
      of the patient-clinician interaction at appointments, and barriers to asthma management that
      patients encounter. While the communication focuses on asthma management, it extends to
      general care coordination of common co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, obesity
      and patients will be recruited from both primary care and specialty practices. Community
      Health Navigators (CHNs), who are lay health workers, will deliver the CI in all patients and
      the HVs in those so randomized. CHNs with close ties to patients' neighborhoods and also
      embedded in the clinics, will ensure patients' voices are heard in the delivery of
      guideline-based care and support patients at risk for health disparities, e. g., older
      adults, those with comorbidities, low income or limited literacy.

      In a randomized controlled factorial trial, adults with uncontrolled asthma living in
      low-income urban neighborhoods will be offered 18-months participation in four groups of 100
      each (1) CI only, (2) CI plus Home Visits (HV), (3) CI and clinician feedback, and (4) CI +
      HV + clinician feedback. Patients will be evaluated quarterly for 12 months and then observed
      for 6 months to assess sustainability of the intervention. The investigators will estimate:

      Specific Aim 1: improvement over time of within-group (before-after in four groups) asthma
      outcomes (asthma control, quality of life, ED visits, hospitalizations, prednisone bursts)
      Specific Aim 2: across group differences in improvement over time in asthma outcomes;
      Specific Aim 3: the costs associated with each of the intervention, and the investigators
      will conduct a cost-offset analysis to determine which intervention costs are offset by
      savings attributable to reductions in ED, hospitalizations or other visits for asthma control
      and other outcomes.

      Exploratory Aim: changes in behavior from the interventions using interviews of clinicians
      and patients.

      Hypothesis and Impact: The investigators hypothesize improved outcomes in asthma patients
      through enhanced communication of patient and clinician, clinician attention to home
      environmental exposure, and clinician consideration of the guidelines, at a program cost
      offset by lower patient health care utilization.
    
  