
    
      Hypotheses: The specific hypotheses that we will test in this proposal all refer to persons
      with post-stroke hemiparesis in the subacute phase of recovery (completed all out-patient
      therapy programs, but still less than 6 months post-CVA).

        1. a) Standard functional rehabilitation combined with strength training in the form of
           high-intensity resistance exercise results in greater gains in elbow and shoulder
           strength than standard functional rehabilitation alone.

           b) This increased strength is not accompanied by increased hypertonia. c) This increased
           strength is not accompanied by significant muscular hypertrophy.

        2. Standard functional rehabilitation combined with strength training results in greater
           improvements in motor function than functional rehabilitation alone.

        3. Strength training results in improved control of elbow trajectory tracking movements and
           shoulder-elbow reaching movements.

      Specific Objectives

        1. To perform a controlled, randomized, double-blind clinical trial to test the effects of
           high-intensity resistance exercise at the shoulder and elbow. Two interventions will be
           compared: standard functional rehabilitation (SFR), and standard functional
           rehabilitation combined with high-intensity resistance exercise (strength training)
           (SFR+STR). We will study persons with post-stroke hemiparesis in the subacute phase of
           recovery, i.e. having completed all outpatient therapy programs, but still less than 6
           months post-CVA. Outcome measures will include strength (maximal voluntary isovelocity
           joint torque), hypertonia (onset threshold of the stretch reflex, Modified Ashworth
           Scale), standard clinical assessment of activities of daily living (Barthel Index,
           Functional Independence Measure), and upper extremity motor function (Fugl-Meyer exam,
           Functional Test of the Hemiparetic Upper Extremity).

        2. To study the neuromuscular mechanisms associated with improvements in strength and motor
           control that result from these interventions. Strength changes will be investigated by
           measuring muscle hypertrophy, hyperreflexia, and passive stiffness. Changes in control
           of upper extremity movements will be investigated by measuring motor performance and
           muscle activation patterns in trajectory tracking and reaching tasks.

      Our long term goal is to develop therapeutic interventions to improve upper-limb motor
      function in persons with post-stroke hemiparesis. Improved motor function involves not only
      increased strength at the shoulder and elbow, but also increased strength and dexterity at
      the wrist and hand. The proposed study will establish a foundation by demonstrating the
      positive effects of strength training in persons with hemiparesis. Then, in future studies,
      we can investigate the effects of specific interventions at the hand and wrist and
      investigate physiologic mechanisms subserving change in neuromuscular function following
      strength training.
    
  