
    
      1. Aims The aims of the study are: (1) To develop an interactive Colorectal Cancer
           self-Management enhancement smartphone-based psychosocial intervention programme
           (iCanManage program); (2) To examine the effectiveness of iCanManage for colorectal
           cancer patients and their caregivers in improving patients' health outcomes including
           self-efficacy (primary outcome), psychological well-being (anxiety & depression), social
           support, health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and satisfaction with care, as well as
           caregivers' burden, psychological well-being, and quality of life (QoL) (primary
           outcome); and (3) To explore patients' and their caregivers' perceptions of iCanManage
           and routine care.

        2. Hypotheses Over 3 months' follow-up, compared to patients in the control group,patients
           who receive iCanManage in addition to hospital routine care will report significantly:
           (1) higher levels of self-efficacy, social support, HRQoL and satisfaction with care,
           and (2) lower levels of anxiety and depression; whilst caregivers will report
           significantly lower levels of burden, anxiety and depression, and higher level of QoL.

        3. Methodology A multi-centre two-arm randomised controlled trial will be conducted at two
           public hospitals in Singapore. A total of 100 patient-caregiver dyads will be recruited
           via convenience sampling. Participants (patient-caregiver dyads) will be randomly
           allocated to either the intervention (receiving iCanManage in addition to hospital
           routine care) or the control group (receiving only hospital routine care). The
           aforementioned outcomes of both patients and caregivers will be measured at baseline
           (start of access to iCanManage), 2-weeks post-surgery (end of access to iCanManage) and
           3-months post-surgery. Descriptive statistics, repeated measures analysis of covariance,
           univariate analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) will be used to analyse the data. At the end
           of the trial, semi-structured interviews will be conducted to explore 30 patients' and
           30 caregivers' perceptions on iCanManage and or routine care. The transcribed interview
           data will be analysed using a thematic analysis.

        4. Significance of the study This study will generate evidence on the effectiveness of the
           easily accessible and sustainable iCanManage. Should the quantitative and qualitative
           findings support the feasibility and effects of the intervention, it can be adopted by
           hospital policymakers as added routine care to enhance patients' self-management ability
           throughout their surgery journey.
    
  