
    
      The investigators hypothesize that the use of the Accuvein AV400 (AV400) with intravenous
      access will improve the first attempt success rate in intravenous (IV) starts for patients
      ages 0-24 months of age by 20% as compared to the standard technique.

      Study Recruitment and protocol

        -  Potential subjects will be patients age 0-24 months recruited from the pediatric
           emergency department at Harbor-UCLA. The patients will be screened for meeting criteria
           of age 0-24 months, requiring IV access, not requiring emergent resuscitative access,
           and not being a ward of the state.

        -  Nurses who work in the pediatric emergency department and who obtain IV access in
           children will be solicited by members of the research team to participate in the study.
           All nurses who are trained to use the device will be able to participate as operators in
           the study.

        -  The patient will be enrolled as a subject and the data collection form will be filled
           out by a trained observer. The data collection form contains: trained observer level of
           training; blinded nursing number; randomization number; patient gender, age in months,
           weight, height, Fitzpatrick skin color, dehydration status, mental status, gestational
           age, chronic medical conditions, and hospitalizations in last two years; nurse's
           assessment of vein palpability, visibility, and subjective difficulty; nurse's pediatric
           ED experience and overall experience in years; access tool and whether crossover was
           utilized; IV gauge, IV access site, number of persons needed to assist, and whether
           access was successful. All trained observers will have undergone training to ensure
           reliability between observers. Once a patient has been identified as a potential subject
           by the trained observer and consent has been obtained, a blinded randomized manila
           envelope will be chosen. The data collection form will be completed by the trained
           observer and then the nurse will attempt first IV attempt per the arm of the study
           (standard versus with AV400 assistance). The patient will receive two attempts using the
           assigned randomized method. If 2 failed attempts, the nurse will cross arms of the study
           and use the other IV access method. If this fails, the standard difficult IV access
           pathway used by the pediatric ED will be started. Currently this pathway is started
           after 4 failed IV attempts. Therefore, there is no additional risk to the subject in the
           study. After the IV access has been successful or the difficult IV access pathway has
           begun, the trained observer will then ask the parent and nurse a series of questions
           based on a Likert scale to assess satisfaction and whether the nurse felt the AV400
           helped find veins, distracted her/him from usual technique, and/or saved time. No
           identifying data will be collected on the nurse or subject. Trained observers will not
           be ordering any IV placements, labs or medications for subjects. Potential subjects will
           have had orders placed for IV access prior to their selection for eligibility.
    
  