
    
      Patients with head and neck cancer who are treated with chemoradiation and/or surgical
      resection may exhibit a variety of swallowing difficulties due to reduced range of motion
      (ROM) resulting from absence or alteration of the structures involved in deglutition.
      Chemoradiation protocols have been receiving increased attention in the treatment of head and
      neck cancer. The primary focus of these regimens is disease control and organ sparing.
      Preservation of oropharyngeal anatomy, however, has not equated with preservation of
      function. Due to the severity and frequency of swallowing problems in this population, it is
      critical that the effectiveness of dysphagia (i.e. swallowing disorder) rehabilitation
      protocols on preservation and/or restoration of function be determined. In the absence of
      potential remediation, patients may reject organ preservation treatment protocols because of
      negative functional side effects. There have been a number of therapeutic exercises designed
      to improve swallowing that have been shown to have a positive effect on head and neck cancer
      patients who are dysphagic as a result of treatment with surgery and/or chemoradiation. The
      short- and long-term effectiveness of these exercises has not been defined. The purpose of
      this study is to compare the effectiveness of combined ROM and postural sensory therapy for
      swallowing dysfunction to postural sensory therapy alone. By maximizing the effectiveness of
      therapy, it is expected that improved swallowing function will translate into better quality
      of life through enjoyment of meals and improved nutrition and hydration so critical to the
      health and sense of well being of individuals recovering from head and neck cancer.

      To be included, subjects must be between 21 and 80 years old and have undergone treatment for
      the head and neck cancer in the form of chemoradiation, and/or one of the following specific
      types of head and neck cancer surgery: supraglottic laryngectomy, anterior resection with
      primary or skin graft closure, anterior resection with distal or free flap closure, posterior
      resection with primary or skin graft closure, or posterior resection with distal or free
      flap. Potential subjects must have been diagnosed with Stage I-IV disease and also be
      available for twice-weekly swallowing therapy sessions. Furthermore, subjects must be
      available for 12 months while on study.

      No subject will be included who has any history of other medical problems that may affect
      swallowing, speech, voice, neurological problems, gastroenterological problems, or other
      health problems as determined by the patient's physician and the investigators. Patients with
      prior treated cancer of the head and neck, or who received a total laryngectomy operation are
      also not eligible.
    
  