
    
      FLT-PET Scan:

      A FLT-PET scan uses the FLT solution, which contains a small amount of radioactive material,
      to help locate cancer cells inside the body. This scan may help doctors find solid tumors as
      well as learn if these tumors are growing and how fast they are growing. This information
      could be used to help predict if the cancer will respond to treatment.

      Study Visits:

      Within 2 weeks before Day 1 of Cycle 1, on Day 6, 7, or 8 of Cycle 1, and within 2 days of
      Day 20 of Cycle 2, you will have a FLT-PET scan.

      For at least 4 hours before the FLT-PET scan, you must not eat or drink anything. You will
      receive the FLT solution through a peripheral intravenous catheter. The FLT solution is a
      mildly radioactive material. The radioactive nature of the solution allows the scanner to
      "see" it in certain places in your body. After the injection, you will need to rest quietly
      until it is time for the scan. The amount of rest time may vary, but be prepared to wait for
      about 60 minutes. During the scan, you will lie flat on your back on a table. After the
      solution is injected into a vein, the PET scanner takes pictures of the radioactive solution
      as it moves through the body and collects at various sites in the body. By watching how the
      solution travels through the body and studying where the solution collects, researchers can
      learn the extent of disease in the body. The scan itself may last about 40-60 minutes.

      Your vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate, temperature, and breathing rate) will be
      measured before each injection of the FLT solution, 30 minutes after each injection, before
      each PET scan, and 3 times after each PET scan.

      Length of Study:

      You will be off this study after the third FLT-PET scan. You will be taken off study if you
      experience intolerable side effects or the study doctor thinks it is in your best interest.

      This is an investigational study. The FLT solution is not FDA approved or commercially
      available. At this time, FLT solution is only being used in research.

      Up to 16 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  