
    
      The study is a cluster randomized control trial of 16 Primary Care Networks (PCN) in Alberta.
      Inclusion and exclusion criteria will occur at both the cluster and the patient levels. Site
      criteria have been designed to ensure implementation of the intervention is possible while
      contamination to the control sites is minimized. Patient level criteria are designed to
      include as many patients with Metabolic Syndrome identified at risk for cancer due to diet
      and physical activity behaviours as possible, maximizing generalizability, while ensuring
      that patients recruited are safely able to follow the CHANGE intervention.

      CHANGE intervention utilizes a novel approach of embedding the expertise of Dietitians (RD)
      and Exercise Specialists (ES) with a patient's own Family Doctor (FD) to support a
      personalized nutrition and exercise intervention for patients with Metabolic Syndrome
      identified at risk for cancer due to diet and physical activity behaviours that is feasible
      to implement across diverse practice settings. There is sufficient data to support that the
      individual components of lifestyle interventions (diet and exercise) are efficacious.
      Unfortunately, primary care currently has limited capacity to implement lifestyle
      interventions to manage individuals who are overweight or obese. Family Doctors experience
      various barriers to providing diet and exercise counseling, including lack of staff and
      resources, limited time for effective health promotion counseling and limited specialized
      training. In order to provide quality of care for patients with Metabolic Syndrome identified
      at risk for cancer due to diet and physical activity behaviours, the investigators need to
      reduce these barriers and support Family Doctors with health care professionals who have the
      skills and time to help patients change their behaviours.

      Although access to interdisciplinary teams has increased in Alberta over the past few years
      through the development of Primary Care Networks, the optimal composition of these teams has
      not yet been determined. There is significant evidence to support increased diet and exercise
      professionals within these primary care teams. Currently, Primary Care Networks are making
      decisions on how to structure the health care team for their networks. This recent
      development and strong provincial organizational structure creates a unique time and location
      to conduct a trial examining the prevention activities of health care teams. Findings from
      the CHANGE Cancer Alberta Study will inform Primary Care Network business plans to support
      the implementation of the CHANGE intervention broadly across Alberta.
    
  