
    
      Participants will document their daily impression about the use of OrCam, a small camera
      attached to their glasses over a 1-month period. They will attend 2 appointments at Wills Eye
      Hospital Glaucoma Research Center (baseline and final visit). Participant's will be trained
      to use the OrCam device at baseline visit and complete a best-corrected visual acuity
      assessment ETDRS (early treatment diabetic retinopathy study) and the NEI-VFQ-25
      questionnaire. They will also read a short newspaper article.

      The NEI-VFQ-25 includes a series of 25 questions pertaining to vision or feelings about a
      vision condition. Answers are selected among a numbered list of possible responses, the
      values of which are ultimately recoded and converted to a 0 to 100 scale. Items within each
      subscale are averaged together to create 12 subscale scores. An overall composite score will
      be calculated by averaging vision-targeted subscale scores, excluding the general health
      rating question.

      Participants will read a short article. They will be asked to grade their reading difficulty
      between 1 (unable to read) to 10 (able to read without difficulty). Time to read article will
      be recorded. Reading task will be performed with best correction - with and without the
      assistance of the OrCam device.

      Subjects will utilize OrCam daily for one month. Each week, subjects will record thoughts
      about the device in a log book or by using audio tape recorder, according to patient's
      personal preference.

      Final assessment at 1 month will include best-corrected visual acuity (ETDRS), NEI-VFQ-25,
      and the newspaper-reading task with and without OrCam assistance. A satisfaction
      questionnaire will be completed in order to assess subjects' overall feelings regarding
      OrCam. Audio log books will be analyzed for specific factors and recorded by a research
      assistant.
    
  