
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To investigate the clinical efficacy, as indicated by the rate of complete response (CR)
      per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, of combination therapy with
      pembrolizumab and lenvatinib in lenvatinib-naive patients with progressive
      radioiodine-refractory differentiated thyroid cancers (DTC). (Cohort 1) II. To determine the
      overall response rate (ORR) by the addition of pembrolizumab to patients with
      radioiodine-refractory DTC who have progressive disease on lenvatinib alone. (Cohort 2)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety profile and toxicity of combination therapy with pembrolizumab and
      lenvatinib in patients with progressive DTC. (Cohort 1 and cohort 2) II. To determine
      progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS). (Cohort 1 and cohort 2)

      CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

      I. To correlate tumor response (RECIST 1.1) with pretreatment frequency of CD8+ T cells in
      the primary and/or metastatic tumor. (Cohort 1 and cohort 2) II. To correlate tumor response
      (RECIST 1.1) with pretreatment PD-L1 and PD-L2 levels in the primary and/or metastatic tumor.
      (Cohort 1 and cohort 2) III. To correlate tumor response (RECIST 1.1) with pretreatment
      frequency of lymphocytes expressing CD3, CD4, PD-1, FoxP3, or CD20, and of CD163+
      macrophages. (Cohort 1 and cohort 2) IV. To correlate tumor response (RECIST 1.1) with the
      phenotype and frequency of key leukocyte subsets (i.e., PD-1+ T cells, regulatory T cells
      [Tregs], myeloid subsets) in the peripheral blood before, at 6 and 18 weeks on therapy, and
      at 54 weeks (study completion), progressive disease (PD), or study withdrawal. (Cohort 1) V.
      To correlate tumor response (RECIST 1.1) with PD-1+ T cell functional capacity. (Cohort 1)
      VI. To correlate tumor response (RECIST 1.1) with serum anti-thyroglobulin antibody levels
      assessed before, and at 18 weeks on therapy. (Cohort 1 and 2) VII. To correlate tumor
      response (RECIST 1.1) with tumor mutation status. (Cohort 1) VIII. To broadly investigate
      mechanisms of response and resistance to combination therapy, gene expression profiles will
      be generated from frozen biopsies for analysis by ribonucleic acid-sequencing (RNA-Seq).
      (Cohort 1)

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive lenvatinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 and pembrolizumab
      intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 19
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may continue
      treatment for up to 35 cycles.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 3
      years.
    
  