
    
      Recurrent gastrointestinal symptoms (bloating, constipation, abdominal pain, diarrhea and
      flatulence) often interfere with patients' quality of life (QoL) and daily activities. These
      symptoms have been noted in various diseases such as irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), celiac
      disease (CD) and inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD). IBS is the most common diagnosis made by
      gastroenterologists and affects up to 15% of the population. About 60% of patients with IBS
      claims that certain foods can exacerbate their symptoms, so pharmacological treatment is
      often accompanied by dietary measures. Very recently, a diet for the management of functional
      symptoms associated with IBS has been developed: the low FODMAPs diet. FODMAPs (Fermentable,
      Oligo-, Di-, Mono-saccharides And Polyols) is a collective term that indicates a family of
      poorly absorbed short-chain carbohydrates. The low FODMAPs diet is a relatively novel area of
      interest and the majority of studies have been performed in patients with IBS; most of them
      showed that limiting FODMAPs led to an improvement of intestinal symptoms. Patients with
      Crohn's disease (CrD) and ulcerative colitis (UC) often experience symptoms related to
      concomitant functional disease, such as bloating, abdominal pain and flatulence, in the
      absence of active inflammation. These symptoms are less likely to respond to the common
      anti-inflammatory drugs and it is important to recognize them, in order to avoid
      inappropriate therapy and improve QoL. In effect, the cause of these symptoms is related to
      altered function of the gut and the enteric nervous system, rather than to the inflammatory
      activity of disease. In these patients, carbohydrate malabsorption has been considered a
      candidate mechanism by which the diet can induce gut symptoms: lactose and fructose
      malabsorption has been recognized as a potential cause of symptoms due to the high osmotic
      activity and fermentability of malabsorbed lactose.

      The management of this condition could benefit of a dietary intervention, but data regarding
      the effect of a low FODMAPs diet in IBD are limited.

      Also in coeliac patients, despite a lifelong GFD, some abdominal symptoms such as flatulence,
      bloating, diarrhea and abdominal pain can persist. However data regarding the effect of a low
      FODMAPs diet in these subjects are still scarce.

      On the basis of these considerations, the aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical
      impact of a low FODMAPs diet in patients with IBS, CD on GFD and IBD in remission.

      Each subject who respected the inclusion criteria was enrolled in the study and was submitted
      to a diet low in FODMAPs content, after filling out questionnaires on quality of life and
      symptoms (IBS-SSS and SF-36) (T0).

      The IBS-SSS questionnaire consists of 5 questions on: the severity and frequency of abdominal
      pain, the severity of the bloating, the level of satisfaction in bowel habits and quality of
      life. Patients give an estimate from 0 to 100 and the results of each question are summed to
      obtain the final score (theoretical range of 0-500, with a higher score indicating worse
      condition). Previous studies have established that scores below 175 represents mild IBS
      symptoms, 175-300 represents moderate severity, and scores above 300 represent severe IBS.

      The SF-36 is a questionnaire on the patient's state of health consisting of 36 questions
      related to eight health domains: AF-physical activity (10 questions), RP-role limitations due
      to physical health (4 questions) and RE-role limitations due to emotional problems (3
      questions), BP-physical pain (2 questions), GH-perception of general health (5 questions),
      VT-vitality (4 questions), SF-social activities (2 questions), MH-mental health (5 questions)
      and a single question about the change in health status. All SF-36 questions, except one, are
      referred to a previous four-week period of the compilation of questionnaire. The eight-scaled
      scores are the weighted sums of the questions in their section. Each scale is directly
      transformed into a 0-100 scale on the assumption that each question carries equal weight: the
      lower the score the more disability; the higher the score the less disability.

      After the administration of the questionnaires and the collection of anthropometric
      measurements (weight and height), patients were put on a low FODMAPs diet (T0). Each regimen
      was specific for the patient's energy requirement (calculated by BMI) and for its content in
      FODMAPs, realized in conformity with the food reference tables. This low FODMAPs diet was
      prescribed by a dietitian for 12 weeks and patients were instructed to eat according to their
      appetite, received a summary diagram with substances to be taken and those to be avoided and
      were educated to interpret food labels/ingredients lists.

      In order to cover the needs of micro and macronutrients, the administered dietary patterns
      maintained the contents of oligosaccharides, fructose and polyols not more than 0.5 g.

      The questionnaires and the clinical evaluation of the patients were repeated one month (T1)
      and three months (T3) after the beginning of the diet.
    
  