
    
      Study settings: Study is to be conducted in the Oral Medicine and Periodontology department,
      Faculty of Dentistry - Cairo University, Egypt. Patients are to be selected from the
      outpatient clinic of the department of Oral Medicine and Periodontology-Cairo University
      Pre-surgical phase: Patients will be initially examined. All patients received oral hygiene
      instructions, and non-surgical periodontal treatment will be performed if necessary. At
      baseline, clinical periodontal measurements including plaque Index, bleeding on probing (BOP)
      , probing depth (PD) and clinical attachment level (CAL) will be recorded at teeth adjacent
      to the gap using a Williams's periodontal probe. Impressions will be taken using high
      viscosity impression material. Models will be cast in dental stone and used as the baseline
      reference for volumetric measurements. De-epithelialized connective tissue harvesting: The
      palatal sites will be anaesthetized with 0.3 ml of a solution of 4% Articaine and 0.001%
      Adrenalin. Graft harvesting will be performed by basic surgical techniques ). A rectangular
      shaped piece of mucosa will be harvested from the area of the hard palate by a
      split-thickness dissection. The graft will then be de-epithelialized, and the connective
      tissue graft will be used. Surgical site preparation for either control or intervention
      group: 1- Local anesthesia (2% lidocaine, 1: 100 000 epinephrine), incisions will be placed
      over the crest of the ridge reaching to alveolar bone. 2- Papillae will include in the
      incision line only when there is a loss of papillary height. 3- A deep supraperiosteal soft
      tissue pouch will be prepared by sharp dissection extending apically to the mucogingival line
      and to the neighboring teeth mesio-distally. 4- A rectangular shaped free gingival graft will
      be harvested from the contralateral palate using split thickness dissection.

      Control group: -The graft will be de-epithelialized and the connective tissue graft will be
      inserted into the pouch that will be previously prepared at the recipient site and will be
      secured with two non-resorbable sutures at the labial and the palatal aspect. - Provisional
      restoration will be temporary cemented. -. Patient will be recalled after 14 days for suture
      removal.

      Test group: Modified pouch technique -. De-epithelialization of the area that resembles in
      position and size the emergence profile of the pontic -. Tunnel preparation in the soft
      tissues buccal to the defect region using split thickness flap preparation. - Preparation of
      the pouch extends in a lateral direction to adjacent teeth and in an apical direction beyond
      the mucogingival line in order to ensure sufficient flap mobility. -. Flap preparation will
      also include elevation of the interproximal tissues lateral to the edentulous site. -
      Vertical releasing incision in the alveolar mucosa apical and distant to the defect will be
      done. -. The graft will be then drawn using positioning sutures. -. Provisional restoration
      will be temporary cemented on both abutments then double-crossed sutures are used for the
      fixation of the buccal soft-tissue complex, including the connective tissue graft. 8. Patient
      will be recalled after 14 days for suture removal. After the surgical volume augmentation
      procedure, clinical periodontal measurements will be recorded, impressions will be retaken
      and models will be cast at 3 and 6 months postoperative, In both control and intervention
      groups.
    
  