
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The diet-heart hypothesis, that high dietary saturated fat and cholesterol intake increase
      the risk and high polyunsaturated fat reduces the risk of coronary heart disease in man is
      supported by ecologic studies, by experiments in rodents and non-human primates, by
      voluminous literature relating dietary factors to serum lipids, by several secondary
      prevention trials, and by the Lipid Research Clinics Trial demonstrating a reduction in
      coronary heart disease among participants assigned to cholestyramine.

      Despite the substantial scientific interest and the obvious public health implications of the
      diet and heart disease issue, relatively few observational cohort or case-control
      investigations had been published prior to 1985. Although these observational studies were
      not entirely consistent, taken collectively, they tended to provide important general support
      for the diet-heart hypothesis. However, due to study design, limited numbers of endpoints, or
      methods of analysis, many central questions remained unanswered. The most important issue was
      the quantitative relationship between specific dietary factors and risk of coronary heart
      disease. Moreover, the interplay of dietary and genetic factors is poorly understood.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      In this prospective cohort study, participants completed a mailed general medical and health
      questionnaire at baseline and an intensively validated semiquantitative food frequency
      questionnaire (SFFQ). At one year, tissue specimens were collected and catalogued for future
      nested case-control analyses of coronary heart disease risk in relation to levels of calcium,
      selenium, and chromium. Follow-up questionnaires to update exposure information and ascertain
      non-fatal endpoints were mailed at two-year intervals. All reported cases of non-fatal
      myocardial infarction, stroke, and cancer were documented with hospital records and/or
      pathology reports. Fatal events were ascertained with the National Death Index and
      documented. To standardize SFFQ nutrient scores against measurements of absolute intake, two
      one-week diet records were obtained from a random sample of 150 Boston-area participants.

      The study was renewed in 1991, 1997, and in 2003 to continue the follow-up of 51,529 male
      health professionals. The cohort is followed by questionnaires mailed at two-year intervals
      to update exposure information and ascertain nonfatal events. Complete dietary assessments
      are included every four years.A subset of 18,225 participants provided blood samples between
      1993 and 1995. Genotyping was performed among 435 cardiovascular disease cases and 878
      controls using Affymetrix 6.0 platform.
    
  