
    
      Objective

      Modulation of the NMDA receptor (NMDAR) complex or other components of glutamatergic
      signaling is likely involved in improvement of depressive symptoms and related
      constructs/dimensions of observable behavior and neurobiological measures. Current standard
      monoaminergic pharmacological approaches for major depressive disorder (MDD) have proven to
      be only modestly effective during acute depressive episodes. We have systematically tested
      different glutamatergic modulators in patients with mood disorders in order to develop
      improved therapeutics. We found that the NMDAR antagonist ketamine produces rapid
      antidepressant effects in patients with treatment-resistant depression (in MDD and Bipolar
      Disorder). However, despite being highly efficacious, the proof of concept ketamine produces
      psychotomimetic effects.

      In the present protocol, we aim to evaluate a new glutamate-mediated mechanism associated
      with antidepressant efficacy by targeting the glycine receptor within the NMDA receptor.
      Targeting the glycine co-agonist site of the (NMDA) receptor may bypass potential adverse
      effects that occur with ketamine without affecting the robust efficacy observed. This may
      then result in the glutamate surge that has been associated with the rapid acting
      antidepressant effects of ketamine.

      The present Phase 2 proof-of-concept study is designed to evaluate the antidepressant effects
      of AV 101 (L-4-chlorokynurenine or 4-Cl- KYN) in MDD; this is a synthetic compound which is
      enzymatically converted into the selective glycine/NMDAR antagonist 7-chlorokynurine
      (7-Cl-KYNA) after crossing the blood brain barrier (BBB) and then reaching brain glial cells.
      In animal models of depression, 4-Cl-KYNA (AV 101) induced acute and prolonged
      antidepressant-like effects without exhibiting ketamine-like side effects as determined by
      the drug discrimination, conditioned place preference, and pre-pulse inhibition tests.

      We will also evaluate the neurobiological mechanisms involved in the antidepressant response
      to AV 101. We expect that this effect may modulate glutamate transmission and reverse the
      clinical symptoms of depression. The demonstration that a glycine-antagonist produces
      antidepressant effects without psychotomimetic side effects would support the therapeutic
      relevance of the glycine site of the NMDAR and could direct the development of novel drug
      targets for the treatment of depression.

      Study Population

      Twenty-five individuals with treatment-resistant major depressive disorder (MDD) will be
      included.

      Design

      Male and female patients, ages 18 to 65 years, with a diagnosis of MDD, currently in an
      episode of major depression, will be recruited for this study. This study will consist of a
      randomized, double-blind crossover administration of either the glycine receptor antagonist
      AV 101 (1,080 or 1,440 mg/day given orally) or placebo for 2 weeks. The study will assess the
      efficacy in improving overall depressive symptomatology and tolerability of AV 101 in
      treatment-resistant MDD. Other aims of the study include: 1) determining whether changes in
      brain neurochemicals (e.g. glutamate) and peripheral biomarkers obtained via MRS and
      cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) correlate with antidepressant response (decrease in Hamilton
      Depression Rating Scale (HDRS) total scores) to AV 101 in patients with treatment-resistant
      MDD, and 2) examine other potential biomarkers of response.

      Outcome Measures

      Primary: Hamilton Rating Scale (HDRS) total score.

      Secondary: Proportion of subjects achieving remission (HDRS less than or greater than 7) and
      response (greater than or equal to 50% reduction from baseline in HDRS total score); change
      from baseline in Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAM-A), Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating
      Scale (MADRS), and the Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS) total scores.
      Surrogate biomarkers of drug effect/response include: changes in prefrontal glutamate levels
      measured with 7T H-MRS.
    
  