
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the T-cell changes that occur in glioblastoma (GBM) treated with tremelimumab
      and durvalumab (MEDI4736) as single agents and in combination.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety of either tremelimumab or MEDI4736 alone and in combination in
      patients with GBM.

      II. To determine the time to progression for patients treated with either tremelimumab or
      MEDI4736 alone and in combination of both, post-surgery.

      III. To determine the overall survival for patients treated with tremelimumab or MEDI4736
      alone and in combination of both post-surgery.

      IV. To assess magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) changes in patients treated with either
      tremelimumab or MEDI4736 alone and in combination of both post-surgery.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To correlate T-cell changes and programmed death ligand 1 (PDL1) expression with patient
      outcomes.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM 1: Patients receive tremelimumab intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1. Courses repeat
      every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM 2: Patients receive durvalumab IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 2
      weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM 3: Patients receive tremelimumab IV over 1 hour on day 1 then, after a gap of 1 hour for
      the first cycle, durvalumab IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 4 weeks
      with tremelimumab for up to 7 courses and every 2 weeks with durvalumab for up to 14 courses.
      Patients then receive both tremelimumab and durvalumab IV over 1 hour every 12 weeks in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      All patients undergo surgical tumor resection on day 14.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 8-16 weeks for 2 years.
    
  