
    
      Pre Intervention phase- Baseline data regarding breastfeeding parameters will be collected
      from the participating hospitals in the pre-intervention phase of 3 months. Training in BFHI
      principles will be conducted at all the participating hospitals by BPNI.

      Intervention plan- The interventions will be delivered to the women in the intervention
      cluster starting in pregnancy and until their child is 26 weeks to finally evaluate the TICF.

      a. Description of intervention The approach to promoting TIBF, EBF and TICF will be through
      cell phone counseling in addition to counseling in the hospitals during scheduled ante natal
      visits. Mother in the intervention group (beneficiaries) would be provided handsets and
      included in a subsidized calling plan.

      i) Selection and training of cell phone LCs Motivated women with personal breastfeeding
      experience with at least a diploma in nursing will be recruited and trained in
      person-to-person and tele-counseling. Counseling skills will be taught mainly by
      demonstrations and role play and will include: how to communicate, listen to mothers, learn
      about their difficulties, build mother's confidence, give support and providing relevant
      information and practical help when required. BPNI will conduct the 51 hour "An integrated
      course on Breastfeeding, Complementary feeding and Infant Feeding & HIV - Counseling" with
      clinical practice in the ante natal and post natal counseling with pregnant women and mothers
      in the hospitals.

      ii) Counseling schedules: There will be personal counseling(based on the BPNI training)
      during scheduled hospital visits: 2 in the antenatal period, 1 at the time of delivery and
      then during immunization visits at 6, 10 and 14 weeks, at 24 weeks and at the end of 26 weeks
      post natal. The participants will be free to make additional visits if they need medical
      attention.

      Antenatal visits: During the two antenatal contacts the counselors will prepare the mothers,
      and other members of the family who will support her at delivery how to initiate
      breastfeeding within one hour of delivery. They will discourage prelacteal feeds and other
      fluids and foods after lactation has been initiated. They will encourage the mothers to eat
      more of their usual foods to support enhanced lactation, and to appropriately rest during the
      third trimester. These meetings will also cover problems with breastfeeding that the mother
      might encounter and how best to deal with them.

      At delivery: The messages to promote TIBF and EBF will be reinforced. Post Natal Visits (6,
      10, and 14, 24 and 26 weeks): The mothers will visit the hospital for the scheduled
      immunization visits where they will be inquired if they have any difficulties in feeding the
      infant. They will be referred to the LCs if they have difficulties. Data will be collected
      from her regarding the IYCF practices, illnesses of mother and child necessitating
      hospitalization, maternal satisfaction regarding IYCF counseling, cost data in standardized
      case report forms. She will be encouraged to talk to the LCs on cell phone for any issues
      about IYCF between 2 visits.

      iii) Tele Counseling: It is anticipated that each counselor will be able to support 10 calls
      a day. The duration of each call could vary according to the problem from 10 to 30 minutes.
      LCs will be taught how to respond to the phone calls by role playing and practice sessions
      with a number of problems that a mother can encounter. The calls will be recorded on the
      mobile and the voice data will be transferred from the handset to the computer. The
      confidentiality and anonymity of the caller will be maintained. Each LC and cell phone user
      will be trained by the Vodafone Essar trainers (mobile carrier which has partnered with us in
      this project) on how to use and handle the handsets, for outgoing calls, incoming calls,
      short messages and how to charge the phones. The counselor's numbers will be on speed dial
      and the beneficiaries and the LCs will be within one caller group. All incoming messages and
      calls would be free of charge to the beneficiary. Recharge option will be made available. All
      beneficiaries will receive short messages daily in their vernacular language, and scheduled
      weekly calls from the LCs. They will also be sent messages to adhere to their schedules.
      Additionally they can also call the LCs when they have difficulties in feeding their infant.
      The calls will begin from the time they enroll till their last scheduled visit. Ringtones to
      encourage breast feeding will also be provided. They would be encouraged to call between 9 am
      to 6 pm unless it is an emergency.
    
  