
    
      This is a prospective, open, multicentre trial that will enrol patients presenting to the
      Emergency Department (ED) because of isolated head trauma or head trauma as part of a multi
      trauma. Microwave scanning characteristics and biomarkers in patients with traumatic
      intracranial haemorrhage (TICH) (Group A) will be compared to patients with head trauma that
      do not have TICH (Group B). All adult patients with trauma to the head will be eligible for
      inclusion if a medical professional has evaluated the risk of spine injury. After additional
      physical examination, control of inclusion- and exclusion criteria and after informed consent
      has been acquired, the microwave measurement and blood sampling will be performed. Before
      enrolment in the study, and in the acute phase, one of the investigators or a member of the
      investigator staff must explain verbally the implications of study participation to the
      patient, and the patient is asked to give a verbal consent. As soon as is practically
      possible after the acute phase of the disease, the patient will sign and personally date the
      informed consent form. In cases where the patient is not capable to read and/or sign the
      informed consent, due to disability, an independent witness shall be present throughout the
      process of reading the written informed consent and any other information aloud and explained
      to the prospective patient. As an independent witness, healthcare professionals who are not
      responsible or in any way involved in the patient's care or treatment are accepted. The
      independent witness can sign on the behalf of the patient in the presence of the patient and
      the Investigator. More details of the informed consent procedure are described in this
      Clinical Investigation Plan, section 6.3.

      The microwave measurement will take less than five minutes (the duration of the actual
      measurement is about 1,5 min and will not interfere with the patient's standard of care). The
      Research Nurse or the Investigator documents all patient clinical trial information in the
      eCRF.

      Safety and usability will be evaluated throughout the trial, and a safety follow-up will be
      performed by the Research Nurse or Investigator approximately 24 hours after the measurement
      procedure.

      During the data processing phase of study, the result of the microwave measurement will be
      compared to the result of the biomarkers, CT examination and the patient's final diagnosis.
      As a control group, approximately 50 demographically matched healthy volunteers (Group C)
      will be asked to participate in the trial. The trial will provide knowledge of the predictive
      value of microwave measurement and biomarkers for the diagnosis of intracranial haemorrhages
      in the acute TBI phase.
    
  