
    
      The investigators objective is to compare the effectiveness of two distinct follow-up
      strategies to promote colorectal cancer screening: a prevention coordinator (PC) approach vs.
      an automated telephone reminder (ATR) system. The investigators will adapt a successful
      intervention tested in the Health Literacy and Cancer Screening Project [R01CA115869] by
      adding a follow-up strategy to the health literacy intervention. In the proposed project the
      investigators will evaluate two different follow-up approaches to improve low income
      patients' completion of initial and annual CRC screening using Fecal Immunochemical Test
      (FIT).

      Substantial evidence shows that routine screening can prevent colorectal cancer (CRC) or
      detect it at an early stage, reducing related mortality. While overall CRC screening rates in
      the US are increasing, rates remain persistently low among uninsured and low-income
      individuals, those with fewer years of education, and racial/ethnic minorities. Low health
      literacy has been linked to cancer screening noncompliance, higher rates of advanced stage of
      presentation of disease and health disparities. In response, the Department of Health and
      Human Services has called for health information and services that are accurate, accessible,
      and actionable as well as culturally appropriate.

      This study will implement a two-arm, randomized controlled trial with low income,
      underinsured patients in federally qualified health centers (FQHCs) to evaluate and compare
      the effectiveness of PC and ATR follow-up strategies to increase CRC screening. All patients
      recruited to the study will receive evidence-based, literacy appropriate screening materials
      developed using health literacy 'best practices' and a simplified FIT kit. Use of these
      materials has been shown to significantly increase CRC screening rates in the investigators
      ongoing study. Patients will be randomized to receive either: 1) the PC follow-up strategy,
      in which a PC personally reminds patients to complete and mail FIT kits, and perceived
      barriers to screening are discussed and addressed; or 2) the ATR follow-up strategy, in which
      an automated system electronically encourages patients to complete and mail FIT kits using
      plain language messages. The effectiveness of these two approaches will be compared at 12 and
      24 months.
    
  