
    
      The objective of this research is to develop remotely deployed computer-assisted training
      interventions, including software tools and training protocols, to address cognitive
      neurologic impairment associated with TBI, improving cognitive functioning and thus
      increasing quality of life. These tools will be built on a strong foundation of cognitive
      neuroscience, empiric evidence and advanced clinical care, while addressing practical issues
      such as distance and therapist/patient time limitations. This research involves two phases:
      User testing and Assessment/Training.

      Assessment and Training Assessments: The potential effects of remotely administered training
      will be assessed using neuropsychological tests of complex attention, executive function and
      memory, a test of functioning in challenging real world situations involving multitasking and
      goal management, and questionnaires assessing cognitive and emotional functioning in personal
      life.

      Neurocognitive testing and functional evaluation sessions take 2- 3 hours each, or about 5
      hours combined. The subject is free to take breaks throughout testing sessions, which will
      take place over one or two days. Subjects participate in assessments up to four times
      (Baseline, after 6-8 weeks; 12-16 weeks; and at 18-24 weeks), or up to 20 hours (5 hours x 4
      time points). The investigators anticipate about 30 subjects will participate in assessments
      and training.

      Experimental Intervention I: The Pathfinder training protocol will include supervised
      attentional regulation training sessions, either in-person or via the VA's video tele-health
      (VTEL) system, and home play of a computer game. Trainers will also call subjects between
      each supervised session to (i) check that patients are initiating home play (and help
      problem-solve or provide motivation, if necessary), and (ii) encourage transfer and
      generalization of learning, as per protocol. Home play will be configured to allow for about
      35 minutes of play each day between supervised sessions. After the end of home game play,
      some additional time will be allowed for continued practice and application of trained skills
      in personal life.

      Experimental Intervention II: Brain Health Education will consist of training sessions,
      either in-person or via the VA's video tele-health (VTEL) system, and home play of a computer
      game. The Brain Health Education protocol will be based on a curriculum already developed,
      designed to facilitate learning of TBI-relevant information. Trainers will also call subjects
      between each supervised session to (i) check that patients are initiating home play (and help
      problem-solve or provide motivation, if necessary). Home play will be configured to allow for
      about 35 minutes of play each day between supervised sessions. After the end of home game
      play, some additional time will be allowed for continued practice and review of TBI-relevant
      information.

      Subjects will participate in either one or both experimental interventions, which are matched
      for time commitment. Participation in interventions will include weekly in-person or remote
      1-2 hour sessions with a trainer over a period of 6-16 weeks. In addition to weekly training
      sessions, study activities will include about 15 minutes of weekly telephone contact with the
      trainer and about 35 minutes a day of playing a computerized game at home during the same
      period. Therefore, total training time range is approximately 43-93 hours, depending on
      whether participation includes one or both interventions.
    
  