
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the relative change in prostate-specific antigen (PSA)-specific T-cell
           precursors (CD8) from baseline to day 85 in patients with metastatic
           androgen-independent prostate cancer treated with a vaccination regimen comprising
           fowlpox-PSA vaccine, recombinant rV-B7.1 vaccine, recombinant vaccinia-PSA vaccine, and
           sargramostim (GM-CSF) with or without docetaxel.

        -  Compare the safety of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare clinical activity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Determine the immunologic effects in these patients after additional
           vaccine/chemotherapy courses.

        -  Measure CD4 T-cell responses to the vaccine in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms after
      receiving priming vaccinations.

        -  Priming vaccinations: All patients receive recombinant vaccinia-prostate-specific
           antigen (PSA) vaccine subcutaneously (SC) and recombinant rV-B7.1 vaccine SC on day 1
           and sargramostim (GM-CSF) SC on days 1-4. Patients then receive fowlpox-PSA vaccine
           (F-PSA) SC on day 15 and GM-CSF SC on days 15-18.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 30 minutes on days 29, 36, and 43; F-PSA SC on
           day 30; and GM-CSF SC on days 30-33. Treatment repeats beginning on day 56 for one more
           course. Patients who do not have disease progression at day 85 receive docetaxel weekly
           for 3 weeks and F-PSA on day 1 of each course. Courses repeat every 4 weeks in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive F-PSA SC on days 29 and 57 and GM-CSF SC on days 29-32 and
           57-60. Patients who show disease progression after day 85 either radiographically or by
           rising PSA stop receiving the vaccine and may receive docetaxel weekly for 3 weeks.
           Chemotherapy repeats every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 28 patients (14 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 9-10 months.
    
  