
    
      Participants will be enrolled in the study for three months There will be 6 study days
      (visits). The patients will be asked to come to the research laboratory in the morning of the
      study day. They will be instructed to abstain from ingesting alcoholic beverages or using
      PDE5 inhibitors the night before the study, and from consuming coffee or caffeinated drinks
      in the morning of the study day because of their potential acute cardiovascular actions. The
      patients will also be asked not to have a fatty breakfast on the study day to avoid potential
      effects of fat on the absorption of roflumilast.

      The visits will be separated by at least 48 hours. Study period 1: The patients will be
      randomized into two arms: roflumilast or placebo. Qaw will be measured before and at 15, 30,
      60, 120 and 240min in each arm (parallel design) Study period 2: Patients will be randomized
      to either roflumilast for 4 weeks or placebo for 4 weeks and airway blood flow reactivity
      will be measured at the end of the treatment period. The patients will then be taken off
      medication or placebo for 4 weeks and reassigned to the alternate treatment (roflumilast or
      placebo) for 4 weeks and airway blood flow reactivity will be measured after the this
      treatment period (cross-over design).

      The treatments will be administered in a double-blind randomized design, using active
      roflumilast and identically appearing roflumilast placebo provided by Forest.

      Visit 1

      On this visit, a medical history will be obtained from the patients and they will undergo a
      physical examination and complete pulmonary function testing. If they meet entry criteria,
      Qaw will be measured before and 15 min after the inhalation of 180 µg albuterol using a
      spacer (ΔQaw). We have previously shown that vasodilation peaks between 5 and 30 min after
      inhaling this dose of albuterol in healthy non-smokers; in patients with COPD, who exhibit a
      vasodilatory response to inhaled albuterol, the peak effects also occur at the same time as
      in healthy subjects. Since all patients enrolled in the present study will be regular ICS
      users, we expect that all of them will have a vasodilator response to albuterol as previously
      shown.

      Visit 2

      On this day, Qaw will be measured before and at 15, 30, 60,120 and 240 min after the oral
      administration of either 500µg roflumilast or placebo, blinded to patient and investigator
      (acute roflumilast effects).

      Visit 3

      The patients will be given either 500µg roflumilast or placebo (alternate to treatment at
      visit 2) blinded to patient and investigator. One hour later, Qaw will be measured before and
      15 min after the inhalation of 180µg albuterol using a spacer (ΔQaw). Pharmacokinetic studies
      have shown that the geometric mean plasma concentration of roflumilast after a 500µg dose
      peaks at one hour after oral drug administration.

      The patients will then be randomized in a double blind fashion to either roflumilast 500 µg
      or placebo every morning before breakfast. They will be asked to return for a follow up visit
      4 weeks later (visit 4).

      Visit 4

      The patients will not take their morning dose (roflumilast or placebo) on this day. Qaw will
      be measured before and 15 min after the inhalation of 180 µg albuterol using a spacer (ΔQaw).
      The treatment will be discontinued and the patients will be asked to return for visit 5 after
      a 4-week washout period.

      Visit 5

      The protocol of visit 4 will be repeated. The patients will then be started on the alternate
      treatment for 4 weeks: Those on roflumilast between visits 3 and 4 will now be placed on
      placebo, and those on placebo between visits 3 and 4 will be placed on roflumilast. The
      patients will be asked to return for a final visit (visit 6) 4 weeks later.

      Visit 6

      The protocol of visit 4 will be repeated. The patients will then undergo an exit exam and be
      discharged from the study
    
  