
    
      Contamination of groundwater by arsenic is a global problem affecting thousands of people
      worldwide, especially in Bangladesh, India and West Bengal. In Bangladesh, an estimated 59
      administrative districts out of 64 have been affected with significantly high concentrations
      of arsenic. Due to arsenicosis, keratosis of palm and sole reduce the patient's working
      capacity and affect the socioeconomic condition. Bowen's disease, squamous cell carcinoma and
      basal cell carcinoma which are invasive skin lesions also caused by arsenicosis. Keratosis
      can be treated by various topical preparations like salicylic acid, alpha-lipoic acid, zinc,
      propylene glycol, garlic oil, neem leaf extract, an extract of Azadirachta indica and Solanum
      melongena. But these treatments require a longer time to relieve symptoms and thus reduce
      patient's compliance. Pumpkin seeds are rich not only in antioxidant vitamins (carotenoids
      and tocopherols), minerals and proteins, but also low in fat and calories. β-carotene reduces
      the damage of skin from the sun and it also acts as an anti-inflammatory agent. α-carotene
      slows the aging process, prevents tumor growth and reduces the risk of developing cataracts.
      Vitamin E also called tocopherols protects the cell from oxidative damage by preventing
      oxidation of cell membranous unsaturated fatty acid. β-sitosterol also useful to reduce blood
      cholesterol and to decrease the risks of some types of cancers. So this study will be
      conducted to see the outcome of pumpkin seed extract in moderate to severe palmar arsenical
      keratosis. The study will be an open phase-II clinical trial and will be conducted in
      Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University and Sirajdikhan Upazila of Munshiganj District.
      Extract from pumpkin seeds will be collected by using 70% ethanol as a solvent and rotary
      evaporator. Thin Layer Chromatography (TLC) of extract will be done to identify the compound.
      By using brine shrimp bioassay cytotoxicity assay will be done. The ointment will be prepared
      from pumpkin seeds extract and supplied to each patient at an interval of 2 weeks. Each
      patient will be advised about applying the cream. Improvement and adverse effects will be
      monitored through phone calls and during the visit regularly. Clinical improvement will be
      assessed by measuring the palmar arsenical nodule size before and after completion of
      treatment and perception of patients about their improvement. Statistical analysis and
      results will be documented in different diagrams and in tabulated forms.
    
  