
    
      Aim of the study:

      To upgrade the urosurgical care level for candidate of surgical adrenalectomy due to adrenal
      diseases, to increase efficacy of the procedure and shorten the operative time and duration
      of hospital stay and convalescence.

      Study Objective:

      Comparing the safety and efficacy of posterior retroperitoneoscopic versus anterior
      transperitoneal adrenalectomy, as regard to the operative time, estimated intraoperative
      blood loss, days of postoperative hospital stay, and rate of complications.

      Study Question:

      Can the posterior retroperitoneoscopic approach provide a better alternative to anterior
      laparoscopic approach in terms of effectiveness and safety for laparoscopic adrenalectomy?

      Study Hypothesis:

      Investigators suggest that posterior retroperitoneoscopic approach is a safe and effective
      alternative to anterior transperitoneal approach for adrenalectomy with less operative time,
      estimated blood loss, postoperative days of hospitalization and rate of complications.

      Significance and Relevance:

      This study is suspected to be beneficial for urologists and oncology surgeons, as they can
      select the most effective intervention for patients with adrenal disease.

      Study setting:

      The study will be carried out over one year starting from 4/2015 to 5/2016, including the
      operations and data management. Operative procedures will be carried out at Urology
      Departments on Suez Canal, and Alexandria University hospitals.

      Study population The study will focus on patients with adrenal disease indicated for
      adrenalectomy. The sample frame will include patients of any age, gender and body weight,
      with fair cognitive function, who is candidate for simple laparoscopic adrenalectomy in Suez
      Canal University Hospital and Alexandria University Hospital. Inclusion and exclusion
      criteria will be mentioned at Eligibility section.

      Sampling:

      A non-probability convenience sample will be taken. That is the cases present and referred to
      urology clinic and diagnosed to have adrenal mass or hyperplasia and are candidates for
      laparoscopic adrenalectomy.

      The sample size will be calculated to compare mean values of two independent groups of equal
      sizes with a possibility of two way outcome. The sample size will be 20 cases, randomly
      divided into 10 cases for each group.

      Work plan:

      The main objective of the study is to compare the data related obtained in the two
      laparoscopic approachs in order to assess the efficacy of each one and determine a statistic
      evidence of preferring one of them over the other. This goal could be achieved through the
      following steps. First, patient evaluation; and this will be through the urology clinic of
      the university hospitals in Suez Canal and Alexandria Universities. It also includes patients
      referred from related clinics of oncosurgery, gynecology, endocrinology and cardiology
      clinics. History taking, full clinical examination will be done. Laboratory investigations
      will be requested according to provisional clinical diagnosis. Imaging studies will be done
      to confirm final diagnosis and determine the treatment plan. Second, as the case is indicated
      and fit for laparoscopic adrenalectomy, and as the case fulfill the inclusion criteria of the
      study, the patient will get a study number and will be randomly assigned to each operative
      approach. Third phase of the study is postoperative follow up. The patient will be followed
      for a month. Parameters will include the postoperative days to full diet, days to
      mobilization, days to discharge and days to full recovery. Also the postoperative pain score
      and the scar cosmetic outcome are included.

      Instruments:

      The theatre room should be prepared for laparoscopic procedure with: a charge-coupled device
      video camera, a video monitor, Xenon light source, high frequency generator and suction and
      irrigation devices. Laparoscopic surgeries depend on five main steps. Insufflation using CO2
      high flow insufflator. This step involve 2 techniques; the closed techniques with Veress
      needle in transperitoneal access; and the open Hasson techniques. Trocar insertion that
      include the multiport type, open or closed technique, retroperitoneal and transperitoneal.
      Dissection through abdominal planes will need endoscopic curved scissors with or without
      rotatable blades, endoscopic curved dissectors and suction irrigation probe. Also the
      procedure may include sharp dissection with endoshears or blunt dissection with endo-peanuts,
      right angle dissector. Upon heamostasis the basic instruments are: 5 mm monopolar coagulation
      forceps/dissector, 5 mm bipolar forceps, 10 mm endoclip applicator and endoscopic staplers.
      LigaSure™ for blunt dissection and heamostasis. Endoscopic needle holder and short threaded
      small needle are needed for suturing. Finally, the LapSac™ is the best tested bag for
      retrieval of specimens. The data of the patient and his preoperative and postoperative
      parameters will be collected by a questionnaire designed for the purposes of this study. It
      also include the traditional numerical rating scale and visual analogue scale for assessment
      of the postoperative pain. The patient satisfaction of the scar will be assessed by three
      questionnaires; body image questionnaire, photo series questionnaire and future surgical
      procedure preference questionnaire.

      Variables:

      For each case the data will include demographic data of the patient and his medical and
      surgical history. This includes age, gender, body mass index calculated as kg/square meter.
      The side of the affected gland plays a role in operative time, so determination of the side
      by computed tomography (CT) is essential. Also size of the adrenal mass in CT and the
      clinical diagnosis regarding the function and the possibility of malignancy will also be
      considered the main independent variable. A significant independent variable is the surgeon's
      experience. The number and type of the procedures done by the operator with rate and cause of
      conversions will be included to each case. Dependent variables will include the full
      operative data of each case. Starting from the indication of the intervention and the
      rationale for preference of laparoscopic approach and eventually the cause of conversion if
      needed. This study focuses on operative time in minutes; total time from the first abdominal
      incision to the last suture, and the time elapsed to identify the adrenal vein, a critical
      step at the operation. The study is also interested in comparing the estimated blood loss
      measured in milliliters and the correlation to the type of tumor, patients and operative
      variables. On the postoperative phase, the data gathered include the number of days to full
      diet, of post-operative hospital stay and to complete recovery; i.e. return to usual daily
      activity. The patient will achieve a score assessment of the postoperative pain and
      assessment of cosmotic outcome of the incisions. The rate of short term complications
      postoperatively will be assessed for each group and classified by Clavien-Dindo system.

      Statistical Analysis:

      This will include data management and coding. The data entry will be via SPSS™ or Microsoft™
      Excel™. Mainly the comparison of the study variables will be via detecting the significance
      of differences between mean values of each group parameters. Finally, the data will be
      arranged into tables and graphs and presented to conclude the findings of the study.

      Ethical consideration:

      All patients are informed about participation in training course for urology trainees as a
      part of the consent of admission and getting surgical intervention at an authorized teaching
      hospital. However, each participant will be offered an informed consent for being included
      into this comparative study. The patient will receive his ideal and best line of treatment
      according to the latest guidelines and available facilities whatever his response to the
      consent. The risk of complications of both intervention is comparable and all participants
      will have the same chance to have either transperitoneal or posterior retroperitoneal
      approaches. To avoid bias, patient will be assigned randomly into the two study groups. At
      the other hand, patient's data involved at this study will be treated confidentially.

      Budget:

      This study is funded by the researcher's financial resources. That includes transportation
      fees, paper work and audio-video utilities. Cases done in the Suez Canal University Hospital
      may be afforded by the college or the hospital fund. This includes the admission, the rent of
      the laparoscopic set and the associated medications.
    
  