
    
      Cardiac transplantation has become the established treatment of choice for eligible patients
      with end-stage heart failure. Cardiac allograft vasculopathy (CAV) is a major and potentially
      preventable limitation to long-term survival in cardiac transplant recipients. CAV affects up
      to 50% of recipients by year 5, though intimal thickening is present in up to 58% one year
      after transplantation. CAV is characterized by diffuse, concentric intimal hyperplasia,
      involving both epicardial and intramyocardial coronary arteries. In its most advanced stages,
      CAV is not amenable to standard revascularization procedures making the only cure
      re-transplantation. Given the limited donor pool and poor outcome, re-transplantation is not
      an option for all patients. CAV tends to be a silent process. Due to denervation of the
      transplanted heart, transplant recipients do not typically have chest pain, and thus the
      first symptoms of CAV may be those of heart failure or sudden cardiac death. Traditional risk
      factors are important in predicting the development of CAV, however non-traditional risk
      factors appear equally important and include cellular and humoral rejection, graft ischemia
      at the time of implantation, and cytomegalovirus (CMV).

      Despite the specific inciting event, the end result is endothelial dysfunction, which is the
      predecessor to CAV. Methods to detect, prevent, and treat endothelial dysfunction and
      subsequently CAV are few. The rapidity with which it develops, however, affords a great
      opportunity to study mechanisms and potential interventions in a relatively short period of
      time.

      Chronic inflammation and immune activation and subsequent endothelial injury are felt to
      immunopathogenic in the development of CAV. Endothelial activation is a precursor to the
      development of transplant vasculopathy, and multiple biomarkers have been shown to correlate
      with the presence of endothelial dysfunction in transplant vasculopathy. (fig. 1) Endothelial
      activation, as determined by the presence of adhesion molecules, begins hours after brain
      death in a donor. VCAM-1, e-selectin, and p-selectin are expressed early after brain death in
      the donor and are elevated throughout transplantation in the recipient as a response to
      injury in the donor heart. P-selectin and VCAM remain elevated while e-selectin gradually
      decrease over three months. There is data suggesting that p-selectin and VCAM remain elevated
      up to 2 years after transplantation, suggesting persistent inflammation and immune activation
      after transplant. Furthermore, nitric oxide is the principal mediator of protective effects
      on the endothelium. The nitric oxide pathway is essential in maintaining vascular integrity
      in cardiac recipients, and inhibition of this pathway accelerates intimal thickening and
      worsens endothelial function caused by rejection. Intimal thickening is a marker of
      endothelial dysfunction and a precursor to the development of CAV.

      Thus, these markers and others involved in atherogenesis, remodeling, immune activation and
      endothelial activation, may provide a useful modality in predicting the presence of
      vasculopathy. In addition, studying various components of the process, eg. inflammation and
      injury, will provide much needed information regarding targets for therapy.
    
  