
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a genetic disorder that affects approximately 1 in
           3,500 individuals.

        -  A number of common clinical manifestations, including plexiform neurofibromas, can cause
           frequent and significant pain and impact quality of life.

        -  Often, NF1-related pain is not well-controlled with medication and many of the
           medications cause significant side effects.

        -  To our knowledge, only one prior study (by our group) has examined the effectiveness of
           a psychological intervention for chronic pain in adolescents and young adults (AYA) with
           NF1.

        -  Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT), a newer generation of cognitive-behavioral
           therapy, focuses on encouraging individuals to engage in more adaptive ways of coping
           with pain.

        -  The goal of ACT is not to eliminate the person s pain, but to optimize the person s
           functioning despite their pain

      OBJECTIVES:

      -To compare pain interference mean score changes from baseline to 8 weeks between the ACT
      intervention group and the waitlist (WL) group.

      ELIGIBILITY:

        -  Patients 16 - 59 years of age with a confirmed diagnosis of NF1 and greater than or
           equal to 1 plexiform neurofibroma (PN).

        -  The patient must obtain a mean score of 2.0 or higher or a score of 3 on three or more
           items on the Pain Interference Index, and report having pain that interferes with
           functioning for at least three months.

        -  The patient must have regular access to a computer or tablet with internet access.

      DESIGN:

        -  This is a psychological intervention study to determine the potential benefit of ACT on
           pain interference, with patients randomized to the ACT intervention or a wait-list
           control group.

        -  Patients will come to the NIH for a 2-day visit (Time 1). After baseline assessments
           (questionnaires and ECG) are completed, participants in the ACT group will take part in
           two 2-hour ACT training sessions. At home, this group will receive weekly emails through
           week 8, and will participate in further ACT training/educational sessions via video chat
           at weeks 2, 4, and 6.

        -  All patients will return to the NIH at week 8 (Time 2) to complete follow-up
           questionnaires and ECG. At this time, the WL group will cross over and receive the ACT
           intervention (in-person sessions, weekly emails, and video chat sessions). All patients
           will complete questionnaires again from home six months following the completion of the
           intervention.

        -  To detect a change of .68 standard deviation on the primary outcome measure between the
           two groups at .80 power, 41 patients per group are needed.
    
  