
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To test the superiority of 2 year (yr) overall survival (OS) in the functional lung
      avoidance and response-adaptive dose escalation (FLARE) radiation therapy (RT) patient cohort
      over the 60 gray (Gy) cohort of Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) 0617 (57% 2yr OS) for
      historical control.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 4 grade 2 or higher
      pneumonitis incidence from FLARE RT compared to historical controls (non-inferiority test).

      II. 1 yr local control, progression-free survival, and pulmonary function test decline.

      III. Identification of baseline fludeoxyglucose (FDG) PET/CT and mid-treatment FDG PET/CT
      imaging biomarkers for predicting patient survival.

      IV. Identification of baseline perfusion SPECT/CT imaging biomarkers for predicting grade
      (G)2+ pneumonitis and pulmonary function tests (PFT) decline.

      V. Collection of plasma and urine samples for future correlative studies between imaging
      biomarkers and cytokine biomarkers of radiation response in both tumor and normal tissue.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of radiation therapy.

      Patients undergo functional avoidance radiation therapy during weeks 1-3. Patients undergo
      fludeoxyglucose F-18 FDG PET/CT at baseline, 3 weeks, and 3 months post-radiation therapy and
      undergo technetium Tc-99m albumin aggregated (99mTc-MAA) and technetium Tc-99m sulfur colloid
      SPECT/CT radiation therapy at baseline and 3 months post-radiation therapy. Baseline PET/CT
      must be performed at University of Washington Medical Center/Seattle Cancer Care Alliance and
      be within one month of treatment start, therefore some patients may need to repeat a baseline
      PET/CT if their PET/CT is from an outside institution or > 1 month old. Patients not
      responding to treatment at 3 weeks, will receive an increased daily radiation therapy dosage.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 2 years.
    
  