
    
      Auditory verbal hallucinations (AVH) are present throughout the course of psychotic illness
      and are among its most distressing symptoms. The presence of hallucinations alone increases
      risk of suicide in patients with psychosis. While antipsychotic medications often succeed in
      ameliorating auditory hallucinations, 10-30% of those with hallucinations exhibit little to
      no response to these treatments. Understanding how the processes underlying auditory
      perception might go awry to produce auditory hallucinations is a critical next step in the
      development of new treatments that are more soundly based upon systems neuroscience and brain
      pathophysiology.

      Perceptual systems do not rely entirely upon information coming from sensory organs like the
      retina and the cochlea. Rather, they blend this input with perceptual beliefs about the
      sensory environment in order to produce an internal model of that environment. The authors
      and others have proposed that hallucinations may be seen as an over-weighting of these
      perceptual beliefs when combined with sensory evidence during perceptual inference. In this
      work, the authors take advantage of a long history of sensory conditioning research to elicit
      hallucinatory experiences via traditional learning mechanisms: subjects are exposed to
      repeated pairings of visual and auditory stimuli and subsequently perceive the presence of
      the auditory stimulus when only the visual is present. The authors applied this Conditioned
      Hallucinations paradigm to four groups of subjects who varied orthogonally in having or not
      having hallucinations and psychosis. The authors found that conditioned hallucinations
      readily occur in all subjects but with markedly increased frequency in those who hallucinate
      compared to those who do not. The authors then employed a computational approach that
      formally models perception as a combination of prior knowledge and sensory input: the
      Hierarchical Gaussian Filter (HGF). Results indicate that the weight prior knowledge exerts
      during perception is significantly higher in those with hallucinations, and is related to
      prior-related functional activity specific brain regions like the anterior insula. This
      'prior weighting' alteration may represent a novel, personalized, and
      computationally-informed target for the treatment of hallucinations.

      Mathematically, prior weighting is the ratio of the precision of prior knowledge to the
      precision of incoming sensory evidence exhibited by an individual during perception.
      Therefore, it may be normalized by either decreasing the precision of prior knowledge or
      increasing the precision of incoming sensory evidence. The precision of sensory evidence
      appears to depend critically upon cholinergic signaling: acetylcholine increases auditory
      discrimination abilities and biases perceptual inference toward sensory data. Antagonism at
      central cholinergic receptors decreases sensory sensitivity and decreases reliance on
      incoming sensory evidence during perceptual inference. Consistent with this, scopolamine, a
      safe and reversible antagonist at the M1 cholinergic receptor used routinely for its
      anti-emetic effects, can both cause spontaneous hallucinations and enhance conditioned
      hallucinations. By contrast, increased cholinergic signaling ameliorates psychotic symptoms
      in schizophrenia and Alzheimer's Disease. Physostigmine, a reversible, centrally-acting
      cholinesterase inhibitor, has been used study the cholinergic system and has been found to
      ameliorate hallucinations in some patients with schizophrenia.

      The authors plan to characterize the effects of cholinergic agents on the perceptual,
      computational, physiological, and clinical signatures of hallucinations in healthy
      participants and individuals with psychosis via the following aims:

      Aim 1: Characterize the effects of cholinergic antagonism on the behavioral, computational,
      and neural signatures of conditioned hallucinations in healthy subjects. Hypotheses: 1)
      Non-hallucinating healthy subjects will show increases in prior weighting and conditioned
      hallucinations with scopolamine vs. saline. 2) Scopolamine-related changes in prior weighting
      will be accompanied by increased prior-related activity in anterior insula on functional MRI
      (fMRI).

      Aim 2: Determine the effect of cholinergic potentiation on the behavioral, computational, and
      neural signatures of conditioned hallucinations in subjects with psychosis and
      hallucinations. Hypotheses: 1) Subjects with hallucinations and high prior weighting will
      show decreases in prior weighting and conditioned hallucinations with physostigmine vs.
      saline. 2) Physostigmine-related changes in prior weighting will be accompanied by lower
      prior-related functional activity in anterior insula. 3) Subjects with hallucinations and
      lower prior weighting will show none of these physostigmine-related changes.

      In proposing these aims, the authors apply a formalized, theoretical understanding of
      perceptual processing to probe the interplay between perceptual, computational,
      circuit-level, and neurotransmitter-level dysfunction seen in hallucinations. This approach
      also has the potential for an immediate clinical impact: it is the first attempt to leverage
      the powerful tools of computational psychiatry to identify distinct patient subgroups likely
      to respond to emerging cholinergically-mediated treatments for hallucinations.
    
  