
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the antitumor activity (proportion of objective response by Response Evaluation
      Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] 1.1 criteria) of nivolumab with objective tumor response in
      patients with persistent, recurrent or metastatic carcinoma of the cervix.

      II. To determine the nature and degree of toxicity of nivolumab as assessed by Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) in patients with persistent, recurrent or
      metastatic carcinoma of the cervix.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the duration of progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To systematically evaluate programmed cell death (PD)-1 and B7 homolog 1 (B7-H1) (i.e.,
      PD-1 ligand) expression in tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) and cervical cancer cells
      and explore their correlations with objective response, PFS, and OS in nivolumab-treated
      patients with PD-1 and B7-H1 scoring results.

      II. To explore the composition of immune infiltrates in tumor specimens/biopsies from primary
      and/or metastatic/recurrent sites with selected markers including (but not limited) to
      cluster of differentiation (CD)4+, CD8+, forkhead box P3 (FoxP3), CD25, lymphocyte activation
      gene-3 (LAG-3), T cell immunoglobulin mucin-3 (TIM-3), and inducible T-cell co-stimulator
      (ICOS) and their correlations to objective response, PFS and OS in nivolumab-treated
      patients.

      III. To evaluate human papillomavirus (HPV) status and to explore the changes of pre- and
      post-immune therapy responses to HPV16/18/31/35/45 E7 antigens in patients peripheral blood
      lymphocytes (PBL) and serum using proliferative and interferon (IFN)-gamma enzyme-linked
      immunospot (ELISPOT) (cellular immunity) and serological (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay
      [ELISA]) assays.

      IV. To explore the levels of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) pre-treatment and at 8 and 12
      weeks and their association with patient outcome.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over approximately 60 minutes every 2 weeks for
      a maximum of 46 doses over 92 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  