
    
      Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is a Health Canada approved treatment for
      major depression. Typical treatments involve 30 to 45 minutes daily session delivered over 4
      to 6 weeks. Recent technical advances allowed the development of theta burst stimulation
      (TBS), a novel rTMS paradigm which reduces daily sessions to 3 to 4 minutes while maintaining
      the same clinical efficacy. However, it remains to be determined if applying TBS to both
      sides of the frontal cortex (i.e. bilateral TBS) is more efficient than delivering it to only
      one side (i.e. unilateral TBS). In addition, it is difficult to predict treatment response as
      there is a lack of tools to identify potential responders early on in the treatment phase.
      Finally, the effects of rTMS are known to last up to 12 months after the treatment. To avoid
      relapse, a maintenance phase is typically introduced after treatment in which treatment
      sessions are delivered at a gradually decreasing rate. However, it is unknown whether it is
      better to offer a fixed schedule of treatment or adjust the treatment schedule according to
      symptomatology. This study proposes to bridge these gaps by conducting a randomized
      double-blinded naturalistic superiority trial in which the efficacy of bilateral and
      unilateral TBS will be compared in individuals with a diagnosis of major depressive episodes.
      Neurobiological markers of response will be assessed at different time points. In people that
      respond to treatment, a 6-month maintenance phase will be conducted in which a fixed schedule
      will be compared to a flexible schedule.

      The study has four primary aims:

        1. To compare the efficacy of bilateral and unilateral TBS on symptoms of depression, as
           well as rates of remission and response

        2. To investigate how unilateral and bilateral TBS modulates brain activity in the
           dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) using interleaved TMS-EEG

        3. To investigate neural predictors of the clinical response to TBS.

        4. To compare the efficacy of a fixed versus a flexible schedule of maintenance on a period
           of 6 months on symptoms of depression and rate of relapse.

      TREATMENT PHASE TBS treatment will be administered 5 days/week (Monday to Friday) over a
      first phase of 4 weeks (20 sessions). If remission is achieved (Hamilton Rating Scale for
      Depression-17 scorescore ≤ 8), treatment will cease and the patient will move on to the
      maintenance phase. Non-remitters will receive a second phase of treatment, consisting of an
      additional 2 weeks (10 sessions, for a total of 30). After 6 weeks, all responders may move
      on to the maintenance phase.

      MAINTENANCE PHASE The maintenance phase which will be of 6 months duration from the end of
      the randomized treatment. For each TBS condition, responders will be randomized to two
      possible maintenance treatments 1) a fixed maintenance protocol, or 2) a flexible maintenance
      protocol based on symptom emergence. The fixed protocol will consist of two sessions per week
      for the first month, followed by a weekly TBS session for two months, bimonthly sessions for
      two months and a monthly session for the last month. Outcome will be measured weekly for
      months 1-2-3, bimonthly for months 4-5 and monthly for month 6. For the flexible protocol,
      participants will receive a fixed 2x/week schedule for the month 1. For month 2 and 3, a
      brief weekly assessment (Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression-17 score) will be conducted in
      which it will be determined if they will receive 0, 1 or 2 sessions in the week. For month 4
      and 5, a bimonthly assessment (Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression-17 score) will be
      conducted in which it will be determined if they will receive 0, 1 or 2 sessions over the two
      weeks. For month 6, one brief assessment (Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression-17 score) will
      be conducted in which it will be determined if they will receive 0, 1 or 2 sessions in the
      month.
    
  