
    
      This is a prospective observational study on the current practice of stroke prevention for AF
      in Asia. We propose to recruit 5,000 patients (~1000 patients per country) from 5 countries
      in Asia-Pacific regions (Hong Kong, Japan, Taiwan, Singapore, Korea). Patients who are
      currently follow-up or newly diagnosed AF in these countries will be enrolled and follow-up
      for 1 year. Their clinical data on baseline, and 12 months follow-up will be recorded (based
      on the template of the European AF survey- in collaboration with ESC). All patients will be
      treated according to the clinical practice in their hospital or clinic. Data on their
      baseline demographic information, including the CHADS2, CHADS2-VAS score, HAS-BLED score,
      clinical events, including death, ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke, major bleeding events and
      morality will be collected via a web-based electronic system based on Case Report form of the
      EurObservational Research Programme on Atrial Fibrillation General Long-Term study.

      The general objectives of the APHRS AF registry on clinical epidemiology and medical
      management of atrial fibrillation are summarized as follows:

        1. To verify the applicability, and to adapt or strengthen international practice
           guidelines (recommendations) on the diagnosis and treatment of AF and facilitate
           implementation of such guidelines.

        2. To investigate the applicability of the results of clinical trials in everyday practice.

        3. To analyse the outcome of different disease management strategies.

        4. To foster the implementation of evidence-based medicine.

      The specific objectives of this APHRS AF long term registry are to:

        1. Assess whether the diagnostic work-up of AF complies with current international
           guidelines.

        2. Evaluate appropriateness of treatment in the different subsets of AF in relation to the
           current clinical guidelines on AF.

        3. Evaluate the use of oral antithrombotic therapies, antiplatelet therapy (aspirin +/-
           clopidogrel); with the Vitamin K antagonists or with the new drugs (oral direct thrombin
           inhibitors or oral Factor Xa inhibitors) as they become available. Furthermore, the
           characteristics, co-morbidities, and risk factors of AF patients who receive different
           antithrombotic strategies will also be collected.

        4. For those patients who received VKA, we plan to determine what proportions of time these
           AF patients have achieved an INR 2.0-3.0 or INR <2.0 or >3.0. Moreover, the patients
           characteristics/co-morbidities are associated with different INR ranges and their
           clinical outcomes (stroke or major bleed) will also investigated.

        5. To study the persistence of antithrombotic therapies for AF in Asia. Specifically, we
           will determine the discontinuation and switch rates for VKA or different novel
           anticoagulants. Moreover, the clinical characteristics, co-morbidities and the reasons
           for discontinuation or switching as well as the outcomes (stroke, death, or major bleed)
           among discontinued and switched patients will be documented.

        6. To study the efficacy (stroke/death), risk (bleeding) and health resource utilization of
           various anti-thrombotic therapies for real-world stroke prevention in the Asian
           population.

        7. To study the utilization of different antithrombotic therapies during cardioversion and
           catheter ablation.

        8. Describe the use of new antiarrhythmic therapy options such as catheter ablation and
           newly available antiarrhythmic drugs.

        9. Estimate AF-related symptoms and AF-related changes in quality of life.

       10. Obtain contemporary information on the occurrence of AF-related complications.
           Specifically, the ischemic stroke related to AF in the Asian population as stratified by
           the CHADS2 and CHADS2-VAS score.

       11. Evaluate mortality and morbidity in relation to therapeutic decisions including
           adherence to guidelines in the AF cohort at 1 year.

       12. Assess progression of atrial fibrillation from paroxysmal (self-terminating) to
           persistent (non-self-terminating) atrial fibrillation. To assess the impact of validated
           and less well-established risk factors for progression of atrial fibrillation, including
           duration of history of associated diseases, blood pressure, BMI, kidney function, BNP
           levels and pulmonary disease.
    
  