
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) often can be prevented through regular screening and although
      multiple screening tests are available, colonoscopy is often the only screening test offered
      to patients. Unfortunately, up to half of people in some hospitals who receive a
      recommendation and are scheduled for colonoscopy do not complete the test. Reasons for not
      completing colonoscopy include lack of awareness of the need for, and benefits of, screening,
      fear of pain, fear of finding cancer, unpleasantness of the bowel preparation, cost,
      transportation issues, and the unwillingness to undergo an invasive test in the absence of
      symptoms. The process of bowel cleansing is one of the most challenging aspects of having a
      colonoscopy. Interventions that improve patients' knowledge about CRC screening, including
      test options other than colonoscopy, enhance access, improve skills needed to complete CRC
      screening, and reduce barriers will lead to greater numbers of people being screened. Patient
      navigation and computer tailored interventions have been shown to be effective approaches to
      increase CRC and other cancer screening but there is no evidence of their comparative
      effectiveness. The purpose of this study is to compare two health system-based interventions,
      with one another and with usual care, to increase completion rates among a diverse sample of
      patients. The investigators will enroll an ethnically diverse group of 750 men and women aged
      50-75 who are at average risk for CRC and were referred and scheduled for colonoscopy at one
      endoscopy department but canceled or did not attend their scheduled appointment. Participants
      will be randomized to receive: (1) a mailed tailored digital video disc (DVD) alone; 2) the
      mailed tailored DVD plus a telephone-based Patient Navigator; or 3) usual care. Data will be
      collected at baseline, at 6 months and at 9 months post-baseline. Interviews to assess
      receipt, viewing, and satisfaction with the tailored DVD will be conducted 2 weeks after
      mailing. Satisfaction with the patient navigator will be assessed at 6 months. Multivariable
      logistic regression analyses will be used to test the interventions' effects on CRC screening
      test completion and, for those who complete colonoscopy, quality of bowel preparation. The
      investigators will also examine whether these interventions change knowledge about CRC and
      screening as well as health beliefs (perceived risk, perceived benefits, barriers, and
      self-efficacy) about screening. From this study, the investigators will learn how effective
      these two standardized, easy to disseminate health system-based interventions are compared to
      each other and to usual care. If the interventions are found to be equally effective, or
      differentially effective for different subgroups of patients, healthcare systems may consider
      implementing one or both of these interventions in their settings.
    
  