
    
      Despite reductions in adolescent sexual behavior over the past decade, premature sexual
      activity remains prevalent among adolescents and alarming adolescent sexual and reproductive
      health (SRH) disparities exist. The adverse short and long-term consequences of premature
      adolescent sexual behavior are well-documented, including negative effects on the physical,
      emotional, social, and economic well-being of youth. Positive youth development (PYD)
      research has identified adolescent protective factors, such as success sequencing,
      self-regulation, goal setting, and strong family support [i.e., positive family development
      (PFD)] that are associated with increased sexual risk avoidance as well as individual life
      opportunities and societal benefits.

      FTT Virtual is an online intervention designed to reduce adolescent sexual risk behavior
      through supporting caregiver-adolescent communication about sex. The goals of the program are
      to (1) delay sexual debut, (2) reduce sexual behavior, (3) reduce negative SRH outcomes, and
      (4) increase engagement with community resources among Black and Latino adolescents aged
      12-17 years (n=600) residing in a community with disparate adolescent SRH outcomes and high
      need for improved adolescent life opportunities and success sequencing support, the South
      Bronx, New York City.

      The 2-arm parallel RCT will evaluate the efficacy of the FTT Virtual intervention in delaying
      sexual debut, reducing adolescent sexual behavior, and linking adolescents to community
      resources and services for sexual risk behavior, PYD, and success sequencing. We will recruit
      adolescents and their primary adult caregivers in their homes using area sampling methods
      piloted-tested by CLAFH staff with excellent results in our previous research in the target
      community. Parents and adolescents will complete a questionnaire (separately) at baseline
      assessments. Subsequently, parent-adolescent dyads will be randomly assigned to either, (1)
      the experimental group (who will receive the FTT Virtual intervention), or (2) the control
      group that obtains the intervention after the evaluation study has been completed (wait list
      control). The baseline sample size will be 600 dyads, with 300 dyads in each group.

      Parents randomized to the experimental condition will receive two 60 to 90 minute virtual
      intervention sessions consisting of 9 modules delivered to the parent by community healthcare
      workers. Intervention sessions should happen within the first month following the baseline
      interview. FTT Virtual modules address self-regulation, success sequencing, the benefits of
      delaying sex, healthy relationships, goal setting, resisting sexual coercion, dating
      violence, and other youth risk behaviors such as underage drinking or illicit drug use. In
      addition, parents receive guidance on effective adolescent monitoring and supervision and
      strengthening their relationship quality with their adolescent.
    
  