
    
      PURPOSES

        1. Determine the prevalence of a COVID-19 hyper-inflammatory "cytokine storm" phenotype in
           patients at Vancouver General Hospital

        2. Determine any potential links between cytokine storm and ARDS in COVID-19 patients

        3. Profile patients with mild and severe disease in an attempt to identify biomarkers that
           could be developed into a rapid test for triaging patients who require urgent care from
           those that will recover on their own

        4. Elucidate the impact of genetic variation on clinical outcomes from COVID-19

        5. Identify SARS-CoV-2 relevant RNAs

        6. To determine differences in physiologic and cytokine levels before and after patients
           are treated with immunomodulatory therapies as part of clinical care in COVID-19
           patients.

      HYPOTHESES

        1. Primary: Based off of previous reports, approximately 50% of COVID-19 patients will
           demonstrate a cytokine storm phenotype

        2. Secondary: a)Patients exhibiting cytokine storm will demonstrate a higher incidence of
           ARDS b)We will identify biomarkers for rapid testing c)Host gene variation will
           influence the clinical outcome from COVID-19 infection

      JUSTIFICATION

      The 2019 novel human coronavirus, originally named 2019-nCoV, and now referred to as the
      severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2), originated in Wuhan of the
      Hubei Province in China late December 2019. This virus causes the disease now known as
      COVID-19. Following its discovery, SARS-CoV-2 has since had its genome sequenced and cell
      entry receptor determined. Its rapid global spread and evidence of community transmission
      indicate a likely protracted influence on our health care system and economy. This
      necessitates a coordinated response from health care workers and scientists to discern
      strategies for the treatment, and therapeutic management of COVID-19.

      Outside of vaccine and anti-viral development efforts, the focus on novel therapeutic
      interventions has been comparatively minimal, with few clinical trial reports to date, which
      has elicited a call to action to explore host-directed therapies in addition to other
      therapeutic strategies. Recently published clinical descriptions of this disease have
      indicated that many patients suffer from both a hyper-inflammatory state, referred to as a
      "cytokine storm" with subsequent death often attributable to the development of acute
      respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). However, while cytokine storm appears associated with
      disease severity, key links between the presence of cytokine storm and development of ARDS,
      which is currently responsible for the largest proportion of COVID-19 deaths, has yet to be
      established. Delineation of such a link and clinical establishment of a hyper-inflammatory
      (i.e. cytokine storm) phenotype would provide precedence for specific anti-inflammatory
      treatments to reduce the incidence of COVID-19 associated ARDS and mortality as this remains
      debated currently.

      CyTOF analyses: is a single cell proteomic tool that will be applied using a custom panel of
      31 monoclonal antibodies we developed to the widest possible array of blood lineage cells.
      McNagny developed this technology as a platform for the AllerGEN NCE (Associate Scientific
      Director of this NCE). It identifies, in unprecedented detail, rare subsets of mature blood
      and progenitor cells. It includes markers of innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) that play potent
      roles in priming immune responses and also bone marrow blood cell progenitors. Chronic
      inflammation and severe acute inflammation both lead to a rapid ramping up of inflammatory
      cell production and premature release of bone marrow progenitors. The panel has been
      internally validated and shown utility in identifying adult patients with chronic allergic
      disease, a population which appears to be more severely impacted by respiratory infections.
      There will be a goal to profile patients with mild and severe disease in an attempt to
      identify biomarkers that could be developed into a rapid test for triaging patients who
      require urgent care from those that will recover on their own.

      Genetic Testing: Authors have shown that host genetic differences have a significant impact
      on the clinical outcomes of sepsis. For instance, we have shown that a single nucleotide
      variant in the CETP gene more than doubles the risk of 28-day mortality from sepsis. The
      hypothesis is that similar to other forms of critical illness, host gene variation will also
      influence the clinical outcome from COVID-19 infection. This work is designed to elucidate
      the impact of genetic variation on clinical outcomes from COVID-19.

      RNA Testing: Circulating cell-free RNA species are typically encapsulated in extracellular
      vesicles (EVs) that shield them from degradation in body fluids. A wide variety of
      circulating RNA biotypes are present, with micro RNAs (miRNAs) being the most studied class.
      These and other circulating RNAs can participate in cell-to-cell communication, can be
      differentially expressed in patients compared to controls, and can be associated with disease
      progression, dissemination, or drug responses in a variety of acute and critical care
      indications including sepsis, neurotrauma, and cardiovascular disease.

      Conditions are optimized to obtain reliable and complete circulating RNA data from minimal
      input volumes of human plasma or serum. Initial studies using 200 ul serum yielded ~15ng RNA,
      clearly exceeding the minimal input of 100pg to generate libraries for next generation
      sequencing. Pilot analysis from 3 healthy human volunteer donors passed quality criteria
      exceeding 10M reads/sample and confirmed that 98% of exosomal miRNAs were detected in total
      signatures of an average of 359 miRNAs. Importantly, this method also yields data on the
      entire transcriptional landscape of potentially informative circulating RNAs from sample
      volumes very feasible for clinical studies. Further optimization studies using both serum and
      plasma from a single human donor showed that good quality RNA data could be obtained from as
      little as 50µl input volume and that the expected RNA biotype distributions were found for
      both serum and plasma

      OBJECTIVES

      Better understand 1)the links between cytokine storm and ARDS in COVID-19 patients 2)the
      biomarker profile of COVID-19 patients with mild and severe disease 3)the impact of genetic
      variation on clinical outcomes in COVID-19 patients

      RESEARCH DESIGN

      Overview

      Patients admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and High Acuity Unit (HAU) at Vancouver
      General Hospital (VGH) or Surrey Memorial Hospital (SMH) with suspected COVID-19 will be
      quarantined in an isolation unit. Here, specimens will be collected for laboratory
      confirmation of SARS-CoV-2. Clinical care will commence, and be guided by the discretion of
      attending physicians in accordance with VGH/VCH's current operating procedure for the
      management of COVID-19.

      Once clinical care has commenced, a blood sample will be collected on days 1-7, 10, 14, and
      21 following ICU/HAU admission by clinical staff in the ICU/HAU into vacutainer serum
      separator tubes (SST, Vacutainer®, Becton & Dickinson). These samples will be analyzed for a
      panel of cytokines, inflammatory markers, CyTOF, RNA and genetic testing. Analyses will be
      performed at 1)Dr Cheryl Wellington's lab at the David Mowafaghian Centre for Brain Health
      (UBC), 2)Dr Kelly McNagny's lab, DMCBH, UBC., 3)Dr. Liam Brunham's lab at the Centre for
      Heart Lung Innovation (HLI), St Paul's Hospital.

      A nested matched cohort study will be conducted to examine the changes in the changes in
      ventilator free days, PaO2/FiO2 and inflammatory cytokines before after administration of
      immunomodulatory therapies which are administration as part of routine clinical care for
      cytokine storm syndrome.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

      The recency of this disease outbreak makes robust statistical power testing difficult.
      However by digitizing data from Huang and colleague's recent work, which is one of several
      reports demonstrating cytokine storm in critically ill COVID-patients, a sample calculation
      based off of their IL-1b, IL-2, IL-10, and TNF-α data is provided. The below presented power
      calculations are for independent samples non-parametric Mann-Whitney-U test and were
      conducted in G*power (V3.1.9.1):

      IL-1: This was not significantly different in the report by Huang and colleagues (Huang et
      al., 2020).

      IL-2: With the estimated mean±SD derived from Huang and Colleagues of 9.5±4.3 and 6.7±4.3
      pg/mL of IL-2 in critically ill versus non-critically ill COVID-19 patients,~40 patients per
      group (80 total) would be needed to detect a difference (power = 0.80, alpha = 0.05)

      IL-6: This was not measured by Huang and colleagues (Huang et al., 2020), however, with a
      sample size of 150 patients total, Ruan and colleagues were able to detect significant
      differences in IL-6 levels (Ruan et al., 2020).

      IL-10: With the estimated mean±SD derived from Huang and Colleagues of 19.5±39.6 and 5.3±4.3
      pg/mL of IL-10 in critically ill versus non-critically ill COVID-19 patients, ~60 patients
      per group (120 total) would be needed to detect a difference (power = 0.80, alpha = 0.05).

      TNF-α: With the estimated mean±SD derived from Huang and Colleagues of 93.2±20.8 and
      71.7±21.4 pg/mL of TNF-α in critically ill versus non-critically ill COVID-19 patients, ~17
      patients per group (34 total) would be needed to detect a difference (power = 0.80, alpha =
      0.05)

      Given the above presented sample size estimates, that a marked difference in IL-6 was also
      reported by Ruan and colleagues, and the anticipated admission rate of COVID-19 patients over
      the next several months, we aim to recruit up to 150 patients.

      A log2 fold change >1 and an adjusted p value of <0.05 will be used as the threshold of
      significance for differentially regulated RNAs. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis will be used to
      Identify causal networks, with further analysis set at a threshold of a negative log p value
      >20. We will use the Antimicrobial Response, Inflammatory Response and Infectious Disease
      filters to identify SARS-CoV-2 relevant RNAs. Heat maps will be generated by comparison
      analysis.

      Analysis Plan

      Primary: We will compare the levels of cytokines between patients that develop ARDS and those
      that do not. We will use independent samples t-tests in the data is normal (determined via
      Shapiro Wilks test), or Mann-Whitney-U tests if the data is not normally distributed.

      A priori analysis: We will assess the effects of immunosuppresant or anti-viral miedcations
      given as part of clinical care out physiological outcomes and the changes in the serum
      biomarkers.

      Secondary: In exploratory analyses aimed at fulfilling our secondary aim, we will utilize our
      daily cytokine measures to determine if there are cytokine thresholds that are associated
      with the development of ARDS in COVID-19 patients.

      Nested matched cohort study:

        1. Examine the differences in the ventilator free days in the tocilizumab (administered as
           part of clinical care) and supportive groups using an independent samples two-tailed
           t-test.

        2. Examine the differences in the cardiorespiratory physiologic outcomes (PaO2/FiO2, mean
           arterial pressure and heart rate) in the tocilizumab (administered as part of clinical
           care) and supportive groups using independent samples two-tailed t-tests.

        3. Examine the differences in serum inflammatory cytokines in the tocilizumab (administered
           as part of clinical care) and supportive groups using independent samples two-tailed
           t-tests.
    
  