
    
      We will perform a randomized controlled trial (RCT) of information presented to physicians to
      test the hypothesis that an identifiable victim affects physician practice behavior more than
      a statistical victim.

      Specifically, we will answer the following research questions: 1) do physicians order fewer
      non-recommended tests, procedures, or medications if they are told about a patient or a
      physician who had a bad outcome from that test, procedure, or medication than if they are
      simply told the guideline or the cost of the test, procedure or medication, 2) does the
      effect of learning about the identifiable victim last longer than the effect of learning
      about the guideline or the cost of a test, procedure, or medication, and 3) does the
      identifiable victim effect differ if the victim is a patient or a physician? We hypothesize
      that because of the propensity to respond more to the identifiable victim rather than the
      statistical victim that physicians will order fewer unnecessary tests when they are told
      about an individual patient case than if they are simply told about the guideline, that the
      effect of the identifiable victim will last longer than the effect of the statistical victim,
      and that a patient as the identifiable victim will have more effect than a physician as the
      identifiable victim.

      The identifiable victim effect refers to the tendency to offer more aid to a specific,
      identifiable victim rather than a vaguely defined group of people with the same need. In the
      this study, the identifiable victim is a fictional patient who experience a negative
      consequence as a result of an unnecessary test. The identifiable victim effect is described
      and studied in the following articles:

      Small D. Sympathy and callousness: The impact of deliberative thought on donations to
      identifiable and statistical victims. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes
      2007;102:143-53.

      George Loewenstein, Deborah A. Small, and Jeff Strand. "Statistical, identifiable, and iconic
      victims" in Edward J. McCaffery, Joel Slemrod (2006). Behavioral public finance. Russell Sage
      Foundation; pp. 32-35.
    
  