
    
      Obesity and type 2 diabetes are increasing in all western countries, including Finland.
      Recent genome wide analyses have found > 30 genes that contribute to either condition..
      However, none of these genes explain >5% of the disease risk and altogether they explain <
      10% of the total disease risk in cross-sectional studies. Therefore, diet and physical
      activity are still the major determinants of the risk, as demonstrated by our earlier
      intervention studies in order to find out the effect of different dietary modifications on
      glucose and lipid metabolism. More importantly, interactions between genes and environment,
      i.e. our inherited responses to environmental changes, may be crucial in the development of
      the common diseases. Unfortunately, gene-environment interaction can only be effectively
      investigated in intervention studies that are more expensive than cross-sectional population
      screenings. This leads to a lower sample size and reduced power to detect effects of minor
      alleles. Despite these limitations the investigators have been able to demonstrate
      gene-intervention interactions for several genes, including PPARG, in the Finnish Diabetes
      Prevention study. There is an urgent need for studies investigating effects of tailored diets
      in individuals selected based on their genotype. This will be the next essential step leading
      to improved dietary treatments guided by genetic information.

      The investigators were the first to identify PPARG gene as risk gene for type 2 diabetes. The
      role of the Pro12Ala polymorphism in diabetes risk has also been verified in meta-analysis.
      However, this effect on seems to depend on intervention and age. Based on these findings the
      investigators created in collaboration with Johan Auwerx an Pro12Ala animal model that
      demonstrated a differential effect of dietary fat composition depending on the genotype.
      However, an important conclusive proof that subjects selected based on their Pro12Ala
      genotype would respond differently to specifically tailored diet modification is still
      needed.

      In this study the effects of diets high with saturated fatty acids (SAFA) and polyunsaturated
      fatty acids (PUFA) are compared in subjects carrying either Pro12Pro or Ala12Ala genotype of
      the PPARG gene. As a primary endpoint the investigators expect insulin sensitivity to alter
      differently depending on the genotype. Additionally, a detailed characterization of energy,
      glucose and lipid metabolism will be performed. Because PPARG gene plays a central role in
      adipogenesis one of the aims of this study is to find new pathways, genes and gene clusters
      that are regulated by PPARG in humans.
    
  