
    
      The Institute of Image-Guided Surgery (IHU) of Strasbourg is a translational research
      Institute aiming to develop hybrid surgery techniques, less invasive and image-guided to
      improve the therapeutic results, in the emerging context of the precision medicine.

      One of those expanding technique is fluorescence imaging that can guide the surgical
      procedure very accurately.

      The IHU-SPECTRA research unit, entirely dedicated to the development of fluorescence-guided
      surgery, was set up at the IHU Strasbourg. Currently represented by a network of scientists
      from different fields and by industrial and academic partners in France and abroad, its
      short-term goals are mainly the implementation and evaluation in current clinical practice of
      the techniques already developed. In the long term, it is planned to test several innovations
      as part of a large-scale project (ELIOS: Endoscopic Luminescent Imaging for Precision
      Oncology Surgery), funded by the ARC Foundation for Cancer Research.

      The proposed research protocol is part of the ELIOS project and targets in particular colon
      tumours.

      The Holy Grail in oncology surgery is the radical removal of cancer cells in order to reduce
      the rate of tumour recurrences and increase the tumour's free survival. Tumour involvement at
      the resection margins is the most important predictor of tumour recurrence, leading to high
      recurrence rate.

      However, surgery and other minimally-invasive ablative procedures are currently limited by 1)
      the need of wide removal of healthy tissue in order to ensure negative margins (which might
      lead to functional deficits and increases the risks of complications) and 2) frozen sections
      analysis to verify the surgical margins. They are time consuming and require considerable
      human resources.

      The administration of a tumour-specific antibody, which fluoresces in the Near-Infrared
      ranges and which could be univocally recognized at a tumour cellular level, could provide a
      rapid and accurate evaluation of radical tumour removal. In the context of precision surgery,
      the development of tumour-specific fluorescent probes has made remarkable advances over
      recent years, with promising pre-clinical proofs of the concept, allowing for the enhanced
      identification of tumour residuals and metastatic lymph nodes. Recently, in a pioneer paper
      published on Nature, the first human case of tumour-specific fluorescence-guided surgery has
      been reported. Authors could remove effectively 34 intra-peritoneal implants of ovarian
      cancer metastasis, which were completely invisible at the naked eye. This impressive proof of
      the concept highlights clearly the potential impact of intraoperative tumour-specific
      molecular fluorescence imaging.

      There is an increasing number of targeted probes which are being developed to visualize
      cancer cells, enabling early stage cancer detection and precise tumour resection.
      Particularly interesting is the strategy of coupling a fluorescent dye (IRDye800CW) with the
      humanized monoclonal antibodies, currently used in anticancer therapy.

      The University Medical Center Groningen (UMCG), which is a strong partner of the IHU-SPECTRA
      unit, has developed a fluorescent tracer coupling Bevacizumab (which targets the Vascular
      Endothelial Growth Factor = VEGF) with the IRDye800.

      The initial human results obtained together with the company Surgvision (Groningue, Pays-Bas)
      are very promising and have reported no adverse events linked to the fluorescent.

      Bevacizumab-IRDye800CW can be either intravenously perfused or locally applied, the local
      application being more efficient than the perfusion.

      In parallel, an alternative optical technique that does not require the use of a fluorophore
      will be tested. This technology, the Hyperspectral Imaging (HSI), is a relatively new method
      used in image-guided and precision surgery, which has shown promising results for
      recognition/characterization of tissues/tumours, and comprehensive assessment of physiologic
      tissue parameters, such as perfusion, oxygenation, and water content. Hence, it has been
      applied predominantly in wound imaging and -management in plastic surgery transplants,
      vascular surgery, chronical wounds and burn injuries.

      The HSI system from a German start-up (Diaspective Vision GmbH, Pepelw, Germany) has been
      acquired. The company produces a HSI camera, the TIVITA system, enabling to obtain spectral
      information from the tissues. The only limitation, when applied to minimally-invasive
      surgery, is in that the TIVITA provides pictures and not real-time videos.

      The main advantage of HSI over fluorescence imaging is in that it is a contrast-free imaging
      and intrinsically quantitative. Those characteristics make of the HSI a very promising tool
      in image-guided surgery, and open several windows of opportunity in terms of research
      programs towards miniaturization and optimization of the image-flow and artificial
      intelligence (AI) algorithms of tissue recognition.

      Another innovative optical imaging technology available at the IHU is FF-OCT (Light-CT
      Scanner, LLTechSAS, Paris, France). This technology allows non-destructive and
      high-resolution optical biopsy without tissue treatment. The images are generated by
      measuring the backscattered light produced by the interaction between light and tissues of
      different indices. This technology has already shown its significant potential in oncology,
      particularly for ovarian, brain, mammary and pancreatic tissues. If validated, it could in
      the future complement or even replace traditional pathology, since it provides
      high-resolution images in a short time, without the need for treatment or staining.

      The working hypothesis is that molecular fluorescence enhanced-reality allows greater
      precision in the differentiation of tumour tissue and healthy tissue in patients with
      colorectal cancer compared to the immunohistochemistry conventionally used in
      anatomopathology.

      In parallel, this technique will be compared to hyperspectral imaging (HSI TIVITA system) and
      optical imaging (FF-OCT system), two potentially more advantageous methods for the detection
      of tumour tissue.
    
  