
    
      The annual number of cases of clinical malaria worldwide is estimated to be 300-500 million
      leading to 1.5 million deaths. Delayed care and frequent drug resistance of Plasmodium
      falciparum (Pf), the most frequent form of malaria, is responsible for these deaths. Each
      year, 5000-8000 travellers return to France with malaria, 4/5 from Africa and with Pf.
      Clinical features associated with a malaria crisis are poorly predictive and misdiagnosis can
      be easily made. Diagnosis of accurate malaria rely on microscopic examination of stained thin
      and thick blood films by a well trained microscopist. Few emergency wards are specialized for
      tropical diseases. For most of them, malaria is a rare disease and hours are lost before
      accurate microscopy can permit the decision The rapid diagnostic tests (RDT) for malaria are
      designed to give a sensitive response within 15 minutes. They are based on the
      immunodetection of HISTIDIN rich protein 2 (HRP2) or the Pf LACTICO dehydrogenase (PfLDH),
      specific of Plasmodium falciparum or plasmodial LACTICO dehydrogenase (pLDH), or aldolase,
      specific of gender of the four species of human malaria. Recent increase of performances and
      availability prompted WHO to recommend their use for the diagnosis of malaria when microscopy
      is unavailable. In France, competence exists on the whole of the territory but expertise is
      usually confined to major referral centers. We intend to evaluate the performances of 4 RDT
      in 6 laboratories who perform the diagnosis of malaria on patients samples who returned from
      tourist or family or professional trips. The simultaneous detection of the plasmodial HRP2,
      PfLDH, aldolase and pLDH will be compared with the thick blood film as reference. Discrepant
      results will be analysed by PCR. The determination of the sensitivity, the specificity, the
      predictive positive value and the predictive negative value of the RDT is the principal
      objective.
    
  