
    
      Wearable robots that assist with walking over ground are now available in rehabilitation
      centers. However, the study team did not know how soon it is safe to start using these
      devices for rehabilitation, if they helped people to walk better than with traditional
      locomotor training methods, or if they had any other effects (better or worse) on recovery.

      The study team's objectives of this study were to explore the safety, feasibility, and
      efficacy of using the powered exoskeleton, EksoGT, to provide a locomotor training
      intervention in acute inpatient rehabilitation for persons with spinal cord injury (SCI) who
      were eligible for locomotor training.

      Aim 1 examined the safety of exoskeleton use for persons with SCI during inpatient
      rehabilitation. Measures for this aim analyzed the amount of falls as well as types and
      counts of other adverse events (AE) for both serious and non-serious events as outlined by
      the FDA.

      Aim 2 helped determine the feasibility of exoskeleton use during inpatient rehabilitation for
      SCI by monitoring the time from admission to first stand in the device, accumulated step
      count/time in the device, and progression of locomotor training frequency, duration, and
      intensity.

      Aim 3 explored the potential for associations between exoskeleton use in inpatient
      rehabilitation and body functions and activities associated with walking. Measures for this
      aim included: American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) Impairment Scale (AIS), Neurological
      Level of Injury (NLI), Upper and Lower Extremity Motor Scores, and Functional Index Measure
      (FIM).

      Prospective subjects were recruited following admission to the SCI inpatient unit at Mount
      Sinai Hospital. Attending physicians and rehabilitation clinicians would identify patients
      admitted to the unit who may be eligible for the study. Consent forms were given to
      prospected participants.

      After enrolling into the study, participants received locomotor training with the exoskeleton
      as part of their acute inpatient rehabilitation using the Ekso. Standing and walking with the
      Ekso started as soon as the clinical team determines it is safe for participants to begin
      standing, and continued until the participant is discharged from inpatient rehabilitation.
      The study team monitored participants for adverse events (safety), tracked the amount of
      walking provided during the inpatient stay (feasibility), and explored the improvement of
      activities of daily living (functioning) compared to the matched control group who didn't
      have Ekso training and were chosen by a retrospective chart review.
    
  