
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      Cerebral ischemia or intracranial haemorrhage are the main characteristics of cerebrovascular
      diseases like the stroke. The disruption of the functional neuronal integrity after a stroke
      can affect both motor and cognitive states. The most characteristic motor sequel of a stroke
      is hemiplegia, characterized by the loss of voluntary movement, muscle tone, and
      osteotendinous reflexes from the affected hemiparetic body.

      Mirror therapy (MT) was born in the late 1990s and was initially used to treat "phantom limb"
      symptoms. More recently, the effectiveness of this therapy in motor rehabilitation on
      post-stroke hemiparetic limbs has been also described. Due to its low cost and simplicity, it
      has become one of the most widely used therapies. The purpose of the MT is to perform
      bilateral and synchronous movements with the non-paretic limb, creating an illusion of
      movement in the brain.

      The effectiveness of MT on brain injury can be explained in three ways. First, mirror neurons
      can recognize an action and activate motor learning through imitation. Secondly, neurological
      damage from a stroke usually causes inflammation and oedema that interrupts the transmission
      of motor information. The illusion of movement created MT reawakens these motor pathways by
      reactivating them. Finally, after suffering a stroke, patients have a different degree of
      activity in their cerebral hemispheres, being much lower in the injured hemisphere. The
      performance of MT contributes to reducing this imbalance.

      The MT is based on visual and somatosensory information that is processed in the central
      nervous system. The movements of the non-paretic limb reflected in the mirror create an
      illusion of normal movement of the affected limb. This neurophysiological phenomenon
      stimulates the same cortical areas that are active during movement observation (somatosensory
      cortex, premotor and primary motor cortex, supplementary motor area, cerebellum and basal
      ganglia). The mirror reflection leads to additional activation of the contralateral
      hemisphere to the perceived limb, producing an increase in the hemiparetic cortico-muscular
      excitability. However, despite its valuable role on patients with post-stroke hemiplegia, its
      effectiveness in older subjects has not been defined so clearly.

      OBJECTIVE For all the above, the objective of the present study was to analyse the
      application and effectiveness of MT in older people (>70 years), and to compare the benefits
      between an intensively applied (5 times/week) MT protocol and a more spaced over time (3
      times/week) procedure.

      METHODOLOGY Design and participants will be explained elsewhere. Main outcome measures are
      muscle activity after intervention.

      EXPECTED OUTCOMES We expect that all groups improved their muscle mobility and activity. Our
      data will confirm what intervention is more effective.
    
  