
    
      An osteoid osteoma is a benign, painful musculoskeletal tumor that usually occurs in young
      males. The standard of care in the United States is computed tomography (CT)-guided
      radiofrequency ablation, a minimally invasive percutaneous procedure, with clinical success
      rates ranging between 85% and 98%.

      Percutaneous or surgical therapy can lead to non-negligible side-effects and limited efficacy
      for pediatric population or young adults with osteoid osteoma. We investigate whether
      selective focal ablation of osteoid lesions can reduce this treatment burden without
      compromising long-term clinical efficacy.

      Treatments will be performed using a 3.0-T MR unit (Discovery MR 750; GE Medical Systems,
      Milwaukee,Wis) featuring a Conformité Européenne-approved ExAblate MR-guided focused
      ultrasound system (InSightec,Tirat-Carmel, Israel) in which the ultrasound transducer is
      housed in the patient table. Alignment between the lesion and the transducer will be obtained
      in each patient by using a moistened gel pad and degassed water for acoustic coupling. This
      approach avoided air- skin interfaces, which can cause energy reflection and skin burns.
      After patient positioning, the lesion is localized with MR for treatment by using variably
      orientated non enhanced T1- and T2-weighted acquisitions. In general, an ideal 90° incidental
      angle between the planned focused ultrasound path and the lesion, relative to the bone long
      axis, is obtained or at least approximated. The shortest skin-lesion distance is selected for
      the beam pathway. Care will be taken to avoid multiple interfaces (skin, muscle, fasciae) as
      much as possible so as to minimize deflection of the focused ultrasound beam. Each lesion
      will be manually segmented by the operator to precisely delineate the nidus, skin surface,
      and cortical surface of the bone. Sensitive areas surrounding the target volumes will also be
      drawn to limit the energy and prevent unwanted thermal damage. The treatment plan is than
      calculated automatically by the ExAblate software according to previously acquired
      parameters, including the energy (in joules), the interval between two sonications, the
      sonication duration, and the spot size, which are modifiable by the operator. Thereafter, a
      low-energy sonication test will be performed to confirm the path and correct direction of the
      ultrasound beam into the target area and to confirm the planned energy dose and the effective
      dose deployed to the lesion.

      The increase in tissue temperature is evaluated by using real-time MR thermometry of
      phase-difference fast spoiled gradient-echo sequences (proton resonant frequency shift
      method). The sequences are acquired to provide temperature-dependent images and real-time
      mapping of the thermal dose on a preferred imaging plane. The proton resonant frequency shift
      method starts simultaneously with each sonication. Similar to other treatments of bone
      lesions that use MR-guided focused ultrasound, the temperature increase is determined on the
      adjacent periskeletal tissue. In fact, proton resonant frequency sequences cannot effectively
      measure the temperature on the bone surface because of the absence of moving protons in the
      cortical zone. Thus, MR thermometry reveals a temperature increase, which propagates by
      conductive processes from the bone to the immediately adjacent soft tissues that respond
      linearly to an increase in bone temperature, thereby allowing an accurate measure of heating.
      Portions of periosteum and adjacent tumor that are not fully ablated can be re-treated if
      deemed necessary. The critical temperature threshold for ablation is set at 65°C in the soft
      tissues adjacent to the targeted bone structures. Postprocedural care includes evaluation of
      possible skin burns, monitoring of vital signs for 2 hours after treatment in the MR
      department, and administration of analgesic and/or antiemetic drugs if requested.
      Treatment-related adverse events will be recorded as minor or major on the basis of medical
      severity, additional treatment, and long-term consequences for patients. Treatment will be
      performed on an outpatient basis in the patients who receive only local and peripheral
      anesthesia; the patient who receives general anesthesia is usually hospitalized for 24 hours
      after treatment.
    
  