
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the best clinical response rate of cutaneous sclerosis (skin and/or fascial
      thickening) after 6 months of initial therapy with either imatinib (imatinib mesylate) or
      rituximab.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the best response at either the 3 or 6 month assessment.

      II. To determine the response rate at the 3 month assessment.

      III. To determine the proportion of subjects who are able to taper corticosteroid after 6
      months of imatinib or rituximab therapy.

      IV. To determine the incidence of treatment failure to initial treatment with either imatinib
      or rituximab.

      V. To evaluate if the Scleroderma Health Assessment Questionnaire (SHAQ) findings correlate
      with severity of cutaneous sclerosis clinical findings and response to study treatment.

      VI. To correlate the detection of antibody against platelet derived growth factor receptor
      alpha (PDGFR A) with clinical response.

      VII. To correlate change in B cell relevant parameters from baseline to 6 months or early
      crossover (antibody levels, skin collagen expression, B cell subsets) with therapeutic agent
      and best clinical response while on initial treatment.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive imatinib mesylate by mouth (PO) once daily (QD) for 6 months in the
      absence of progression of sclerosis or unacceptable toxicity. Subjects with a significant
      clinical response will continue to receive study drug for an additional 6 months.

      ARM II: Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 (first cycle).
      A second cycle of treatment with rituximab is repeated at 3 months for a total of 8 doses of
      rituximab in the absence of progression of sclerosis or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with progression, treatment intolerance at any time up to 6 months, or no clinical
      response at 6 months will crossover to the other treatment arm.
    
  