
    
      Approximately 30,000 new cases of kidney cancer will be diagnosed in the U.S. in 2002, with
      renal cell carcinoma (RCC) being the most commonly diagnosed type. For patients with locally
      advanced or metastatic disease, the treatment options are extremely limited and additional
      options are warranted. Although RCC is generally considered resistant to chemotherapy,
      spontaneous regressions in patients with metastatic disease have led to research involving
      immune-mediated therapeutic approaches. Clinical responses have been observed and additional
      immune-modulating therapeutics are being studied.

      Several such approaches have used dendritic cells (DCs), which are known to be potent antigen
      presenting cells. An antigen is a protein that, when shown to the immune system in the right
      way, can trigger the cells of the immune system to recognize, remember and eliminate other
      cells that also display that specific antigen. The cancerous cells in tumors present antigens
      in such a way that the body's immune system often fails to recognize and eliminate them. It
      is theorized that when DCs are fused to tumor cells the resulting fused cells will be capable
      of presenting tumor antigens in an enhanced manner, thus allowing the body's immune system to
      recognize the tumor antigens on the cancer itself. If this occurs, the patient's immune
      system may be specifically stimulated, producing a clinically meaningful immune response
      against the tumor.

      In this study DCs produced from healthy volunteer donors (allogeneic DCs) will be fused to
      the patient's own tumor cells (autologous tumor cells), using an electrical current. The
      fused dendritic/tumor cells will be returned to the patient in a series of vaccines, six
      weeks apart.

      The purpose of this trial is to determine whether fusing autologous tumor with allogeneic DCs
      will, with limited associated toxicity, present tumor antigen in such a way as to stimulate
      an immune response and also show evidence of tumor response.
    
  