
    
      Ataxia teleangiectasia (A-T) is a rare devastating human recessive disorder characterized by
      progressive cerebellar ataxia, immunodeficiency, chromosomal instability and cancer
      susceptibility. The immunodeficiency is expressed by recurring infections. It's characterised
      by decreased lymphocytes data as well as lack of immunglobulin A, immunglobulin G subclasses
      and specific antibodies against pneumococcus as shown in many trials. Additionally the
      patients suffer from a fatty liver with increased transaminases and have the risk for a
      cirrhosis of the liver and a hepatocellular carcinoma. It's known that the dimension of the
      liver disease affects susceptibility to infection. Nevertheless there are only a few studies
      treating this problem.

      Despite the proof of the immunodeficiency polyvalent immunoglobulins (IgG) are not given
      regularly. Own observations show that in spite of the treatment with immunoglobulins the
      progression of a chronic destructive lung disease with development of bronchiectasis hardly
      can prohibited.

      Up to now it isn't cleared if a substitution therapy with immunoglobulins reduces the
      susceptibility to infection. Therefore the aim oft the present clinical trial ist to explore
      frequency-, intensity, and duration oft the infections as well as changes oft the immune
      status, measure of liver disease and tumor risk in patients with A-T, with and without
      immunoglobulin therapy. The study includes five visits, which are performed in all A-T
      patients. Visit 1, 3, 5 are realized in the context of annual follow ups:

        -  To evaluate weight and length of all subjects

        -  To analyze the exact structure of single body compartments such as the lean mass, the
           water compartment or the fat compartment using bioelectrical impedance analysis

        -  To define the neurological status by ataxia score

        -  To get a detailed immune status, vaccination status and liver values as well as special
           tumor markers in blood

        -  To check the lung function using spirometry

        -  To measure liver stiffness using transient elastography (FibroScan)

        -  To compile any symptoms of infection by diary

        -  To investigate the ataxia status and physical condition by means of the
           Five-Times-Sit-to-Stand Test

      Visit 2 and 4 are additionally conducted as study visits:

        -  To get a detailed immune status in blood

        -  To check the lung function using spirometry
    
  