
    
      Study design

      This study is a prospective, uncontrolled, open, non-randomised study ("Observational Study")
      with a CE-certified medical device.

      Patients

      Information and consent Information of the procedure and oral consent of epidural anaesthesia
      for the surgery is obtained as usual. Oral consent for data collection has to be obtained. No
      randomisation or blinding is performed and no non-standard procedures are necessary.

      Inclusion criteria 100 patients scheduled for Epidural Anaesthesia will be included in this
      study. Eligible patients are ASA class I-III, between 18 and 75 years of age and are
      scheduled for EA, with or without general anaesthesia.

      Exclusion criteria Anamnestic exclusion criteria are all contraindications for epidural
      anaesthesia (e.g. neurological deficit, skin infection of the puncture site, diseases leading
      to neurological impairment such as diabetes, coagulation impairment). Non-competent and
      non-cooperative patients as well as pregnant and breast-feeding women are also to be
      excluded. Same applies for patients with medicament- and drug abuse or problems in
      communication or those participating in parallel in another clinical study with experimental
      drugs or devices.

      Randomisation and Blinding No randomization is required. An independent observer who is not
      performing the epidural will record occurrence, incidence and intensity of paraesthesia.

      Definition of the main and the secondary criteria

      Main criteria

      - Frequency of paraesthesia during catheter insertion

      Secondary criteria

        -  Frequency of inadvertent venous cannulation (aspiration of blood)

        -  Intensity of paraesthesia (VAS)

             -  description: - pain

        -  electric shock

        -  burning sensation

        -  shooting effect

        -  motor reactions (right/left)

        -  discomfort

        -  others

        -  Frequency and kind of difficulties during insertion of the catheter (rating of "easiness
           of insertion": 0 = no resistance, 1 = minor difficulties, 2 = serious difficulties, 3 =
           impossible)

        -  Facultative: Documentation of paraesthesia/difficulties during catheter removal at 48
           hours after surgery (or earlier, if appropriate)

      Concomitant parameters

        -  Patient data (age, height, weight, sex, diagnosis, kind of intervention, ASA class,
           relevant co-diagnosis, relevant co-medication)

        -  Epidural anaesthesia and -analgesia related data

           • Data that relate to the description of the puncture process and method chosen in case
           of difficulties during puncture, catheter insertion and removal

             -  Level of sensory blockade

             -  Indwelling time of epidural catheter by recording the time of insertion

             -  Dose/kind of anaesthetic used for epidural anaesthesia, type of general anaesthesia
                if relevant

             -  Kind of analgesia done by epidural catheter

             -  Adequacy of epidural anaesthesia (yes / no)

             -  Further complications/side effects related to epidural anaesthesia/analgesia (i.e.
                dural puncture, haematoma, etc)

        -  Judgement of the anaesthesiologist concerning handling features (0 = no resistance, 1 =
           minor difficulties, 2 = serious difficulties)

        -  Catheter damages
    
  