
    
      Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is a modern technique for cardiac surgical patient
      monitoring. The NIRS method is based on Lambert-Beer's law, which defines the relationship
      between the concentration of a substance and reduction of the intensity of electro-magnetic
      radiation. This reduction results from photon absorption by chromatophores, including
      haemoglobin, myoglobin and cytochrome P1. Absorption at the given wave-length depends on the
      degree of chromatophore oxygenation, and hence allows for its assessment. NIRS is currently
      commonly used for the assessment of brain oximetry in thoracic aorta surgery and,
      increasingly often, in open-heart surgery. Algorithms for sustaining adequate brain
      saturation were reported to decrease the incidence of neurological complications following
      cardiac surgery. In recent years, NIRS was proposed as a tool for the assessment of muscle
      saturation under short-term ischaemia and reperfusion, referred to as the vascular occlusion
      test (VOT). VOT is a provocative test in which tissue saturation (StO2) is measured at a
      peripheral site, such as the thenar eminence, while blood flow is transiently occluded with
      sphygmomanometer. After reaching a predefined ischaemia time or minimal StO2 threshold, the
      sphygmomanometer tourniquet is rapidly deflated and blood flow in the muscle is restored.
      Tissue saturation measurement during VOT can identify early disturbances in tissue metabolism
      and perfusion. The speed of the decrease in tissue saturation on ischaemia was proposed to
      reflect the local metabolic rate, while the lowest tissue saturation was proposed to reflect
      the extent of ischaemia. The speed of tissue saturation recovery on reperfusion in shock
      patients was proposed as a measure of microvascular capacity to increase blood flow after
      transient ischaemia. The results of recent studies indicated that the speed of the fall of
      muscle saturation during VOT is reduced in septic shock, while a decreased speed of
      saturation recovery on reperfusion is related to disturbed microcirculation, for example in
      hypovolemic shock. An understanding of anaesthetics and of the influence of cardiac surgical
      procedures on tissue saturation profile during VOT is essential for the future use of this
      tool for the assessment of the condition of patients during CPB cardiac surgery.
    
  