
    
      Background Among patients with TN, approximately 15% has secondary TN caused by another
      underlying condition such as multiple sclerosis or a tumor. Studies of classical TN patients
      have shown a strong association between a severe NVC of the trigeminal nerve and the painful
      side. This association has been less investigated in STN.

      There are no previous systemic and prospective studies of the underlying causes,
      characteristics and treatment response of patients with STN. Most existing studies on STN
      have various methodological drawbacks as inclusion was not prospective, diagnosis was not
      consistent with international guidelines, imaging techniques were not adequately advanced at
      the time of publication and evaluation of treatment efficacy was not performed by evaluators
      independent of the neurosurgeon.

      Aims

      1) To describe the clinical characteristics, the neuroanatomical findings using 3.0 Tesla
      MRI, and the efficacy of medical and surgical treatment in STN

      Hypotheses

        1. In STN, there is a correlation between demylinating brainstem plaques and presence and
           degree of neurovascular contact of the trigeminal nerve ipsilateral to the painful side

        2. The efficacy of medical and surgical treatment of STN is comparable to the efficacy in
           patients with classical trigeminal neuralgia

      Power calculations Sample size depends on the number of patients in the inclusion period. The
      estimated number of included patients is at least 60 patients.

      Methods Data have been collected prospectively since 2012 based on semi-structured interview
      forms completed at out-patient visits at the Danish Headache Center. The efficacy of medical
      and surgical treatment was also documented prospectively by structured interviews. Efficacy
      of surgical treatment was evaluated by independent assessors.

      All patients had a 3.0 Tesla MRI with a special protocol adapted for the trigeminal nerve and
      the brainstem.

      Ethical considerations The treatment of patients with STN will not differ from the usual
      treatment and decision-taking.
    
  