
    
      Depression is a common and serious disorder among pregnant women but few from low income
      groups receive effective treatment. The highly evidence based collaborative care (CC) model
      for depression has been shown to work for women in pregnancy but has not been widely
      implemented in this population. The proposed study targets improving dissemination of the
      evidence based CC treatment model for pregnant and postpartum women with depression, a common
      disorder of the perinatal period (pregnancy and the first year following birth). Longitudinal
      remote consultation (LRC) is an implementation strategy that has been have shown to improve
      fidelity to evidence-based practices and patient outcomes for mental health innovations. The
      investigators believe LRC can be used with equal benefit for complex interventions such as
      CC.

      The purpose of this study is to compare two implementation strategies for Collaborative Care
      depression treatment: 1) standard implementation and 2) standard implementation +
      Longitudinal Remote Consultation (LRC). This research is being done in order to assess
      implementation and patient outcomes in sites receiving a standard implementation approach
      with and without LRC. The results of the proposed study will provide information on the
      benefits and relative value of ongoing consultation, such as LRC, for implementation of
      complex interventions like collaborative care.

      The proposed study will involve twenty health centers providing prenatal care which are part
      of the national OCHIN Network or other health center network. All sites will receive a
      standard implementation approach. After pre-implementation training ten of the sites will be
      randomly selected to receive LRC. Implementation and clinical outcomes as well as costs will
      be compared between the study conditions after a 12 month implementation period and a 13-21
      month sustainment period. The results of the proposed study will provide critical
      generalizable knowledge regarding the benefits of ongoing consultation for implementation of
      complex interventions like collaborative care.
    
  