
    
      BACKGROUND. Ventilator-acquired pneumonia (VAP) are a common postoperative complication and
      account for a large part of post-cardiac surgery morbidity and mortality. Incidence of VAP
      depends on numerous factors, some of which are pulmonary collapsus and atelectasis during
      cardiopulmonary bypass, a lowering of bronchial arterial blood flow and a systemic
      inflammation response syndrome during and after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB).

      On the one hand, CPB allows blood oxygenation during cardiac surgery, regardless of heartbeat
      and oscillations, allowing surgeon to operate without disturbance.

      On the other hand, postoperative pulmonary complications appear to be more frequent when no
      mechanical ventilation is maintained while under CPB.

      Recent meta-analysis found oxygenation improvement after the weaning from CPB when
      low-tidal-volume (LTV) ventilation was maintained or after lung recruitment maneuvers (LRM),
      as compared to when there was no ventilation (noV). Furthermore, maintaining mechanical
      ventilation would reduce the inflammation response and tissue damage. The design of these
      studies did not provide with clinical hard endpoints such as respiratory complications, death
      or length of stay, hence, an unquestionable standardized strategy of lung protection during
      CPB has not been evidenced at this time and there are no scientific recommendations on
      whether mechanical ventilation has to be maintained during cardiac surgery or not, notably
      between low-tidal volume ventilation (LTV) and no-ventilation (noV).

      The investigators aim to prove superiority of LTV over noV strategy during CPB in cardiac
      surgery, in order to decrease postoperative respiratory complications.

      DESIGN. The MECANO trial is a single-center, double-blind, non-pharmacological, randomized
      controlled trial comparing two mechanical ventilation strategies, LTV and noV, during cardiac
      surgery with CPB.

      Population. All patients aged more than 18 years will be eligible planned for cardiac surgery
      with CPB will be eligible. All patients will provide written informed consent before their
      inclusion in the trial.

      Endpoints. Primary endpoint will be composite of overall death, early respiratory failure
      defined as PaO2/FiO2 ratio <200 at one-hour after arrival in the ICU, heavy oxygenation
      support (defined as a patient requiring either non-invasive ventilation, mechanical
      ventilation or high flow oxygen) at 2 days after arrival in the ICU or ventilator acquired
      pneumoniae defined by Center of Disease Control. Secondary endpoints are those composing the
      primary endpoint with the addition of pneumothorax, CPB duration, volume of postoperative
      bleeding, red blood cells transfusions, requirements for revision surgery, length of stay in
      the ICU and in the hospital and total hospitalization costs. Patients will be followed until
      hospital discharge.

      Randomization. Patients will be randomized by the anesthesiologist when arriving in the
      operating room, between LTV and noV arm, on a 1:1 ratio, using a web software. Only the
      anesthesiologist will be aware of the allocation arm in order for him to perform the
      necessary ventilation strategy, however, physicians outside the operating room (hence, study
      investigators) will not be aware of the treatment arm. Any deviation from the protocol will
      be recorded, as will be the reason of deviation.

      Intervention. The noV group will receive no ventilation during CPB. The LTV group will
      receive 5 acts/minute with a tidal volume of 3 mL/kg and positive end-expiratory pressure of
      5 cmH2O.

      Lung recruitment maneuvers will be performed in both groups, at the end of surgery, and at
      the arrival in ICU with insufflation at +30 cmH20 during 5 seconds. In ICU, ventilation
      strategy will be lung-protective with: tidal volume=6 ml/kg of ideal body weight, PEEP=5
      cmH2O, FiO2 set to obtain PaO2 between 200 and 250 mmHg, inspiration/expiration time ratio =
      1:2. Other therapeutics will be left to the appreciation of the critical care medicine
      specialist.

      Data collection. All data will be recorded on a dedicated CRF. Preoperative data will be
      collected prior to the surgery (age, height, weight, Euroscore 2, smoking status, diabetes,
      peripheral arterial disease, pulmonary comorbidity, forced expiratory volume in one second,
      pulmonary infection in the past 30 days, creatininemia). Variables linked to the surgery will
      be: type of surgery, duration of CPB, number of red blood cells transfusions, number and
      reasons of manual insufflations. Daily visit will record temperature, PaO2, FiO2, ventilation
      mode, hemoglobinemia, leucocytemia, quantity of bleeding and any of the endpoints listed
      above. Time to events will be recorded as well. Follow up will be maintained until hospital
      discharge.

      Statistical considerations Sample-size calculation was based on a two-sided alpha error of
      0.05 and a 80% power. On the basis of respiratory insufficiency incidence after cardiac
      surgery, the investigators anticipate at least 25% of patients presenting postoperative
      respiratory complications. A relative improvement in the incidence of primary outcome of 20%
      between the 2 arms (odd-ratio 0.8 in favor of LTV arm as compared to noV arm) is expected.
      The required sample size is then 720 patients per group, 1440 patients in total. Accounting
      for attrition ratio, 1500 patients will be included. Intermediary analysis will be performed.

      Data analysis. Patients will be analyzed following intention to treat principle. Logistic
      regression will be performed for statistical analysis. Relative risks with 95% confidence
      intervals and differences between medians with 95% confidence intervals will be calculated
      when appropriate. Two-sided significance tests will be used throughout. The investigators
      will infer a subgroup effect if the interaction term of treatment and subgroup is
      statistically significant at P <0.05.
    
  