
    
      As population aging is progressively contributing to the global burden of dementia,
      Alzheimer's disease (AD) is gaining recognition as a health-and social-care priority.
      Evidence converging from recently published works as well as our own preliminary results,
      propose that orientation is a sensitive marker for preclinical AD-related neurodegeneration.

      Our behavioral results show a simple orientation test to surpass currently used
      neuropsychological tests in classification of patients along the AD spectrum. A subsequential
      fMRI study revealed the orientation task to preferentially recruit brain regions identified
      as susceptible to early AD-related cortical atrophy, including the posterior cingulate
      cortex, parietooccipital sulcus and hippocampus bilaterally, as well as to significantly
      overlap with the default mode network (DMN) - a set of interconnected brain regions which
      were independently recognized as highly perturbed in AD.

      In an attempt to further support the role of orientation in AD we propose to use
      co-registration of several modalities of neuroimaging in patients with AD, mild cognitive
      impairment (MCI) and healthy controls (HC): resting-state fMRI, task-fMRI, structural MRI and
      co-registered PET.

        1. Resting-state functional magnetic resonance (fMRI) imaging detecting temporally
           synchronous, spatially distributed, spontaneous low frequency blood-oxygen
           level-dependent signal fluctuations in task-free settings, that are further clustered
           into maps of functional large-scale neural networks. A major network revealed in rest is
           the default DMN. DMN includes the posterior cingulate (PCC), inferior parietal (IPL),
           lateral (LTC) and medial temporal (MTL), and medial prefrontal cortical regions (MPFC),
           and is known to be involved in self-referential processes including introspection,
           memory retrieval, daydreaming and orientation.

        2. Task fMRI - using this module we recently demonstrated that fMRI activation generated by
           orientation task in the person, space and time domains activated the PCC, IPL, and MPFC
           and MTL hubs of the DMN. This task is now to be applied in patients with AD.

        3. Structural MRI - a decrease in hippocampus volume is an early imaging finding followed
           by cortical atrophy as AD progresses.

        4. PET - FDG-PET (glucose metabolism) is known to show temporo-parietal hypometabolism in
           AD.

      Considered these findings alongside ongoing research at the dynamics of anatomical and
      functional AD associated brain dysfunction, we propose a thorough, and to the best of our
      knowledge, a never before attempted study aimed at linking markers for AD pathology (cortical
      atrophy, decrease of functional connectivity, cerebral glucose metabolism) to the disruption
      of specific cognitive faculties, particularly orientation in the space, time and person
      domains.
    
  