
    
      Lung ultrasonography (LUS) is a rapid, easy and non-invasive bedside tool for the detection
      of specific ultrasound patterns, associated with several pulmonary and pleural disorders. The
      main limitation of studies assessing lung recruitability and lung monitoring during
      mechanical ventilation is the lack of detection of lung overinflation: the A pattern doesn't
      change if the lung tissue is completely re-aerated or is overinflated. Considering this, the
      investigators could not use LUS to guide lung recruitment due to the risk of lung damage.
      Speckle tracking echocardiography is a gray-scale based technique used for quantification of
      myocardial strain to provide a quantitative, objective measure of left ventricle (LV)
      systolic function.

      The investigators suppose that lung sliding could be reduced in the same lung region moving
      from less ventilated to overinflated condition. This is supported by theoretical arguments by
      some authors but so far it has not been demonstrated.

      The investigators suppose that speckle tracking is able to demonstrate a reduction or
      abolition in pleural sliding when lung tissue is overinflated by higher PEEP after lung
      recruitment maneuver. The overinflation is diagnosed by EIT and mechanical respiratory
      measurements (reduction in compliance as ratio between tidal volume over difference between
      plateau pressure and PEEP) and localized by EIT.

      Primary endpoint: agreement between LUS and EIT to diagnose lung overdistension in Acute
      Hypoxaemic Respiratory failure patients during a PEEP trial.

      Patients are ventilated in pressure controlled mode with a tidal volume of 6 mL/kg predicted
      body weight (PBW), respiratory rate (RR) is maintained as set per clinical management, I:E =
      1:2, PEEP level is set at 5 cmH2O and inspiratory fraction of O2 (FiO2) at 100% before
      starting the protocol.

      To check the presence of areas with reduced or absent pleural sliding not depending on
      overdistention, and to exclude absence of lung pulse due to pneumothorax, a basal LUS
      examination is performed before recruiting manoeuvre (RM): the ultrasound linear probe (12
      megahertz, GE) is positioned parallel into the 4th-5th right intercostal space next to the
      sternal margin for the first acquisition; then other two acquisitions along the intercostal
      space from the medial part to the lateral side of the thorax are recorded; the procedure is
      repeated on the left side resulting in a final acquisition of 3 ultrasound clips of 10
      seconds for each hemithorax. If the presence of pneumothorax is suspected or diagnosed
      (absence of lung pulse), the patient is excluded from the study according to exclusion
      criteria.

      Then at the same level, marked with a dermographic pen, the EIT belt is positioned and a
      basal assessment of lung impedance is recorded.

      After that a 40x40 RM is performed, setting a PEEP of 40 cmH2O for 40 seconds on continuous
      positive airway pressure mode mode. If hemodynamic instability or decrease in oxygen
      saturation occurs during the maneuver, RM is interrupted and previous ventilator settings
      restored until stability is obtained and the patient discharged from the protocol. If the
      presence of pneumothorax is suspected or diagnosed (absence of lung pulse), the patient is
      excluded from the study according to exclusion criteria and clinically managed.

      Ventilation is then set again in volume controlled mode with a tidal volume of 6 ml/kg and a
      PEEP set to reach a maximum plateau pressure of 30 cmH20. I:E ratio and RR are left
      unchanged.

      A decremental PEEP trial is performed reducing PEEP value of 2 cmH2O, static compliance is
      calculated with an inspiratory pause of 3 seconds just before PEEP modification, and a
      registration of EIT is acquired for each PEEP level. The PEEP trial starts with the maximum
      PEEP level (PEEPmax, which is 30 cmH2O minus the pressure generated by 6 ml/kg of tidal
      volume) and stops at 2 cmH2O less than the best PEEP (PEEPmin), identified according to the
      static compliance value.

      At the same time ultrasound linear probe is transversely set 1 cm above or below the EIT belt
      and clips recorded at each PEEP level as described above (Fig.2). A total of 6 LUS clips for
      each level of PEEP is recorded.

      Once best PEEP is identified, LUS clips are encoded stored on an external memory stick.

      EIT images

      Ultrasound setting pre-defined are fixed. Clips are analyzed using GE software and
      longitudinal speckle tracking applied for each pleural clip. A-lines are numbered per clip
      Measurements Maximal strain, strain rate and time to peak are calculated and stored by a
      second investigator blinded to respiratory maneuvers. Differences between parameters
      calculated on basal and on PEEP trial clips are analyzed.

      EIT session is analyzed by dedicated software and lung impedance assessed; each LUS clip is
      matched with correspondent part of EIT image considered two Region of Interest on the upper
      part of each hemithorax.

      Intra-observer variability on speckle-tracking is assessed by intra-class coefficient
      correlation; correlation between speckle tracking values and PEEP level is assessed by
      Spearman correlation test; receiving operating characteristic (ROC) curve (Youden's index) is
      calculated to predict the accuracy of speckle tracking for predicting hyperinflation. EIT and
      LUS clips are compared with Cohen's K.

      A-lines are numbered at different level of PEEP to investigate if the number of A-lines could
      be related to lung overdistention
    
  