
    
      Contrast-induced acute kidney injury (CIAKI) is a serious complication occurring in patients
      with chronic kidney disease undergoing angiography and is associated with adverse renal and
      cardiovascular outcomes. The investigators will address two key questions that remain in
      high-risk patients undergoing angiography. First, early detection of CIAKI after contrast
      exposure is problematic because rise in serum creatinine or decline in urine output occur
      over several days and many cases are under-diagnosed. Second, early risk stratification for
      long-term adverse events is also problematic because existing risk prediction models only
      have a modest predictive value. Availability of a biomarker that detects subclinical CIAKI
      before creatinine and also aids in risk stratification will change primary and secondary
      prevention strategies. The FDA has recently approved two novel, highly sensitive, urinary
      cell cycle arrest biomarkers for early detection of AKI. The investigators have shown that
      these biomarkers: tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase (TIMP)-2 and insulin growth factor
      binding protein (IGFBP)7, detect AKI before serum creatinine in critically ill patients and
      are associated with long-term adverse outcomes. Whether these markers can be used to predict
      renal and cardiovascular outcomes in patients undergoing angiography is yet unknown. The
      investigators have been recently funded by the Department of Veterans Affairs to conduct a
      multicenter, randomized, clinical trial in 7,680 high-risk patients undergoing angiography to
      compare the effectiveness of intravenous sodium bicarbonate with isotonic sodium chloride,
      and oral N- acetylcysteine with placebo, for the prevention of serious adverse outcomes
      associated with CIAKI. The NIDDK has funded an associated biorepository to examine known and
      yet-to-be identified biomarkers for CIAKI. The investigators propose to leverage these
      resources to conduct an ancillary observational study entitled Biomarker Effectiveness
      Analysis in Contrast Nephropathy (BEACON). Using urine and plasma samples obtained before and
      at four hours after angiography in 1,100 subjects, the investigators will address two
      specific aims. Aim 1 will examine the accuracy of urinary TIMP-2, IGFBP7, and select other
      plasma biomarkers in predicting the composite renal outcome of death, dialysis dependence, or
      persistent renal injury at day 90 after contrast exposure (Aim 1a); biomarker
      reclassification of risk for adverse renal outcomes and develop a risk score (Aim 1b); and
      predicting the progression of chronic kidney disease (Aim 1c). Aim 2 will examine the
      accuracy of urinary TIMP-2 and IGFBP7 in predicting the composite outcome of hospitalization
      with acute coronary syndrome; heart failure; cerebrovascular accident; or all-cause mortality
      within 90 days (Aim 2a); and biomarker reclassification of risk for cardiovascular events
      (Aim 2b). The proposed work will advance NIDDK's mission of early detection,
      risk-stratification, and prognostication of CIAKI. It will provide new scientific knowledge
      on using biomarkers to monitor patients undergoing angiography and will have a high impact on
      clinical practice, physicians, and policy makers.
    
  