
    
      ASUC can be a life threatening condition for which optimal management strategies within the
      acute setting are required. Such strategies remain largely ill-defined with approximately 30
      - 40% of ASUC inpatient admissions requiring emergency colectomy.

      Intravenous corticosteroids have been the mainstay of management during the inpatient
      admission but approximately 40% of this patient group will be steroid resistant. Although
      mortality following emergency colectomy has indeed fallen over time, it still remains as high
      as 10% at the 12 week marker. Patients with steroid refractory disease salvage therapy with
      infliximab can be considered to avoid colectomy.

      Currently there are no predictive indices to identify patients needing rescue therapy. Hence
      health care professionals have no tools to 'personalise' care for ASUC by predicting up front
      which patients fail initial medical therapy and thus predict those who may benefit from
      rescue therapy or early surgery.

      Traditionally the Truelove and Witts severity Index is used to define the clinical severity
      of disease on admission, but this long-standing index has yet to be validated as a predictor
      for the need for colectomy during the acute hospitalised phase. Similarly, endoscopic
      indices, including the only validated endoscopic severity score in UC (UCEIS - Ulcerative
      Colitis Endoscopic Index of Severity) have not been prospectively evaluated in the setting of
      ASUC.

      Approximately 30% of ASUC patients treated with rescue anti TNF will fail to respond and
      require urgent colectomy. The optimal dosing regimes for rescue therapy with infliximab
      remains uncertain.Recently, there have been reports of increasing use of accelerated
      induction anti - TNF regimes in patients with ASUC (10mg/kg or shorter intervals) despite
      lack of clear evidence to support this practice. Randomised trial evidence for selecting
      patients suitable for accelerated induction regimes is not yet currently available and will
      require large sample size to elucidate clearly the variables that predict the need for
      individual dosing strategies.

      Another consideration in the management of ASUC patients is the wide variability in practices
      among institutions and clinicians; this may potentially affect quality of care and outcomes
      within this cohort.

      Investigators will develop a multi-centre prospective inception cohort of patients with ASUC
      with homogeneously collected detailed longitudinal clinical, endoscopic, laboratory and
      pharmacological data. This will facilitate development of risk prediction models in ASUC
      helping early risk stratification and supporting optimized medical and surgical algorithms in
      ASUC. The study will also facilitate development of a learning network in participating
      centres to improve quality of care.
    
  