
    
      Biliary anastomotic stricture (BAS) is one of the most common complications after liver
      transplantation (LT). It happens more often after living donor liver transplantation (LDLT)
      than deceased donor liver transplantation (DDLT). The reported incidence was 20% in LDLT and
      12% in DDLT. Although BAS seldom affects graft survival, it is associated with significant
      morbidity and affects quality of life. Clinical manifestation of BAS can be highly variable,
      ranging from low-grade cholangitis with slightly deranged liver function to life-threatening
      septic shock to graft and multi-organ failure. Up to 30% of the cases of BAS require surgical
      intervention at some point. Revision hepaticojejunostomy - a major undertaking judging from
      the magnitude of the operation - is sometimes required as a remedial procedure. Most of the
      time BAS can be treated by endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) with balloon
      dilatation with or without plastic stent insertion. Although endoscopic treatment has been
      reported to have a successful rate of over 70%, multiple sessions of endoscopic treatment,
      typically 4 to 5 sessions, are frequently required before adequate stricture dilatation is
      achieved. This is likely secondary to suboptimal post-dilatation splintage. Since
      stricturoplasty features breaking up the fibrous ring at the anastomotic site and hence
      widening the calibre of the lumen, any new wound created by dilatation injury is susceptible
      to the formation of new scar. Therefore, some form of buttressing device is needed to keep
      the anastomotic site open. This underscores the importance of post-dilatation splintage. The
      most common and popular form of splintage is plastic stent insertion. Unfortunately, plastic
      biliary stents have a small calibre, with the largest size being Fr11.5 only. Even if
      multiple stents are inserted, the configuration of buttressing would not provide a
      circumferential, evenly distributed buttressing effect at the dilated stricture site.
      Moreover, given the small calibre of the plastic stent, there is higher resistance on the
      inner surface of the stent, leading to a higher chance of stent blockage. Frequent admissions
      for repeated dilatation and stent exchange (not to mention emergency admission for a
      cholangitic episode secondary to stent blockage) significantly disrupt the patient's normal
      daily activities and form a clinical and financial burden to the community. Many studies have
      suggested that self-expandable metallic stent (SEMS) is superior to plastic stent in terms of
      patency rate. However, SEMS is generally reserved for malignant stricture due to its
      permanent nature, as the traditional SEMS is not removable. Recently, retrievable SEMS
      (r-SEMS) has been developed, and its indications have been extended to include benign disease
      condition. It has been reported that a series of 29 BAS patients treated by r-SEMS, and they
      concluded that r-SEMS was safe and efficacious. Results of the preliminary study on 5
      patients at our centre were favourable; all of them had no stricture for at least 4 months
      after r-SEMS treatment and no complication was encountered. The median number of session for
      success was 2, which is significantly fewer than that in the ordinary approach (median
      session: 4).

      Up till this moment, there is no randomized controlled trial comparing the performance of
      r-SEMS with that of the conventional approach. In this study, the null hypothesis is that
      there is no difference in performance between r-SEMS and the conventional approach in
      endoscopic treatment of BAS.
    
  