
    
      Introduction Physical examination of the pelvis is an important core skill that medical
      students need to acquire. However, the experience of undergraduates to vaginal examination is
      becoming increasingly limited such that medical students in Birmingham can qualify without
      ever performing a vaginal examination in an outpatient setting (personal communication, Raut
      N). It is well recognised that the intimate nature of the examination poses additional
      challenges to medical students and their teachers in gaining consent for supervised training.
      However, other factors may now be affecting student experience. These include competing
      pressures on contemporary undergraduate medical curricula resulting in traditional clinical
      placements, such as obstetrics and gynaecology (O&G), becoming shortened in many academic
      medical institutions. Empowerment of patients combined with changes in their expectations of
      interactions with medical professionals may have further restricted access to clinical cases.
      Changes in attitudes to teaching gynaecological examination may not be restricted to
      patients; medical educationalists may also have become more conservative or less experienced
      such that they find teaching vaginal examination an increasing challenge.

      Whatever the reasons underlying the diminishing exposure of medical students to
      gynaecological examination are, the current status quo is unacceptable. Teaching innovations
      are urgently required to enhance teaching of a skill which is fundamental to both
      gynaecological and general medical practice. A strategy becoming increasingly popular is the
      use of "gynaecological teaching associates" or GTA's for short. These women are 'expert
      patients' who have been trained to undergo and teach gynaecological examination, giving
      valuable and immediate feedback to the students. In North America GTA's are quite commonly
      used in the medical curriculum and they have also been used in Canada, Australia and
      Scandinavia. In the UK pelvic examination is still mainly taught through simulation on pelvic
      models (manikins) combined with experience gained from supervised teaching on women attending
      outpatient clinics and those anaesthetised for surgery within clinical attachments. However,
      the length of these placements varies in length throughout UK medical schools and the quality
      of experience is likely to be inconsistent even within medical schools. In 2011 at the
      Birmingham Women's Hospital (BWH), we instituted a GTA teaching programme. Final year medical
      students from the University of Birmingham Medical School allocated clinical placements in
      O&G at the BWH undergo GTA teaching within the first week of their five week attachment. To
      date, in keeping with other Universities with GTA programmes experience, such as Oxford
      University and Kings College, London (1), our students have given universally positive
      feedback (Clark TJ, Personal Communication).

      Anecdotal qualitative data from our students is reassuring but whether the GTA programme in
      its current design is effective and indeed cost-effective in key educational outcomes is
      unclear. The published data available are generally descriptive studies of the process and
      institution of GTA programmes into the undergraduate medical curriculum (2-7). Studies
      addressing student competence and confidence are limited to small, observational series. One
      non-randomised controlled study from the UK demonstrated that students who had been trained
      with GTA's were significantly better than those who had been trained with pelvic models alone
      (1). However, in this study the GTA training was supplementary to the normal curriculum so
      the amount of teaching rather than the style of teaching may have acted as a confounding
      factor. Moreover, a valid assessment tool was not used to assess clinical performance.
      Evaluating the educational benefit of GTAs is also important if we are to allocate scarce
      undergraduate educational resources efficiently. Gynaecological teaching associates are paid
      professionals and introducing this method of teaching has financial implications for
      Universities.

      At present, the University of Birmingham has not fully incorporated GTA teaching into its
      final year O&G curriculum with 150/400 students placed at the BWH being taught in this way.
      Thus, with opinion as to the value of GTAs not yet solidified and in the absence of rigorous
      scientific assessment of the educational and economic benefits of GTAs, we propose a large
      randomised controlled trial. The RCT will compare the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of
      teaching female pelvic examination to medical students using GTAs with traditional teaching
      using pelvic manikins.

      Objectives

      The TARGET RCT has been designed to answer the following research questions:

      Principal Research Question

      • Do gynaecological teaching associates improve the level of confidence of medical students
      in performing gynaecological pelvic examination compared to manikin based teaching?

      Secondary Research question

        -  Do Gynaecological Teaching Associates improve the level of competence of medical
           students in performing gynaecological pelvic examination compared to manikin based
           teaching?

        -  Do the following factors affect the competence and confidence of medical students in
           performing gynaecological pelvic examination: student gender; ethnicity; perception of
           clinical placement; number of supervised vaginal examinations conducted during clinical
           placement?

        -  Are Gynaecological Teaching Associates cost-effective?
    
  