
    
      Randomization and blinding:

      Subjects will be allocated to sequence 1 (normal diet first, FMD second) or sequence 2 (FMD
      first, normal diet second) using a computer generated randomization scheme. There will be no
      blinding

      Intervention:

      Over the course of three rounds of chemotherapy, patients in the FMD will consume a diet that
      consists of 10 cal/kg/day and includes 50% fat, 40% carbohydrates, and no more than 10%
      protein. The diet includes nuts, olives, vegetable broth, broccoli/cauliflower, white
      rice/puffed rice cake, onion, tea/coffee, almond milk. The diet prohibits meat products,
      dairy, alcohol, sugar, and artificial sweeteners. Patients will be instructed to drink 2 cups
      of water each morning, take their usual medications and limit exercise to walking.

      The table below provides the schedule of fasting during the cycle of chemotherapy

      (Time during chemotherapy cycle, Diet)

        -  2 days prior to chemotherapy, Fasting mimicking diet

        -  1 day prior to chemotherapy, Fasting mimicking diet

        -  Day of chemotherapy, Full fasting(water only)

        -  1 day after chemotherapy, Fasting mimicking diet

        -  2 days after chemotherapy, Fasting mimicking diet

      Prior to each chemotherapy cycle and coincident FMD arm, weight, and laboratory testing will
      be conducted and patients will be asked to keep track of side effects as per usual care for
      patients undergoing chemotherapy. Patients will be asked to keep a food log and record the
      quality of their sleep as part of the study.

      There will be no restrictions for use of usual standard medications, including anti-nausea
      medication. This is generally Zofran oral, q8 hours PRN. Anti-nausea medication usage will be
      recorded in the study database. Although it is expected to be consistent throughout the diet
      and control periods for each subject, dosage and frequency will be recorded throughout the
      study, and it will be noted if anti-nausea medication is effective during the control period
      for each subject.

      Endpoint evaluation:

      Severity of AEs will be assessed using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.0 for toxicity and adverse event reporting. A
      copy of the CTCAE Version 3.0 can be downloaded from
      https://www.eortc.be/services/doc/ctc/CTCAE_4.03_2010-06-14_QuickReference_5x7.pdf.

      AEs not corresponding to the CTCAE term will be assessed according to their impact on the
      subject's ability to perform daily activities as follows:

      Mild (grade 1) - the AE does not interfere in a significant manner with the subject's normal
      functioning level. It may be an annoyance.

        -  Moderate (grade 2) - the AE produces some impairment of functioning, but is not
           hazardous to health. It is uncomfortable or an embarrassment.

        -  Severe (grade 3) - the AE produces significant impairment of functioning or
           incapacitation and is a definite hazard to the subject's health.

        -  Life threatening (grade 4) - Life threatening or disabling.

        -  Fatal (grade 5) Causes death of the participant.

      Estimated study duration:

      Patient participation is approximately 16 weeks.
    
  