
    
      Background:

      Each year there are approximately 200.000 calls regarding sick children younger than 12 years
      (injuries excluded) to the medical helpline 1813 in the Capital Region of Denmark (ref:
      Rasmussen et al). These children are not so ill that the parents call the emergency helpline
      112, but the parents need to contact the health care system outside their general
      practitioners' opening hours. After contact with the parents, the medical helpline health
      professionals (primarily physicians or nurses) may either: 1) refer the child to a pediatric
      department, 2) refer child to assessment in a pediatric urgent care center, 3) guide the
      parents on how to perform self-care at home or 4) advice the child to the general
      practitioners next work day. About 40 % of the calls to 1813 regarding children are referred
      to a hospital. We estimate that 40 % of those presents mild symptoms, which often does not
      require treatment or paraclinical tests and many could have benefitted from being observed at
      home.

      Purpose:

      Reviews conducted in child health related areas, have indicated that quality of health
      information varies significantly and Internet searches may reveal information that is not
      evidence-based, or may even be inconsistent with international treatment recommendations
      (ref: Pehora et al, Fahy et al). Often health information will also focus on diagnosis, not
      symptoms, which makes it difficult for parents to navigate the health directions. The study
      objective is to investigate if it is possible by using videos and simple action cards about
      common symptoms in children - to empower parents and citizens to take better care of sick
      children with milder symptoms at home including to know when they must call for medical help.
      This project therefore aims to, by increasing parental knowledge, decrease the number of
      children admitted to the hospital with mild symptoms, and to decrease the number of children
      with late arrival to the hospital with symptoms on critical illness.

      Method:

      Eight videos have been produced, each lasting about 2-3 minutes, about the following common
      symptoms: 1) vomiting or diarrhea, 2) difficulties in breathing, 3) fever, 4) abdominal pain,
      5) sore throat, 6) a red eye, 7) pain in the ears, and 8) exanthemas. The videos will be
      accompanied by text, action cards, and be accessible on a smartphone. The information is in
      Danish. The material has been developed in collaboration between pediatricians (medical
      content) and professional film/app-makers (creative content) and has been approved by the
      Danish Society of Pediatrics and other relevant scientific societies. We want to study the
      clinical value of this material before we launch the campaign to the public.

      Parents with children aged between 6 months - 11.9 years will, when contacting the medical
      helpline 1813, be offered to receive a new information material. If they accept, they will be
      randomized to the intervention group (randomized to the new material composed of 8 videos and
      corresponding smart cards) or to the control group (randomized to current standard care). The
      participants will the following day receive a text message with six questions on
      self-efficacy and satisfaction. If the caretaker does not fill out the electronical
      questionnaire, they will receive a reminder the next day. All case reports of the included
      children will be reviewed and if admitted to a hospital in the Capital Region of Denmark
      within 72 hours of the call, the diagnosis, duration and treatment will be registered. For
      the intervention group, the use of the material will be logged.

      Sample size We want to be able to detect if the intervention with videos and action cards
      increases the proportions of parents who expressed high self-efficacy by 5%. We do not know
      this actual proportion. If it is actually 50%, we want to detect an increase to 55%. We want
      a p-value of 0.05 and a probability (power) of 80%. It will require data from about 3300
      text-messages in total, randomized in two equal groups
      (http://www.openepi.com/SampleSize/SSCohort.htm). We suggest we have data to answer our
      research question within 3 months, and the study will be stopped after 6 months.

      Ethics and transparency The parents are informed about the study by an automatic voice
      message when contacting the medical helpline 1813. Their acceptance to the study is their
      informed consent. The project will be described in short at the webpage of the Copenhagen
      Emergency Service, where it will be possible to access additional information via a link to
      the study at Clinical Trials. The telephone call will be recorded in the Emergency Medical
      Services system, based on the actual regular routine. The protocol has been submitted to the
      Ethics Committee of the Capital Region of Denmark, who considered it outside their mandate.

      In the project the data will be completely anonymized and it is in no way possible to link
      data with actual people. The study will be registered at https://clinicaltrials.gov/ before
      enrolment of the first patient.

      In cases of serious adverse events the study group will consider stopping the study. This
      will also be the case if the satisfaction with the contact to the medical helpline 1813 drops
      to a very low level.

      Statistics:

      Non-parametric statistics, two-sided and with significance at p-value <0.05. After one week,
      we will perform an interim analysis to study the frequency of acceptance, and the frequency
      of high self-efficacy, as well as how the videos have worked technically.

      Perspectives and possible yield:

      In case of positive effect, it must be decided if the videos and action cards will be an
      integrated option at the medical helpline 1813. Moreover, it may be considered if the
      material is released to all of Denmark. The material could be accessible at smartphones,
      iPads, laptops and easy to find on different major national websites.
    
  