
    
      HYPOTHESES

        1. The primary patency of grafts following thrombectomy and angioplasty is limited by the
           high re-stenosis rate.

        2. Stent deployment reduces the likelihood of re-stenosis at the site of the stenotic
           lesion, thereby prolonging primary graft patency following thrombectomy, and decreasing
           or delaying the need for future interventions.

        3. The cost savings arising from stent deployment (decrease in subsequent access
           procedures) outweigh the additional cost of the stent itself.

      AIMS

        1. To evaluate whether stent placement in thrombosed grafts with underlying stenosis at the
           venous anastomosis results in longer primary graft patency, as compared with angioplasty
           alone.

        2. To determine whether stent placement in thrombosed grafts with underlying stenosis at
           the venous anastomosis reduces the subsequent cost of access procedures in excess of the
           cost of the stent.

      To accomplish these goals, we will conduct a randomized clinical trial of hemodialysis
      patients who are referred for treatment of thrombosed A-V grafts. The patients will be
      randomized to be treated with thrombectomy + stent deployment or thrombectomy + angioplasty.
      The primary outcomes will be primary (unassisted) graft patency. The secondary outcomes will
      be secondary (assisted) graft patency and the cumulative cost of all access-related
      procedures, hospitalizations, and complications.

      SIGNIFICANCE AND BACKGROUND

      Most patients with end-stage renal disease undergo hemodialysis thrice weekly to optimize
      their survival, minimize medical complications, and enhance their quality of life. A reliable
      vascular access is a critical requirement for providing adequate hemodialysis. The ideal
      vascular access would be easy to place, ready to use as soon as it is placed, deliver high
      blood flows indefinitely, and be free of complications. None of the existing types of
      vascular accesses achieve this ideal. Among the three types of vascular access currently
      available, A-V fistulas are superior to A-V grafts, which in turn are superior to dialysis
      catheters. Recognizing the relative merits of the vascular access types, the NKF-DOQI
      guidelines recommend placement of A-V fistulas in 50% of hemodialysis patients, A-V grafts in
      40%, and dialysis catheters in 10% [19]. The actual current distribution of vascular accesses
      among prevalent hemodialysis patients in the United States is 25-30% fistulas, 45-50% grafts,
      and 25% dialysis catheters [20, 21]. Vascular access procedures and their subsequent
      complications represent a major cause of morbidity, hospitalization and cost for chronic
      hemodialysis patients [22-26]. Over 20% of hospitalizations in hemodialysis patients in the
      United States are access-related, and the annual cost of access morbidity is close to $1
      billion [25].

      A-V grafts are more prone to recurrent stenosis and thrombosis than are fistulas, and require
      multiple radiologic or surgical interventions to ensure their long-term patency for dialysis
      [26]. A report from UAB observed that the first salvage procedure to maintain graft patency
      (thrombectomy, angioplasty, or surgical revision) was required in 29% of grafts at 3 months,
      52% at 6 months, 77% at 12 months, and 96% at 24 months [5]. Most grafts required multiple
      interventions over time to maintain their patency for dialysis. A mean of 1.22 interventions
      were required to maintain access patency per graft-year, including 0.51 thrombectomies, 0.54
      angioplasties, and 0.17 surgical revisions. Secondary graft survival (time from initial
      placement to permanent failure, regardless of number of interventions) has ranged from 59 to
      87% at one year, and 50 to 73% at two years [27-35]. A number of studies have examined the
      association of demographic and clinical factors with long-term graft survival, but no
      consistent clinical predictor of poor graft outcome has emerged. Windus et al [27] observed
      lower graft survival in diabetics as compared with nondiabetics. In contrast, three other
      studies observed no significant difference in graft survival between diabetic and nondiabetic
      patients [5, 35, 36]. Several investigators have reported a lack of association between
      patient age or sex and long-term graft survival [5, 35-37]. Windus et al [27] found that
      older age predicted lower graft survival in non-diabetics, but not in diabetic patients.
      Graft survival is similar between upper arm and forearm grafts [5, 29]. Finally,
      hypoalbuminemia has been associated with shorter A-V graft survival in 2 reports [5, 36].

      The major cause of graft failure is thrombosis due to underlying stenosis of the venous
      anastomosis, draining vein, or central vein [10, 38]. When the stenosis is not detected and
      corrected in a timely fashion, grafts typically thrombose. Clotted grafts require
      thrombectomy by either Radiology or Surgery, most commonly in association with correction of
      the underlying stenosis. If graft patency cannot be restored, it becomes necessary to
      construct a vascular access at a new anastomotic site. Intervention-free graft patency is
      considerably lower following thrombectomy than after elective angioplasty [10]. A comparison
      of graft outcomes after radiologic interventions at our institution found that the primary
      (unassisted) patency was only 30% at 3 months for clotted grafts, as compared with 71% for
      patent grafts undergoing elective angioplasty [10]. Not surprisingly, graft survival was
      worse if there was a residual stenosis after the angioplasty. However, even in the subset of
      patients with no residual stenosis after the intervention, the primary 3-month patency was
      still lower in clotted grafts, as compared with patent grafts undergoing elective angioplasty
      (median survival, 2.5 vs 6.9 months).

      Because graft patency is much worse following thrombectomy than after elective angioplasty,
      the current state of clinical access management involves an ongoing surveillance program to
      monitor for evidence of hemodynamically significant graft stenosis, and referral of such
      patients for elective angioplasty or surgical revision. The rationale for this approach is
      that correction of graft stenosis in a timely fashion will decrease the risk of graft
      thrombosis and prolong the survival of the graft [19]. Substantial clinical research has been
      directed at evaluating the predictive values of several noninvasive screening tests to
      identify hemodynamically significant graft stenosis, so that the patients can be referred for
      angioplasty or surgical revision before the graft has a chance to clot. These surveillance
      methods have included: dynamic dialysis venous pressures, static dialysis venous pressures,
      recirculation, Doppler ultrasound, ultrasound dilution methodology, and access blood flow
      (Reviewed in [39]). Graft stenosis can also be predicted by aggressive clinical monitoring
      (looking for decreases in Kt/V, prolonged bleeding at graft needle sites, and abnormalities
      of graft inspection and auscultation [1, 40]. A number of observational studies have reported
      substantial (50-60%) reductions in the frequency of graft thrombosis using a variety of
      surveillance methods [40-43]; none have eliminated this problem. Four randomized studies
      evaluating the efficacy of access surveillance on graft outcomes have found that surveillance
      is an excellent tool for identifying hemodynamically significant graft stenosis. However, the
      higher frequency of preemptive angioplasty in the surveillance group did not appear to
      translate into a reduction in graft thrombosis or prolongation of graft survival [44-47].
      This discrepancy suggests that preemptive angioplasty may not be effective in producing
      sustained improvement of the stenotic lesion. Stent deployment may improve the durability of
      graft angioplasty and decrease the variability between operators in graft patency following
      radiologic interventions. Thus, it is possible that more frequent use of stents might enhance
      the value of graft surveillance.

      Graft stenosis occurs as a consequence of aggressive myointimal hyperplasia, which occurs
      most commonly at the venous anastomosis [48]. Vascular injury resulting from the angioplasty
      may actually accelerate the process of myointimal hyperplasia, thereby resulting in early
      re-stenosis [49]. Endoluminal stents, by forming a rigid scaffold at the venous anastomosis,
      may slow the encroachment of the area of myointimal hyperplasia into the vascular lumen,
      thereby limiting the magnitude of recurrent stenosis. Thus, use of stents may be of utility
      in preventing restenosis following angioplasty. Stent placement has been attempted for
      treatment of grafts in which angioplasty results in suboptimal technical success or if the
      stenosis recurs rapidly. A number of small series have reported the outcomes of stent
      placement for vascular access with refractory stenosis [50-56]. Unfortunately, these studies
      have suffered from several methodologic limitations, including retrospective data collection,
      absence of a suitable control group, combining patent and thrombosed grafts, combining stents
      placed at a variety of stenotic sites, and combining grafts with fistulas.

      A small, randomized study comparing stents with conventional angioplasty found no difference
      in primary graft patency following the intervention [54]. However, this study enrolled a
      mixture of clotted grafts and patent grafts, and the stenotic lesions were at a variety of
      locations, limiting the interpretation of the findings. A recent, uncontrolled study reported
      the outcomes of clotted grafts undergoing thrombectomy, as well as stent placement at the
      venous anastomosis [50]. In this more homogeneous group of grafts, the primary graft patency
      was 63% at 6 months. Although there was no matched control group treated with angioplasty
      alone, the unassisted graft survival was far superior to that reported in several series (11
      to 34% at 6 months)[10, 57-61]

      RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS

      Design: This will be an open-label, prospective, randomized clinical trial comparing the
      outcomes of thrombosed AV grafts treated with mechanical thrombectomy and angioplasty
      (current standard of care), as compared with stent deployment after mechanical thrombectomy
      and angioplasty.

      Subjects: The subjects for this study will be recruited from the University of Alabama at
      Birmingham (UAB) Nephrology practice. UAB provides medical care for approximately 500
      hemodialysis patients, under the supervision of 12 full-time nephrologists. We average 150
      graft thrombectomy procedures annually at our institution.

      Methods:

      Screening: After obtaining informed consent, the clinic chart will be reviewed for inclusion
      and exclusion criteria. The subject will undergo a screening evaluation including a history
      and physical prior to the intervention.

      Randomization: All subjects with a recent thrombosed AV graft who meet the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria and consent to participation in the study will be randomized to either the
      angioplasty arm or the angioplasty plus stent deployment arm. Patients will be taken to the
      interventional suite in the Interventional Radiology department. Randomization will occur
      only after ascertaining that that graft flow has been restored and that there is a >50%
      stenosis at the venous anastomosis. Randomization will be accomplished by unsealing a
      sequentially numbered opaque envelope that contains the randomization allocation for that
      subject.

      Angioplasty Arm: These patients will undergo the standard of care protocol: mechanical
      thrombectomy plus angioplasty of the stenosis at the venous anastomosis.

      Stent Deployment Arm: These patients will undergo the same protocol as the angioplasty arm
      but at the end a covered stent (wallgraft) will be deployed at the stenotic lesion of the
      venous anastomosis.

      Procedures:

      Angioplasty Arm: All patients diagnosed with a thrombosed graft will undergo mechanical
      thrombectomy within 48 hours of diagnosis in conjunction with angioplasty of the underlying
      stenotic lesion. The grafts are initially accessed with a single needle at the arterial limb
      of the graft. A glide wire is passed up to the central vessels and the needle exchanged for a
      6-French catheter sheath. Mechanical thrombectomy is achieved with a Trerotola device. A
      second 6-French sheath is placed in the venous limb of the graft, and a glide wire passed
      into the arterial circulation. A Fogarty balloon is passed through the wire beyond the
      arterial anastomosis and pulled back to dislodge the clot. An anterograde and retrograde
      angiogram of the graft is performed to assess patency and to look and grade the stenotic
      lesions. Lesions at the venous anastomosis with at least 50% stenosis are considered
      hemodynamically significant. An angioplasty balloon is placed and inflated at the level of
      the stenotic site.

      Stent Arm: The procedure will be identical to that followed in the angioplasty arm. However,
      after the stenotic lesion has been angioplastied, the appropriate Bard Fluency-cPTFE
      Encapsulated Nitinol Stent will be deployed.

      All patients will receive 3000 to 4000 units of heparin during the procedure.

      All patient receive conscious sedation with Fentanyl and Versed, unless allergic to either
      one

      In both randomized groups, a final angiogram of the graft will be performed, and the residual
      stenosis at the site of the angioplasty quantified. In addition, intra-graft and systemic
      blood pressures will be measured upon completion of the intervention. These pressures will be
      measured directly through a disposable pressure transducer. The ratio of graft to systemic
      systolic pressure will be calculated. This ratio has been previously shown to be predictive
      of subsequent primary graft patency [1, 10].

      Subsequent Intervention for Either Arm: Subsequent graft interventions will be determined by
      the clinical judgment of the patient's nephrologists, independently of the study
      intervention. Such intervention may include mechanical thrombectomy with angioplasty if the
      graft re-thromboses; referral for diagnostic fistulogram with possible angioplasty if there
      is clinical suspicion o graft stenosis; surgical revision if the graft has a stenosis that is
      not amenable to radiologic intervention; and placement of a dialysis catheter if graft
      patency cannot be restored. All these events will be tracked prospectively. Completeness of
      information about subsequent access interventions will be optimized by a cross-check with the
      Division of Nephrology prospective, computerized, access database maintained by our Access
      Coordinators [40].

      Endpoints. The primary end point will be the primary patency of the graft (time from the
      initial thrombectomy to the next graft intervention (angioplasty, thrombectomy, or surgical
      revision).

      The secondary end points are:

        1. Secondary patency, (time from thrombectomy to permanent graft failure, regardless of
           number of subsequent salvage procedures)

        2. Total cost of access procedures and access complications per year of followup.

      Follow-up Period: Subjects will be followed for a period of 2 years from the date of
      randomization. Prospective data will be collected on (1) all subsequent access procedures
      (angioplasty, thrombectomy, surgical revision, or placement of dialysis catheter), (2) all
      access-related hospitalizations (those due to an access complication or non-access related
      hospitalizations in which an access procedure is performed), and (3) all access-related
      complications, e.g., catheter-related bacteremia or metastatic infections.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Sample size: Power calculations were performed by the statistician (Jill Barker, Ph.D.) on
      the basis of our preliminary data from the outcome of thrombosed grafts at UAB. The estimated
      sample of 130 patients, evenly divided between the two groups, was sufficient to detect a
      tripling in median graft survival from 1 month on the control arm to 3 months on the stent
      arm, assuming an exponential distribution, 3 years of accrual, 1 year of followup, two-sided
      significance level of 0.05, and power of 0.80.

      Analysis: The statistical analysis will be done in collaboration with Jill Barker, Ph.D.
      (Consultant). Baseline patient characteristics between the 2 groups will be compared by
      unpaired Student t-tests or Chi-square analysis, as appropriate. Statistical analysis will be
      performed on an intent-to-treat basis. Primary and secondary graft survivals curves will be
      generated by the Kaplan-Meier method. The differences in graft survival between groups will
      compared by log rank test. In addition, the association between baseline clinical
      characteristics and graft survival will be analyzed by univariate and multi-variable
      regression analysis using the Cox proportional hazards model. The costs of all subsequent
      access-related procedures, hospitalizations, and complications will be determined using
      Medicare reimbursement rates in Alabama. The total cost of access care between groups will be
      compared by unpaired Student t-tests.
    
  