
    
      This is a multi-center, open-label Phase 1b study of SLC-0111 (oral) in combination with IV
      gemcitabine in CA IX positive subjects with mPDAC and comprises of 2 parts:

        -  Part 1: Dose Escalation

        -  Part 2: Dose Expansion

      Biopsy or archival tissue will be collected and tested for the presence of CAIX via
      Immunohistochemistry (IHC) and only subjects positive for CAIX will be enrolled in the
      dose-escalation and dose-expansion parts. Part 2 can only begin after a dosing regimen has
      been characterized in Part 1. Subjects who participated in Part 1 of study will not be
      eligible to participate in Part 2.

      The dose escalation will aim to identify the safety, tolerability and MTD of the oral
      formulation of SLC-0111 in combination with IV gemcitabine. Additional subjects may be
      enrolled at the MTD in dose expansion cohort. Data collected will allow evaluation of safety,
      tolerability, PK, Pharmacodynamics (PD) and tumour response of SLC-0111 in combination with
      gemcitabine.

      A traditional 3 + 3 dose escalation design will be utilized for this study. Cohorts (same
      dose level) of 3 to 6 evaluable subjects will participate in a dose escalation scheme in
      which the dose of SLC-0111 will be increased in each consecutive cohort. Dose escalation to a
      new cohort of subjects will occur after review of available Cycle 1 data. The dose of
      SLC-0111 will be escalated based on Table 1 and Table 2 in the protocol. Based on emerging
      data alternative dosing schedules, or dose reductions may be considered. Gemcitabine will be
      administered at the standard dose (1000 mg/m^2) and schedule (day 1, 8, and 15 of each cycle)
      but dose reductions may be considered if necessary.

        -  Each cohort will initially consist of up to 3 subjects.

        -  If none of the first 3 subjects in a cohort demonstrates dose limiting toxicities
           (DLTs), then the cohort will be declared safe and the next cohort will be opened for
           enrollment

        -  If 1 of the first 3 subjects in a cohort demonstrates DLTs, then 3 additional subjects
           will be accrued to that cohort for a total of 6 subjects

        -  If 1 out of 6 subjects in a cohort demonstrates DLTs, then the cohort will be declared
           safe and the next cohort (n=3)will be opened for enrollment

        -  If 2 or more subjects in a cohort demonstrates DLTs, that cohort will be declared to
           exceed the MTD

      Following the identification of a Cohort that exceeds the MTD, the next lowest dose, or an
      intermediate dose level may be further explored.

      The MTD will be defined as the highest dose level at which no more than 1 of 6 subjects
      demonstrates DLTs.

      Intra-subject dose escalation will not be allowed in this study.
    
  