
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize the safety and tolerability of CPX-351 in patients with intermediate-2 or
      high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). (Dose Escalation Stage) II. To determine the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of intravenous CPX-351 in patients with intermediate-2 or
      high-risk MDS. (Dose Escalation Stage) III. To further characterize the safety and
      tolerability of CPX-351 in patients with intermediate-2 and high-risk MDS. (Dose-Expansion
      Stage) IV. To evaluate preliminary efficacy of CPX-351 in patients with intermediate-2 or
      high-risk MDS. (Dose-Expansion Stage)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess overall response (OR) rate. II. To assess overall survival. III. To assess
      duration of response. IV. To assess relapse-free survival. V. To assess safety profile.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine
      intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5 in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity. After 2-5 weeks, patients who do not achieve a complete response
      (CR)/CR with incomplete bone marrow recovery (CRi)/CR with incomplete platelet recovery
      (CRp), have acceptable or no toxicity, and have stable disease and no disease progression may
      receive liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 3 in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients who achieve at least a hematological improvement (HI)
      response, receive liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine IV over 90 minutes on days 1
      and 3. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 5-8 weeks, patients who do not show clinically
      significant disease progression or unacceptable toxicity may receive liposome-encapsulated
      daunorubicin-cytarabine for up to 12 additional cycles.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 6
      months thereafter.
    
  