
    
      During the patient's usual follow-up, if an ACR is suspected and it is decided to perform an
      endoscopy with transbronchial biopsies, the protocol is presented to the patient by the
      doctor in charge. If the patient agrees to participate in the study, consent is obtained.
      Collection on arrival of the patient's sex, age, weight, height, respiratory background
      leading to the patient's lung transplant.

      According to the department's protocol: carrying out functional respiratory tests, a
      biological assessment (CBC, hemostasis and CRP) and a chest x-ray prior to the procedure
      except if there is another chest imaging dating less than 24 hours testifying to the absence
      of pneumothorax. Premedication with hydroxyzine, insertion of a peripheral venous route,
      verification of the patient's identity, anticoagulant or anti-aggregating treatment and
      potential allergy.

      The fibroscopy is carried out according to the usual procedure of the service, namely:
      realization of 1 to 2 mg of hypnovel intravenously depending on the patient's tolerance,
      introduction of the fiberscope preferably via the nasal route, if impossible or
      contraindicated, the oral route is possible with the use of a bite block to protect the
      fiberscope. Visualization of the mobility of the vocal cords, trachea, carina and right and
      left bronchial tree up to the segmental level. Identification of the quality of the sutures
      and the possible presence of bronchial stenosis. Realization of a bronchial trap with
      bacteriological and mycological analysis. Performing a bronchoalveolar lavage (90cc of
      physiological serum, preferably in the middle lobe) with anatomopathological, virological,
      bacteriological, mycological and mycobacteriological analysis.

      At this stage, the confocal microscopy procedure begins:

      Taking pictures for post-procedure analysis in 4 different territories. For each territory,
      the investigator need to get a snapshot of a vascular structure and a snapshot of an
      alveolus.

      Analysis per procedure: the same operator analyzes the alveoli deemed to be representative in
      real time. It determines the presence of intra-alveolar inflammatory cells and answers the
      question of the main criterion: possible interpretation in confocal microscopy? YES / NO, the
      clinical researcher immediately notes the answer in the CRF. Based on this per-procedure
      analysis, if he deems the interpretation possible, the operator declares if he concludes that
      pulmonary inflammation is present YES / NO, the response is noted immediately in the CRF.

      The fibroscopy procedure is then resumed as usual in the department, namely:

      Performing 5 to 6 transbronchial biopsies. The number of biopsies depends on the patient's
      tolerance and the occurrence of complications such as hemorrhage or pneumothorax. Checking at
      the end of the procedure for the absence of active intra-bronchial bleeding, followed by a
      frontal chest X-ray to check for the absence of pneumothorax (examination carried out
      routinely even in the event of bronchial endoscopy with simple BTB). If there are no
      complications and if the pathological analysis of the lung biopsies does not conclude that
      there is an acute cellular rejection, the patient can return home at the end of the day. If
      the pathologist concludes that there is a rejection or that there is a complication, the
      patient remains hospitalized for the time necessary for medical treatment.
    
  