
    
      The ARTORIA-R is an international, observational research project collecting retrospective
      data from 17 countries in the period 1989 to 2020 and will thereafter include data
      prospectively (Figure 1). These data include patient profiles at time of evaluation for
      listing, listing, waiting list dynamics, post-transplant data and basic donor data. Future
      data will be updated annually in July each year and each institution willing to contribute
      anonymised data to the register is invited to participate. Furthermore, the institutions and
      organ allocation agencies have to obtain a positive vote of the ethic committee responsible
      for the data transmission of anonymized patient data.

      The inclusion criteria are: a. The patient has to be listed as an adult transplant candidate
      in the country the data is obtained with an age ≥18 years b. The patient has to have a
      congenital heart defect or an inherited cardiomyopathy (specific; hypertrophic
      cardiomyopathy, arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy or non-compaction
      cardiomyopathy) which is often included into the category ACHD c. Data is obtained from the
      first evaluation for listing or listing for heart-only or heart-combined organ
      transplantation d. Transfer of anonymised data e. The institution/organization agrees to the
      memorandum how data is managed, and scientific cooperation is planned between all
      institutions. The registry has the aim to achieve meticulous information regarding the
      underlying congenital heart defect and the previous treatment of the patient. With these
      information the patients can be divided into different cohorts with a systemic left
      ventricle, a systemic right ventricle or a single ventricle (which can be either an anatomic
      left or right ventricle). Further data is acquired regarding the medical treatment, the
      haemodynamic evaluation of the patient, laboratory testing to assess additional organ
      function of the kidney or liver, treatment in the intermediate care or intensive care unit.
      As it is of special relevance in ACHD patient treatment of arrhythmia, antiarrhythmic
      medication and use of ICD or cardiac resynchronization therapy are evaluated. Were available
      the data regarding imaging at listing with ejection fraction for the systemic ventricle with
      echocardiography or cardiac magnetic resonance imaging are obtained.

      The exclusion criteria is: a. The patient is listed for a second heart transplantation
      (retransplantation) During the ongoing study additional institutions and organizations will
      be asked to include their data as well. Although the initial data is retrospective additional
      data into the register will be entered prospectively.
    
  