
    
      The purpose of this study is to collect data to validate the respiratory rate performance of
      the Medical Health Tag developed by Spire Health. The Medical Health Tag respiratory rate
      will be evaluated during non-motion conditions over the range a range of 5-50 breaths per
      minute via Reference EtCO2. A FDA cleared, GE Healthcare S5 Multi-parameter monitoring system
      with End Tidal Carbon Dioxide (EtCO2) and 3-lead ECG will be used for the Respiratory and
      Pulse Rate References. There are no risks or adverse device effects to be assessed. There are
      no contraindications for use in the proposed study / study population.

      This study will focus on the respiratory rate, RR parameter. The Spire Medical Health Tag is
      investigational and has not been cleared by the FDA. The intended purpose of the device under
      test is spot-checking, non-invasive monitoring / logging of respiratory rate on humans. For
      this evaluation, the device will be run in a continuous data collection mode.

      The study population will include 20 healthy competent adults, ages 18 years and older. The
      subject selection will be a mix of males and females with small to large physiques. The
      subjects must understand the study and consent to participate by signing the Informed Consent
      Form. The subjects must be healthy showing no evidence of medical problems as indicated by
      satisfactorily completing the health assessment form and passing the health screening.
      Eligible subjects need to meet all of the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion
      criteria for participation.

      It is expected that the data collection will take approximately 4-7 days to complete. There
      is no additional followup required for the investigation.

      The data from the Device Under Test will be collected on an application installed on the iOS
      or Android mobile device separate from the reference equipment.

      Multi-parameter monitor used during the study to observe a subject's vital signs include ECG
      tracing, heart rate, respiratory rate, and EtCO2 with capnograph.

        -  GE Healthcare S5 Compact Monitor, M-NESTPR module with ECG, and/or Multi-parameter
           monitor

        -  Portable oxygen tank, mask and ambu bag

        -  GE Healthcare (Datex-Ohmeda) 3900 TruTrak+ / OxyTip+ Oxy-F-UN or Oxy-AF Sensor and
           Oxy-OL3 cable (SpO2 monitoring)

        -  Blood pressure cuff and stethoscope

      Currently the FDA defines respiration rate devices as Class II devices. The Device Under Test
      in this study is considered non-significant risk device.

      There are no risks or adverse device effects to be assessed. There are no contraindications
      for use in the proposed study / study population.
    
  