
    
      The L265P mutation of MYD88 appears as an early oncogenic event in the occurrence of
      Waldenström disease and may already be present at the Monoclonal Gammapathy of Undetermined
      Signification (MGUS) to IgM stage suggesting a continuum between the two stages of the
      disease. The determination of IgM as a marker of the disease has limits since it does not
      allow direct quantification of the clonal population and is taken failing this in the case of
      poorly secreting forms. Monitoring the L265P mutation of MYD88 as a marker of minimal
      residual disease therefore appears to be a biomarker of major interest in these diseases. The
      kinetics of this marker particularly during treatment could allow to modify the therapeutic
      management of patients at an early stage and to assess the risk of resistance to treatment.

      Several published studies show the interest of monitoring the L265P mutation of MYD88 in MW
      in particular by quantification of the mutation by allele-specific PCR. The detection limit
      studied was 0.1%. The recent development of new techniques and in particular digital PCR
      makes it possible to obtain lower detection thresholds that could be more compatible with the
      notion of minimal residual disease monitoring.

      The originality of this study is based on the comparison of the quantification of the MYD88
      L265P mutation in all affected biological compartments (blood, plasma, bone marrow or CD19+
      cells) but especially in the monitoring of the mutation at two points of minimal residual
      disease (mid-treatment and end of treatment).

      One of the parts of the project is the study of the allelic frequency of the L265P mutation
      of the MYD88 gene in circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA). It has been shown in many pathologies and
      in particular in other B lymphocytic hematologies such as Hodgkin's lymphoma or diffuse large
      cell B lymphoma, that mutations present at the tumor level could be found in circulating
      tumor DNA. Analysis of free tumor DNA circulating in patients' plasma can therefore be used
      to characterize the disease at the molecular level with a less invasive sample than myelogram
      or bone marrow biopsies. The search for other associated mutations also reinforces the
      originality of the project. These combined data must be able to lead to changes in the
      clinical management of patients.

      In this study, the allele frequency of the L265P mutation of MYD88 will be compared . by 3
      different techniques: specific allele PCR, digital PCR and new generation sequencing. In this
      way, investigators will evaluate the technique that has the best sensitivity and specificity
      to be used as a marker for residual disease. These data will be compared to the reference
      technique, protein electrophoresis. This evaluation will be conducted in total mononuclear
      cells, DNAct, marrow and CD19+ sorted cells. Then, the investigators will follow the kinetics
      of this mutation during the treatment at two points : mid-treatment and end of treatment.

      Characterization of the mutation profile of these tumors allows prognostic factors to be
      defined and may identify potential new therapeutic targets. This study will be realised by
      new generation sequencing. Some of genes with mutations involved in treatment resistance will
      be studied such as CXCR4. The mutations of CXCR4 are involved in the resistance to ibrutinib.
      ARID1A mutations are also found in 20% of cases as well as TP53, KMT2D, CD79B, MYBBP1A
      mutations.
    
  