
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To evaluate the safety and toxicity of a reduced-intensity conditioning regimen followed
           by allogeneic bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cell transplantation from an
           HLA-matched unrelated donor in patients with high-risk hematologic malignancies.

        -  To evaluate engraftment by peripheral blood chimerism analysis.

        -  To determine the incidence and severity of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease
           following the transplant.

        -  To examine the possibility of controlling hematologic malignancies by induction of a
           graft-versus-leukemia/tumor effect.

        -  To determine the disease-free survival, relapse, transplant-related mortality, and death
           from all causes.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Reduced-intensity conditioning regimen: Patients receive 1 of 2 conditioning regimens
           according to diagnosis.

             -  Regimen 1 (acute leukemia, myelodysplastic syndromes, myeloproliferative syndrome,
                or chronic myelogenous leukemia): Patients receive fludarabine phosphate IV over 30
                minutes and busulfan IV over 3 hours on days -6 to -3 or orally 4 times daily on
                days -7 to -3.

             -  Regimen 2 (lymphoproliferative malignancies): Patients receive fludarabine
                phosphate IV over 30 minutes and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days -5 to -3.
                Patients with CD20+ malignancies also receive rituximab IV over 4-6 hours on days
                -13, -6, 1, and 8.

        -  Transplantation: Patients undergo allogeneic bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cell
           transplantation on day 0.

        -  Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: Patients receive low-dose alemtuzumab
           subcutaneously on days -11 to -9 and tacrolimus IV over 24 hours beginning on day -3 and
           then orally twice daily beginning on day 14 and continuing until day 60, followed by a
           taper until day 180 in the absence of clinically significant GVHD. Patients also receive
           methotrexate on days 1, 3, and 6.

      Patients who exhibit persistent mixed chimerism or disease relapse/progression despite full
      withdrawal of immunosuppression may receive up to 3 donor lymphocyte infusions.

      Blood samples are taken on days 30, 60, and 100 and then every 4 weeks thereafter for
      chimerism studies by PCR analysis.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for up to 60 months.
    
  