
    
      The symptoms of schizophrenia fall into three main categories: positive symptoms, negative
      symptoms, and cognitive symptoms. Each category represents distinct functional challenges and
      impedes patient productivity and overall quality of life.

      Cognitive symptoms are pervasive and result in deficits in executive functioning (the ability
      to understand information and use it to make decisions), attention (the ability to identify,
      select, and focus on relevant sensory events), and working memory (the ability to hold
      information in memory and then guide actions from it). These symptoms impair patients'
      abilities to successfully perform everyday activities, including independent living,
      employment, and social relationships, and in addition can cause great emotional distress.

      Cognitive impairment in schizophrenia has now received substantial academic study, with over
      24,000 research papers published in the field since 1990. This enormous body of work has
      shown that cognitive impairment is likely to be present in virtually all patients with
      schizophrenia, regardless of their severity of illness or treatment status. People with
      schizophrenia typically perform 1-2 standard deviations below the mean of age-matched
      controls (indicating substantial impairment) across the domains of speed of information
      processing, attention, working memory, verbal and visual learning, reasoning and social
      cognition.

      While cognitive impairment in schizophrenia was originally assumed to be secondary to
      positive or negative symptoms of the disorder, or related to the use of anti-psychotic
      medications, recent research has conclusively shown that neither of these past assumptions is
      true. For example, the landmark Clinical Antipsychotic Trials of Intervention Effectiveness
      (CATIE) trial involving 1,493 participants demonstrated that negative symptoms are only
      mildly correlated with cognitive function, and that positive symptoms are completely
      uncorrelated with cognitive function. Furthermore, research has shown that cognitive
      impairment is evident in people with schizophrenia before they are medicated, prior to
      diagnosis, and in first-degree relatives of people diagnosed with schizophrenia; indicating
      that medication is not the cause of cognitive impairment. In aggregate, these data have
      established the well-accepted current viewpoint that cognitive dysfunction is a core primary
      symptom and deficit in schizophrenia.
    
  