
    
      This study contains two phases:

        1. A prospective, randomized, blinded comparison of ultrasound imaging versus palpation for
           epidural catheter insertion in laboring women.

        2. A prospective, single cohort, blinded trial to assess whether ultrasound imaging
           provides a reliable placement below the L3 vertebra.

      The initial phase of the investigation will be a randomized comparison of ultrasound versus
      palpation. Patients will be enrolled in early labor and will be randomized to have their
      epidural placed with either technique. The technique will be chosen by computer-generated
      randomization list maintained in opaque sequentially numbered envelopes. Description of the
      placement technique is below. The primary outcome will be the number of epidural catheters
      inserted above the intended insertion site. The investigators will also assess the total time
      required for epidural catheter placement, number of attempts for successful insertion,
      effectiveness of the epidural catheter for labor pain control.

      Following completion of enrollment of the first phase, the second phase of the investigation
      will enroll patients only into the single-cohort ultrasound arm. The study will use the same
      methodology as the initial phase, but without randomization due to a single cohort. The
      primary outcome will be the absolute number of epidural catheters inserted above the L3
      vertebral body. The investigators will also assess the effectiveness of the ultrasound
      markings for guiding placement.

      Procedure placement technique After written, informed consent, and standard patient
      preparation, the epidural catheter will be placed with the patient in the sitting position by
      a junior resident. In the ultrasound arm, the patient will be first imaged using an
      appropriate probe, and the identified ultrasound landmarks marked on the skin. The skin will
      be prepped in the usual fashion, and the needle will be inserted at the identified site and
      direction determined by ultrasound. In the palpation arm, the skin will be prepped and the
      needle will be inserted using palpation-identified landmarks to guide the needle. All
      catheters will be intended to be placed at the L4-L5 interspace as the primary attempt. The
      L3-L4 interspace will be used as a secondary attempt.

      Assessment of final position After insertion of the epidural catheter and administration of
      the pain relief medication, patients in both groups will be examined by a blinded observer
      using ultrasound to determine the catheter insertion site and the likely insertion
      interspace.

      If, however, the investigators discover that the use of ultrasound for placement of the
      epidural catheter may present greater risk than previously anticipated to the pregnant woman
      or fetus, then the investigators will stop the study after phase 1 and not proceed with phase
      2.
    
  