
    
      Background

      Cerebral arteriovenous malformations consist of tangled blood vessels forming a so-called
      nidus which connects arteries to veins without the interposition of a capillary bed. Due to
      subsequent structural changes of draining veins within the nidus, patients are at risk of
      cerebral hemorrhage. Bleedings of AVMs are associated with high morbidity and mortality.
      Therefore, once a cerebral AVM is diagnosed, preventive treatment usually is aimed for. If
      hemorrhage already occurred treatment is necessary because of a high chance of re-bleeding.
      Cerebral AVMs are likely to cause neurological symptoms such as seizures and focal deficits
      without bleeding. These symptoms are usually due to the AVM's mass effect however, they have
      also been discussed to be caused by a vascular steal syndrome.

      Etiology

      The etiology of cerebral AVMs is not known. Aside from the possibility of a multifactorial
      cause it seems that genetic mutation and angiogenetic stimulation could play a role in their
      development. It is also discussed whether AVMs develop in utero or through an angiopathic
      reaction following ischemia or hemorrhage.

      Epidemiology

      The prevalence and incidence of cerebral AVMs are about 10 per 100,000 and 1 per 100,000;
      respectively without sex predilection. The annual risk of intracranial hemorrhage ranges from
      1.2% in unruptured AVMs to 4.8% when hemorrhage already occurred before. The mortality rate
      among AVM patients after intracranial hemorrhage is 10-15%. The morbidity varies from 30-50%.
      Of all AVM patients without hemorrhage about 15-40% suffer from seizures. Progressive
      neurological deficit occurs at 6-12%.

      Diagnosis

      Cerebral AVMs are usually diagnosed by an MRI examination. They can easily be identified on
      enhanced images but may also be visible without contrast due to edema or mass effect. The
      current gold standard of diagnosis and evaluation of treatment success of cerebral AVMs is
      digital subtraction angiography (DSA). This method uses injection of a contrast agent into
      the patient's arteries and X-rays to visualize cerebral vessels. Imaging of the blood flow
      over time and therefore accurate distinction of feeding and draining vessels within the nidus
      is the major advantage of DSA. Subtraction of bones and soft tissue enables an optimal view
      of the vascular system.

      DSA has to be carried out as an inpatient procedure because of its invasiveness. Occurrence
      of hematoma or pseudoaneurysm at the site of puncture and endovascular injury with
      consecutive embolism are rare but possible complications. Further disadvantages of DSA are a
      substantial exposure to radiation and the necessity of 24 hours of bed rest after the
      procedure which may lead to an increased risk of thrombosis.

      Classification - The Spetzler-Martin grading-system

      Evaluation of the Spetzler-Martin grade (SM grade) requires three characteristics of the AVM.
      first it is the size of the malformation regrouped into three categories. Next, the drainage
      is of importance: one can differentiate between superficial only and deep veins partaking in
      drainage. Finally, the eloquence of the brain tissue surrounding the lesion is considered.
      Areas responsible for higher functions such as movement and sensibility, vision and language
      are called eloquent. The thalamus, hypothalamus, brainstem and cerebellar peduncles are
      eloquent regions. On the cerebral cortex sensorimotor areas and those responsible for
      language and primary vision are eloquent.

      The Spetzler-Martin system was developed to estimate the prognosis before surgical
      intervention, but is also used for other treatment methods. The SM grade correlates well with
      the difficulty of surgery and its outcome.

      Treatment

      There are different treatment options for cerebral AVMs: Microsurgical resection,
      endovascular embolization and Gamma Knife radiosurgery, or combinations thereof. Independent
      of AVM specifications and treatment option, any therapy bears the risk of cerebral hemorrhage
      and ischemia and therefore permanent neurological deficit and death. Hence, the decision if
      and how an AVM should be treated has to be made carefully with the intention to offer a
      result better than the natural course of the disease. In order to answer the question if a
      wait-and-see strategy is a valid option, a prospective, non-blinded, randomized, multicenter
      study was conducted in 2014. The study compared the risk of death and stroke as well as
      functional outcome between treated and untreated AVM patients.

      The so-called ARUBA trial was interrupted six years after the beginning of randomization due
      to an apparent superiority of the untreated group. The authors concluded that unruptured
      cerebral AVMs should be managed conservatively.The study was harshly criticized by many
      experts due to its setting and the interpretation of the data. One major limitation is that
      different treatment options were not evaluated separately but as one interventional group.
      Other limitations of ARUBA are a low number of cases - only 116 patients were randomized for
      intervention and of those only five underwent microsurgical resection - and a short follow-up
      of 33 months. At least, ARUBA shows the controversy existing among experts concerning
      cerebral AVM treatment. The established treatment options will be explained below.

      Microsurgical Resection

      As microsurgical resection eliminates the risk of bleeding immediately, it still represents
      the therapy of choice for most of the cerebral AVMs reaching a Spetzler-Martin score of one
      to three. In order to expose a cerebral AVM, a bone flap of the patient's skull is raised and
      the dura opened. Feeders are identified, coagulated and cut so the AVM can be resected in
      total. Outcome of patients with an unruptured AVM undergoing microsurgery depends on their
      Spetzler-Martin (SM) grade. According to a prospective cohort study from 2014 a permanent
      neurological deficit is postoperatively seen in 1.6% of patients with SM scores 1 and 2. In
      patient with SM grade 3 the risk of permanent neurological deficit after surgery rises to
      14.0% and to 38.6% in patients with SM grades 4 and 5.

      Endovascular Embolization

      Endovascular embolization of an AVM is performed via the arterial route after puncture of a
      peripheral artery. The AVM nidus is occluded by injection of an embolic material which clogs
      its feeding arteries. According to a systematic review including more than 1,000 AVM patients
      who had undergone endovascular embolization, this therapy lead to nidus occlusion in an
      average of 13%, with a wide range from 0 to 94%. Permanent neurological deficit after
      embolization was averagely seen in 6.6%, ranging from 0 to 28%. The endovascular approach is
      often used to close small AVMs or to make larger AVMs amenable for radiosurgery or
      microsurgery.

      Gamma Knife Radiosurgery

      Gamma Knife Radiosurgery can be performed either as a single therapy or in combination with
      other treatment methods, most commonly combined with endovascular embolization. At the
      Department of Neurosurgery, MUV radiosurgery of cerebral AVMs is performed with Gamma Knife
      Perfexion® which uses 192 cobalt 60 sources to apply high dose radiation into an exactly
      defined volume within the cranium. Gamma Knife radiosurgery is generally performed in local
      anesthesia thus enabling the fixation of the stereotactic frame to the skull. In children
      below 14 years of age Gamma Knife radiosurgery is performed under general anesthesia. Whereas
      endovascular and surgical treatment immediately eliminate the risk of bleeding if carried out
      successfully, nidus occlusion after Gamma Knife radiosurgery usually takes about two years.
      During this time the bleeding risk is reported to be the same as in untreated patients. The
      major advantage of radiosurgery is its non-invasiveness. Rates of complete nidus occlusion
      after Gamma Knife radiosurgery of cerebral AVMs are reported to be about 85% for AVMs with a
      SM grade 1 to 3. A much lower rate of 54% for AVMs with a SM grade 4 and a rate of 0% for
      AVMs with SM grade 5 show the dependence of the Spetzler-Martin grade. However, even if nidus
      occlusion is not achieved in many AVMs with higher SM grade, a reduction of their size may
      enable further treatment. Permanent neurological deficit after radiosurgery was seen in 5.1%
      with a range from 0 to 21%.23 Complications of radiosurgery are adverse radiation effects
      (ARE) which occur many years after intervention and include perilesional edema and cyst
      formation. Those have to be differentiated from radiation induced changes (RIC) arising in
      the first 1-2 years after treatment and including focal necrosis, white matter injury,
      microangiopathy, sinus inflammation and atrophy.

      Treatment Evaluation

      The gold standard for the evaluation after AVM therapy is the catheter angiography; digital
      subtraction angiography (DSA). As already mentioned in chapter Diagnosis, DSA has several
      disadvantages like invasiveness, necessity of inpatient treatment and peri-interventional
      risks. So far, MRI/MRA is a regularly performed evaluation method after Gamma Knife treatment
      of AVMs but it still remains unclear if its accuracy is sufficient compared to that of DSA.
      Numerous MRI protocols for imaging of cerebral vascular pathologies exist. According to a
      small prospective study a specific MRI protocol focusing on blood flow characteristics called
      arterial spin labeling (ASL) was superior to conventional contrast enhanced MRI in the
      evaluation of AVM nidus occlusion after stereotactic radiosurgery. Using DSA as a reference,
      seven out of seven patients with complete nidus occlusion where assessed correctly by ASL
      imaging, so were three patients with a persisting AVM nidus.

      However, in those three cases, according to the contrast enhanced MRI the nidus was falsely
      rated as occluded. A retrospective study comparing conventional MRI/MRA to DSA found 80%
      sensitivity and 90% specificity of standard MRI/MRA for detection of AVM nidus occlusion
      after stereotactic radiosurgery in a series of 136 patients.

      Objectives and hypotheses

      Objective:

      To evaluate sensitivity and specificity of a standardized MRI/MRA protocol compared to that
      of DSA for detection of nidus occlusion after Gamma Knife radiosurgery of cerebral AVMs

      Hypotheses:

      H0: There is significant difference in sensitivity and specificity between MRI/MRA and DSA
      for detection of nidus occlusion after Gamma Knife radiosurgery of cerebral AVMs.

      H1: There is no significant difference in sensitivity and specificity between MRI/MRA and DSA
      for detection of nidus occlusion after Gamma Knife radiosurgery of cerebral AVMs.

      Methods

      In this preliminary study the investigators plan to include about 50 radiosurgically treated
      patients with cerebral AVMs. Patients participating in the study will not be exposed to any
      additional risk compared to patients not participating in the study. Participants will
      undergo a standardized MRI protocol at the Department of Radiology, MUV two years after Gamma
      Knife treatment. The standardized MRI protocol replaces the follow-up-MRI two years after
      treatment that is usually performed in private practice and often does not include all
      required sequences. The standardized MRI protocol includes specific sequences allowing
      analyzation of vascular pathologies. Those are a contrast enhanced three-dimensional MRA (T1
      GE 3D +/- KM), a time-of-flight magnetic resonance angiography (TOF-MRA), arterial spin
      labeling (ASL) and time resolved MRA with interleaved stochastic trajectories (TWIST-MRA).
      Three dimensional MRA and TOF-MRA produce conventional images of vascular structures. ASL
      enables more detailed imaging of the cerebral blood flow. TWIST-MRA produces time resolved
      images. Hence, the major advantage of DSA should be reproduced with this method.

      For evaluation of the parenchyma adjacent to the AVM, DWI and SWI sequences will allow
      detection of ischemic areas and hemorrhage. Standard sequences (T2 sagittal, axial and
      coronal) will also be produced. Participants of this study will be enrolled at the Gamma
      Knife outpatient clinic of the Department of Neurosurgery, MUV. Nidus occlusion will be
      evaluated by a neuroradiologist and compared to the gold standard of DSA performed at the
      Department of Neurosurgery, MUV. Since the angiography (DSA) is the current gold standard in
      AVM evaluation it will be performed in any case and is thus rated as outside of this study
      protocol. Thus, sensitivity and specificity of MRI/MRA for detection of AVM nidus occlusion
      will be assessed in comparison to the gold standard. Due to the fact that every case of
      cerebral AVM treated by stereotactic radiosurgery at the Department of Neurosurgery, Medical
      University of Vienna is assessed by MRI and DSA examinations after treatment, the
      post-radiosurgical procedures of diagnosis do not pose any additional effort or risk for
      patients participating in the study. In fact, patients may benefit from participation as they
      do not need to care for scheduling of their MRI examination in private practice.

      Statistical analysis

      Due to an uneven distribution of data, statistical analysis will be performed with
      nonparametric tests. Descriptive analysis of characteristics of patients and AVMs as well as
      Gamma Knife parameters includes the median value and range as well as frequencies, numbers
      and percentages. Statistical calculations for comparison between eventual treatment groups
      include the Kruskal-Wallis, Mann-Whitney-U and Chi-square test for independent samples. To
      support the hypothesis, the result of the MRI examination must be in accordance with the
      result of the DSA examination in a vast majority of cases. The investigators set a 95%
      threshold for the sensitivity of MRI examinations to be sufficient for confirming the
      hypothesis in this preliminary setting. Relevant findings have to be confirmed in a larger
      (multicenter) prospective study.

      Sample size

      The approximate sample size of 50 patients is due to the planned study duration of 3 years.
      The study serves as a preliminary study and results may be confirmed by a larger
      (multicenter) study.

      Recruiting of patients

      Patients will be recruited in the Gamma Knife outpatient clinic of the Department of
      Neurosurgery, MUV. Patients must undergo or have undergone Gamma Knife radiosurgery due to
      cerebral AVM. For inclusion patients must have their two-year follow-up MRI exam within the
      duration of study. All patients have to sign a form for participation in the study after
      purpose and process of the study has been explained to them. The investigators plan to enroll
      about 50 patients for this study.

      Quality and protection of data

      Entry and handling of patient data will only be executed by trained medical staff involved in
      the planning and conduction of the study. Patient data will be entered anonymized in a SPSS
      file using IBM SPSS Statistics for Windows (Version 25.0 Armonk, NY: IBM Corp.).

      Variables used in the registry

      Patient sex: male/female Source: EDP system

      Patient age: years Source: EDP system

      AVM diameter: cm Source: pre-radiosurgical MRI

      AVM localization: frontal, parietal, occipital, temporal, insular, limbic, cerebellar, brain
      stem, basal ganglia, thalamus, intraventricular, corpus callosum Source: pre-radiosurgical
      MRI

      Number of AVM feeders: Number Source: pre-radiosurgical DSA

      AVM-haemorrhage: Yes/No Source: Anamnesis in EDP system

      RBAS (Modified Radiosurgery Based AVM score): <1 to >2 Source: Pre-radiosurgical MRI

      VRAS (Virginia Radiosurgery AVM Scale): 0 to 4 points

      Treatment: Radiosurgery only, Radiosurgery+Endovascular embolization, other combinations
      including Radiosurgery Source: EDP system

      Date of treatment: Date Source: EDP system

      Gamma Knife parameters: Isodose (%), Marginal dose (Gy), Maximum dose (Gy), Radiation volume
      (ccm) Source: EDP system

      Substance for embolization in case of additional endovascular treatment to radiosurgery:
      Histoacryl, Onyx, ethanol, coils, cyanoacrylate, Glubran
    
  