
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare overall survival (OS) in the entire study population. II. To compare
      progression-free survival (PFS) by institutional review of epidermal growth factor receptor
      (EGFR) fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH)-positive patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare OS and PFS by centralized review in EGFR FISH-positive patients. II. To compare
      PFS by centralized image review and by institutional review in the entire study population.

      III. To compare the response rate (confirmed plus unconfirmed, complete and partial
      responses) in a subset of patients with measurable disease in EGFR FISH-positive patient and
      the entire study population.

      IV. To assess the toxicities of these treatment regimens. V. To prospectively test EGFR FISH
      as a predictive marker for the selection of patients for cetuximab plus chemotherapy.

      III. To evaluate the role of V-Ki-ras2 Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (KRAS)
      mutations in terms of cetuximab efficacy.

      IV. To compare the results of EGFR FISH with KRAS mutations, EGFR mutations, EGFR
      immunohistochemistry (IHC), and other purported EGFR-related biomarkers.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare PFS in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with an IHC
      score > 200 treated with carboplatin, paclitaxel, and bevacizumab (if appropriate) with or
      without cetuximab.

      II. To compare OS in patients with advanced NSCLC with an IHC score > 200 treated with
      carboplatin, paclitaxel, and bevacizumab (if appropriate) with or without cetuximab.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 30
      minutes with or without bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every
      21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      After completion of 6 courses, patients receiving bevacizumab may continue to receive
      bevacizumab (as above) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive paclitaxel and carboplatin with or without bevacizumab as in Arm I.
      Patients also receive cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats
      every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. After completion of 6 courses, patients may continue to receive cetuximab with or
      without bevacizumab (as above) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year and
      then every 6 months for 2 years.
    
  