
    
      Primary Objectives:

        1. To evaluate the effectiveness of concurrent ipilimumab therapy and SART of melanoma
           based on 1-year and 2-year overall survival.

        2. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of concurrent ipilimumab therapy and SART of
           melanoma based on CTCAE grading of toxicities, and to identify any novel or unexpected
           Grade 3 or 4 toxicities thought specifically related to ipilimumab and concurrent SART
           during first 3 cycles of ipilimumab therapy (prior to week 9) in a Phase II study.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To evaluate the 1-year and 2-year disease control rates (CR+PR+SD)

        2. Assess treatment response based on Immune Related Response Criteria (irRC) and mWHO
           criteria.

        3. Characterize overall survival by Kaplan-Meier analysis.

      Exploratory Objectives:

        1. Evaluate individual lesion control (<25% progression) following body SART at 6, 12, 24
           months.

        2. Describe number of patients requiring retreatment of any local lesion with surgery or
           other treatments.

        3. Describe the incidence of new brain metastases following ipilimumab therapy.

        4. Describe the incidence of treatment related toxicity and/or symptomatic bleeding,
           perforation, or necrosis at SART treated tumor sites.

        5. Explore the use of circulating melanoma cells and serum metastasis gene expression
           levels as prognostic and predictive (intermediate) markers to identify responding
           patients.

        6. Assess the effect of therapy on quality of life, using ECOG score as a surrogate.

      Study Rationale:

      Ipilimumab may markedly enhance the immunologic responses to tumor antigen released from
      necrotic tumor cells by radiotherapy by promoting cytotoxic T cell activation, while
      preventing induction of antigen tolerance. In addition, further beneficial immunologic
      effects may be achieved by the reduction in the amount of viable tumor cell mass. The net
      effect may be to promote a significantly enhanced antitumor T cell response. This will result
      in improved 1-year and 2-year survival, especially if a minimal or microscopic disease state
      can be achieved within a patient following SART.

      Biologic Correlation Studies:

      There are currently no standard prognostic or predictive markers to evaluate or predict
      outcome of ipilimumab therapy. This study provides the opportunity for exploratory analysis
      of several candidate hypotheses that may predict outcome.
    
  