
    
      The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) identifies employment as a priority issue for OEF/OIF
      veterans. However, OEF/OIF veterans with polytrauma represent a new and unique VA
      sub-population. Polytraumatic injuries are more complex than injuries sustained in any
      previous conflict. Returning to work, therefore, may prove especially challenging. Among
      individuals with severe disabilities, employment outcomes are closely tied to the
      individual's level of success with Independent Living (IL). IL refers to the ability to
      reside in the community and participate in activities of choice by managing available
      resources, negotiating barriers and exercising self-determination. IL often is viewed as a
      prerequisite to employment for severely disabled individuals, because barriers and
      facilitators to independence at home and in the community also influence success in the
      workplace. Thus, IL will be a critical first step to pursuing vocational/employment goals for
      OEF/OIF veterans with polytrauma. To date, no published studies have investigated IL among
      veterans with polytrauma. This pilot study will be the first project in a line of research to
      promote the independence and employability OEF/OIF veterans. The goals of the study are
      twofold. Goal 1 of the study is to investigate the barriers and facilitators to IL identified
      by community dwelling OEF/OIF veterans with polytrauma, caregivers, and IL service providers,
      and perceptions of how these factors may affect veterans' return to work. This goal will be
      accomplished by using qualitative methods for data collection and analyses. Qualitative
      interviewing will be used to elicit the perspectives of veterans with polytrauma and
      caregivers living in Florida, and Florida-based Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment IL
      service providers. Qualitative data will be coded, and then analyzed using the constant
      comparative method. Goal #2 of the study is to evaluate the feasibility of using the data
      collection tools and procedures for a future planned study. An efficacy evaluation will be
      used to test and refine the data collection tools (interview guides and demographic
      checklists). To evaluate data collection procedures, field notes will be recorded and
      analyzed to identify optimal organizational procedures and time parameters to minimize
      subject burden. Findings will be used to plan and design a large, national study of factors
      affecting return to work among OEF/OIF veterans with polytrauma living throughout the United
      States. Findings also will be used to develop future proposals to fund longitudinal research
      and implementation projects to improve employability outcomes among veterans with polytrauma.
    
  