
    
      PROCEDURES INVOLVED IN THE RESEARCH

      The total time commitment of this study will be ~7 hours. Each participant's first visit
      (familiarization) will include an interview through where the researchers will determine if
      there are any reasons that the participant cannot take part in the study. The researchers
      will explain the study protocol and, upon the participant's consent, the investigators will
      obtain the participant's knee extension maximum voluntary contraction (MVC) on a dynamometer
      (Biodex, Shirley, USA) and a 1 repetition-maximum (RM) test on a knee extension machine.
      Following that, the investigators will determine the next two dates (trial days) in which the
      participant will come in.

      The participant will be asked to come in fasted on two separate trial days, each separated by
      two weeks, after the participant's familiarization visit. The participant will be required to
      avoid physical activity 48 hours before each of the three visits. There are four conditions
      in this study, each varying in relative load and speed of contraction. The participant will
      complete two conditions on each trial day, one with each leg. The conditions include: 80%RM
      Normal (80N; 1 eccentric: 1 pause: 1 concentric), 80% Slow (80S; 3:1:3), 30% Normal (30N;
      1:1:1) and 30% Slow (30S; 3:1:3). Each condition will include three sets to voluntary failure
      on a knee extension machine. Before and after each set the participant will perform three
      MVCs on the dynamometer identical to what the participant did on the familiarization day. The
      investigators will record the participant's rating of perceived exertion and effort via the
      Borg scale and electromyography (EMG), respectively. The participant will have one biopsy
      taken pre-training and two, one per condition/leg, one hour post-training.

      The REB Project Number for this study is: 802
    
  