
    
      Background: With improved survival rates, there are growing numbers of cancer survivors.
      These individuals report impaired physical functioning, anxiety and depressed mood, fatigue,
      and reduced quality of life after treatment. In addition, they may be at increased risk for
      cardiovascular disease, obesity, osteoporosis and future cancers. Prior research has
      demonstrated that moderate-intensity physical activity (PA) can improve enhance physical
      functioning, reduce fatigue and improve vigor among cancer patients and those who have
      completed medical treatments. These efforts have not been integrated with the healthcare
      system. Data support the role of primary care providers in promoting PA among their sedentary
      patients; the role of oncologists in encouraging patients to become physically active has not
      been examined.

      Objectives: This study aims at testing the efficacy of a PA intervention in an outpatient
      oncology setting. We plan to compare Brief Advice for PA (MD advice plus contact control) vs.
      Extended Advice (MD advice plus telephone-based PA counseling by research staff) over 3
      months among 300 women who have completed treatment for breast cancer in the past 2 years.

      Specific Aims: The primary aim is to examine the effects of oncologists' advice on PA plus
      telephone counseling (Extended Advice) vs. oncologists' advice (Brief Advice) alone on
      minutes of moderate-intensity PA at 3 months among 300 sedentary women who have completed
      treatment for breast cancer.

      Secondary aims include examining a) the effects of the two interventions on participants'
      moderate-intensity PA at 6 and 12 months, b) the effects of the interventions on
      participants' physical functioning, fatigue, vigor and quality of life (QOL) at 3, 6 and 12
      months, and c) the acceptability of the interventions to the oncologists and the usefulness
      of the interventions to patients.

      Study Design: A randomized, controlled trial will be conducted in outpatient oncology
      practices in Rhode Island. Within this setting, the oncologists and research staff will offer
      a 3 month, theoretically-based intervention to increase moderate-intensity PA among 300
      sedentary women aged 18 and older who attend cancer follow-up visits. The unit of
      randomization will be at the patient level.

      Cancer Relevance: If the data are promising, the study lays the groundwork for improving
      cancer recovery by integrating a brief PA intervention into follow-up care for cancer
      survivors. This study offers the potential to improve the follow-up care for cancer survivors
      by encouraging them to becoming physically active, to help reduce the emotional and physical
      side-effects of cancer and its treatment, as well as possibly reduce their risk for other
      chronic diseases such as cardiovascular disease and osteoporosis.
    
  