
    
      Background:

      Nearly 78% of Veterans are overweight or obese, imposing a tremendous burden on the Veterans
      Health Administration (VHA) healthcare system for the treatment of obesity-related chronic
      disease and disability. While weight management treatment has been implemented in VHA,
      program data shows low enrollment, participation, and weight loss. Traditional behavioral
      weight loss trials frequently exclude individuals with multiple chronic health conditions.
      Additionally, men are less likely than women to participate in these trials. New weight loss
      approaches may be needed to treat these populations.

      Objectives:

      To test whether a small-changes intervention (The Aspiring to Lifelong Health Program; aka
      ASPIRE), delivered in groups or individually via telephone, promotes greater weight loss than
      standard obesity treatment in a predominantly male, high-risk Veteran population. Data were
      collected in 2010-13.

      Methods:

      A three-arm, 12-month randomized pragmatic effectiveness trial was conducted. Participants
      were recruited from MOVE! referrals and randomly assigned to one of three programs: the
      12-month ASPIRE weight loss program delivered 1) individually over the phone (ASPIRE-Phone)
      or 2) in-person group sessions (ASPIRE-Group); compared to 3) Veteran Health Administration's
      VHA standard weight loss program, MOVE!. Participants in the ASPIRE arms met with health
      coaches weekly in months 1-3, bi-weekly in months 4-9, and monthly in months 10-12. Usual
      care participants met weekly for 12 weeks with limited options for follow-up care. The ASPIRE
      program had distinct characteristics: 1) the opportunity for most participants to work with
      one lifestyle coach throughout treatment, 2) an emphasis on behavior change through a "small
      steps" approach; 3) the prominence of self-monitoring both physical activity and food intake
      as a weight loss tool; and 4) the addition of a purely phone based option. Assessments that
      included the collection of weight, waist circumference and lab values, along with
      questionnaires, were conducted at baseline, 3-months and 12-months. ASPIRE also added a
      follow-up component to the study, which was offered to patients at their 12-month assessment.
      For phone and group patients, it consisted of sessions every other month and an assessment at
      18 and 24 months. Usual care patients participated in the assessments only.

      Phone-based Interviews were conducted shortly after the 3-month assessment with 19 patients
      in the ASPIRE phone arm and with 16 in the ASPIRE group arm. These interviews were recorded,
      transcribed and analyzed using NVivo qualitative software to identify themes associated with
      successful weight loss at 3-month.

      Approximately 5% of all phone and group intervention sessions were audio-recorded. An expert
      rater used a checklist to rate session fidelity. A second rater independently assessed 30% of
      the recorded sessions to establish inter-rater reliability. The checklist was
      psychometrically validated. It was hypothesized that greater adherence to core behavioral
      change processes and patient-centered communication strategies by the interventionists would
      be associated with higher levels of weight loss.

      Using intention-to-treat principles guide all analyses. The primary outcome was weight change
      and secondary outcomes included changes in anthropometric (e.g., waist circumference),
      behavioral, fitness, psychosocial, and physiological measures. The primary analytic approach
      relied on a linear mixed-effects model with baseline, 3- and 12-month outcomes (e.g., weight)
      as dependent variables, with each subject as a random intercept to adjust for within-patient
      correlation of the repeated measures, fixed predictors of study arm indicators, 3- and
      12-month time indicators, and time-by-study arm interactions.

      Status:

      All coaching and assessments are complete. A design and rationale paper has been published, a
      paper highlighting 12-month results is in revision. Papers on fidelity, qualitative findings,
      the role of mental illness and binge eating on weight loss are in progress. Analyses of
      24-month data are underway.
    
  