
    
      Background and overview

      More than one third of patients with colorectal cancer (CRC) suffer from comorbidity such as
      heart and lung diseases. This comorbidity markedly impairs survival after surgical treatment
      owing to increased mortality within the first weeks to months after surgery, and this
      increased mortality is related to medical complications such as heart and lung complications.
      Since the operation itself constitutes a severe challenge to the patient's cardiopulmonary
      system, this study aims to elucidate whether a more systematic perioperative management and
      follow-up of colorectal cancer patients with cardiopulmonary comorbidity may improve their
      outcome as measured by complications, hospitalisation times, and survival within the first
      year.

      All patients scheduled for elective surgical treatment of colorectal cancer at Vejle Hospital
      are screened by a study nurse for cardiopulmonary comorbidity to determine their eligibility
      for inclusion. If they fulfil inclusion criteria, they are seen preoperatively by a
      cardiologist and/or a pulmonary physician and undergo echocardiography and/or spirometry.

      Included patients are randomized postoperatively to either standard follow-up alone
      ("standard" group) or standard follow-up supplemented with structured medical management and
      follow-up ("intervention" group). Patients in the intervention group are examined on the 4th
      or 5th postoperative day by an experienced physician from the Department of Internal
      Medicine. Furthermore, the intervention group is followed up at outpatient visits 1 and 3
      months postoperatively. The 1-month visit includes a cardiology visit with echocardiography
      and ECG, and a pulmonary medicine visit with spirometry. The 3-month visit includes only a
      pulmonary medicine visit with spirometry.

      Mortality, cardiopulmonary complications, hospitalisation time and treatment changes induced
      by the structured follow-up will be recorded as outcome measures for the intervention.

      Hypothesis

      Patients with cardiopulmonary comorbidity who have their standard follow-up extended to
      include a structured medical management and follow-up after surgery for colorectal cancer
      obtain a better outcome as measured by less cardiopulmonary morbidity and better survival
      within the first year.

      Aim

      To test a study design with systematic preoperative screening for cardiopulmonary comorbidity
      and postoperative randomization of eligible patients to either standard followup alone or
      standard follow-up supplemented with structured medical management and follow-up after
      operation for colorectal cancer.

      Design

      A randomized feasibility study. Based on older data, it will require approximately 400
      patients in each arm to demonstrate a 10 % reduction in the expected mortality. This study
      aims to test the design and acquire more reliable mortality data in each arm in order to
      establish the basis for a larger multicentre study.
    
  