
    
      This study will demonstrate whether PEMF therapy is an effective adjunct treatment to the
      traditional treatment protocol used for the resolution of VSLU and of the pain associated
      with them. This is a 4 arm study done by comparing the outcomes of treatment with a low-power
      PEMF device, a medium-power PEMF device and a high-power PEMF device against those obtained
      from the control group treated with a sham PEMF device.

      A device usability study is included in the study protocol to evaluate the participants'
      understanding of the device packaging, the User Manual, the device labeling, the controls and
      the directions for use. An un-blinded assistant ("UA") will manage the device usability study
      and hand out all informational literature and instructions to each participant, in accordance
      with the randomization protocol. Participants' success will be rated and their perception on
      the ease of use and how to make the device easier to use will be solicited.

      Safety precautions and contraindications are specifically defined, and adverse/ unexpected
      events and reactions, if any, will be documented as they arise.

      The primary aims of the study are to assess the effects of 16 weeks of PEMF treatment on the
      VSLU with one of three PEMF devices of different power levels against a sham PEMF device. The
      study has 3 specific aims:

      Aim 1 (Primary) Determine if the use of specific PEMFs affect the time for healing trajectory
      of VSLU. Healing trajectory over the 16 week of the study protocol will be measured as the
      area under the curve for total lesion area expressed as a percentage of the baseline area.

      Aim 2 (Secondary) Determine if VSLU and serum levels of three inflammatory cytokines: IL-1,
      IL-6 and TNF-alpha are affected by the use of specific PEMFs.

      Aim 3 (Secondary) Determine if VSLU pain is improved by the use of specific PEMFs. Pain
      levels will be assessed with the use of allowed pain medication use by each participant. Pain
      will also be assessed with the five (5) pain scales from the National Initiative on Pain
      Control pain assessment scales ("NIPC scales") that will help each participant describe
      his/her pain levels and characteristics both quantitatively and qualitatively.

      Eighty participants will be enrolled on the basis of leg ulcers due to venous insufficiency
      (VSLU) alone unless there are exclusions factors. The 80 participants will be divided in four
      groups of 20 participants: three treatment groups and a control group. Of the initial 80
      participants at the investigation site approved to participate in this study, the outcome
      data of a net total of 72 participants, 18 per group, will be considered for analysis. The
      randomization protocol used for this study will occur in two stages: first with the blinding
      of the participants and the random assignment of a unique record number ("URN") to each of
      them and, second, with the random allocation of one of the PEMF or sham devices to each
      participant. Device allocation will be done according to a computer-generated table of random
      permutations designed to balance the number of participants in each group. All the data from
      the follow-ups, various assessments and testing procedures will be collected under the study
      URN for each participant. The URNs will be kept in a URN Record Log and kept in a locked
      cabinet in the principal investigator ("PI") 's office. Aside from the UA who will not be
      involved in data collection, monitoring or analysis, the investigators will be blinded to the
      URN assignment and to the PEMF or sham treatment protocol followed by each participant during
      the study. The randomization will not be broken until all eighty participants have completed
      the study.

      The required effect sizes are all large; however, the PEMF effects are expected to be very
      large. The sample size of 80 participants provides required large effect sizes. Twenty
      patients will be enrolled per group and 18 are expected to have enough data to be included in
      the analysis.

      Aim 1 With 20 participants enrolled in each of four arms, and a net sample size of 18 per
      group (accounting for 10% with incomplete data) and a p-value of 0.017 required for
      significance, there will be 80% power for a t-test to detect an effect size of 1.1 (i.e. a
      difference in mean area under the curve equal to 1.1 standard deviations). The secondary
      analysis for time to complete healing will have 80% power to detect a hazard ratio of 3.0.

      Aim 2 and 3 The power for the multivariate test will be approximated by that available for a
      two sample t-test. With a net sample size of 18 per group and a p-value of 0.017 required for
      significance, the effect size will need to be 1.1 in order to have 80% power for a t-test.
      For the Wilcoxon rank sum test, the effect size may be expressed by the quantity Prob(X < Y)
      where X and Y are drug usage values from a random control group patient and a random patient
      from one of the PEMF groups. Under the null hypothesis, Prob(X < Y) = 0.5. With a sample size
      of 18 per group and alpha = 0.017, there will be 80% power to detect Prob(X < Y) = 0.81.

      The Project Director, a direct agent of the company sponsoring the study, will periodically
      visit the research site to ensure the study is conducted in compliance with the approved
      Clinical Investigation Protocol and that the PI, the research assistant ("RA") and the UA
      adhere to the Protocol.

      A record of the number of all screened participants, participants who refuse entry, and those
      entered in the study will be kept by the UA to follow CONSORT guidelines. He or she will also
      be informed and keep a record of any dropouts and the reason the participant was dropped from
      the study.

      Statistical data will include 2 series of survey questionnaires at baseline and at the end of
      the study. The questionnaires include: Your Health in General (SF-36) and pain assessment
      using the National Initiative on Pain Control pain ("NIPC") assessment scales. A count,
      measurement and imaging of the VSLU using Silhouette High Tech cameras. Pain levels and pain
      medication intake will also be obtained weekly using a Caregiver Diary. A fluid and a small
      blood sample will be collected weekly from the VSLU area and tested for various inflammation
      biomarkers and growth factors. The data will be noted using a series of case report forms.

      The primary tests for a PEMF benefit will be made using a Hochberg adjustment to take into
      account testing a single primary outcome measure (healing trajectory) measured three times,
      once for each of three different PEMF variations versus control. Under the Hochberg method,
      if all three primary test p-values are under 0.05, then all three will be considered
      significant. However, if only one is under 0.05, it will need to be under 0.05/3 = 0.017 in
      order to be considered significant. Assuming at least one of the PEMF variations is superior
      to control for at least one of the outcomes, a secondary analysis will compare each of the
      PEMF variations to the other two. A Hochberg adjustment will also be made for each of the two
      sets of secondary comparisons (pain and cytokines).

      Aim 1 (Primary) The healing trajectory over 16 weeks will be compared for each PEMF variation
      versus the control group by t-test. Healing trajectory will be measured as the area under the
      curve for total lesion area expressed as a percentage of the baseline area.

      Secondary analysis will use a log rank test to compare the times to complete healing.
      Descriptive analysis will plot the number of ulcers and their combined area over time for
      each subject. Kaplan-Meier survival curves for the time to complete healing will also be
      produced.

      Aim 2 (Secondary) A multivariate test will be made comparing each PEMF group versus control,
      for a vector made up of the three cytokines: IL-1, IL-6 and TNF-alpha.

      Aim 3 (Secondary) A multivariate test will be made comparing each PEMF group versus control,
      for a vector made up of the five pain scales. Pain medication usage will also be summarized
      using two quantities: a morphine equivalent dose to summarize all opioid drugs used, and a
      maximum dose equivalent for NSAIDs. Averages for these two medication use measures will be
      computed for the 16 weeks of observations and each will be analyzed separately using a
      Wilcoxon rank sum test.

      The blinding assessment will occur at the end of the treatment protocol. Participants and
      investigators will be probed as to the device and treatment protocol each received.

      All data, resulting analyses, and reports will remain proprietary to the sponsor. All case
      report forms and final data reports will be submitted to the sponsor for review and approval
      prior to any publication being made.

      The data obtained from this study will demonstrate whether treatment with specific PEMFs
      affect the time for healing trajectory of VSLU; affect VSLU and serum levels of inflammatory
      cytokines; and if VSLU pain is improved.

      A successful resolution of leg ulcers from venous stasis and the associated pain using
      therapeutic means, such as PEMF therapy, that are conservative, non-invasive,
      non-pharmacological and with no known undesirable side effects may prove to be quite
      significant.
    
  