
    
      In Ontario, approximately 130,000 sleep studies were conducted in 2008, which is twice the
      number of sleep studies reported in 1999. In 2008, Ontario spent approximately $40 million on
      polysomnography (PSG) testing alone, despite the fact that access to PSG remained limited,
      with an average waiting time of approximately 3.5 months for an in-laboratory sleep study and
      approximately 12 months from referral to appropriate treatment. Portable monitors (PM) have
      been developed in an effort to substitute for the more costly and labor intensive
      clinic-based PSG. As of 2011, there are over 40 PM commercially available in the United
      States with different configurations for cardiorespiratory and neurophysiologic signals.

      At the request of the Ontario Health Technology Advisory Committee (OHTAC), a panel that
      makes recommendations to the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care about the uptake
      and diffusion of health technologies, the Toronto Rehabilitation Institute convened an expert
      panel in 2007 to explore alternative approaches to the diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnea
      (OSA). Members of the expert panel suggested that despite the availability of a large number
      of PMs, home assessments are problematic as technicians are required to ensure continuous
      placement of electrodes for reliable testing. They also suggested that a good screening tool
      was not available at that time. The Toronto Rehabilitation Institute therefore undertook a
      research study that eventually led to the development of the ApneaDx™ PM.

      ApneaDx™ is a new PM that uses a microphone to record breath sounds and an acoustical
      analysis algorithm of breath sounds to determine the (Apnea Hypopnea Index) AHI. Results from
      preliminary studies suggest that the AHI derived from ApneaDx™ approximates that from PSG. In
      preliminary studies, it appears that for the diagnosis of sleep apnea, home sleep study with
      ApneaDx™ is simple and reliable even when conducted by untrained users.

      This study evaluates the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of OSA diagnosed assisted by a
      home sleep study with ApneaDx™. This study will be conducted by the Toronto Health Economics
      and Technology Assessment (THETA) Collaborative. Data from this study will be used to support
      practice recommendations regarding the use of a home sleep study with ApneaDx™ as input for
      diagnosis of OSA by the OHTAC and reimbursement considerations by the Ontario Ministry of
      Health and Long-Term Care.
    
  