
    
      Study Design and Setting This randomized, double blind, placebo control study was performed
      in the emergency department of a tertiary care university hospital in Turkey receiving
      >100,000 patient presentations annually. Approval was granted by the Karadeniz Technical
      University institutional ethical committee. Written and informed consent was received from
      all patients enrolled. The data collected period commenced on 1 February 2014, and the study
      period lasted for 1 year until 1 February 2015.

      Selection of Participants Patients undergoing contrast enhanced thoracic tomography due to
      suspected PE, aged over 18, with measureable basal creatinine levels pre-tomography and
      measurable serum creatinine levels 48-72 h post-tomography and with one or more of the risk
      factors for CIN cited below were enrolled. The risk factors were pre-existing renal
      dysfunction (Cre 1.4 mg/dl or a high or calculated glomerular filtration rate <60 ml/min/1.73
      m2), diabetes mellitus, hypertension receiving treatment, hypotension (SBP<90 mmHg), coronary
      artery disease, history of nephrotoxic drug use (NSAID, cisplatin, aminoglycoside,
      amphotericin B), liver disease, congestive heart failure (active or history thereof), age 65
      or over, and anemia (Htc <30%). Patients refusing to participate or to provide informed
      consent, end stage renal patients already in peritoneal dialysis or hemodialysis, pregnant
      women, subjects with a known allergy to N-acetylcysteine or Na-bicarbonate, patients
      requiring NAC therapy or Na-bicarbonate therapy for existing additional disease, and patients
      exposed to contrast material for any reason in the previous 2 days were excluded. In
      addition, if the study protocol was considered by the physician responsible for treatment in
      the emergency department as being liable to delay medical care or have adverse effects, or if
      any of the drugs in the protocol were thought to be contraindicated, such patients were also
      excluded.

      Interventions Computer-based block randomization was employed to randomize subjects. Three
      groups, A, B and C were established, each representing a drug branch treatment code.

      The diagnostic approach algorithm to be applied in patients with suspected PE and the
      planning of treatment of PE were based on the 2014 ESC Guidelines on the diagnosis and
      management of acute pulmonary embolism.

      In the NAC group; 3 gr NAC was made up to 1000 ml with NS; a 1 ml/3 mgr NAC solution was
      obtained and 3 ml/kg NAC+NS solution was administered for 1 h before CTPA and a 1 ml/kg per
      hour NAC+NS solution was administered for a minimum 6 h after CTPA. In the NaHCO3 group; 132
      mEq NaHCO3 was made up to 1000 ml with NS; and 3 ml/kg NaHCO3+NS solution was administered
      for 1 h before CTPA and 1 ml/kg per hour NaHCO3+NS solution was administered for a minimum of
      6 h after CTPA. In the NS group: 3 ml/kg NS was administered for 1 h before CTPA and 1 ml/kg
      per hour was administered for a minimum of 6 h after CTPA.

      Clinical follow-up Post-CTPA prophylactic infusion was maintained for at least 6 h. Patients
      unable to complete that period were removed from the study and not included in the analysis.

      Patients were regularly observed by the physician responsible for patient monitoring and by
      authors blind to the prophylactic alternatives received throughout the study. Creatinine
      measurements required for determining CIN development in 48 to 72 h were performed in the
      departments in which patients were hospitalized, while discharged patients were invited to
      return to the emergency department where venous blood specimens were collected using
      phlebotomy.

      Outcome Measures CIN development (an increase ≥25% or 0.5 mg/dl in creatinine levels 48-72 h
      after contrast exposure compared to basal levels) was evaluated as the primary outcome in the
      study.

      A secondary outcome was assessed as moderate renal injury developing during hospitalization
      (defined as a 100% increase in serum creatinine levels, severe renal failure requiring
      hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis) or in-hospital mortality. Patients were monitored
      throughout hospitalization until either discharge or mortality.
    
  