clinical study and histological study of the liver in hepatitis ininfants.  i.  classification and findings of clinical study andhistological study of the liver in hepatitis in infants (japanese).clinical observations and histological studiesby liver biopsy on hepatitis in infancy,i. e. obstructive jaundice of unknown cause ininfants, were made.  histologically,hepatitis in infancy was divisible into 3 types:(1) no giant cell formation was observed.in general, slight degeneration of livercells, necrosis and inflammatorychanges with stasis of bile were characteristic.(2) the so-called giant cell hepatitiswas characteristic.  (3) specific type, presentingthe picture of cholangiolitis.histological changes in the liver other than biliarystasis were scanty.  no specificchanges which could clinically differentiate the3 types were found.  in each type,serum bilirubin, sgot and sgpt activities hadslight characteristic points in clinicaland laboratory studies.  in type 1, the valueswere relatively low, while in type2 they were markedly high.  in type 3, sgot activitywas within normal range.  histologicalcharacteristics of the liver of type 1were necrosis of liver cells, formationof acidophilic granules and balloon cells,cellular infiltration in glisson's capsule,and biliary stasis in the liver cells andfine bile ducts.  morphologically, findingsof viral hepatitis were observed.  in type2 liver tissue was replaced by manymultinuclear giant cells.  extreme distortionof cords of liver cells and cellular infiltrationin glisson's capsule and lobules werenoted.  there was marked biliarystasis in the capillary bile ducts and liver cells.it was characteristic that proliferationof bile ducts and bile plugs were not found,which was consistent with giantcell hepatitis of craing-landing.  in type 3, degenerationof liver cells, necrosisand inflammatory changes were slight.  biliarystasis in the hepatic lobules was conspicuous.histological findings similar to cholangiolitichepatitis due to drug poisoningwere observed.