2542. symposium on the fine structure and replication of bacteria and theirparts. ii. bacterial cytoplasmcomparison of the fine structure of thecytoplasm of the bacterial cell with that ofthe 'cell in general' reveals importantdifferences leading to the conclusion that, inthe bacterial cytoplasm, there is littledifferentiation into separate functional en-tities.  there is no nuclear membrane, andfine fibrils appear to extend from the nucleo-plasm into the cytoplasm where they mayexpand in all directions.  the cytoplasm is notnecessarily intersected by membranousprofiles of special configuration, as is borneout by e. coli b and other gram-negativeorganisms.  when membranous profilesof special configuration are present, asin the gram-positive b. subtilis, thesedo not appear differentiated into clearlydefinable endoplasmic reticulum, golgisubstance, microbodies, etc., and mitochondria.as for kinetosomes, the presenceof centrioles is perhaps not very likely.  theexperiments in which tellurite is re-duced in the cells suggest that there arestructures at the base of the flagella withreductive capacity.  however, upon applicationof the tetranitro-blue tetrazoliumtechnic to b. subtilis, these are not stained.they are presumably identical withbasal granules.  the membranous structuresin b. subtilis are called chondrioidsby the author because probably one of theirfunctions is that they are the sites ofthe respiratory enzyme chain.  in thegram-negative p. vulgaris, the probable siteof the respiratory chain has a structurevery different from that in the bacillus; itis not clear whether membranes areinvolved in their structure.  morphologically,even in b. subtilis chondrioids differfundamentally from the mitochondria in thatthey are not built up from compositemembranes, they are extensions of the plasmamembrane, and they may not be completelyclosed systems.  regarding this lastpoint, it was observed that chondrioids maypossibly stand in open connection withthe cell's environment, since its lumen is notseparated from the cell wall by aplasma membrane.  although as yet nothing isknown about this, it does not seem tobe precluded that these membranous organellesmay function also as intracellulartransport systems.  contrary to porter's ideasabout er, the chondrioids are notextensions of a nuclear envelope, but of theplasma membrane.  on the other hand,they are in the nuclear area, in direct contactwith the nucleoplasm, and therefore,perhaps, they need not carry in their interiorsome dna, as is now becoming knownfor ordinary mitochondria.  the chromatophorevesicle is of a simple structure andin connection with the plasma membrane.  it iscovered by a single membrane andthus resembles the granum disc, but it is muchsmaller.  in tissue cells, an im-portant function of the er is the support of proteinsynthesis by ribosomes boundto their surfaces.  evidence is now accumulatingthat the active complexes for poly-peptide synthesis in bacteria are also membrane-boundand are series of 70s ribo-somes using the same messenger rna molecule.it remains a contradictory situ-ation that the particles obtained here through releaseof cytoplasm from protoplastsin diluted, rather crude fixing media, and identifiedas ribosomes, could not berecognized as such in thin sections of the ryter-kellenbergerfixed protoplasts.this point is much in need of clarification.  buteven if the cytoplasm in the thinsections of the protoplasts is in a state ofdispersion brought about artificially, itis still apparent from the various micrographsthat basically the cytoplasm is anetwork of presumably linear arrays, with manyinterconnections due to fibrillarsystems.  fibrils from the nucleoplasm penetratedeeply into the cytoplasm.  thepresence of fine fibrils of various thicknesses,electron densities, and orientationsmakes high-resolution study of the cytoplasmicdetails an intriguing prospect fromwhich much fundamental information can begained.  the organizational pattern onthe ultrastructural level in bacteria revealsfundamental similarities and divergen-cies from that in the 'cell in general'.