
    
      The objective of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of CONCERTA®
      (methylphenidate hydrochloride) in the treatment of adolescents with Attention Deficit
      Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). This is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled study with adolescents ages 13-18 diagnosed with ADHD. The study consists
      of four phases. The Screening Phase establishes the diagnosis of ADHD and provides a one-week
      washout period without any ADHD medication. The Open-Label Titration Phase initiates the
      treatment of patients with one CONCERTA® 18 mg daily. Thereafter, the dose is increased
      approximately every 7 days in 18 mg increments (to a maximum of 72 mg daily), until an
      individualized dose is identified, based on the clinical judgment of the investigator. During
      the Double-Blind Phase, subjects are randomized to receive either their individualized
      CONCERTA® dose or a placebo, for a period of 2 weeks. Subjects who successfully complete the
      Double-Blind Phase are eligible to receive CONCERTA® for an 8-week, Open-Label, Follow-up
      Phase. The primary efficacy measurement is the total score of the ADHD Rating Scale,
      evaluated by the investigator at the end of the Double-Blind Phase. Safety assessments
      include monitoring adverse events, electrocardiograms (ECG), blood pressure, pulse, height
      and weight throughout the course of the study. The study hypothesis is that CONCERTA® is more
      effective than placebo in the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder in
      adolescents, and is well tolerated.

      Titration Phase: CONCERTA® 18 mg taken orally, once daily, and increased approximately every
      7 days in 18 mg increments up to a maximum daily dose of 72 mg. Double-Blind Phase:
      Individualized dose of CONCERTA® or placebo for 2 weeks. Open-Label Phase: Individualized
      dose of CONCERTA® for 8 weeks.
    
  