
    
      Background/Rationale: Recent international Guidelines and reviews have highlighted that
      studies of intraoperative irrigation are small, outdated (i.e., no longer reflect current
      standards of care), and judged to be of very low to moderate quality, and have called for
      additional RCTs. For example, as per the WHO Guidelines, RCTs are needed to assess frequently
      utilized irrigation solutions and their effect on SSI and state that a suitable alternative
      to povidone-iodine is currently unknown. Furthermore, determining whether irrigation with
      antiseptics and antibiotics can reduce SSIs was listed as a key research recommendation by
      NICE, in addition to determining cost-effectiveness of the intervention. Further evidence is
      required to support or refute the effectiveness of intraoperative irrigation in reducing SSIs
      and to address practice heterogeneity, with a focus on establishing whether irrigation is
      needed, and if so, which solution is optimal for this practice. We aim to address this
      knowledge gap by assessing the benefit of intraoperative wound irrigation with
      povidone-iodine solution as compared to with saline, or no irrigation in adults aged 18 years
      or older who are scheduled to undergo an elective abdominal surgery.

      Objectives: Before embarking on a definitive RCT, this pilot trial has five specific
      feasibility objectives:

        1. To assess our ability to accrue patients using the IMPACTS Program design platform at
           multiple institutions, over the course of one year.

        2. To assess our ability to adaptively randomize patients and deliver the randomized
           assignment using the IMPACTS Program design platform, over the course of one year.

        3. To assess our ability to collect complete data directly from participants (patients and
           clinicians) on: surgical site infection and quality of life over the course of one year.

        4. To examine our ability to carry out data linkages using the IMPACTS Program design
           platform over the course of one year.

        5. To estimate the rate of surgical site infections to inform the sample size calculation
           for the definitive trial.

      Study design: This is a multicenter, pragmatic, open-label, 3-arm Vanguard RCT. Participants
      will be randomized using an adaptive design to incisional wound irrigation with
      povidone-iodine versus incisional wound irrigation with saline versus no irrigation.
      Participants will be followed until 30 days after surgery to assess the incidence of SSIs,
      with additional outcomes collected until 90 days after surgery. If feasibility is
      demonstrated during the pilot trial, we will plan to conduct a definitive trial. If there are
      only minimal changes to the protocol, we will include data from the pilot phase into the
      definitive trial analysis (i.e. a Vanguard design).
    
  