
    
      Current therapeutic approaches for epilepsy primarily represent symptomatic treatments that
      suppress seizures, but have not been demonstrated to prevent epilepsy or modify disease
      progression. In recent years, there have been tremendous interest and effort by basic
      scientists and clinicians in epilepsy in developing disease-modifying or "antiepileptogenic"
      therapies. However, these efforts are hindered by a couple significant limitations: 1)
      difficulty in identifying an appropriate high-risk patient population in which a preventative
      approach is feasible and justifiable, and 2) lack of appropriate drug targets with
      antiepileptogenic properties. Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC) is one of the most common
      genetic causes of epilepsy and a subset of TSC patients may represent a rational, feasible
      population to target with an antiepileptogenic approach for several reasons. First of all,
      some patients are diagnosed with TSC at a young age before the onset of epilepsy due to
      non-neurological findings - thus, it is feasible to identify these patients and initiate a
      potential antiepileptogenic treatment at an early stage of epileptogenesis. Second, these
      patients are at high risk for developing epilepsy (~80%) in the future, including infantile
      spasms (~35%), a particularly devastating type of childhood epilepsy with a poor prognosis -
      thus, initiating a therapy with potential side effects in a pre-symptomatic stage can likely
      be justified in TSC patients. Finally, the identification of the mTOR pathway in the
      pathophysiology of TSC suggests that mTOR inhibitors could have antiepileptogenic properties
      in TSC, as already supported by pre-clinical animal studies - thus, a rational
      mechanistically-based treatment potentially already exists and can be readily tested in TSC
      patients. However, there may be significant risks and side effects of mTOR inhibitors,
      especially during early childhood, such as chronic immunosuppression and theoretical effects
      on learning, growth, and development. Thus, before initiating an antiepileptogenic drug trial
      in TSC patients, it would be beneficial to obtain further evidence to optimize the selection
      criteria and treatment paradigms to maximize efficacy and minimize side effects of mTOR
      inhibitors.

      The aim of this clinical trial is to determine whether EEGs during infancy is a reliable
      biomarker to identify TSC patients that will develop infantile spasms/epilepsy in the near
      future and thus are appropriate candidates for an antiepileptogenic drug trial.
    
  