
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Demonstrate that carbon-11 acetate (11C-acetate) and 18F-fluoride (fluorine F 18 sodium
      fluoride) PET scans change as a result of treatment for men with metastatic
      castration-resistant prostate cancer by comparison of pre-treatment and 6-12 week
      post-treatment images (standardized uptake value [SUV], influx constant [Ki], and rate
      constant [K1]) with clinical response measures.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare results from 11C-acetate and 18F-fluoride PET scanning with the patient's clinical
      bone scan and determine which predicts clinical response better.

      II. Compare changes in 11C-acetate and 18F-fluoride PET with changes in prostate-specific
      antigen (PSA) level.

      III. Compare changes in 11C-acetate and 18F-fluoride PET with changes in urinary
      N-telopeptide and bone alkaline phosphatase.

      IV. Determine if either baseline uptake or change in uptake for 11C-acetate and/or
      18F-fluoride PET is correlated with progression-free survival by Prostate Cancer Working
      Group 2 (PCWG2) criteria (Scher, 2008).

      V. Determine if either baseline uptake or change in uptake by 11C-acetate and/or 18F-fluoride
      PET is correlated with skeletal-related events (SREs) defined as radiographic pathologic
      fracture, need for radiation to bone, need for surgery, spinal cord compression or malignant
      hypercalcemia.

      VI. Percentage of patients that experience adverse events by Common Terminology Criteria for
      Adverse Events, version 4.0.

      VII. For patients who have tissue/blood biomarkers obtained for other indications, directly
      compare baseline uptake and change in uptake by 11C-acetate and/or 18F-fluoride PET with
      those biomarkers.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive carbon-11 acetate intravenously (IV) and fluorine F 18 sodium fluoride IV
      over 1 minute and undergo PET at baseline and at 6-12 weeks after systemic therapy starts.

      After completion of treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 5 years.
    
  