
    
      Study Design The proposed study will be a longitudinal cohort study in which participants
      will attend one assessment session as inpatients in the subacute stage and a further
      assessment six months later, during which time patients are likely to be outpatients. Each
      session will last up to two hours and questionnaires may be completed within the hospital or
      outside. To minimise the drop-out, patients will be followed-up though their regular visits
      to the Queen Elizabeth National Spinal Injuries Uni (QENSIU) or Stoke Mandeville National
      Spinal Injuries Centre (NSIC) to categorise occurrence of pain, based on the recommended
      criteria for CNP and the International Spinal Cord Injury Pain Classification System. For
      those unable to attend the follow-up session, Co-Investigators will take information from
      their patient notes about their pain, allodynia and hyperalgesia in order to ensure that pain
      status is collected twice for all participants.

      The study will be carried out on 20 able bodied and 60 subacute SCI patients, 40 with no CNP,
      and 20 with CNP (refer to section 8 for group size considerations). All patients will attend
      two recording sessions, 2 hours in length, during which time they will undergo EEG recordings
      as well as sensory testing (including mechanical and thermal tests). This is based on
      protocol used with the previous cohort. The first test will be carried out as soon as the
      patients' health condition allows them to sit for the duration of the experiment (this could
      be within first 3-6 months post injury as Stoke Mandeville Natioanl Spinal Injury Centre
      (NSIC) does not admit any early injury patients) and the second assessment will take place
      approximately 6 months later. Able-bodied participants will attend only one session.

      Recruitment QENSIU admits around 110 new patients annually whilst Stoke Mandeville Hospital
      admits around 200. This gives 600 potential volunteers over a 2 year period which should be
      sufficient to recruit the targeted number. It is planned to recruit approximately half of
      participants (around 30 people with SCI) from each centre.

      Patients will be identified and approached by their clinical consultants (Co-Investigators Dr
      Mariel Purcell and Dr Maurizio Belci). Prior to participating, patients will be given
      information sheets and consent forms to sign and should the participant themselves be unable
      to physically sign, a witnessed proxy can do so on the patient's behalf.

      Able bodied participants will be recruited by advertising the study at the University of
      Glasgow and their data will be collected within the University of Glasgow Rehabilitation
      Engineering laboratory on University Campus. They will be recruited by the PhD student.

      Assessments The patient participants will attend one assessment session as inpatients in the
      subacute stage and a further assessment six months later. Experimental and data collection
      procedures will be identical in both the first and second assessments undertaken by patients.
      This includes EEG recordings, sensory testing and questionnaires. Able bodied participants
      will only attend one assessment.

      Experimental Procedures Questionnaires During assessment sessions, all patients will be asked
      to complete questionnaires which will allow us collect data on the status of their pain at
      the time of each visit.

      The following questionnaires will be given to patients who at the time of assessment
      experience CNP:

        -  Brief Pain Inventory

        -  McGill pain questionnaire

        -  Neuropathic Pain Symptoms Inventory

        -  Multidimensional health locus of control (referring to spinal cord injury as
           "condition")

        -  Pain catastrophising scale (referring to the existing pain)

      Patients who at the time of first assessment already had pain will be asked to repeat only
      first two questionnaires on the second assessment, after 6 months. It takes approximately 30
      min to fill out all 5 questionnaires. Patients can fill out questionnaires at their own time.
      Outpatients (second assessment) will receive questionnaires and an envelope with a stamp to
      post it, or they could alternatively take scan/photos of questionnaires and send them to
      research team.

      Patients with no pain will be asked to complete:

        -  Brief Pain Inventory

        -  Multidimensional health locus of control (referring to spinal cord injury as
           "condition")

      Able bodied participants will be asked to fill out the Brief Pain Inventory. All patients
      with CNP will be diagnosed prior to the study as part of their regular treatment at the
      hospital. The diagnosis is based on recommendations by the International Spinal Cord
      Association.

      Equipment All equipment has necessary medical device Certificate Europe (CE) mark. Both
      spinal units (QENSIU and NSIC) and University facilities (for able-bodied assessments) have
      the same equipment.

      Sensory Tests We will use existing clinical American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) testing
      information to assess the level and completes of injury i.e. we will gain this information
      from patient notes following assessment performed by healthcare professional.

      All patients will be tested for mechanical and thermal sensations at the foot and shin of
      both legs and on the trapezoidal muscle on both sides. These are recommended sensory sites
      from the literature for the following reasons: the feet and shanks are under the level of
      injury in both tetra and paraplegic patients and are typically reported as locations where
      most patients with SCI CNP report pain. Trapezoidal muscles are above the level of injury for
      all patients. Testing only 3 sites on both sides should minimise total assessment time and
      reduce patients' inconvenience.

      Sensory mechanical assessments will comprise a determination of light touch and pinprick
      which will also serve as a sign of allodynia and hyperalgesia. A mechanical wind up test
      (with monofilament no. 6.65) will be performed and sensory thermal tests will be conducted
      using a device named "Rolltemp" (manufacturer "Somedic SenseLab" ). This device consists of
      two rollers on handles, one roller being warm and the other cold. These are rolled over the
      skin of the patients who are able to determine the corresponding sensations. Sensory testing
      will take 30-40 min.

      Able bodied participants will not undergo sensory tests.

      EEG Recording EEG will be recorded from 64 locations over the entire scalp according to the
      American Clinical Neurophysiology Society's 10-10 system. EEG will be recorded with a g.Tech
      biosignal USB amplifier (Guger Technologies, Austria) which enables on-line EEG measurement,
      signal analysis and visualisation of EEG signals on a computer screen.

      Markers of longstanding CNP are present in both spontaneous and induced states such as during
      motor imagination. As such, EEG activity will first be recorded in the relaxed state of all
      patients with eyes open and eyes closed (spontaneous EEG), followed by EEG recording during
      cue-based motor imagination as done previously with the original cohort. This study showed
      that the presence of CNP affects cortical areas of both paralysed and non-paralysed limbs.
      Induced EEG will be recorded during cue-based motor imagination where the task will comprise
      patients sitting in front of a computer screen and undergoing several trials imagining waving
      their left hand, right hand or tapping both feet. The motor imagery session will be separated
      into 6 sub sessions each last approximately 5 minutes, to minimise patient discomfort due to
      tiredness and increased level of concentration. Duration of the EEG recording including
      setup, breaks and active participation will be up to 1.5 hours. Patients will be allowed to
      use their mobile phone or to read during the setup period.

      In summary, sensory tests and EEG recording will take approximately 2 hours and will be
      performed on the same day. Filling out self-administered questionnaires will take up to an
      additional 30 min and may be carried out on the same day or separately. During the first
      assessment patients will get advice and assistance from researchers when completing the
      questionnaires. For the second assessment they will be able to fill them out at home on their
      own.
    
  