
    
      Background: Suicide is an urgent public health crisis, and transitioning Veterans (those who
      have recently separated from the military) are a high-risk group for suicide. A key component
      to advancing suicide prevention efforts among at-risk Veterans is to address low levels of
      help-seeking and engagement in treatment, including Veterans Health Administration (VHA)
      care. Veterans are most likely to disclose suicidal thoughts to their close supports-family
      members, friends, and their peers. However, Veterans and their close supports rarely receive
      training in how to help a peer at risk of suicide, despite strong interest in such training.
      Gatekeeper training is a key strategy with potential to help address these challenges.
      Gatekeeper training teaches "gatekeepers" skills in how to identify a Veteran with suicide
      risk, inquire about suicidal thoughts, and help make a connection to professional treatment;
      it may benefit the trainee's own mental health too. PsychArmor S.A.V.E., developed through a
      partnership between the VA and the PsychArmor Training Institute, is a brief, novel online
      gatekeeper training designed for Veterans and their close supports.

      Significance/Impact: This project focuses on VA's topic clinical priority, suicide
      prevention. The 2019 VA and Department of Defense Clinical Practice Guidelines also
      identified gatekeeper training as an important research gap and priority for future research.
      This research design addresses three separate goals and objectives contained in VA's National
      Strategy for Preventing Veteran Suicide, including involvement of Veterans' close supports.

      Innovation: This proposal employs the novel approach of recruiting Veterans and their close
      supports through online social media advertisements, allowing for broad outreach, suicide
      prevention targeting Veterans outside the VA network, and the potential to test the
      effectiveness of gatekeeper training on a large scale. Online gatekeeper trainings are highly
      scalable public health strategies with the potential to diffuse through online social
      networks.

      Specific Aims: The primary objective is to conduct a pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT)
      to evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of the online gatekeeper training PsychArmor
      S.A.V.E. To reach this objective the investigators will achieve these aims: 1) Determine the
      feasibility of recruiting participants via social media, engaging them to participate in an
      online gatekeeper training program, and retaining them in an online intervention study; and
      2) Determine the acceptability of PsychArmor S.A.V.E. in a pilot RCT, and evaluate measures
      for use in a future larger-scale RCT.

      Methodology: This is a two-arm pilot randomized clinical trial involving 200 participants.
      Participants will be recruited through social media advertisements targeting transitioning
      Veterans and their close supports (family and friends). Participants will be randomized to
      take the PsychArmor S.A.V.E. gatekeeper training or a "sham" control training and followed
      for 6 months. Mixed quantitative and qualitative methods will be used to assess outcomes on
      feasibility and acceptability. Additional data collection and analysis of measures related to
      suicide prevention, such as gatekeeper behaviors, knowledge, stigma, self-efficacy, and
      social norms measures will help prepare for a larger-scale RCT.

      Implementation/Next Steps: By using an extremely scalable intervention and building off
      existing VA practices and partnerships, this project will be very well-positioned for further
      evaluation and implementation into VA practice if found to be effective. It is freely
      available online, making it highly amenable to being rapidly taken to scale. Results of this
      project will inform future efforts to disseminate and/or revise PsychArmor S.A.V.E.
    
  