
    
      Background The use of a subfascial closed suction drain has been a long tradition in
      adolescents undergoing posterior spinal fusion for idiopathic scoliosis.1-5 Drain has been
      used to limit postoperative hematoma and epidural hematoma formation, to decrease risk of
      postoperative deep wound infection, and to shorten hospital stay. Postoperative 24 hour drain
      output has been larger than introperative blood loss in these patients.6 Previous studies in
      adults undergoing total joint replacement have shown increased risk of hematocrit decrease
      and blood transfusion, but better joint mobilization in patients treated with closed suction
      drain as compared with those not receiving drain. In patients with lumbar degenerative
      disorders drain use has been associated with higher risk of blood transfusion and longer
      hospital stay.7-8 Leaving out subfascial drain has not been associated with increased risk of
      deep surgical site infection or neurologic deficit, but the number of patients with
      postoperative saturated dressings has been larger.1-5 There are no Level 1 studies evaluating
      the need to use a subfascial closed suction drain or not in adolescents undergoing posterior
      spinal fusion for idiopathic scoliosis.

      Aims and hypothesis To compare postoperative Hemoglobin and hematocrit decrease, length of
      hospital stay, and hematoma formation in patients receiving and not receiving subfascial
      drain during posterior spinal fusion for idiopathic scoliosis. We hypothesize that children
      not receiving a subfascial drain demonstrate smaller hemoglobin and hematocrit decrease
      without increased risk of wound or neurologic complications.

      Methods Study design - A randomised, multicentre clinical trial according to CONSORT
      criteria.9 Patients - 60 adolescents undergoing posterior spinal fusion with pedicle screw
      instrumentation for idiopathic scoliosis will be randomized at the time of wound closure
      receiving a single subfascial drain (Hemovac 14 ch) or no drain.

      Inclusion criteria - Patients will be included if they fulfilled the following criteria:
      between ten and 21 years of age; no contraindication to the use of subfascial drain; suitable
      for posterior scoliosis surgery using all pedicle screw technique for AIS (Lenke
      classification10 Types 1 to 6); normal blood coagulation; a normal whole spine MRI except for
      the spinal deformity (juvenile or AIS). Exclusion criteria - Need for anteroposterior
      surgery; the need for vertebral resection; smoking; diabetes mellitus or abnormalities in
      blood coagulation. Use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory should be avoided within one week
      of surgery.

      Intervention - The intervention group will receive a single subfascial drain (Hemovac Ch14;
      Zimmer, Warsaw, Indiana). The control group will not receive a drain.

      Randomization - Randomization to intervention and control groups (1:1) will be carried out
      using the sealed envelope technique at the time of wound closure.

      Outcomes - The main outcome measures include postoperative decrease in hemoglobin, hematocrit
      and the need for blood products (packed red cells, frozen plasma or platelets). Secondary
      outcome measures include blood loss (mls), drain output over 24 hours (mls), total blood loss
      (intra-operative blood loss + drain output); body temperature during postoperative hospital
      stay; the number of patients with fully saturated wound dressings requiring exchange will be
      recorded.

      Surgery - Surgical planning of implant placement and the need for the Ponte procedure will be
      carried out preoperatively. Each patient will be placed in the prone position and the
      posterior elements will be exposed using electrocautery. The deformity will be corrected
      using bilateral segmental pedicle screw instrumentation and en bloc vertebral column
      derotation. Spinal fusion is carried out using autograft acquired from facetectomies and
      osteotomies with bone graft extenders (Grafton, Medtronics Spinal and Biologics). Spinal cord
      monitoring (MEP, SSEP, lumbar nerve root EMG with or without pedicle screw stimulation) will
      be undertaken in all patients. A single subfascial drain (Hemovac Ch14; Zimmer, Warsaw,
      Indiana) will be placed according to randomization during closure and will be removed at 24
      hours post-operatively. A sterile wound dressing will be applied at the end of surgery. Wound
      dressings will not be changed before discharge, until they are fully saturated.

      Anaesthesia - All patients will have total intravenous anesthesia including dexmedetomidine,
      propofol and remifentanil with the aim of achieving a mean arterial pressure between 65 mmHg
      and 75 mmHg during surgery and for the first 24 hours post-operatively. Cefuroxime and
      Vancomycin will be used as antibiotic prophylaxis.

      All patients will receive an intravenous bolus of tranexamic acid (30 mg/kg, maximum dose
      1500 mg) within 30 minutes before incision and then an infusion (10 mg/kg/h, maximum dose 500
      mg/h) during surgery. Intra-operative blood loss will be measured and recorded as the amount
      of blood collected in the cell saver, surgical wound dressings will be weighed during
      surgery, excluding any irrigation with saline. The cell saver will be used in all patients
      and the amount of autologous blood returned is recorded. Allogenic red blood cells will be
      transfused if the Hb concentration goes below 80 g/L during surgery or during the hospital
      stay. Fresh frozen plasma will be given if the blood loss exceeds 50% of the patients total
      blood volume. Platelets will be infused if the blood loss is more than 100% of the blood
      volume. The estimated blood volume will be calculated using a formula of 70 ml/kg x weight
      (kg).12 Statistical power - The sample-size requirement of 30 patients per group was
      calculated using a study power of 80%, a type I error (alpha) of 0.05, and an estimated
      effect size of 0.7. Effect size evaluation was based on the assumption that mean (SD)
      postoperative hemoglobin loss (the primary endpoint) would be 30 g/l (SD 14) for the control
      group and 40 (SD 14) for the intervention group.6 Ethical aspects Ethical committee approval
      will be obtained at our university hospital. If the subfascial drain could not be used e.g.
      due to cerebrospinal fluid leakage or based on the surgeon's judgment, leaving it will be
      allowed, however, the patient will remain in the intervention group for statistical
      comparison according to the intention-to-treat principle.

      Time schedule This study will be started after ethical committee approval estimated in the
      beginning of 2019 and patient recruitment is estimated to be done by the end of 2023.

      Budget Surgical treatment of adolescents with idiopathic scoliosis is according to the
      standard practice. There will be no extra costs due to this study. A part-time research nurse
      and PhD students will be hired using Valtion tutkimusrahoitus and external funding.

      References

        1. Brown MD, Brookfield KF. A randomized study of closed wound suction drainage for
           extensive lumbar spine surgery Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2004 May 15;29(10):1066-8.

        2. Kanayama M, Oha F, Togawa D, Shigenobu K, Hashimoto T. Is closed-suction drainage
           necessary for single-level lumbar decompression?: review of 560 cases. Clin Orthop Relat
           Res. 2010 Oct;468(10):2690-4.

        3. Zijlmans JL, Buis DR, Verbaan D, Vandertop WP. Wound drains in non-complex lumbar
           surgery: a systematic review. Bone Joint J. 2016 Jul;98-B(7):984-9.

        4. Liu Y, Li Y, Miao J. Wound drains in posterior spinal surgery: a meta-analysis. J Orthop
           Surg Res. 2016 Jan 22;11:16.

        5. Liu JM, Chen WZ, Fu BQ, Chen JW, Liu ZL, Huang SH. The Use of Closed Suction Drainage in
           Lumbar Spinal Surgery: Is It Really Necessary? World Neurosurg. 2016 Jun;90:109-115.

        6. Helenius I, Keskinen H, Syvänen J, Lukkarinen H, Mattila M, Välipakka J, Pajulo O.
           Gelatine matrix with human thrombin decreases blood loss in adolescents undergoing
           posterior spinal fusion for idiopathic scoliosis. A MULTICENTRE, RANDOMISED CLINICAL
           TRIAL. Bone Joint J 2016;98-B:395-401.

        7. Parker MJ, Roberts CP, Hay D. Closed suction drainage for hip and knee arthroplasty. A
           meta-analysis. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2004 Jun;86-A(6):1146-52

        8. Zhang Q, Liu L, Sun W, Gao F, Zhang Q, Cheng L, Li Z. Are closed suction drains
           necessary for primary total knee arthroplasty?: A systematic review and meta-analysis.
           Medicine (Baltimore). 2018 Jul;97(30):e11290

        9. Schulz KF, Altman DG, Moher D, CONSORT Group. CONSORT 2010 statement: updated guidelines
           for reporting parallel group randomised trials. BMJ 2010;340:332.

       10. Mattila M, Jalanko T, Helenius I. En bloc vertebral column derotation provides spinal
           derotation but no additional effect on thoracic rib hump correction as compared with no
           derotation in adolescents undergoing surgery for idiopathic scoliosis with total pedicle
           screw instrumentation. Spine (Phila Pa 1976) 2013;38:1576-1583.

       11. Lenke LG, Betz RR, Harms J, et al. Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis: a new classifi-
           cation to determine extent of spinal arthrodesis. J Bone Joint Surg [Am] 2001;83-
           A:1169-1181.

      Cote CJ. Pediatric Anesthesia. In: Miller RD, Eriksson LI, Fleisher LA, Wiener-Kronish JP,
      Young WL, eds. Miller's Anesthesia. Philadelphia: Churchill Livingstone; 2010:2559-2597.
    
  