
    
      Pain at the side of the hip over or around the greater trochanter of the femur has previously
      been termed as Greater Trochanteric Pain Syndrome (GTPS). Recent research has found that it
      is normally due to the gluteal tendons being torn or injured and is often termed as 'gluteal
      tendinopathy'. GTPS predominantly affects adults aged 40-60 years and is the second most
      common condition affecting the hip region after osteoarthritis. Quality of life scores are
      similar to those with advanced hip osteoarthritis but despite its prevalence and disease
      burden the most effective treatment for this problem is currently unknown.

      Numerous studies have shown that exercise programmes are the most effective treatment for
      other lower limb tendon problems, particularly the Achilles and patella. These programmes
      typically last a minimum of 12 weeks and are often prescribed by physiotherapists as
      first-line treatment. However, there is currently limited evidence to support exercise for
      gluteal tendinopathy. The study plans to directly compare two different types of exercise
      programmes for those with GTPS for a period of 12 weeks. One group will receive an isometric
      exercise programme (where the muscle length does not change) and a second group an isotonic
      exercise programme (where the muscle length does change).

      The primary outcome measure which will be used has recently been validated for patients with
      gluteal tendinopathy and measures function and disability. Additional secondary outcome
      measures will evaluate aspects relating to quality of life, physical activity and pain. Both
      groups will be compared at the start of the study and at different times up to a maximum of
      12 weeks to help determine if one exercise programme is better than the other.

      The results of this pilot study will also help to identify whether a larger trial would be
      possible in the future.
    
  