
    
      The proposed study is a pilot exploratory study. It will be carried out on 20 chronic and
      sub-acute incomplete spinal cord injury participants who will receive five sessions of
      neurofeedback treatment, over two weeks. The duration and number of sessions is based on
      previous studies in which participants learned neurofeedback strategies after two practice
      sessions.

      People who decide to take part will be assigned to one of the following groups: subacute
      lower limb (sLL), subacute upper limb (sUL), chronic lower limb (cLL) or chronic - upper limb
      (cUL). We will use existing clinical American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) testing
      information to assess the level and completeness of injury, i.e. we will gain this
      information from patient notes following assessment performed by the healthcare professional.

      The groups will undergo similar therapy sessions. The intervention comprises the same task -
      neurofeedback, or modulation of brain oscillations. However, the location of modulation will
      differ between UL and LL groups because different parts of the brain are responsible for arm
      and leg function. Participants in the subacute groups (sUL, sLL) will attend two additional
      assessments as their baseline condition might change from week to week. Due to the nature of
      exploratory studies, the assessments presented for each group are necessary to determine
      accurately the effect of neurofeedback on motor function. Therefore, assessments presented
      for each session are compulsory.

      The subjects will receive the intervention therapy independent of any routine therapy session
      at Queen Elizabeth National Spinal Injuries Unit (QENSIU). The sessions will occur within the
      same 2-hour time window, as much as possible, to prevent normal diurnal variation in
      biophysical parameters (brain signatures, spasms).

      Recruitment: The total number of patients admitted to the QENSIU with incomplete injury in
      2019-20 was 105, comprising 69 cervical level (C1-C8), 22 thoracic level (T1-T12) and 13
      lumbar level (L1-L5) with a mean length of stay of 38 days (5 weeks). The out-patient
      activity of the Unit: in 2019-20, 1551 individuals returned for post-discharge management of
      their injury and 70 new outpatients were accepted.

      The total number of patients graded with an ASIA impairment level C or D in 2019/20 was: C =
      29, D = 63, indicating that we should be able to recruit 10 participants with subacute SCI
      and 10 with chronic SCI over a period of 2 years. This number would allow us to perform
      non-parametric statistical analysis and to collect data that would inform power analysis for
      a future randomised controlled trail.

      Patients will be identified and approached by their clinical consultants (Co-Investigator Dr.
      Mariel Purcell). Prior to participating, patients will be given information sheets and
      consent forms to sign. Should the participant themselves be physically unable to sign, a
      witnessed proxy will do so on the patient's behalf.

      Assessments:

      All participants will be assessed before, during and after the therapy as detailed below.

        1. Pre- and post-therapy assessments Subacute SCI groups (sUL, sLL) will undergo two
           assessments before and two after the therapy period. The first and last assessments will
           take place one week before starting and one week after completing the NF sessions,
           respectively, to monitor changes in their baseline condition. Chronic participants (cUL,
           cLL) are considered stable, therefore only one pre- and one post-therapy assessment are
           needed. These will take place on the days of the first and last NF session,
           respectively.

           The pre-treatment and post-treatment assessments are identical and include the following
           tests:

           Everyone:

             1. Modified Ashworth Scale (MAS) grades the resistance of the muscle while the
                researcher moves the tested limb to full extension. Upper and lower limbs will be
                tested for both groups, to verify whether NF only affects spasticity in the
                targeted limbs, or its effect is general.

             2. Perceived Spasticity level (SCI-SET): participants assess the impact of spasticity
                during the past 7 days on 35 different items from -3 (extremely problematic) to +3
                (extremely helpful).

             3. Spinal Cord Independence Measure (SCIM) questionnaire with the emphasis on the set
                of questions relevant for the use of the arms or legs.

             4. Diary of spastic episodes - all participants will keep a diary of daily spastic
                episodes starting a week before and ending a week after treatment.

                Lower limb groups (sLL and cLL) tests:

             5. Instrumented Pendulum test for lower limb to evaluate the level of thigh
                spasticity. A digital goniometer is placed on the participant's knee and the lower
                leg is dropped from a resting horizontal position, to observe the number and size
                of oscillations performed before stopping.

             6. Ten-meter walking test (10MWT) to assess the initial level of locomotion of the
                participant, and the impact of spasticity on walking. A motion recording device
                will be used to evaluate walking symmetry while the participant walks 10m in a
                straight line. The test may be video recorded in participants who consent to this
                option. This test only applies to participants who can walk (with or without
                assistance).

                Upper limb groups (sUL and cUL) tests:

             7. Grip strength (GS) test to measure the muscle strength of the hand and forearm with
                the help of a dynamometer. The participant will squeeze the dynamometer three times
                with each hand. GS only applies to participants who are able to flex their hand.

             8. Instrumented Pendulum test for upper limb (elbow), similar to (e).

             9. Hand grip - the participant will be asked to close and open their fist. A motion
                recording device will be used to evaluate hand function. This will be video
                recorded in participants who consent to it. Hand grip motion recording only applies
                to participants who are able to flex their hand.

        2. Therapy The participants will receive 5 sessions of neurofeedback, delivered over two
           weeks. Interim assessments will be carried out at the beginning and end of each session.

      2.1 Intervention One intervention session comprises five trials of visual neurofeedback,
      lasting 5 minutes each. Participants will receive visual feedback on a screen in the form of
      three bars that represent brain features, and will focus on modulating the central bar (alpha
      wave). The side bars are used to reduce signal noise from blinking and movement. All
      participants will perform the same task.

      2.2 Interim assessments During the first two sessions, the participants can explore different
      strategies to control their brain activity. Changes in spasticity are expected after the
      third session, therefore the last three interim assessments include additional tests. Interim
      assessments for the first two sessions will take 35 minutes in total. Assessments performed
      during the last three sessions will take 70 minutes in total. Overall, sessions 3, 4 and 5
      will take up to 2 hours each, including comfort breaks.

        1. Baseline brain activity (EEG) will be recorded before and after each session. (everyone)

        2. Recording of participants opening and closing their fist (sUL and cUL groups) before and
           after each session, using the motion sensing device.

        3. 10-meter walking test (sLL and cLL groups) before and after each session. The test will
           be recorded using a motion sensing device.

        4. Instrumented pendulum test (everyone) before and after the last three sessions,
           performed using a motion sensing device.

        5. Modified Ashworth scale (everyone) before and after each session on selected upper or
           lower limb joints.

        6. Brief Visual Analog Scale (VAS) self-assessment of performance and mental strategies
           after each session. (everyone)

        7. Motor evoked potential (MEP) before and after the last three sessions, to determine the
           effect of the therapy on the descending path from the brain to the spinal cord. To
           obtain the MEP, a magnetic coil will be held above the participant's head and magnetic
           pulses will be applied. (everyone)

      All equipment used in this study that is in direct contact with participants has medical
      device grade Certificate Europe (CE) mark.

      EEG will be recorded with a g.Tech biosignal USB amplifier (Guger Technologies, Austria)
      which enables on-line EEG measurement, signal analysis and visualisation of EEG signals on a
      computer screen.

      In summary, the first two sessions comprising the intervention and tests will take
      approximately 1 hour, and the last three sessions, which include additional assessments will
      last 2 hours, including comfort breaks. The five sessions will be completed within 2 weeks.

      During the first assessment, patients will get advice and assistance from researchers when
      completing the questionnaires. For the second assessment they will be able to fill them out
      at home on their own.
    
  