
    
      MAIN AIM OF THE STUDY The overall aim of the EPPICC Paediatric Protocol is to analyse
      individual patient data from across collaborating European and international cohorts on
      infections in children and young people, to inform optimal prevention and treatment
      strategies.

      MAIN AREAS OF FOCUS HIV: prevalence and incidence of immunological and virological failure,
      HIV resistance, AIDS and non-AIDS events, mortality, cascade of care, engagement in care
      (including after transfer to adult care); antiretroviral therapy status and toxicities
      (adverse events, serious adverse events and discontinuation of drug) HCV: disease
      progression, uptake and outcome (effectiveness and safety) of HCV treatment in HCV mono- and
      HCV-HIV co-infected patients TB: incidence (including exploration of different
      diagnostic/screening strategies across regions) of LTBI and TB disease; outcomes of TB
      treatment including treatment of LTBI COVID-19: prevalence and incidence of infection and
      disease among both the general population and specifically among children and adolescents
      living with HIV; admission to hospital/ICU; outcomes (including resolution, death, sequelae
      (e.g. paediatric inflammatory syndrome temporally associated with SARS-CoV-2)) COHORT /
      INVESTIGATOR INCLUSION CRITERIA The study Sponsor has overall responsibility for site and
      investigator selection.

      The Principal Investigators of cohorts which have participated in previous EPPICC data
      mergers will be approached to ascertain their interest in participating in future data
      mergers. New cohorts may also be identified and may be invited to participate. The key
      inclusion criterion for a cohort to participate is enrolment of children and adolescents with
      the infection of interest. All cohorts who are able to commit to submitting and cleaning
      data, obtaining any ethical, regulatory or other approvals required locally, and completion
      of data sharing agreements in accordance with the project timelines will be included.

      DATA COLLECTION Collected data are pseudonymised: no names, initials, hospital numbers,
      national ID or addresses of patients are collected. Core data items included in most EPPICC
      paediatric data mergers include the following; Demographic: Date of birth, sex,
      ethnicity/country of origin, country of residence Therapeutic: Prophylaxis and treatment data
      (HIV, HCV, TB and COVID-19 treatments) including start and stop dates, drug names, doses and
      frequency of administration, and reasons for change/discontinuation Diagnostic: Diagnostic
      tests for infections undertaken, including dates and results Concurrent treatments: Other
      medications Clinical Infection status: (HIV, TB, HCV, HBV, SARS-CoV-2, other infection of
      interest), mode of acquisition of infection, date of diagnosis, disease stage Clinical (other
      events): Adverse events (e.g. severity, causal relation to drugs), AIDS- and non-AIDS-
      defining malignancies, COVID-19 sequelae, weight, height, death, causes of death, pregnancy,
      hospitalisations Laboratory: Absolute CD4 counts and percentage, HIV RNA, HCV RNA
      measurements, other lab markers Other Follow-up status, reason for study drop-out, transfer
      to adult care

      For certain analyses, additional data items may be requested, and may include:

        -  Biochemistry results

        -  Further details of severe adverse events

        -  Outcome of severe events. Data merger methods Individual cohorts collect data from
           medical records in clinics. Cohorts then send electronic datasets to the EPPICC
           Paediatric Data Manager, using a format and method defined in an EPPICC Standard
           Operating Procedure. For the ongoing HIV analyses, data variables are based on HICDEP
           data formats. HICDEP is the HIV Cohorts Data Exchange Protocol (www.hicdep.org) and is
           based on a relational structure, with data presented in a series of tables, together
           with the lookup tables for the codes to be used. For other future cohort collaborations,
           the variables to be collected and the database format will be based on existing data
           collection tools and standards where possible. Transfer of data to the EPPICC Paediatric
           Data Manager takes place using Galaxkey or an equivalent secured method.

      Submitted data are subjected to a range of logic and consistency checks. STATISTICAL
      CONSIDERATIONS EPPICC analyses may cover a wide range of questions, although individual
      Concept Sheets are specific to focussed research questions.

      SAMPLE SIZE Data are collected on all eligible participants enrolled in the participating
      centres who meet the inclusion criteria. Sample size calculations are carried out for
      specific planned analyses to ensure that sufficient participants are available to
      meaningfully answer each research question.

      ANALYSIS PLAN Each Concept Sheet includes a brief analysis plan. Standard statistical methods
      are used in the analysis of different types of exposure and outcome data. Adjustment for
      confounding may be achieved through multivariable modelling or using alternative approaches
      such as propensity scoring. Missing data are to be expected and, depending on the analysis
      and the amount and likely mechanisms of missing data, may be approached using complete case
      analysis or techniques such as multiple imputation. Details of specific analytical approaches
      are included in each Concept Sheet. Previous analyses of EPPICC paediatric data have used
      approaches including Cox regression, linear regression, logistic regression, and propensity
      score matching. Cohorts may be grouped by region (as cohorts within the same region are often
      similar in terms of epidemiology and treatment approaches), and region is then included as a
      covariate in the analysis.

      REGULATORY & ETHICAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE EPPICC is an observational study with no
      study-specific interventions beyond those received in routine care. Nevertheless, it is
      conducted in compliance with the approved protocol, the Declaration of Helsinki 1996, the
      principles of Good Clinical Practice, the General Data Protection Regulation and the UK Data
      Protection Act 2018 (DPA number: Z6364106), and the UK Policy Framework for Health and Social
      Care Research.

      Each cohort is responsible for ensuring compliance with local and national regulatory and
      ethical processes.

      DATA RETENTION

      The paediatric study dataset will be stored at the MRC CTU at UCL, in accordance with
      national data legislation. A final copy will be sent to the study sponsor, the Penta
      Foundation. The dataset will be held for a minimum of 5 years after the end of the study.

      DATA SHARING AGREEMENTS BETWEEN COHORTS AND EPPICC Individual cohorts, the Penta Foundation
      and the MRC CTU at UCL are required to sign a Data Sharing Agreement (DSA), which allows
      transfer of data between cohorts and the Penta Foundation and the MRC CTU at UCL. All data
      will be handled and used in accordance with the DSA. Cohorts should return the DSA, once
      signed, to the project coordinator at the Penta Foundation.

      THIRD PARTY DATA SHARING REQUESTS Extracts of EPPICC data may be requested for other cohort
      collaboration analyses, both nationally and internationally. Requests to access EPPICC data
      will be considered on a case by case basis. Transfer of EPPICC data (partial or complete) to
      third party collaborators requires approval from the PIs of cohorts contributing data (or
      authorised cohort representatives) and is subject to a contract and Data Sharing Agreement,
      if applicable. All data transfer is conducted through a secure process. Any data transferred
      to third parties must be stored by third parties in compliance with all relevant data
      protection regulations.

      Researchers wishing to access EPPICC data should contact the EPPICC Study Team in the first
      instance. A Concept Sheet is then required, which would be circulated to and discussed with
      all potential contributing cohorts.
    
  