
    
      Heart failure has become one of the major epidemics of the modern era. Despite optimal
      standard drug therapy, the prognosis of patients with heart failure remains poor. It has been
      noted that 15% of all HF patients and 30% of those with NYHA class III and IV HF have
      intraventricular conduction delay, with a QRS duration >120 ms, most commonly manifested as
      LBBB. These electrical disturbances result in LV dyssynchrony, seen as a paradoxical septal
      wall motion activity, suboptimal ventricular filling and mitral regurgitation; thus further
      compromising an already dysfunctioning left ventricle. Ventricular dyssynchrony has been
      associated with increased mortality in patients with heart failure.

      Based on these observations, techniques have been developed to correct dyssynchrony. Cardiac
      resynchronization therapy (CRT) has been shown to improve subjective and objective parameters
      in heart failure patients with QRS duration > 120msec. However, there is a group of heart
      failure patients who did not respond to CRT. Also it has been noted that approximately 30% of
      heart failure patients with QRS duration > 120 msec do not have actual mechanical
      dyssynchrony by tissue doppler imaging. The electromechanical discrepancy of ventricular
      dyssynchrony has been suggested as the possible explanation for the lack of response. Also,
      there are heart failure patients with normal QRS duration who do have mechanical
      dyssynchrony. These findings bring more emphasis to the importance of mechanical dyssynchrony
      than electrical dyssynchrony, which is measured by QRS duration on surface EKG.

      There are many different modalities to quantify mechanical dyssynchrony. The most commonly
      used method is tissue doppler imaging (TDI). TDI measures the velocities of myocardial tissue
      and time to maximal velocities. Then, these are used to describe contractions of different
      wall segments. Strain and strain rates are more sophisticated ways to measure active segment
      contraction rather than passive movements.

      We propose to investigate the change of dyssynchrony in relation to intravascular volume
      status and exercise in heart failure patients. We also propose to examine dyssynchrony in the
      setting of acutely decompensated heart failure. The change in dyssynchrony will be followed
      to examine if it translates into clinical significance.
    
  