
    
      Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, also known as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
      Coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2), caused by a coronavirus strain that is a member of the
      Betacoronavirus genus, affecting billions of people worldwide, has become a global health
      problem. Since vaccination is the most effective approach to control the COVID-19 pandemic,
      trials of many different vaccines have been started.

      According to the data of the World Health Organization, there are 236 vaccines in total, with
      clinical (63) and pre-clinical (173) studies developed using 10 different methods.Types of
      vaccines for COVID-19 include conventionally live attenuated viruses, inactivated virus
      protein or polysaccharide conjugated subunit vaccines, virus-like particles (VLPs), nucleic
      acid (DNA and RNA), viral vectors (replicating and non-replicating), and the other vaccines
      composed of eccombinant proteins.

      CoronaVac vaccine (inactivated + aluminum adjuvant vaccine) is a vaccine developed by the
      biopharmaceutical company named Sinovac Biotech Ltd. based in China, using the classical
      vaccine production method (inactive method). After the completion of Phase 1 and Phase 2
      trials of the vaccine, Phase 3 trials were initiated in Turkey. Emergency use approval has
      been given for the CoronaVac vaccine by Turkish Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency
      after the end of these trials.Although the pathogenesis of COVID-19 is not fully understood,
      its clinical presentation may become heterogeneous, ranging from asymptomatic to severe
      disease.

      It has been reported that a systemic hyperinflammatory response and associated thromboembolic
      complications are observed in cases with severe symptoms. In addition, it has been observed
      that the severity of the disease and mortality rates are lower in women compared to men in
      the clinical results of COVID-19.

      The roles of vitamins A, B, C, D, E and folate and trace elements such as iron, zinc,
      magnesium, selenium and copper in supporting the immune system have been shown to have
      positive effects on COVID-19 disease.

      Intermediates in enzymatic reactions occurring during cell metabolism (reactive oxygen
      species and reactive nitrogen) sometimes leak from the active site of enzymes and
      accidentally interact with molecular oxygen and form free oxygen radicals. Oxidative stress
      caused by free oxygen radicals forms the molecular basis in the development of cancer,
      neurodegenerative and cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and autoimmune disorders.

      Social isolation rules and quarantine measures have negatively affected the daily lives of
      individuals physically and psychologically. In particular, the increase in the time spent at
      home causes individuals to have a sedentary life and cause their physical levels to decrease.
      This situation caused individuals to be psychologically affected by concerns about health,
      news watched, and the increasing number of cases day by day.

      Studies have also reported negative psychological effects such as post-traumatic stress
      symptoms, confusion, disappointment, feeling of isolation and anger as a result of
      quarantine. These psychological and physical effects caused by the COVID-19 pandemic caused a
      decrease in the quality of life of individuals. During the COVID-19 pandemic, it has been
      reported that the depression and anxiety levels of healthcare workers increased and their
      quality of life decreased.

      The aim of this study is to compare and determined and the changes of oxidative stress
      parameters, trace element and quality of life levels in healthy women just before the first
      dose of COVID-19 vaccine and on the 7th day after the second dose of COVID19 vaccine.
    
  