
    
      Robust early and follow-up data on the safety and efficacy of surgical TAVR, last-generation
      sutureless surgical valves, and minimally-invasive approaches compared with standard SAVR,
      with or without a contemporary (surgical or interventional) treatment of concurrent CAD, are
      still lacking for a real-world large population of patients at variable surgical risk. Such
      data is urgently required for the correct allocation of therapy in daily surgical practice.
      Furthermore, data on quality of life and functional echocardiographic results with different
      surgical alternatives might similarly help physicians in decision-making in local "Heart
      Teams". Data from a multicentre, real-world, open registry enrolling all patients with
      SAVS±CAD consecutively referred to several Centres at different European latitudes should
      help to answer some of these open questions.

      The main strength of a prospective clinical open registry is the high external validity,
      given that data are collected in the settings of standard clinical practice. Moreover, large
      sample size enables a better estimation of event rates, and allows the investigation of hard
      endpoints and outcomes, by means of a wide population of patients from different institutions
      and with extremely limited exclusion criteria.

      Importantly, clinical registries may provide data on long-term outcomes occurring after the
      study period of a trial. They are more practical than randomized controlled trials, require
      fewer resources, and have less stringent inclusion and exclusion criteria for patient
      enrolment. Finally, clinical findings from registries have even more significance when
      patient-populations derive from different geographic areas, with heterogeneous referral
      pathways, baseline clinical characteristics, and perioperative treatment strategies. All
      these features substantiate the concept of "a real world practice" underlying any
      "registry-study".

      Therefore, the rationale of this European multicenter observational open registry is to
      prospectively collect data on baseline characteristics, treatment options, perioperative
      management and postoperative outcome of all patients consecutively undergoing surgical
      treatment of SAVS (regardless of gradients, AVA or AVAi)±CAD or aortic prosthetic
      dysfunction±CAD at 16 European university or non-university tertiary hospitals located in six
      European countries (France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Switzerland, and United Kingdom).

      The primary aim of the study is a 5-year comparison between SAVR and surgical TAVR: we
      hypothesize to report a 10% superiority in terms of all-cause mortality in favor of SAVR vs
      TAVR. For the purpose of this study, patients will be consecutively enrolled for a 2-year
      period, and will be followed-up for a minimum of 5 years after the index surgical treatment.
      Maximum follow-up length will be 10 years after surgery.

      The following surgical options will be considered:

        1. SAVR with mechanical valves

        2. SAVR with biological valves (either sutured or sutureless, stented or stentless)

        3. Surgical TAVR (either transapical, trans-axillary, or transaortic)

      Similarly, the following surgical approaches will be considered:

        1. Full sternotomy

        2. Mini-thoracotomy (either left-sided for TAVR or right-sided for SAVR)

        3. Partial-sternotomy Patient allocation to a specific surgical procedure will be based on
           the local Heart Team decision at each Institution, according to standard clinical
           practice and current guidelines.

      Patients will be recruited in a consecutive series from each institution, and their data
      collected in a dedicated on-line datasheet. The recruitment period will be 24 months, from
      1st October 2017 to 30th September 2019. Every patient will be followed up at 30 days, 6
      months, 1 year, and yearly thereafter, up to a minimum of 5 years after the index surgical
      procedure. Afterwards yearly follow-up will be closed at the completion of the 10th year from
      surgery for each patient.

      On the basis of historical cohort data of local institutions, we expect to enrol a minimum of
      4000 patients at the end of the first year, and a minimum of 8000 patients at the end of the
      second year of enrolment.

      Written informed consent will be obtained from the patient or patient's authorized
      representative prior to enrolment in the Registry. In case of emergent surgery, informed
      consent will be collected from the patient's family (or legal representative) before surgery,
      as well as from the patient after surgery (if unable to give it before intervention). This
      consent will be waived in case of death or severe neurological damage precluding adequate
      postoperative patient informed consent. The study will be conducted in accordance with the
      provisions of the Declaration of Helsinki.

      Data management and monitoring Data will be collected into a dedicated datasheet with
      predefined variables. Each patient enrolled in the Registry will be anonymized by the
      generation of a code consisting of the initials of the enrolling Centre (2 letters), the
      initial of name (1 letter) and surname (1 letter), and the date of birth (dd.mm.yyyy) (e.g.
      Mr. John Smith, born on February 18th, 1953; enrolled in London = LOJS18021953). It is
      responsibility of the E-AVR Steering Committee local member to generate the sequence to
      maintain anonymized the entire set of data. It is also responsibility of the E-AVR Steering
      Committee local member to protect confidentiality about patient identity before, during and
      after the trial. Accordingly, external Central Statistical Core Lab (as well as all the other
      E-AVR investigators) will be blinded towards patient identity.

      All data will be retained in a secure location at each study-site during the conduct of the
      study and for the 5-years after the end of the study, when all patient identifiable paper
      records will be destroyed by confidential means.

      Baseline characteristics, operative details and outcome data pertaining hospitalization will
      be prospectively collected from hospital registries. Variables and events occurring after the
      index hospital discharge will be collected from outpatient clinics at the individual
      Institutions, and linking with regional Social Security Death and Events Master files where
      available. In case of absent/missing data, variables and events will be collected by direct
      phone contact with general practitioners, and only if persistently missed by phone contact
      with patients and families.

      Events and outcome variables will be adjudicated after agreement of two local E-AVR
      Investigators, and collected at local Institutions. In the event of controversy on outcome
      adjudication between the two local E-AVR Investigators, the outcome will be discussed and
      adjudicated after a final consult inside the E-AVR Steering Committee.

      Storage, analysis and auditing of data will be accomplished by an independent Central Core
      Laboratory. Auditing of the dataset will be performed every six months by checking the data
      of a minimum of 40% of the patients. Data without any patient identification code will be
      submitted to the Principal Investigator and E-AVR Steering Committee for further data
      checking and merging. Incomplete or contradictory data with patient identification code will
      be sent from Central Core Statistical Lab to the E-AVR Steering Committee local member for
      further data checking, review, correction and merging. The entire set of statistical analyses
      will be available to all E-AVR researchers for the interpretation of data.

      Ethics and Dissemination The study is approved by the local Institutional Review
      Boards/Ethical Committees, according to local or national guidelines for approval of registry
      studies. Patient's informed consent will be always obtained.

      This multicenter, prospective open registry is designed with the aim of investigating a
      number of controversial issues regarding current treatment-options and risk factors for the
      surgical therapy of SAVS with or without CAD. Several studies and information are expected to
      derive from the data collected in the registry. These data will provide further knowledge on
      the mechanisms leading to adverse events during or after surgery for SAVS and help their
      prevention, thus allowing a "tailored" surgical approach for the treatment of this disease.

      Research findings from the E-AVR registry will be disseminated among the scientific
      community. They will be presented at international congresses and published in peer reviewed
      international journals in the fields of cardiac surgery and cardiology. Any formal
      presentation or publication of data will be considered as a joint publication by the
      participating physician(s) and will follow the recommendations of the International Committee
      of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE) for authorship. Data collection, analysis and writing
      process will be monitored by the Steering Committee of the E-AVR, which is made up of the
      Principal Investigator and a local Representing Member from each of the participating
      centres. It is expected that periodical E-AVR Steering Committee meetings will occur, every 6
      months for the first 2 years, yearly thereafter up to the end of follow-up. The Members of
      the Steering Committee will take responsibility for the quality of data through local audit.

      Investigators will be eligible for authorship if they contribute substantially to study
      planning, data collection, data analysis and interpretation, writing and critical review of
      the manuscripts. Two authors per centre will be included as main authors of each study. As a
      member of the Steering Committee, the local Representing Member will take any decisions on
      co-authorship related to his/her centre on the basis of the above criteria. Those researchers
      who plan a sub-study, interpret the analysis and write the article will be the first and last
      authors of the study. Analyses will be performed and/or monitored by an independent Central
      Core Statistic Laboratory. When an article is submitted to a journal with a maximum number of
      co-authors, the Steering Committee will decide on the authors on the basis of their
      contribution to the design of the study, data collection, interpretation of data, writing,
      and critical review of the paper.

      In the event of future merging with other contemporary registries (e.g. collecting data on
      concurrent interventional - i.e. percutaneous transfemoral, transcarotid or trans-axillary -
      TAVR procedures), the co-authorship of comparative studies (e.g. between surgical and
      interventional treatments) will be defined by the Steering Committees of the different
      registries involved. However, data will not be made available for sharing until after
      publication of the principal results of the study. Thereafter, anonymized individual patient
      data will be made available for secondary research, conditional on assurance from the
      secondary researcher that the proposed used of the data is compliant with the MRC Policy on
      Data Preservation and Sharing regarding scientific quality, ethical requirements, and value
      for money. Anonymized data will be shared as long as the patient has agreed and consented to
      this. A minimum requirement with respect to scientific quality will be a publicly available
      pre-specified protocol describing the purpose, methods and analysis of the secondary
      research.
    
  