
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Evaluate the efficacy of reduced-dose induction and intensification chemotherapy, in
           terms of remission rate, disease-free survival rate, and acute morbidity and mortality,
           in children with Down syndrome and acute myelogenous leukemia or myelodysplastic
           syndromes.

        -  Define the understanding of the natural history of transient myeloproliferative disorder
           (TMD) in children with Down syndrome.

        -  Determine whether there is a reduction of sequelae in long-term survivors after
           treatment with this regimen.

        -  Determine the incidence of subsequent leukemia in patients with transient
           myeloproliferative disorder treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the predictive risk factors for developing subsequent leukemia in patients
           with transient myeloproliferative disorder treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Group I: Patients are observed if their transient myeloproliferative disorder (TMD) does
           not require intervention. Patients who require therapy for TMD undergo leukapheresis or
           exchange transfusion for up to 3 consecutive days. If the TMD does not resolve or there
           is significant organ involvement, patients receive low-dose cytarabine IV continuously
           on days 0-4. Treatment repeats at least every 2 weeks for up to 4 courses. Patients who
           experience a recurrence of TMD at least 8 weeks after resolution or have refractory
           disease may proceed to group II for further treatment.

        -  Group II (closed to accrual as of 6/24/04 except for patients first enrolled in group
           I): Patients receive induction therapy comprising cytarabine IV continuously,
           daunorubicin IV continuously, and oral thioguanine twice daily on days 0-3. Treatment
           repeats every 28 days for 4 courses. Patients with no CNS disease at diagnosis receive
           cytarabine intrathecally (IT) on day 0. Patients with CNS disease at diagnosis receive
           cytarabine IT on days 0, 5, and 7. If CNS disease persists on day 7, patients receive up
           to 6 courses of cytarabine IT, hydrocortisone IT, and methotrexate IT, twice weekly
           beginning on day 10.

      Patients who achieve remission after induction therapy receive 2 courses of intensification
      therapy, for approximately 4 months. During the first course, patients receive cytarabine IV
      over 3 hours twice daily on days 0, 1, 7, and 8. Patients also receive asparaginase
      intramuscularly on days 1 and 8. The second course of therapy comprises CNS prophylaxis.
      Patients with no CNS disease at diagnosis or whose CNS disease resolved by day 7 of induction
      therapy receive cytarabine IT on days 0, 7, and 14. Patients with persistent CNS disease on
      day 7 of induction therapy receive cytarabine IT, hydrocortisone IT, and methotrexate IT on
      days 0, 7, and 14.

      Patients are followed monthly for 18 months, every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for
      2.5 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 70 patients with acute myeloid leukemia or myelodysplastic
      syndromes will be accrued for this study within 3.2 years. A total of 88 patients with
      transient myeloproliferative disorder who enter remission will be accrued for this study
      within 5 years.
    
  