
    
      Major depressive disorder is a common and often long-lasting disorder with 12-month
      prevalence rates estimated to be between 6.6% and 10.3%. Although the personal and societal
      costs of depression are high, it is well established that depression can be effectively
      treated using antidepressant medication and/or forms of psychotherapy. Several studies have
      found that when given a choice, about two-thirds of depressed patients prefer psychotherapy
      or counseling over antidepressant medication. However, a variety of barriers exist to
      initiating and maintaining psychotherapy. Only about 20% of all patients referred for
      psychotherapy actually initiate treatment, and of those who do initiate treatment, nearly
      half drop out before completing treatment. The use of the telephone to deliver treatment
      services has been recommended as a way to reduce many of the barriers associated with failure
      to initiate and sustain treatment. When administered over the telephone, cognitive behavioral
      therapy (CBT), a form of psychotherapy that teaches ways to modify thoughts and behaviors
      that contribute to depression, may be superior to face-to-face CBT in improving treatment
      adherence and reducing depressive symptoms. This study will compare the effectiveness of
      telephone CBT (T-CBT) versus face-to-face CBT (FtF-CBT) in treating people with depression.

      Participation in this study will include 18 weeks of treatment and 12 months of follow-up.
      All participants will first undergo baseline assessments that will include a telephone
      interview and questionnaires about mood. Participants will then be assigned randomly to
      receive T-CBT or FtF-CBT. Participants in both groups will receive eighteen 45-minute
      sessions of their assigned treatment over 18 weeks. Sessions will occur twice a week for 2
      weeks, once a week for 12 weeks, and once every 2 weeks for the last 4 weeks. During
      sessions, participants will learn ways to modify thoughts and behaviors that contribute to
      their depression and ways to maintain the lifestyle changes that they have made. Treatment
      sessions will be identical for both groups, except one group will receive sessions over the
      telephone and the other in-person at a study office. All participants will repeat the
      baseline assessments at Weeks 4, 9, 14, and 18 of treatment and Months 3, 6, 9, and 12 of
      follow-up.
    
  