
    
      Neurocognitive impairments, or problems with thinking and brain function, are a core
      component of schizophrenia. Such impairments, which can range from moderate to severe, are
      strongly associated with decreased benefit from psychiatric rehabilitation and problems with
      treatment adherence, socialization, employment, quality of life, and relapse. Researchers
      believe that the failure of medication to improve cognition may occur because medication
      treatment lacks cognitive stimulation. Cognitive remediation programs are a way to provide
      that stimulation, and they have shown moderate efficacy in improving cognition in people with
      schizophrenia. Implementing these cognitive remediation programs as part of schizophrenia
      treatment has occurred only at individual sites with highly trained research personnel. This
      study will test whether cognitive remediation programs for schizophrenia can be feasibly
      implemented at a network of sites that do not specialize in cognitive remediation research.
      This pilot study will gather preliminary efficacy data, but a larger study is required to
      draw definitive conclusions about treatment effects.

      Participation in this study will last approximately 8 weeks. Participants will be randomly
      assigned to the Posit Science intervention group or the control group. Those in the Posit
      Science group will receive targeted cognitive training (TCT)-40 hours of adaptive computer
      exercises-and participate in a weekly bridging group that helps participants apply cognitive
      skills to everyday contexts. Length of the TCT may vary, depending on the availability of
      participants to complete the exercises. Those in the control group will play commercially
      available video games for the same number of hours and participate in a weekly health and
      wellness group. All participants will undergo assessments at baseline, mid-treatment, and
      post-treatment. Assessments will include self-report questionnaires and clinical interviews.
    
  