
    
      -  Chronic mitral regurgitation (MR) usually spirals into a vicious cycle of left
           ventricular (LV) volume overload, LV dilatation, mitral annular dilatation and more MR.
           "MR begets MR". Eventually symptoms and LV dysfunction ensue. However, it can often be
           treated medically or surgically. Medical therapy is primarily afterload reduction and
           diuretics. Surgically, there are two options, either mitral valve repair or replacement.

        -  A number of retrospective studies have demonstrated improved LV function and survival in
           patients undergoing valve repair compared to valve replacement with or without
           subvalvular preservation. In one report, for example, patients who underwent valve
           repair were compared to patients who underwent valve replacement. The report found that
           the former group had lower operative mortality, a greater increase in LV ejection
           fraction and higher overall ten year survival.

        -  The bulk of the literature at present addresses left ventricular dimensions, ejection
           fraction, geometry and New York Heart Association functional class, but few have
           addressed quality of life measures. In addition, most of these studies were
           retrospective and the majority of patients had concomitant ischaemic heart disease.

        -  Even though the studies concerning quality of life after mitral valve surgery have been
           few, nevertheless, some have addressed isolated valve surgery without concomitant bypass
           surgery and have shown improved quality of life, though follow up in some was limited to
           3 months. We will follow our population for 12 months after surgical repair.

        -  We will primarily look at subjective measures for quality of life such as the Minnesota
           Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire & the Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire,
           as subjective measures are becoming more and more important following cardiac surgery.
           Patients will serve as their own controls and all study parameters will be compared pre-
           and post surgery.
    
  