
    
      Stroke is the leading cause of long-term disability in the UK. About a third of stroke
      survivors will suffer some level of communication problems following the stroke. Such
      problems can affect parts or all of the motor apparatus responsible for producing speech,
      thus affecting clarity of speech and overall intelligibility (a condition known as
      dysarthria). Alternatively, stroke can affect the cognitive system for comprehending and
      formulating language (a condition known as dysphasia or aphasia). Some people will suffer
      impairment of both speech and language.

      For these people, Speech and Language Therapy is often offered. Solid research evidence is a
      pre-requisite for planning evidence-based service delivery and systematic reviews for
      dysarthria and aphasia highlighted a lack of good quality research evidence of the
      effectiveness of Speech and Language Therapy. To try and rectify this situation, the ACT NoW
      study has been commissioned and funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment Programme.

      The aims of the ACT NoW Study are to determine the relative effectiveness and cost
      effectiveness of a Speech and Language Therapy (SLT) intervention for people with aphasia
      and/or dysarthria following stroke, when compared with an attention control. We also aim to
      explore the experience and the impact of the interventions from the perspective of both users
      and carers, using qualitative research.

      The ACT NoW study is a pragmatic, multi-centre randomize controlled trial (RCT) with a nested
      qualitative study and full economic evaluation. The RCT involves comparison of two arms
      within this target population: a manualized Speech and Language Therapy (SLT) intervention;
      and an 'attention control'. Randomization will be stratified by diagnosis/severity as well as
      site/centre, with an 'intention to treat' approach.

      The qualitative study will comprise interviews with patients and carers, purposefully sampled
      from each arm of the trial, to evaluate service user preferences for communication therapy
      after stroke. Innovative methods of communication support have been developed to enable
      people with communication difficulties to engage in the interview process.

      The ACT NoW trial design was informed by a successful feasibility study.

      We reached our target of 170 participants. This was the minimum we needed to achieve a
      powerful study. A fabulous achievement thanks to phenomenal dedication and hard work from
      everyone. Outcomes data were collect July 2010. Final data analysis is ongoing and results
      will be available from December 2010. Audrey Bowen, the study Chief Investigator will be
      presenting the results at the UK Stroke Forum in Glasgow (30th Nov- 2nd December 2010).

      The results will be published in the NIHR HTA monograph and a short report on the results
      will be available from the study website: http://www.psych-sci.manchester.ac.uk/actnow/
      Please check the study websites for updates.
    
  