
    
      Hematological malignancies arise from deficiencies in blood cell lineage which represent a
      heterogeneous group including leukemias, lymphomas, myelomas, myeloproliferative diseases and
      myelodysplastic syndromes. In recent years, a great majority of patients with hematological
      malignancies often experience side effects of disease related treatments such as chemotherapy
      with multiple agents, radiotherapy, corticosteroids, combination of medical drugs, autologous
      and/or allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) throughout their remaining
      lives. Furthermore, there are substantial outcomes regarding the initial time of diagnosis
      that pulmonary function involvements, sedentary life style (39%), decreased exercise capacity
      and lower extremity muscle weakness have been present in patients with lymphoma even before
      first cycle of chemotherapy is administered to patients. During the period of or after
      chemotherapy, patients have suffered from decreased maximal oxygen uptake, advanced muscle
      weakness, decreased hemoglobin levels and evident fatigue, as well.

      As the treatment process continues for patients with hematological malignancies, HSCT is
      begun to schedule for almost all patients which has a significant potential for good clinical
      outcomes along with longer life expectancy. However, especially allogeneic-HSCT is a quite
      aggressive treatment option due to serious complications such as graft versus host disease,
      long term severe treatments of these complications and severe immune suppression related
      infections. Moreover, patients have already been exposed to immobility condition, low level
      of physical activity, pulmonary functions involvements, respiratory and peripheral muscle
      weakness as well as exercise intolerance before HSCT. In addition, the outcomes obtained from
      candidates just before HSCT have indicated that quadriceps femoris muscle strength, exercise
      capacity evaluated with 6-minute walk test, inspiratory and expiratory muscle strength are
      decreased respectively in 23%, 58%, 42% and 89% of candidates. Sarcopenia (50.6%), reduction
      in hip flexor, hip abductors and ankle flexors muscles strength and decreased diffusing
      capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide (78%) have also been mostly observed in HSCT
      candidates. In a study, candidates who were evaluated using a metabolic holter device are
      inactive (average 2180 steps/day) before HSCT. In another study, number of steps evaluated
      using a pedometer which provides only one output about step count are approximately 201.1
      steps per a day for HSCT candidates. Accuracy of pedometers can be reduced at slow walking
      speeds so that pedometers may not be suitable for cancer patients. On the other hand,
      metabolic holter devices use pattern recognition technology to evaluate physical activity
      level that may produce more accurate estimation of energy expenditure in cancer population.
      Besides, it has also been stated that quadriceps femoris muscle weakness is related to
      reduced daily number of steps, therefore if the muscles are strengthened, number of steps may
      be increased at the process of HSCT.

      Physical activity is any bodily movement which is produced by skeletal muscles concluded
      energy expenditure. While total daily energy expenditure demonstrates all types of energy
      costs including resting, diet-induced and activity-induced energy expenditures within 24
      hours, active energy expenditure related with physical activity is produced by daily living
      activities such as employment, sport and any other activities. Activity energy expenditure
      also decreases with excess body weight, older age, female gender, loss of muscle mass and
      diseases throughout life span . On the other hand, Canadian Academy of Sports and Exercise
      Medicine recommends that people prefer moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (>3.0 metabolic
      equivalents (METs)) including brisk walking, aerobic and resistance exercises, jogging,
      hiking, swimming and field games with ball or racquet for 150 min/week and a total
      sustainable activity duration from 30 min to 60 min per practice rather than sedentary
      behavior (<1.5 METs) in order to decrease risk of most major chronic disease by 25-50%.
      Moreover, a 15 min/d or 75 min/week of moderate-to-vigorous physical activity is also
      recommended as about 15% mortality risk reduces in diseases and benefits increase . Given the
      importance of physical activity assessment and counseling in people with/without chronic
      disease, according to literature, studies objectively investigating either detailed physical
      activity condition rather than number of steps or relations of physical activity with
      pulmonary and physical functions in allogeneic-HSCT candidates are scarce. Therefore, primary
      aim of the current study was to exhibit possible all detailed aspects of physical activity
      outcomes evaluated with a metabolic holter, an objective measurement device, secondary aim
      was to investigate relationship among physical activity parameters, pulmonary functions and
      physical functions in allogeneic-HSCT candidates and as finally, to identify independent
      predictors of physical inactivity in candidates was aimed.
    
  