
    
      Subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is relatively frequent, accounting for 5% of strokes, and
      affects a relatively young population. It is essentially caused by cerebral aneurysm rupture.
      Mortality can reach 40%. The most frequent complication of SAH is arterial vasospasm, with
      estimated incidence as high as 70%. Vasospasm is responsible for cerebral ischemia, delayed
      or not, which in turn is responsible for severe morbidity (neurological deficit, neuro
      psychiatric disorders...), poorer quality of life (institutionalization, inability to return
      to work ...) and increased mortality.

      The pathophysiology of vasospasm is complex, multifactorial and far from being fully
      understood. Many drugs have been studied in the treatment of symptomatic vasospasm but none
      has really proven its efficacy. Milrinone is proposed for the treatment of cerebral
      vasospasm, either as intra-arterial injection (during angiography) or intravenously using
      continuous infusion. Indeed, among new vasospasm's treatments, Milrinone seems to have good
      angiographic and clinical results. There is no randomized controlled trials evaluating
      Milrinone for preventive and/or curative treatment of cerebral vasospasm following aneurysmal
      SAH. The literature is made only of clinical cases, cases series with angiographic studies or
      interventional studies not controlled and with no more than 10 patients.

      Thus we hypothesize that the intravenous infusion of Milrinone will improve the neurological
      recovery of patients with vasospasm following aneurysmal SAH at 3 months.

      Adult patients, hospitalized for a vasospasm complicating subarachnoid hemorrhage secondary
      to intracranial aneurysm rupture will be included and randomized within 6 hours of the
      CT-scanner confirming the vasospasm diagnosis to receive either the study drug (milrinione, a
      0,1 mg/kg bolus followed by a 1 μg/kg/min perfusion) or placebo (saline, with a bolus and a
      continuous infusion). Study drug administration will be formalized (minimum duration 48
      hours, maximum duration 14 days).The primary endpoint will be the proportion of patients with
      a good outcome 3 months (defined as a modified rankin score ≤2).
    
  