
    
      Background Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common and devastating malignant brain tumor in
      adults. Patients with glioblastoma face a poor prognosis. Despite maximal treatment, most
      patients suffer tumor progression after 6-7 months and die within 1-2 years. Standard
      treatment for newly diagnosed glioblastoma contains maximal safe surgery and adjuvant
      radiochemotherapy with temozolomide. Additional administration of steroids has established as
      standard of care during treatment of GBM. It is widely used during the entire course of the
      disease including pre- and postoperative management, chemotherapy and radiotherapy.
      Dexamethasone (DEX) is the most frequently used steroid. The main purpose is to reduce the
      tumor associated vasogenic cerebral edema, to prevent or treat increased intracranial
      pressure. In addition, DEX helps to cope with adverse effects of GBM-treatment like nausea,
      vomiting and fatigue. However, steroids are also linked to a multitude of adverse side
      effects that may affect the survival of GBM patients such as major immunosuppression, and
      metabolic changes like hyperglycemia. The use of steroids during radiotherapy is associated
      with reduced overall- and progression-free survival and has been identified as an independent
      poor prognostic factor. DEX was also related to a poor prognosis in recurrent GBM. Despite
      these findings, in routine clinical practice, the suspicion of glioblastoma often triggers
      the administration of DEX, regardless of neurologic symptoms or the extension of cerebral
      edema. Many patients are treated with larger doses of DEX per day before being referred to a
      neurosurgical center and are kept on steroids during the entire treatment. On the other hand,
      the clinical experience shows that GBM-patients with no, or only mild neurologic symptoms,
      normal intracranial pressure and relatively small cerebral edema can be managed without
      administration of DEX. The rationale for this study is to objectify the criteria and safety
      of a restrictive DEX regimen (based on standardized clinical and radiological criteria). A
      restrictive DEX regimen may help to reduce over-use, limit the number of patients exposed to
      the adverse effects of DEX, and potentially improve survival in GBM-patients. The purpose of
      this study is to assess whether selected GBM patients can be treated safely with a
      restrictive DEX regimen from referral to the neurosurgical center until discharge.

      Objective The primary objective is to determine the failure rate of a restrictive DEX regimen
      defined as edema or mass effect leading to any of the following: GCS deterioration ≥ 2
      points, NIHSS increase ≥ 3 points, increase of midline Shift ≥ 2mm, or any surgical rescue
      procedure for increasing mass effect.

      Methods All patients referred to the neurosurgical center with suspicion of glioblastoma are
      screened for inclusion- and exclusion criteria. If eligible and consenting of the patient to
      the study protocol, no steroids will be administered until discharge (except optional
      intraoperative single shot dexamethasone of max. 4mg if necessary). If steroids have been
      administered for a maximum of one day before referral, they will be stopped immediately.
      Patients are followed clinically. If one of the above-described failure criteria occurs, the
      primary endpoint is reached and DEX will be administered.
    
  