
    
      Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic gastrointestinal condition with significant
      morbidity in the form of hospitalizations, surgery, and reductions in quality of life. Most
      patients with IBD are managed in an ambulatory, outpatient setting. However, to optimally
      manage severe disease activity, hospitalization may be required. Hospitalized patients are at
      increased risk for a variety of complications such as infections, venous thrombosis, and
      surgery. The literature has revealed significant variation in care and disease outcomes among
      hospitalized IBD patients. The heterogeneous nature of IBD severity, location, and phenotype
      as well as limited evidence to guide some therapeutic domains make standardization of IBD
      care delivery difficult. However, hospitalized patients with ulcerative colitis (UC)
      represent a more homogenous group that may be most amendable to quality improvement
      initiatives aimed at reducing variation, a known surrogate marker of poor performance. The
      Canadian Association of Gastroenterology has developed guidelines for hospitalized UC
      patients. It is well established, however, that update of guidelines are variable.

      Admission to hospital can also have significant impact on quality of life due to
      interruptions in life commitments and lost sense of control of disease. Maintaining a sense
      of self-control of disease and active participation in care has been shown to be valuable
      among individuals with chronic diseases such as IBD. The investigators proposed the
      development of a multi-site, patient centered initiative aimed at improving clinically
      relevant and patient-centered outcomes through a multi-faceted educational tool for patients
      admitted to hospital with ulcerative colitis. Participating sites will be randomized to usual
      care versus administering the educational tool to patients which outlines what to expect
      during their hospital stay and reviews the current guidelines for hospitalized ulcerative
      colitis management.
    
  