
    
      Objectives:

      In a phase I trial we wish to determine the toxicity and provide preliminary clinical
      response information following the administration of humanized MiK-beta-1 (Hu MiK-Beta1), a
      monoclonal antibody directed toward IL-2/IL-15R Beta (CD122), in patients with
      HTLV-I-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP). This antibody blocks the
      action of IL-15, a cytokine involved in the pathogenesis of HTLV-I associated diseases and
      autoimmune disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis.

      Study Population:

      HAM/TSP affects about 1% of patients infected with the human T lymphotropic virus type 1
      (HTLV-I), manifesting as progressive myelopathy. Several features of the immune response in
      HAM/TSP indicate that IL-15 may be critical to its pathogenesis. HTLV-I transactivates IL-15
      and IL-15 R alpha expression through its tax protein, and supports the activation of
      lymphocytes in HAM/TSP, as evidenced by their spontaneous proliferation in ex vivo culture.
      We showed that the antibody HuMiK-Beta1 could inhibit this spontaneous lymphoproliferation.
      In addition, IL-15 has been shown to have a preferential positive effect on the survival of
      CD8+ T-cells, especially those of the memory phenotype. In HAM/TSP, an extraordinarily high
      frequency of tax specific CD8+ T-cells in the peripheral blood and cerebrospinal fluid is
      postulated to participate in the damage to the central nervous system. We have demonstrated
      that the addition of Hu MiK-Beta1 to ex vivo cells from HAM/TSP patients led to a marked
      decline in tax specific CD8+ T-cells.

      Design of the Study and Outcome Parameters

      In this single center, open label trial, four subjects with HAM/TSP will receive 0.5 mg/kg Hu
      MiK-beta1 dosed every three weeks for a total of five doses, and two subjects with HAM/TSP
      will receive placebo (normal saline) under the same dosing schedule. In addition, following
      the completion of the 0.5 mg/kg dose administration in four subjects with HAM/TSP, a dose
      escalation study will be performed with three subjects with HAM/TSP receiving 1.0 mg/kg of Hu
      MiK-beta1 at three week intervals for a total of five doses per subject, and three subjects
      with HAM/TSP receiving 1.5 mg/kg of Hu MiK-beta1 at three week intervals for a total of five
      doses per subject A Total of 10 subjects will receive study drug/placebo. We anticipate
      consenting up to eighteen subjects to allow for up to eight dropouts. Participants who
      withdraw voluntarily (not due to toxicity) after initiation of the study are considered
      dropouts. If this occurs prior to receiving three doses of the study medication the subjects
      can be replaced and should have three follow-up evaluations at four-week intervals following
      the last dose of the study drug. Patients who voluntarily drop out after receiving at least 3
      doses of the study drug will remain in the study and continue the protocol-specific
      evaluations. Toxicity will be assessed using standard criteria. The clinical response will be
      evaluated using standardized scales including expanded disability status scale, Scripps
      neurologic rating scale and ambulation index. In addition, viral and immunologic outcome
      measures will include assays of spontaneous lymphoproliferation analysis of HTLV-I tax
      tetramer specific CD8+ cells, HTLV-I proviral load determination and T-cell phenotype
      analysis.
    
  