
    
      This is a Phase 3, multi-center, randomized, double-blind study to determine the efficacy and
      safety of MLT, a novel antibiotic lock therapy that combines minocycline with edetate
      disodium in 25% ethanol solution.

      Mino-Lok Therapy is being developed as an adjunctive therapy for the treatment of
      catheter-related or central line associated bloodstream infection (CRBSI/CLABSI) in
      combination with appropriate systemic antibiotic(s), to preserve central venous access and to
      avoid the complications and morbidities associated with catheter removal and reinsertion.

      Approximately 144 subjects who have been diagnosed with CRBSI/CLABSI and who meet all
      necessary criteria for the study will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to 1 of 2 treatment arms:

        -  MLT Arm: MLT + SOC intravenous (IV) antibiotic therapy; or

        -  Control Arm (subjects randomized to the Control Arm will receive treatment based on the
           type and virulence of the infecting organism as documented by the Investigator prior to
           randomization): The antibiotic lock should be comprised of the best available therapy at
           the sites. Prior to randomization, the Investigator at each site will determine the
           antibiotic used in the lock, the dose, the dwell time, and the number of days of
           administration (minimum of 7 days) based on standard institutional practices or
           recommendations from the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) guidelines. In
           the event that the subject is being treated with more than 1 systemic SOC IV antibiotic,
           the Investigator will specify a single antibiotic that should be used for the antibiotic
           lock. It is acceptable for the SOC antibiotic lock to differ from the SOC IV
           antibiotics, as necessary per local SOC.

      All infecting organism types are permitted (eg, S. aureus, S. epidermidis, Candida spp.,
      Pseudomonas aeruginosa). Randomization will be stratified by type of CVC, presence of
      neutropenia, and by virulence of the infecting organism.

      The primary endpoint for this study is the time (in days following randomization) to a
      catheter failure event between randomization and TOC (Week 6) in the Intent-to-Treat (ITT)
      Population.

      A catheter failure event is ANY of the following:

        -  All-cause mortality at TOC (Week 6). The event time is the day of death;

        -  Catheter removal for any infection-related reasons (including worsening of symptoms or
           failure to eradicate the infection). The event time is the day the catheter is removed;

        -  Inability to administer study drug. The event time is the day the Investigator
           determines the catheter is no longer functional;

        -  Worsening of systemic signs and symptoms of infection that result in change in systemic
           anti infective treatment. Note that changes in treatment based on susceptibility data
           will be permitted. The event time is the day the treatment is changed;

        -  Demonstration that the baseline pathogen is not eradicated from the blood culture
           collected within 72 hours following randomization despite 72 hours of antibiotic therapy
           to which the infecting organism is susceptible. Best clinical practice and subject
           safety may dictate changes in treatment prior to 72 hours. The event time is the day of
           the positive culture;

        -  Demonstration that the baseline pathogen has recurred based on blood culture results by
           Week 6 of the study. The event time is the day of the positive blood culture documenting
           the recurrence. If a subject does not show any signs and symptoms of an infection and
           there is a negative blood culture prior to Week 6, then a blood culture does not have to
           be performed at Week 6. Subjects whose catheter was removed for reasons not related to
           the baseline infection also do not need to have a blood culture at Week 6; or

        -  Demonstration that the baseline pathogen is part of a newly diagnosed deep-seated
           infection by Week 6 of the study. The event time is the day of the new diagnosis.

      Removal of the CVC prior to TOC because the catheter is no longer needed will not be
      considered a catheter failure and these subjects will be censored at the time of catheter
      removal.
    
  