
    
      Study procedures:

      Eligible fractures will be identified, consented and randomized to RIA augmentation or non
      graft treatment. Bone graft will be harvested through the fracture at the time of the
      definitive fixation procedure. No additional graft can be utilized acutely (No iliac crest
      bone graft, or INFUSE, OP-1, Callos, etc).

      Randomization Procedures: We will be using Research Randomizer to calculate a random
      assignment design for Group A and Group B, which will be kept by the Research Coordinator.
      Once a patient agrees to participate in the study and signs an Informed Consent Form, the
      treating surgeon will request the treatment assignment from the Research Coordinator prior to
      the surgery. Group A will receive RIA augmentation. Group B will receive non-graft treatment.
      Patient outcomes will be analyzed using intention to treat principles.

      Surgical Procedures: Locked lateral plating of comminuted supracondylar femur and distal
      tibia fractures is an accepted standard of care. In severely comminuted fracture patterns,
      restoration of length and alignment often leaves substantial fracture gap increasing the risk
      of fracture nonunion. Historically, this has been accepted with the plan to return to the
      patient to surgery for bone grafting at a later date if the nonunion is developing.
      Intra-focal reaming with irrigation & aspiration (RIA) at time of initial surgery allows for
      acute autogenous bone grafting with no increased morbidity to the patient.

      Surgery for Group A receiving bone graft follows the same course as without acute grafting
      (same incision, dissection etc.) with the exception that after initial exposure, a guide wire
      is placed into the proximal femoral canal (retrograde) through the fracture, and graft is
      harvested using the RIA system. The RIA system has a reservoir to collect the reamings as
      they are aspirated from the fracture site. Reduction and fixation with locked plates then
      proceed as usual and the harvested graft is then placed into the residual gap with the
      expectation that nonunion rates may be decreased. A theoretical advantage is the renewed
      fracture hematoma that will collect at the fracture site secondary to reaming the canal which
      may also increase union rates and time to union. No increased morbidity is incurred and the
      increased surgical time is under 10 minutes.
    
  