
    
      Elevated LDL-C and lowered HDL-C are important risk factors for cardiovascular disease.
      Raising HDL-C is an attractive approach for reducing the residual risk of cardiovascular
      events that persist in many patients receiving low-density LDL-C -lowering therapy with
      statins. From previous studies, it is concluded that compared to atorvastatin, rosuvastatin
      could significantly increase HDL-C levels from baseline. However, which benefits the elevated
      HDL-C will bring to these patients who receive statin lowing LDL-C therapy are still unknown.
      Despite strong evidence that HDL-C levels predict atherosclerotic events, attempts at using
      an HDL-based treatment strategy as a therapeutic target have not yet been successful at the
      present time. However, on the basis of an enormous amount of basic scientific and clinical
      investigation, the International Atherosclerosis Society and US National Lipid Association
      still believe that there are a considerable number of reasons supporting the need to continue
      to investigate the therapeutic effect of modulating HDL structure and function.

      It has long been known that a low level of HDL cholesterol is a powerful independent
      predictor of increased cardiovascular risk, even among patients with LDL cholesterol levels
      below 70 mg/dl. In fact, a 1 mg/dl (0.026 mM) increment in HDL-C levels was associated with a
      significant decrease in the risk of coronary heart disease (CAD) of 2% in men and 3% in
      women. HDL-C has been proposed to have several anti-atherosclerotic properties, including the
      ability to mediate reverse cholesterol transport (RCT), antioxidant capacity,
      anti-inflammatory properties, nitric oxide-promoting activity, and an ability to transport
      proteins with their own intrinsic biological activities. RCT describes the metabolism and an
      important antiatherogenic function of HDL, namely, the HDL-mediated efflux of cholesterol
      from cells of the arterial wall and its subsequent delivery to the liver and steroidogenic
      organs, thus preventing atherosclerosis. HDL particles are responsible for RCT, as critical
      acceptors of cholesterol from lipid-laden macrophages and thereby play an important role in
      the maintenance of net cholesterol balance in the arterial wall and in the reduction of
      pro-inflammatory responses by lipid-rich macrophages. The antiatherogenic properties of HDL
      have been primarily ascribed to RCT. Khera et al. recently reported that HDL efflux capacity
      was inversely and significantly correlated with carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT). A
      one-standard deviation increase in HDL efflux capacity predicted a 30% reduction in the odds
      for CAD. Although cholesterol efflux from macrophages represents only a small portion of
      total RCT, the cholesterol efflux from macrophage foam cells is probably the most relevant
      step with respect to preventing or reversing atherosclerosis. HDL can be separated into two
      major parts, i.e., pre β-(further distinguished into preβ1-, preβ2-,preβ3-HDL) and
      a-HDL(separated into 5 distinct subclasses HDL3c 3b 3a 2a 2b). It has been postulated that
      RCT indeed was the metabolic process that nascent preβ-HDL converted to mature a-HDL,
      following the route of preβ1-HDL→preβ2-HDL→preβ3-HDL→HDL3→HDL2[13].

      The effect of HDL-C on plaque formation is complex, since HDL particles are highly
      heterogeneous, and exist as a spectrum of small, intermediate and large particles that differ
      in lipid and protein content. So the increase in plasma HDL-C does not necessarily reflect an
      increase in reverse cholesterol transport (RCT). Former studies from cholesteryl ester
      transfer protein(CETP) modulators and inhibitors such as dalcetrapib have limited efficacy to
      be still on the way may attributed to their concentration only on raising total HDL-C level
      and undesirable side effects. Results obtained in some studies, have shown that HDL quality
      (HDL subpopulations), rather than quantity (total HDL concentration), should be the target of
      future pharmacological therapies. A number of investigations have reported that, with the
      increase of plasma LDL-C or the decrease of plasma HDL-C concentrations or elevated TC(total
      cholesterol), or in some CAD patients with hyperlipidemia, or patients of CAD with diabetes,
      there was a general shift toward smaller-sized HDL (HDL3), which, in turn, indicates that
      reverse cholesterol transport might be weakened and HDL maturation might be abnormal.
      Significantly lower larger-sized HDL-HDL2 in CAD patients with hyperlipidemia compared with
      control patients, and this inverse relationship between HDL-C, HDL2, and CAD is particularly
      strong in men with type 2 diabetes mellitus. In type 2 diabetes patients, the difference
      between HDL2 in the myocardial infarction (MI) and non-MI group persists after adjustment for
      physical activity, alcohol intake, obesity, duration of diabetes, and glycemic control.
      Moreover, HDL2 deficiency has also been demonstrated to be a primary alteration in myocardial
      infarction patients even without other significant risk factors. The tendency that
      small-sized HDL3b, and HDL3a levels were significantly higher, and the large-sized HDL2a and
      HDL2b levels were significantly lower were also detected in ACS(acute coronary syndrome)
      patients. From articles on Chinese patients with elevate TC or LDL-C/HDL-C ratio, there was
      also a general shift toward smaller-sized HDL particles, which implied that the maturation
      process of HDL was blocked. Overall, accumulate evidences have demonstrated that in patients
      with CAD/CAD comorbid with diabetes/elevated TC levels, HDL maturation was hampered in the
      stage of the transformation of small-sized HDL3 to larger sized HDL2. HDL2 levels have
      inverse associations with the risk of acute myocardial infarction and thus to be protective
      factors in ischemic heart disease. It has also demonstrated that patients with high HDL2
      level were better protected from atherosclerosis.

      It has been demonstrate that atorvastatin 20 mg/d treatment for 8 weeks could result in a
      favorable modification of HDL subfraction phenotype. Treated with atorvastatin 20mg/d
      significantly increased the cholesterol concentration of large HDL particles and decreased
      the cholesterol concentration of small HDL particles although without changes of serum HDL-C
      level in patients with atherosclerosis. However, there are still lack of evidence on the
      effect of rosuvastatin treatment for HDL maturation(for the step of transformation of HDL3 to
      HDL2)and RCT process in CAD and Chinese patients. It has been demonstrated that Low HDL
      cholesterol is frequently associated with low HDL2b and high HDL cholesterol frequently
      associated with high HDL2b. As the investigators discussed above, compared to atorvastatin,
      rosuvastatin could significantly decrease LDL-C level and increase HDL-C level from baseline.
      So besides the basic effect of lowing LDL-C, it has a strong possibility that rosuvastatin
      therapy on CAD patients with hyperlipidemia could reverse the aberrant HDL maturation process
      via elevating lager HDL2 level, and then restore the RCT process to the normal to prevent
      atherosclerosis.
    
  