
    
      Genomind is sponsoring an open label study of Assay Guided Treatment (AGT) using the Genecept
      Assay in adult outpatients with Treatment Resistant Major Depressive Disorder. The Genecept
      Assay is a Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) laboratory validated test being
      researched to determine if having information about genetic variations impacts patient
      outcomes.

      The proposed investigation will examine the potential impact of the Assay in terms of
      depression severity as measured by change in CGI scale at 3 months. Secondary measures will
      assess change in Quick Inventory of Depressive Symptoms (QIDS-SR), Quality of Life Enjoyment
      and Satisfaction Questionnaire (Q-LES-Q) and Zung self-rated anxiety scales at 3 months.
      Additional measures include change in clinician treatment and diagnosis decisions and impact
      on mediation side effects using the Udvalg for Kliniske Undersøgelser Side Effect Rating
      Scale (UKU). Participant data will be compared to a matched control cohort to assess the
      impact of the use of the Genecept Assay on medication adherence and total claims.

      Patients with a diagnosis of non-psychotic Major Depressive Disorder will be identified.
      These patients and their treating clinicians will be recruited. The present study proposes to
      enroll 1. Subjects (patients who are identified as eligible) and 2. Clinician study
      participants (clinicians who are identified as responsible for the care of eligible
      patients). This study will involve the collection of responses from both Subjects and
      clinician study participants with the intention of correlating this information to Subject
      genetic data.

      Potential subjects and study participants will consent electronically on a secure study
      portal. Patients and Clinicians must both consent to participate in order to proceed in the
      study. After both subjects and clinician study participants have consent to participate, they
      will each be asked to complete an electronic baseline survey. Once the baseline survey is
      completed, the clinician will receive the Genecept Assay by mail and will then supervise
      collection of a saliva DNA sample during a routine office visit.

      At baseline, month 1 and month 3, patient Subjects will be prompted to complete surveys which
      include questions about their psychiatric symptoms, quality of life and medication side
      effects. The 3 month patient assessment will also include a satisfaction questionnaire.

      At baseline, clinician study participants will be prompted to complete a brief survey
      containing questions about the patient's psychiatric history and severity of illness, current
      treatment regimen and the treatment intentions of the clinician prior to receiving genetic
      results. After receiving the results of the Assay, clinician study participants will again be
      prompted to complete an online study survey containing questions related to the impact of the
      Genecept Assay on treatment and diagnosis decisions. The subject will continue with treatment
      as determined by the clinician study participant. At 3 months from baseline, clinician study
      participants will again be asked to complete an online survey with additional questions
      related to subsequent changes to the patient's treatment regimen and illness severity since
      receiving/implementing the results of the Assay.
    
  