
    
      The smoking pattern among adults in the US is undergoing a remarkable change. A substantial
      proportion of smokers are now light smokers (smoke ≤ 10 cigarettes per day), yet little is
      known about how to help light smokers quit. The prevalence of light smoking is high (~50%)
      among African Americans (AAs) who compared to other groups have high cotinine levels, are
      less successful quitting smoking, and experience disproportionately higher smoking-related
      cancers. Because light smokers often think that smoking fewer cigarettes a day is safe, a
      potential smoking cessation strategy is therefore to provide light smokers with feedback on
      biomarkers of tobacco exposure and increased cancer risk. The objective of this proposal is
      to develop and pilot test a biomarker risk assessment intervention to enhance smoking
      cessation for AA light smokers. The proposal builds on our previous work that shows that
      light smokers have 1) difficulty quitting smoking, 2) lower perceived health risks, but high
      levels of biomarkers (e.g. cotinine). This study will occur in 2 phases. Phase 1 will utilize
      focus groups to examine prevailing knowledge, attitudes, and beliefs about biomarkers as well
      as preferences about how participants would like to receive biomarker feedback (BF; e.g. by
      mail, phone, in-person). In Phase 2, data from the focus groups will be used to develop a
      (BF) intervention for light smokers. The new intervention will undergo further feasibility
      evaluation among 60 adult light smokers. Outcomes in Phase 2 will include process measures,
      (e.g. perceived usefulness, acceptance, and adherence) and changes in biomarker values with
      smoking reduction or cessation. By the end of the proposed pilot study, we expect to have
      developed a replicable, feasible, and acceptable BF intervention that will be ready for
      efficacy testing in a large clinical trial for smoking cessation or smoking reduction. The
      aims of the application are to: 1) Examine the prevailing knowledge, attitudes, beliefs, and
      preferences about BF for smoking cessation among AA light smokers; 2) Develop a BF
      intervention for smoking cessation among AA light smokers; and 3) Test the feasibility of a
      BF intervention for smoking cessation in AA light smokers.
    
  