
    
      Neuroplasticity is the capacity of the brain to adapt and change in response to stimuli. In
      schizophrenia, structural and synaptic neuroplastic impairments potentially contribute to
      early perceptual processing deficits that in turn contribute to downstream higher cognitive
      dysfunction. The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDA-R) hypofunction hypothesis of
      schizophrenia potentially explains the synaptic neuroplastic impairments as the NMDA receptor
      is a key component of synaptic plasticity. A rational treatment strategy involves targeting
      the underlying synaptic neuroplastic and perceptual processing deficits. That is, modulating
      the capacity for synaptic plasticity and remediating the processing deficits could then
      cascade into improved perceptual processing and eventually lead to better cognitive
      functioning.

      Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a non-invasive neurostimulation technique
      that has been shown to modulate synaptic plasticity. tDCS is promising because the technology
      is low cost and the treatment is well-tolerated and has a good safety profile. Both human and
      animal studies have implicated an essential role of the NMDA receptor in tDCS induced
      neuroplastic changes. Recent animal studies demonstrated that tDCS increased levels of an
      NMDA-R agonist and induced neuroplastic changes.

      Cognitive training has been shown to induce both synaptic and structural neuroplastic changes
      in control and psychiatric patient populations. This approach targets specific neural systems
      with directed exercises that employ a combination of repetition, reward, and motivation to
      induce adaptive neuroplastic changes.

      While both tDCS and cognitive training can induce synaptic plasticity changes, each approach
      has specific strengths that could converge in a cooperative manner. tDCS modulates NMDA-R
      activity and creates an environment that enhances the likelihood of synaptic changes to
      occur. However, tDCS alone has no inherent mechanism that drives change with specificity or
      directionality. Cognitive training employs targeted and repeated exercises, which confers
      specificity and directionality to synaptic changes. However, the extent of change that occurs
      is limited by the impaired state of neuroplasticity in schizophrenia. Conceivably, employing
      cognitive training in an environment enriched for plasticity could lead to enhanced and
      adaptive synaptic neuroplastic change.

      Subjects who have a psychiatric illness and may be cognitively impaired will be included in
      the study. Persons with schizophrenia commonly have cognitive impairments that affect
      attention, memory, and executive functioning. There is considerable evidence that these
      deficits are linked to impairments in social and occupational functioning that are
      characteristic of the disorder.

      The cognitive deficits and functional impairments of the illness are the target of interest
      in the study and therefore this patient population will be the specific targets for subject
      recruitment.

      Objectives and Aims

      The purpose of this proposal is to determine the effect of adding adjunctive cognitive
      training to tDCS in improving early auditory processing in schizophrenia patients.

      Specific Aims

        1. Determine if adding a cognitive auditory training exercise concurrently to cathodal tDCS
           offers an advantage to improving early auditory processing over tDCS alone in
           schizophrenia patients.

        2. Determine if adding cathodal tDCS to a cognitive auditory training exercise offers an
           advantage to improving early auditory processing over auditory training alone in
           schizophrenia patients.

      Study Protocol

      30 individuals with schizophrenia will be randomly divided into 3 groups.

      Group 1- Cathodal tDCS + auditory training exercise

      Group 2- Cathodal tDCS + control condition

      Group 3- Sham tDCS + auditory training exercise

      Subjects in Group 1 and 2 will receive cathodal stimulation while Group 3 will receive Sham
      stimulation. The training component for Groups 1 and 3 will be an active auditory training
      program while Group 2 will engage in a control condition. On day 1, subjects will receive a
      baseline Tone Matching Task (TMT) and Mismatch Negativity (MMN) assessment followed by 2
      sessions of tDCS. Subjects will received tDCS + training for 20 min followed by a 20 min rest
      period, and then a second 20 min tDCS + training session. Subjects will return the following
      day (approximately 21 hrs later) where they will undergo tDCS + training, a 20 min rest, and
      a final tDCS + training session. The post-stimulation TMT and MMN assessment will be
      conducted immediately following the final tDCS + training session. Each of these sessions
      will take approximately 3 hrs hours to complete.
    
  