
    
      The study design comprises a clinical study aimed at assessing efficacy of the BELK orthosis
      knee module on management of instability of the knee in 15 adults who have NMD or a CNS
      disorder. Participants will receive a 6-week training program (3 weeks with the BELK orthosis
      knee module) in a clinical setting in add-on at the standard neurorehabilitation treatment.

      The add-on rehabilitation training will be focused on lower limb with specific activities for
      knee instability, and will comprise 3 weeks using the BELK orthosis knee module and 3 weeks
      without any orthosis. The activities will concern both physical training (e.g., locomotion
      task, balance exercise, muscle reinforcement, proprioceptive task) and occupational treatment
      tasks (e.g., transferring/mobility, meal preparation, house-working).

      This clinical study will be a Randomized Control Trial (RCT) crossover longitudinal.

      The clinical trial will be split in the following phases :

        -  Recruitment. Subjects admitted to CCP Neurorehabilitation unit will be recruited after
           considering inclusion and exclusion criteria through clinical history and medical visit.

        -  Randomization. Enrolled participants will be randomly allocated (per 2 blocked
           randomization lists, generated electronically by www.random.org) into the BELK assisted
           group (Group A) or the control group (Group B).

        -  Clinical, instrumental and questionnaires assessment at T0 (baseline)

        -  Rehabilitation Treatment (first block) three weeks period, all the patients will perform
           rehabilitation training. The patients allocated in Group A will perform the training
           wearing the BELK device while patients allocated in Group B will perform the same
           exercise without any exoskeleton.

        -  Clinical, instrumental and questionnaires assessment at T1 (crossover)

        -  Rehabilitation Treatment (second block) three weeks period, all the patients will
           perform rehabilitation training. The patients allocated in Group B will perform the
           training wearing the BELK device while patients allocated in Group A will perform the
           same exercise without any exoskeleton.

        -  Clinical, instrumental, questionnaires and usability assessment at T2 (final)

        -  Additional Instrumental Test will be performed after the first and the second week of
           each rehabilitation treatment block (i.e., T01, T02, T11, T12).

      Instrumental Test consist of:

        -  Bio-mechanical performance (gait kinematics/kinetics analysis),

        -  Surface electromyography for knee functional evaluation (EMG),

        -  6-minute walking test (6mWT),

        -  Baseline assessments uptake (VO2),

        -  Hearth rate (HR),

        -  Breathing frequency (BF),

        -  Timed Up and Go Test (TUG),

        -  Stair Climb Test (SCT).

      Clinical scales consist of:

        -  Functional Independence Measure scale (FIM),

        -  Functional Ambulation category scale (FAC),

        -  lower-leg Ashworth scale (sum of score for hip, knee and ankle) (AS),

        -  Mini Balance Evaluation Systems Test (Mini-Best),

        -  Motricity Index (MI),

        -  Self-reported perceived effort (CR-10 Borg).

      Questionnaires consist of:

        -  International Knee Documentation Committee subjective knee evaluation form (IKDC),

        -  Knee Outcome Survey Activity of Daily Living (KOS ADL) and health-related quality of
           life (SF-36).
    
  