
    
      This study has two phases. The objective of Phase I to find the maximum dose (MTD) of
      Ruxolitinib when combined with standard dose of paclitaxel given weekly for advanced or
      metastatic breast cancer. Three participants will be entered at a dose ruxolitinib equaling
      10 mg orally twice daily with weekly paclitaxel. If no dose-limiting toxicity is seen after 6
      weeks of treatment (two cycles), then the dose of ruxolitinib will be escalated using a
      standard 3+3 design, until 2 participants experience dose limiting toxicity (DLT). The dose
      below the DLT is designated the MTD and this dose of ruxolitinib will be used in the phase II
      preoperative study for triple negative IBC.

      During Cycle 1 the participant will come into clinic every week. At each visit, the
      participant will have a physical exam and will be asked questions regarding general health
      and specific questions about any problems that the participant might be having with any
      medications. About 2-3 additional tablespoons of blood will be taken before the participant's
      begins ruxolitinib, on Cycle 2 Day 1, Cycle 3 Day 1, and at the end of the study for research
      blood tests. Because these tests are being performed for research, and their clinical
      usefulness is unknown, the participant will not receive the results of these tests. The
      investigator will assess the participant's tumor by CT scans or MRI every 2 cycles. In
      addition, if the participant has tumors that are visible or can be palpated (felt), then they
      will be measured by the participant's study doctor in the clinic. If the participant has had
      a history of cancer in the bones or suspected cancer in the bones, then a bone scan will be
      performed before the participant can begin ruxolitinib. The bone scan may be repeated every 2
      cycles and at the end of the study if the participant study doctor believes it is clinically
      needed. Otherwise, it does not need to be repeated. Photographs may be taken of the
      participant's tumor to assess the tumor response to the treatment.

      The phase II period of the study will treat triple negative inflammatory breast cancer
      participants with ruxolitinib combined with 12 weeks of weekly paclitaxel followed by
      standard care Doxorubicin and Cyclophosphamide (AC) chemotherapy, eligible participants will
      proceed to surgical mastectomy followed by radiation. The phase II study will begin once the
      phase I study has been completed.

      During the phase II study, participants will have a research biopsy of the breast followed by
      one week of ruxolitinib given twice daily. A second research biopsy of the breast is then
      performed and the participants will then receive combination ruxolitinib (at the MTD dose
      defined in the phase I study) and standard dose paclitaxel for 12 weeks. Participants will be
      seen weekly during treatment. One week after completing the combination therapy, participants
      will receive standard dose doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (AC) every 2 weeks for 4 cycles.

      We will evaluate the effect of JAK inhibition by ruxolitinib on the tumor by comparing
      pSTAT3+ expression of the pre-treatment research biopsy with the pSTAT3+ expression on the
      second research biopsy performed after one week of ruxolitinib. Participants who have disease
      regression following 12 weeks of ruxolitinib and paclitaxel followed by AC chemotherapy will
      undergo mastectomy, and the amount of residual breast cancer will be assessed. We will
      correlate the degree of residual cancer in the mastectomy with the amount of pSTAT3+
      expression seen in the research biopsies. We will be checking standard blood tests, IL-6 and
      CRP levels throughout the treatment to see if the levels change in response to ruxolitinib
      treatment. This may be an easier method of determining treatment efficacy. Standard radiation
      therapy will be given following mastectomy.
    
  