
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the appropriate dose of bevacizumab when administered with humanized monoclonal
      antibody MEDI-522 in patients with unresectable or metastatic renal cell carcinoma previously
      treated with sunitinib malate or sorafenib tosylate. (Phase I) II. To compare the
      progression-free survival of these patients treated with bevacizumab with versus without
      humanized monoclonal antibody MEDI-522. (Phase II) III. To evaluate the qualitative and
      quantitative toxicities of bevacizumab and humanized monoclonal antibody MEDI-522 in these
      patients. (Phase II) IV. To estimate overall survival and RECIST response rate (i.e.,
      confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial responses) in both treatment arms. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I, dose-escalation study of bevacizumab followed by a
      randomized phase II study.

      PHASE I: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15 and humanized
      monoclonal antibody MEDI-522 IV on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity until the recommended phase II dose
      (RPTD) of bevacizumab is determined.

      PHASE II: Patients are stratified according to the number of prior treatment regimens for
      renal cell carcinoma (1 vs 2) and whether there is a clear cell component (yes vs no).
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms:

      ARM I: Patients receive bevacizumab (10 mg/kg) IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15.

      ARM II: Patients receive bevacizumab IV as in arm I at the RPTD determined in phase I, and
      humanized monoclonal antibody MEDI-522 (8 mg/kg) IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22.

      In both arms, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for up to 3 years.
    
  