
    
      Study enrollment

      Approximately 100 healthy adults will be enrolled ages >18; both sexes, for vitamin D
      deficiency screening in order to enroll 80 adults with vitamin D deficiency/insufficiency
      (serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D <30 ng/mL). Participants will be randomized 1:1 into two groups:
      40 adults for treatment arm who will receive weekly exposures of ultraviolet radiation
      generated by the Solius Photobiological system, and 40 adults for sham comparator arm.

      Study procedure

      The treatment group that will be exposed to the Solius Photobiological System will first
      undergo an evaluation of each individual's sensitivity to the Solius Photobiological System
      UVB using the device titration system for the first 5 weeks. Once determined after the 5
      weeks, the subjects will be enrolled in a 16-week study where they will be exposed to their
      individualized titration evaluation. For the sham comparator group, they will undergo the
      procedures as the treated group with the exception that the Solius Photobiological System
      will only be turned on to emit visible radiation. At these visits, each subject assigned into
      both groups will be asked questions about consumption of vitamin D, sun exposure, and whether
      he/she has had any adverse changes in his/her health. Serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels will
      be measured at baseline and monthly, and the levels will be analyzed to compare between those
      who receive and who do not receive the UVB radiation intervention for baseline and during the
      16-week treatment period. After the 16-week intervention, participants will be asked to
      return the study site weekly for measurement of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D for 4 weeks. Serum
      25(OH)D levels will be determined using the Liquid Chromatography with tandem mass
      spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) method. Safety will be monitored by interviewing the participants
      each UVB exposure for any adverse events, including erythema or any other skin reactions.
    
  