
    
      Insomnia is a common problem that is disabling and that frequently persists despite available
      medical and behavioral approaches. It is associated significant psychiatric and medical
      comorbidities and high medical and societal costs. Benzodiazepine receptor agonists (BzRA's)
      and cognitive behavioral therapies are common treatments, but despite these, insomnia remains
      a pervasive problem. Complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) treatments are being used
      widely for the treatment of insomnia, but many of these modalities have sparse research
      support. There are numerous reports in the Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM)literature of
      dramatic benefits of acupuncture for the treatment of insomnia, but carefully designed
      studies are limited. Insomnia has been associated with hyperarousal and acupuncture has
      documented effects on autonomics with a shift towards parasympathetic predominance. In
      consultation with experts in acupuncture and TCM, we developed a protocol for the treatment
      of insomnia and have used it clinically with good success.

      We will be conducting a 3-year exploratory pilot randomized-controlled blinded trial (RCT) of
      this protocol on 56 adults with insomnia disorder, utilizing a control condition involving
      placement of placebo needles. We seek to determine the effect size of this acupuncture
      intervention in comparison to the control condition in preparation for a more definitive
      study, with the future primary aim to determine if acupuncture is effective and well
      tolerated in the treatment of insomnia. Measures will include self-report and objective
      measures of sleep quality and duration including polysomnography (PSG). Secondary-exploratory
      aims will be to determine the impact of this acupuncture protocol on daytime symptoms of
      insomnia such as fatigue, anxiety, and depression as well as to explore the impact of
      acupuncture on self-report and objective measures of hyperarousal.
    
  