
    
      INTRODUCTION & STATE-OF-ART Cystic Fibrosis (CF) is the most common autosomal recessive
      lethal disorders affecting 1 in 2.500 newborns among Caucasians. CF lung disease reflects a
      failure in the capacity of airway epithelia to normally hydrate their surface. Poor hydration
      of airways surfaces leads to reduced mucociliary clearance, adhesion of mucus to airway
      surfaces and, ultimately, chronic bacterial infection.

      On regard the therapeutic strategy, lung infection in CF was mainly treated with antibiotics,
      anti-inflammatory medicines, bronchodilators and mucolytics. In addition, patients with
      cystic fibrosis were often given other types of medicines such as pancreatic enzymes and food
      supplements. They were also advised to exercise and to have physiotherapy.

      Patients with CF are peculiarly susceptible to infection and colonization of the respiratory
      tract with patho-gens. In particular, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) has
      become the third most prevalent bacterium in cystic fibrosis (CF) in the United States and
      has been increasing in other countries. Apart from the difficulty of treating the infection
      because of its antimicrobial resistances, MRSA is transmissible between individuals with and
      without CF.

      With increasing survival due to improvements of care, an increased frequency of pulmonary
      infections with new and resistant pathogens has been identified. In particular, the
      prevalence of Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) in respiratory cultures of
      CF patients has increased over the past decade. MRSA pneumonia is likely to be severe and
      life threatening, with high mortality, compared with non-MRSA pneumonia.

      The impact of MRSA on outcomes in CF is not fully understood. In a large epidemiologic study
      was shown that lung function decline is more rapid in CF children and adolescents with
      persistent MRSA compared with those without MRSA. Epidemiologic evidence suggests that
      persistent infection with MRSA is associated with increased use of intra-venous antibiotics,
      increased hospitalizations, a faster decline of lung function, as well as shortened life
      expectancy.

      During chronic infection, MRSA shows the adaptive mode of growth, which enhances the
      bacterias' ability to withstand the immune system and antibiotic therapy. In the setting of
      chronic infection, however, reduction in bacterial density in sputum and increased clinical
      stability may be appropriate outcomes.

      Chronic MRSA infection is associated with worse outcomes, and treatment/eradication is
      challenging. Antibiotic dosing and choices should be optimized to minimize further resistance
      and to maximize chances of successful therapy. Yet, MRSA has several mechanisms to escape
      clearance by the immune system and antibiotic killing. For these reasons, a better
      understanding of preventive measures and early therapy is of key importance.

      Different approaches have been considered in the prevention and management of MRSA infections
      among patients with CF. In consideration of all these assessments there is an emerging
      consensus that MRSA is an important pathogen in CF rather than simply a marker of severe
      disease. However, to date there are no guidelines or recommendations on the choice of
      antibiotics for MRSA in CF.

      Glycopeptides are an important class of antibiotics active against Gram-positive pathogens.
      Teicoplanin and vancomycin, are two glycopeptide antibiotics currently in widespread use and
      are active against MRSA. Teicoplanin susceptibility is considered when minimal inhibition
      concentration (MIC) is < 2 ug/mL. Teicoplanin is produced by Actynoplanes teichomycietus and
      acts by inhibition of cell wall synthesis. Teicoplanin is often preferred to vancomycin for
      intravenous treatment because of its better safety profile but its use in MRSA lung infection
      is limited by its limited lung penetration. Teicoplanin has been marketed for >20 years in
      most EU countries. Teicoplanin is mainly used for injection/infusion; the oral route of
      administration is used only for the treatment of pseudomembranous colitis by Clostridium
      difficilis.

      Inhalation of anti-microbial drugs is a cornerstone in the treatment of patients with CF, by
      providing high drug concentrations locally in the lung while minimizing systemic exposure and
      thus the potential for side effects. Nebulized antibiotic therapy directly targets airways
      and lung parenchyma, thereby resulting in increased local concentrations and hence
      potentially improving efficacy. In CF, inhaled antibiotics decrease the rate of decline of
      lung function, improve the quality of life, and reduce the frequency of exacerbations and
      hospital admissions.

      Delivery of nebulized Teicoplanin directly to the bronchial tree may offer improved efficacy.
      It is expected that, using the inhalation route, lung concentrations will be higher than MICs
      for most bacteria, improving efficacy and reducing the risk of resistance. At present, no
      antibiotic active against MRSA is available as an inhaled formulation; vancomycin dry powder
      for inhalation is currently under clinical investigation in the U.S.A. for the treatment of
      MRSA lung infection.

      SUMMARY OF NON-CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Teicoplanin inhibits the growth of susceptible organisms
      by interfering with cell wall biosynthesis at a site different from that affected by
      beta-lactams. Specific binding to D-alanyl-D-alanine residues blocks peptidoglycan synthesis.
      The spectrum of activity of Teicoplanin, like that of vancomycin, is restricted to
      Gram-positive aerobic and anaerobic bacteria. Teicoplanin is generally more active than
      vancomycin against streptococci and Gram-positive anaerobes; the two agents exhibit similar
      activity against S. aureus (including MRSA).

      Resistance to Teicoplanin is rare but not unknown. SUMMARY OF CLINICAL DATA In clinical
      trials, Teicoplanin is associated with fewer side effects than vancomycin, while caution is
      recommended in the elderly, patients with compromised renal function, pre-existing hearing
      problems or with a history of allergic reactions to vancomycin. Common adverse reactions
      (≥1/100 to <1/10) include rash, erythema, pruritis, pain at injections site and pyrexia while
      less common reactions (≥1/1,000 to <1/100) include leucopenia, thrombocytopenia,
      eosinophilia, anaphylactic reactions dizziness, headache, phlebitis, bronchospasm, diarrhoea,
      vomiting, nausea and transient increases in transaminases.

      Renal failure has been reported in patients treated with Teicoplanin; patients with renal
      insufficiency, and/or in those receiving Teicoplanin in conjunction with or sequentially with
      other medicinal products with known nephrotoxic potential (aminoglycosides, colistin,
      amphotericin B, cyclosporin, and cisplatin) should be carefully monitored, and should include
      auditory tests. Since Teicoplanin is mainly excreted by the kidney, the dose of Teicoplanin
      must be adapted in patients with renal impairment.

      As with other glycopeptides, ototoxicity (deafness and tinnitus) has been reported in
      patients treated with Teicoplanin. Patients who develop signs and symptoms of impaired
      hearing or disorders of the inner ear during treatment with Teicoplanin should be carefully
      evaluated and monitored, especially in case of prolonged treatment and in patients with renal
      insufficiency. Patients receiving Teicoplanin in conjunction with or sequentially with other
      medicinal products with known neurotoxic/ototoxic potential (amino-glycol¬sides, cyclosporin,
      cisplatin, furosemide and ethacrynic acid) should be carefully monitored and the benefit of
      Teicoplanin evaluated if hearing deteriorates.

      The safety of Teicoplanin has been confirmed by pharmacovigilance data based on approximately
      30 years of use in Gram-positive severe infections. There are no human data concerning the
      use of inhaled Teicoplanin.

      SUMMARY OF CLINICAL PHARMACOKINETICS Teicoplanin is currently administered primarily by the
      parenteral route (intravenous, IV or intra¬muscular, IM). Following intravenous
      administration, the disposition kinetics are tri-exponential, and the majority of drug is
      excreted unchanged by glomerular filtration. In patients with normal renal function, the
      terminal half-life is 87 h. The volume of distribution at steady-state is 860 mL/kg,
      clearance is 11.4 mL/h/kg and renal clearance is 8.3 mL/h/kg. Teicoplanin is highly bound in
      plasma to albumin (fraction unbound = 0.1). The pharmacokinetics are linear over a wide dose
      range (2 to 26 mg/kg). As expected, clearance is higher in children than in adults, and lower
      in the elderly, associated with a decrease in glomerular filtration rate with advancing
      years.

      Teicoplanin is not absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and shows negligible oral
      bioavailability. After IM administration, the bioavailability of Teicoplanin is 90%. After
      six daily IM administrations at 200 mg, the mean ± SD maximum Teicoplanin concentration
      (Cmax) is 12.1 ± 0.9 mg/L and occurs at 2h after administration.

      RATIONALE FOR THE STUDY The objective of this phase I, first-in-man clinical study is to
      identify the dose providing, after single inhalation administration, a sputum Teicoplanin
      concentrations exceeding the drug concentration required to inhibit bacterial growth for at
      least 8 hours, while minimizing the development of resistance. To this end, the study is
      designed with single daily escalating doses in subjects with CF. Up to now, no Teicoplanin
      product for nebulization has been approved either in EU or U.S.A.. Nevertheless, Teicoplanin
      containing solutions are often used off-label to manage MRSA lung infections in patients with
      Cystic Fibrosis, usually with nebulization of 200 mg in 3 ml.

      Inhalation by nebulization is a typical topical therapy and its efficacy depends on the
      physicochemical characteristics of the drug solution and of the nebuliser used to generate
      the aerosol.

      In this trial the first dose has been selected after aerodynamic assessment of nebulised
      aerosol in accordance with European Pharmacopoeia 9th and USP 28. A starting dose of 150 mg
      will be most likely well tolerated and possibly able to reach the expected concentration in
      the target tissue.

      On the basis of PK features of Teicoplanin (elimination half-life of the product varies from
      100 to 170 hours in blood), of time-dependent killing characteristic, of the mechanism of
      action and of the expected MIC, an AUC0-12 h of more 300 μg/mL*h in the sputum will be
      effective in controlling MRSA infection. This value is thus an appropriate end point for a
      preliminary pilot study after single local administration and will likely allow optimal
      evaluation of the doses to be applied to test clinical efficacy on the basis of the following
      considerations:

        -  Repeated administrations, to be applied in later studies, will produce proportionally
           higher AUC values than single administration;

        -  Local ratio between AUC and MIC necessary to achieve killing of MRSA are likely lower
           than systemic ratio;

        -  Teicoplanin "off-label" experience is usually based on administration of doses unlikely
           to produce a AUC0-12 h above 300 μg/mL*h in the sputum.

      In conclusion, on the basis of literature data an AUC0-12 h above 300 μg/mL*h in the sputum
      is achievable within the planned protocol, is likely to be clinically relevant in patients
      with MRSA lung infection and is likely well tolerated even by patients with chronic lung
      inflammation as those who will be enrolled in the proposed study.
    
  