
    
      Chronic pancreatitis is extremely painful and pain management in patients with chronic
      pancreatitis is challenging. The etiology of abdominal pain in chronic pancreatitis is
      considered multifactorial. Current treatments for pain control primarily include narcotic &
      opioid administration; however, these medications require titration of dosage for optimal
      pain control and are frequently followed by adverse effects such as constipation, nausea or
      drug addiction. Currently, the FDA has imposed strict regulations regarding the amount,
      frequency & length of time patients may receive these medications. With tightly controlled
      regulations for prescribing narcotics and opioids for chronic pain management, the epidemic
      of street drug usage and overdose has dramatically increased. Alternatively, celiac plexus
      block and celiac plexus neurolysis performed under EUS guidance have been employed for pain
      control for at least 2 decades and deemed safe. Celiac plexus block refers to temporary
      inhibition of nerves of the celiac plexus, by using a combination of steroid and numbing
      medications injected into the celiac plexus ganglia. Celiac plexus neurolysis (CPN) refers to
      a temporary to semi-permanent inhibition of nerves of the celiac plexus ganglia. Injection of
      alcohol as a neurolytic agent is used in place of the steroid which causes neurolysis of the
      celiac plexus or ganglia.

      This study will focus on collecting data related to endoscopic ultrasound procedures
      performed by Indiana University EUS physicians; specifically for the management of chronic
      pancreatitis pain. This data will be used for research purposes to determine the clinical
      impact of EUS-CPN management in chronic pancreatitis pain. The physicians will also be able
      to better understand the patient's condition and disease process that may lead to improved
      patient management.
    
  