
    
      Community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) is one of the most common bacterial infections and a
      leading cause of death globally since many patients deteriorate into sepsis and organ
      dysfunction. Traditional management relies on the prompt administration of antimicrobials
      that target the most common causative pathogens namely Streptococcus pneumoniae, Mycoplasma
      pneumoniae, Chlamydophila pneumoniae and Legionella pneumophila. Although there was some
      hesitancy in the former guidelines of the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) and
      of the American Thoracic Society (ATS) to suggest a clear-cut role of macrolides for the
      management of CAP, the new guidelines published by the ATS in 2019 clearly suggest for the
      management of all cases of CAP either treated as out-patients or as in-patients with a
      combination of β-lactam with macrolides.

      The shift in the position of ATS expressed in the 2019 guidelines is coming from the growing
      body of evidence that the addition of a macrolide in the treatment regimen of CAP is
      accompanied by considerable survival benefit. This finding is mainly coming from the
      retrospective analysis of observational clinical studies in CAP. Results were also supported
      by the meta-analysis of these studies . Superiority coming from the macrolide use is mainly
      shown in cases of severe CAP i.e. situations with pneumonia severity index (PSI) greater than
      2 that are most commonly caused by S.pneumoniae. The proposed benefit of macrolides is coming
      from their anti-inflammatory mode of action. This statement generates two main questions: a)
      what an anti-inflammatory mode of action consists of in the clinical setting; and b) is this
      a common property for all macrolides? Although it is easy to suggest that an antimicrobial
      modulates immune responses in vitro, it is extremely difficult to prove this in vivo. The
      main hurdle is coming from the fact that it is difficult to decipher to what extent clinical
      benefit is coming from the antimicrobial effect per se and to what extent this is due to
      modulation of the immune responses. In other terms, an anti-inflammatory effect is better
      shown in infections caused by pathogens that do not belong to the antimicrobial spectrum of
      macrolides. Our group has conducted two large scale randomized clinical trials (RCTs) where
      clarithromycin was co-administered intravenously along with β-lactams in either patients with
      ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) by multidrug-resistant Gram-negative pathogens or
      patients with severe Gram-negative infections like acute pyelonephritis, intraabdominal
      infections and primary Gram-negative bacteremia. The total number of patients enrolled in
      both studies was 800 and isolated pathogens did not belong to the antimicrobial spectrum of
      macrolides. Addition of clarithromycin provided overall survival benefit after 90-days in
      patients with VAP (57% survival versus 40% of placebo-treated comparators). Mortality by
      septic shock after 28-days was also considerably decreased in patients with severe
      Gram-negative infections (53.1% versus 73.1% of the comparators).

      Although these findings point towards an anti-inflammatory mode of action of clarithromycin,
      they do not necessarily imply that a survival benefit similar to Gram-negative infections
      will apply in CAP. There is only one RCT to test the anti-inflammatory effect of
      clarithromycin in patients with CAP. This RCT was designed for non-inferiority and randomized
      patients were allocated into single β-lactam treatment or the combination with oral
      clarithromycin. The primary endpoint was clinical instability after seven days. Contrary to
      what investigators were expecting this was shown in 41.2% of non-macrolide treated patients
      and 33.6% of macrolide-treated patients (p: 0.070). It may be argued that if the study was
      powered for superiority, the study primary endpoint would have shown benefit from the
      addition of clarithromycin.

      In recent publication coming from the research network of the Hellenic Sepsis Study Group
      (HSSG) 130 patients with CAP were treated with a combination of β-lactam and clarithromycin.
      They were compared with another 130 patients treated with a combination of β-lactam and
      azithromycin, with 130 patients treated with respiratory fluoroquinolone monotherapy and with
      130 treated with β-lactam monotherapy. The study has a case-matching design and selection of
      cases of the three comparator groups were based on the group of patients treated with
      clarithromycin. Matching selection criteria were severity as assessed by the severity score
      of SOFA (sequential organ failure assessment), APACHE II (acute physiology and chronic health
      evaluation), PSI and CCI (Charlson's comorbidity index) and type of β-lactam. The 28-day
      mortality of the four groups was 20.8%, 33.8%, 32.3% and 36.2% respectively, showing a
      profound survival benefit with the intake of clarithromycin.

      Based on the above analysis, it seems likely that an RCT that proves the attenuation of the
      high inflammatory burden of the host with CAP after addition of clarithromycin in the
      treatment regimen is missing. The need for this RCT is outscored in the recent guidelines of
      ATS . Such a type of RCT should take into consideration the SOFA score of the patients, the
      presence of the systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS), the existence of elevated
      procalcitonin (PCT) in serum and the outcome of patients infected by macrolide-resistant
      S.pneumoniae. SOFA score is nowadays proposed as the sine qua non for severity. PCT more than
      0.25 ng/ml is widely accepted as an index of systemic inflammation in the event of CAP to
      such an extent that decrease more than 80% or to levels lower than 0.25 ng/ml can be used as
      an index of therapy withdrawal. In such an RCT rapid resolution of the high inflammatory
      burden of the host should be highlighted in the achievement of the early treatment response
      of CAP after 72 hours that is recently appointed by the Food and Drug Administration and the
      European Medicines Agency as the primary endpoint goal of CAP.

      This is an RCT that is aiming to prove that addition of oral clarithromycin to a β-lactam
      rapidly attenuates the high inflammatory burden of the host in CAP.
    
  