
    
      Impaired fasting glucose (IFG) represent an intermediate state of abnormal glucose regulation
      that exist between normal glucose homeostasis and diabetes mellitus (DM) and is a significant
      risk factor for DM and cardiovascular complications. IFG is defined by an elevated FG level
      between 6.1-6.9mmol/L according to the World Health Organization (WHO). The lower cutoff
      level for IFG was further lowered to 5.6mmol/L by the American Diabetes Association (ADA) in
      2003 in order to maximize sensitivity and specificity for predicting DM over a 5-year period.
      In Hong Kong, IFG individuals can be more readily identified by primary care doctors than
      subjects with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) or elevated HbA1c - the other 2 pre-diabetic
      categories - because fasting glucose (FG) test is recommended by the Hong Kong reference
      framework for diabetes care for adults in primary care setting for DM screening. Thus, this
      group of individuals should be targeted opportunistically for DM prevention.

      On the other hand, IFG is a heterogeneous group with variable risk of progression to DM.
      Individuals with IFG may have concomitant IGT, elevated HbA1c or even DM. Thomas et al. found
      that around 20% of Hong Kong Chinese subjects with impaired glucose relation had concomitant
      IFG and IGT, whereas 49.5% had isolated IGT and 30.5% had isolated IFG. Ko et al. followed up
      55 Chinese subjects with IFG for a median period of 1.12 year and showed that 8.4% progressed
      to DM annually as defined by fasting glucose criteria (FG ≥7.0mmol.L). Lee et al. followed up
      238 Chinese women with persistent impaired glucose tolerance after gestational diabetes over
      a mean period of 52 months and found that 20% of the studied population developed diabetes
      mellitus based on OGTT criteria; the highest rate of progression to DM was noted among those
      women with concomitant postpartum impaired fasting glucose.

      A recent cross-sectional study by Yu et al on 1,200 Chinese primary care patients with IFG
      demonstrated that 20% had DM confirmed by OGTT as the gold diagnostic standard, 14.3% had
      concomitant IGT, and 16.1% would regress back to normoglycaemia upon retest within 18 months.
      However, all of these local studies had short follow-up period and used different diagnostic
      tests for confirmation of DM; the long term risk of progression to DM among Chinese subjects
      with isolated IFG or combined IFG-IGT had not been fully evaluated.

      Moreover, only few studies examined the risk factors for progression from IFG (+/- IGT) to DM
      among Asians or Chinese. Female gender, smoking, low physical activity, obesity as well as
      truncal obesity, high blood pressure, high triglyceridaemia and most importantly higher
      baseline FG level had all been reported to increase risk of progression from IFG to DM among
      Caucasians. In the only Asian study conducted in Japan, Toshihiro et al. found that stress in
      daily life, night duty and administrative position were risk factors of DM development among
      IFG subjects. To the best of our knowledge, no published data on the risk factors of
      progression from IFG to DM among Chinese is currently available. It was not certain that the
      risk factors identified among the Caucasians or Japanese were applicable to the Chinese.
      Although intensive lifestyle modifications targeting these risk factors had been reported to
      reduce progression from IFG to DM, their effects on Chinese subjects with IFG had not been
      evaluated.

      Between May 2013 and March 2015, our team have already collected a prospective cohort of
      around 700 non-diabetic adults who have underwent both 75g OGTT and HbA1c tests as rigorous
      determination of their glycemic status. We aim to conduct a 3-year follow-up study to
      estimate the incidence of progression to DM among Hong Kong Chinese primary care patients
      with IFG with or without concomitant IGT using OGTT as the gold diagnostic standard as
      recommended by the Hong Kong Reference Framework. In addition, we aim to identify
      determinants, in particular the modifiable risk factors, for the progression from IFG to DM.
      These results will provide valuable information for designing optimal follow-up plan and
      diabetes prevention programme for local IFG patients, with the ultimate goal to reduce health
      care burden of DM on our society.
    
  