
    
      This is a Phase II, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group,
      multi-center study comparing the efficacy, safety and tolerability of CX157 60mg TID and
      placebo. This study will be conducted at approximately 12 investigative sites in the US.

      Subjects with suspected Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) and experiencing a Major Depressive
      Episode (MDE) who the investigator wishes to consider for enrollment in the study and who
      provide written informed consent will initially be evaluated by the Inventory of Depressive
      Symptomatology 30 item -Self Report (IDS-SR30) administered via Interactive Voice Response
      System (IVRS). Subjects who meet the minimum score of 40 on the IDS-SR30 will proceed with
      the remaining study related assessments at the Screening visit. Those subjects who meet all
      inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria will enter a one to two week Screening
      period to confirm eligibility and to capture Screening data prior to Randomization. At the
      Randomization visit, all eligibility requirements will be reconfirmed. The subjects who meet
      all criteria will be randomized to study medication and enter into a six-week treatment
      period and a subsequent one week Follow-Up period. The total duration of participation for
      subjects who complete all phases of the study will be approximately 8-9 weeks. During the
      treatment period, clinic visits will occur at Week 1, Week 2, Week 4, and Week 6. A
      subsequent clinic visit will occur at the end of the one week Follow-Up period. The clinical
      site will contact the subjects via telephone at Weeks 3 and 5 to inquire about their
      wellbeing, query about adverse events and administer the suicidality scale.

      Eligible subjects will be randomized (1:1) to receive:

        -  CX157 60mg three times a day (TID) for a total daily dose of 180 mg, or

        -  Placebo administered three times a day.

      Subjects who discontinue from the study for any reason will not be replaced.
    
  