
    
      Registry procedures:

      Eligible patients will be included within 3 hours after their arrival on the Intensive Care
      Unit. After inclusion all study parameters will be obtained through physical and
      physiological examination. This will be repeated at 12 circa hours, and circa 24 hours
      thereafter.

      Monitoring:

      Monitoring will be performed by independent researchers of the department of critical care of
      the University Medical Center Groningen (UMCG). Audits are planned to take place once a year.

      Recruitment:

      Inclusion of patients and measurements of variables will be performed by the study
      coordinator or a co-researcher under supervision and responsibility of the principle
      investigator. Due to its observational nature, informed consent will not be obtained for this
      study.

      Source data verification:

      At inclusion all conventional hemodynamic variables are derived by physical examination and
      recording data from the basic hemodynamic monitoring (Philips ImageVue monitor with tracing
      of heart rate, electrocardiogram (ECG), SpO2, arterial pressure from arterial line pressure
      measurement and/or from non-invasively blood pressure monitoring). All variables are
      predefined (see data dictionary) to standardize all measurements by student researchers.

      General patient characteristics and laboratory measurements were recorded from electronic
      patient charts and the Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) II and IV,
      Simplified Acute Physiology Score II (SAPS) scores are extracted from our local National
      Intensive Care Evaluation (NICE) database. Follow-up of all-cause mortality at 90 days and 3
      years is acquired using the municipal personal records database. Long-term follow-up is
      gathered through various resources, such as hospital records, family physicians and/or direct
      contact.

      Data collection:

      Within 3 hours of ICU admission, all variables will be obtained through a onetime clinical
      examination variables and nurses and physicians will be asked for their prognostications.
      Other variables (i.e. laboratory and imaging values) will be obtained from the electronic
      patient charts. The rationale and specific details of measuring each variable are described
      extensively below.

      Systemic circulatory variables:

      Heart rate (HR): it will be recorded from the bedside electrocardiographic monitor. In case
      of an irregular rhythm (i.e. atrial fibrillation) the investigators will use the mean heart
      rate over a minute. Apart from heart rate the presence of atrial fibrillation will be
      recorded.

      Systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP) and mean arterial pressure
      (MAP): these will be obtained by intravascular measurement using an arterial line, which is
      part of usual care. If no arterial line inserted, the non-invasive measurement will be
      collected.

      Central venous pressure (CVP): this will be recorded in case a central venous line is present
      in the internal jugular or subclavian vein.

      Micro- and peripheral circulatory variables:

      Capillary refill time (CRT): this will be measured after 10 seconds of exerting firm pressure
      preferably on the distal phalanx of the index finger and on the central part of the knee. No
      cutoff score will be used, but a continuous measurement because of the discrepancy in values
      considered normal by different researches for CRT.

      Skin temperature (Tskin): this will be measured subjectively and objectively. The subjective
      measure will be conducted by palpating the patient's extremities. A distinction between
      either 'warm' or 'cold' will be made using the dorsal surface of the hands of the examiner.
      Patients will be considered to have 'cold' skin extremities if all examined extremities are
      considered cool, or if only the lower extremities are cool despite warm upper extremities.

      To objectify the skin temperature, the use of a central-to-peripheral and
      peripheral-to-ambient temperature difference (respectively dTc-p and dTp-a) or the
      forearm-to-finger skin-temperature gradient (Tskin-diff) have been proposed in literature.
      The investigators will make use of the central-to-peripheral measurements:

      Central-to-peripheral temperature difference (dTc-p): to measure this difference the
      investigators will compare bladder temperature, as measured by a bladder thermistor catheter,
      with foot temperature, measured by a skin probe (DeRoyal Skin Temperature Sensor product nr
      81-010400EU) on either the left or the right foot (dorsum). The investigators will use
      bladder temperature as a surrogate for central temperature, and toe temperature as a
      peripheral measure. In literature a temperature difference of either 5°C or 7 °C is generally
      used as an upper limit. The investigators will therefore regard values higher than 7°C as
      abnormal.

      The mottling score: this score was described by Ait-Oufella et al in 2011. Mottling is the
      patchy discoloration of the skin caused by microcirculatory dysfunction. It usually involves
      the area around the knee. The Mottling score ranges from 0 to 5, depending on the
      extensiveness of the mottled area. A score of 0 or 1 is regarded mild, 2 or 3 moderate and 4
      or 5 severe.

      Urine output (ml/kg/h): this is also measured as part of regular care. The investigators will
      use the total urine output before examination (i.e. from admission to examination). In
      patients with pre-existing renal failure the urinary output will not be used.

      Other variables:

      Respiratory rate: this will be recorded of the bedside electrocardiographic monitor. If a
      patient is on mechanical ventilation, see below.

      Mechanical ventilation: data on the presence and type of mechanical ventilation will be
      gathered, as well as basic information on respiratory conditions (e.g. PEEP and FiO2).

      Inotropic and vasopressor use: any inotrope or vasopressin requirement, type, dose and speed
      will be recorded. Considered as inotropic/vasopressors are noradrenalin, vasopressin,
      dobutamine, dopamine and milrinone. Considered as sedative are midazolam, propofol and
      S-ketamine.

      Estimations of pump function and peripheral circulation: an estimation will be made, either
      by a member of the treating team, or by the researcher.

      Serum lactate, hemoglobin, troponin-T and creatinine: these are determined as part of regular
      care. For study purposes the investigators will use the value closest to our examination.

      Other biochemical values determined as part of regular care, such as pH, leucocytes,
      hematocrit, et cetera will also be recorded.

      After the clinical examination has been performed, information on the following general
      characteristics will be extracted from the NICE database. This includes demographic data
      (such as BMI, age and sex), medical history, diagnoses and severity of illness as evaluated
      by the different generations of the APACHE scores, SAPS, the Sequential Organ Failure
      Assessment (SOFA) and all other prediction models published. To this end, an extensive
      literature search will be created and published and thereafter performed to ensure inclusion
      of all published models with their variables. Furthermore, the investigators will collect
      laboratory values (details are described above), urine output (details are described above)
      and routine admission ECG's and imaging. After 30 days the investigators will assess the
      patient files again to gather information on total ICU stay in days.

      Data management:

      Data will be recorded using OpenClinica and transferred for analysis. After transfer from
      OpenClinica, all data will be managed in a database created using Stata version 15
      (StataCorp, College Station, TX). All study subjects will receive a study subject ID,
      compiled of the study name and their inclusion number. This study subject ID will be used in
      both OpenClinica and Stata. Only a researcher with 'study director' account properties in
      OpenClinica will be able to link study subject ID to patient number.

      Sample size assessment:

      Each year 3000 patients are admitted to one of four ICU units. Approximately 1500 of these
      admissions are unplanned emergency admissions. The investigators estimate that half of these
      unplanned admissions fulfill the inclusion criteria. This leaves 750 patients eligible for
      inclusion. However, the investigators assume that they will not be able to include all
      eligible patients for logistic and practical reasons. Therefore, the investigators aim to
      include 400 patients per year.

      Plan for missing data:

      First, the pattern underlying our missing data will be explored: missing completely at
      random, missing at random, or missing not at random. Based on previous experience with the
      SICS-I, it is expected that data will be missing at random. Therefore, primary analyses will
      be conducted with imputation for missing data using multiple imputations. Robustness of
      conclusions will be checked by secondary sensitivity analyses only including available data.

      Statistical analysis plan:

      The investigators will use the general characteristics to create a baseline table.
      Statistical analyses will be performed using Stata version 15 (StataCorp, College Station,
      TX). Data will be presented as means with standard deviation if normally distributed or as
      medians with ranges in case of skewed data.

      Univariate analyses will be conducted and all variables with p<0.1 will be included in the
      multivariate models. Multivariate analyses will be conducted using a stepwise model. Cardiac
      output will be modeled using linear regression and mortality will be modeled using logistic
      regression. All analyses will be adjusted for age and gender; other general characteristics
      will not be added to the model standardly. All analyses will be tested two-sided and p-values
      of less than 0.05 will be considered statistical significant.

      If sample size permits, the investigators will conduct an analysis in different
      subpopulations. Examples of subpopulations that may be eligible for further analysis are
      those with sepsis and or severe circulatory shock.

      Future plans include the use of Machine Learning methods for further data analysis. The SOCCS
      has been designed so that data collection is simultaneously as uniform and as vast as
      possible. As previously described, almost all patients admitted to the ICU will be included,
      thanks to the availability of a trained student team on-call 24 hours a day. This guarantees
      that new patients can be included at any time, and provides the possibility of creating a
      large set of uniform data. Many variables are registered accurately at bedside for all
      patients acutely admitted to the ICU, within 3 hours of admission. Both more traditional as
      well as innovative data analysis projects benefit from an optimal data collection process.
      All data collected for the SOCCS study will be compiled in an extensive and complete
      database, from which Machine Learning-based predictive modeling studies can easily be defined
      and set up. At a later stage, these data will be used for building predictive or
      risk-stratification models, which aim at probabilistically tracking the evolution of
      critically ill patients or at highlighting potentially interesting parameters for subsequent
      studies.

      Machine Learning (ML) is a branch of Artificial Intelligence which allows data scientists to
      design supervised or unsupervised algorithms to "learn" from generally large data samples by
      means of inference. ML started as a well-known method in gene analysis, having since then
      spread to multiple other fields of medicine. Its potential to boost clinically-oriented
      research has been shown, primarily in identifying and prioritizing specific components of
      care, the study of which may bring the most benefit to patients. Furthermore, the use of
      ML-based frameworks in critical care has been reported by several authors, using different
      types of data. These data can be obtained in different ways, with the most common being
      through bedside measurements, such as performed for the SOCCS and SICS studies, or by
      collecting a larger number of parameters from prior physiologic data from a group of similar
      subjects.
    
  