
    
      The measurement of attentional biases as a clinical evaluation tool in anxiety disorders is
      presented as a valuable instrument capable of evaluating changes in the automatic cognitive
      processes that are involved in their maintenance. However, the variability between the
      different methodologies used for its measurement has produced a lack of empirical consistency
      that supports the use of this tool with a clinical purpose. The appearance and implementation
      of eye tracking technology in experimental studies has made it possible to overcome this
      problem. Despite this, to our knowledge, there are still no studies that implement this
      technology in the clinical field as a tool for evaluating therapeutic effectiveness.

      Specific phobia is the anxiety disorder with the highest prevalence and, specifically the
      animal subtype, is one of the most prevalent (3.8%), producing a significant interference and
      high comorbidity. Despite that in vivo exposure therapy is the treatment of choice for
      specific phobia, the high dropout rates and difficulties in its application pose major
      limitations for its therapeutic implementation. The emergence of technologies such as
      augmented reality (AR) has made it possible to overcome these barriers, offering new ways of
      applying exposure therapy. AR technology offers the capacity to interact with the stimulus in
      the real world, facilitating the therapeutic process and the generalization of its results.
      Some studies have tested the effectivity and efficacy of the AR technology in small animals
      exposure treatment revealing promising results. However, these studies used a version of AR
      that requires the use of a device placed on the participant's head (HDM-Head Mounted Display)
      which can cause dizziness and back pain in some participants and limits the therapist-patient
      communication. An improved version of the AR system based on projection helps to solve this
      problem, allowing a more natural interaction with the stimulus and the therapist and greater
      comfort. The preliminary efficacy of this system has been tested in a case study but, so far,
      there is no RCT evaluating the efficacy of this AR system. Therefore, in this work two
      objectives are pursued, firstly, to test and validate a projection-based AR system in the
      phobia of cockroaches treatment and, secondly, to evaluate the clinical potential of the
      eye-tracking technology as a specific measure to assess changes in cognitive processes.

      The Randomized Clinical Trial (RCT) will be conducted following the Consolidated Standards of
      Reporting Trials (CONSORT: http://www.consort-statement.org) and the SPIRIT guidelines
      (Standard Protocol Items: Recommendations for Intervention Trials). Participants (N=96) will
      be randomized into three groups (after receiving a SP diagnosis - DSM-5): 1) Projection-based
      augmented reality therapy (P-ARET); 2) In vivo Exposure therapy (IVET); and 3) a waiting list
      control group (WL). Participants in the WL will be randomly assigned to one of the two
      treatment conditions after spending time on the waiting list (1 week) for ethical reasons.
      Outcome measures will be assessed at baseline, post-treatment and 1-, 6-, and 12-month
      follow-ups.
    
  