
    
      Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is the greatest unmet need in modern liver medicine.
      There continue to be no direct bio-markers for the diagnosis and monitoring of biliary
      diseases such as PSC, constituting a major barrier to drug development and to poor patient
      outcomes. This project aims to validate an imaging platform, enhanced Magnetic Resonance
      Cholangiopancreatography, MRCP+, to improve the standard of care for patients by generating
      the real-world evidence needed to support clinical adoption.

      Biliary diseases significantly increase the likelihood of developing sclerosing cholangitis
      (SC), causing major morbidity and mortality. Sclerosing cholangitis, a chronic inflammatory
      cholestatic condition, is exemplified by the primary idiopathic autoimmune condition PSC. In
      the absence of effective therapies, hindered by a lack of measurable trial endpoints
      (bio-markers), liver transplantation is the only life-extending intervention, with PSC
      accounting for 15% of all European liver transplantations. Furthermore, biliary complications
      occur in 5-32% of all liver transplantations. MRCP+ has the potential to significantly
      improve the outlook for patients.

      At present, diagnosis requires cholangiopancreatography, either magnetic resonance (MRCP) or
      endoscopic retrograde (ERCP). The current standard ERCP is expensive, invasive, and
      associated with a high risk of morbidity. MRCP is less invasive and cheaper. However, both
      result in inconsistent qualitative interpretations. MRCP+ is the first device to enable
      direct quantitative measurement of biliary disease and addresses both European and US Liver
      society (EASL and AASLD) concerns that early changes of PSC are missed by MRCP, necessitating
      adequate visualisation and quantitative assessment.

      MRCP+ both enhances MRCP images and yields advanced quantitative biliary measures. Initial
      experience shows significant clinical potential. This project will provide substantive
      evidence for clinical adoption via a real-world study including heath economics to evaluate
      the cost-effectiveness and impact on the clinical care pathway.

      To achieve this, 40 patients were recruited from the University Hospitals Birmingham (UHB)
      who are attending the centre for either a review or diagnosis of PSC. The patients will
      follow their usual care pathway, being seen by the consultant who will document their care
      plan. Following this appointment, and their consent, they will be asked to undergo a
      non-invasive, pain-free Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scan. MRCP+ reports generated from
      these scans will be returned to the consultant who will review the documented standard care
      treatment plan and ascertain whether any amendments would have been made in light of these
      further quantitative metrics gained from MRI.

      The study team alongside the Oxford Academic Health Science Network (OAHSN), will use the
      clinical data generated by the 40 patients and create a health economic model, which can be
      used to generate a business case for adoption, an impact case study for dissemination across
      the network of 15 centres in the Academic Health Science Networks (AHSN) and contribute to a
      submission for Human Tissue Authority (HTA) as part of the evidence required to gain health
      technology adoption via the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) Medical
      Technologies Evaluation Programme (MTEP) route.
    
  