
    
      Following a diagnosis of breast cancer, the most immediate challenges in patient management
      are the determination of prognosis and the identification of the most appropriate neoadjuvant
      and adjuvant systemic therapy. Indicators to assess the risk of relapse or metastasis during
      treatment are still largely insufficient, a situation which does not allow to precisely
      adjust the treatment, often leading to heavy side effects. In order to minimize the side
      effects and risks of therapies, it is therefore necessary to discover new markers which would
      enable us to reliably assess the prognosis of patients diagnosed with breast cancer.

      The approach used here for discovering new prognostic markers is based on an original
      strategy developed by the researchers associated with this project and published in the
      respective contexts of lung cancer, acute lymphoblastic leukemia and lymphoma. Indeed,
      genetic abnormalities and deregulation of the systems controlling the expression of specific
      gene programs not only lead to the abnormal extinction of normally active genes, but is also
      responsible for the aberrant activation of genes that normally should remain silent. The
      investigators have recently demonstrated that any type of malignancy is associated with the
      ectopic expression of these normally silent genes, including genes of the male germline. The
      in-depth study of these aberrant gene expressions and the search for correlations and
      associations with the clinical and biological data of the tumors show that the expression of
      some of these genes and the presence of their products are good indicators of tumor
      aggressiveness.

      The investigators propose here to apply the same approach for the search for new prognostic
      markers in the case of breast cancer. A prior analysis of breast tumors, of which
      transcriptome data are publicly available, has identified a number of tissue-specific genes,
      including the germline and placenta genes, frequently activated in breast cancer. Based on
      our past observations, our hypothesis is that some of them may directly reflect the level of
      tumor aggressiveness and could therefore be used as prognostic biomarkers.

      The objective of this work will be to look for the prognostic value of these genes by using
      the samples collected in this cohort of patients to detect their activation and to correlate
      these aberrant activations with the anatomopathological data of the tumor, as well as to the
      clinico-biological data and patient follow-up.
    
  