
    
      The MSQPT is a highly reliable and valid questionnaire that was designed to be an aid for
      physiotherapists to asses the course of treatment of Persons with MS (PwMS). The assessment
      of the responsiveness of the MSQPT, which is so crucial for the evaluative value of an
      instrument used in long time treatment of PwMS, is the focus of this study.

      This multicenter study uses a convenience sample of 81 PwMS, who are in short or long term
      treatment widespread over Switzerland. At baseline, the testers record age, gender, type of
      MS and disease duration since diagnosis. The tests will be executed in the following order:
      six-meter Timed Walking Test (6MTWT), nine-hole peg test (9HPT), Berg Balance Scale (BBS),
      MSQPT, Hamburg Quality of Life Questionnaire in Multiple Sclerosis (HAQUAMS), Expanded
      Disability Status Scale (EDSS) and Transition Questionnaires for the Patient and the treating
      physiotherapist. Finally the six-minute walk (6MWT) rest will be carried out. The
      intervention with long term patients was planned every next 6 months after the baseline
      testing (T1, T2 and T3). The short time patient will be tested at base line and after 3 to 4
      months or at the end of the rehabilitation period (T1).

      A standardized test protocol manual will be used by the experienced and trained testers.

      Effect Size , Standardized Response Mean (SRM). Modified SRM (MSRM), Relative Efficiency
      (RE), Sensitivity and Specificity and correlation estimates will describe the anchor based
      responsiveness. The combined anchor and distribution based approach is used in search of a
      MCID. The distribution based approach uses statistics like Standard Deviation, Standard Error
      of Measurement and Minimal Detectable Change as indicators of MCID. The anchor based approach
      uses global ratings of change out of the perspective of the patient and the physiotherapist
      for different aspects of health: general health status, balance, walking ability, arm
      function, fatigue, pain, amount of being active, participation in social life and general
      impairment due to MS. Minimal change is defined as one to two gradient change on the 9 point
      scale of the transition questions. The expected wide range of MCIDs will be narrowed to a
      small range or single MCID by triangulation and selection of the MCID with best selectivity
      and specificity.
    
  