
    
      The angiodysplasias are abnormal communications between dilated capillaries and veins. Their
      presence in the digestive tract is probably due to venous obstruction associated with smooth
      muscle contractions. These vascular malformations are not a particularly significant cause of
      bleeding in elderly patients. The angiodysplasias are responsible for about 1% of upper
      gastrointestinal bleeding and up to 6% of the lower bleeding. However in case of
      gastrointestinal bleeding obscures the presence of angiodysplasia was found in 23% of cases
      through an exploration of the small intestine endoscopic video capsule enteroscopy or double
      balloon. Some conditions promote the development of angiodysplasias such as kidney failure
      with a prevalence of 13% in case of bleeding or cirrhosis. The responsibility of aortic
      stenosis is debated and could be a chance association. On the other hand, are more
      symptomatic bleeding in case of bleeding disorders, in particular von Willebrand disease.

      The first line treatment is based on the destruction of endoscopic lesions by laser, or argon
      plasma coagulation electrocoagulation. However, these lesions may be inaccessible to
      endoscopic treatment, when they are too numerous or if patients with severe comorbidities,
      indicating against invasive endoscopic treatments. Iterative transfusions remain the only
      possible treatment for a significant proportion of patient which induces frequent
      hospitalizations, complications related to transfusions and a significant cost.

      Hormonal treatments have been tried without success to prevent rebleeding. Anti-angiogenic as
      thalidomide have been tested in phase II trials in low number of the patients.

      Somatostatin is a cyclic peptide secreted by D cells in the gastric and intestinal mucosa, by
      the cells of the islets of Langerrhans. There are five known somatostatin receptors which
      when activated by the ligand caused an inhibition of gastric acid secretion, pancreatic and
      biliary secretions. The somatostatin analogues have different vascular effects documented as
      downregulation of VEGF expression or decreasing the splanchnic flow.

      Thus, the somatostatin analogs can have an effect on the prevention of rebleeding secondary
      to angiodysplasia by several mechanisms: inhibition of angiogenesis, reduction of splanchnic
      blood flow, increased vascular resistance and increased platelet aggregation.

      Several cohort studies suggest that treatment with somatostatin analogues, octreotide can
      reduce the need for transfusion in patients with recurrent bleeding due to angiodysplasia. A
      meta-analysis of these studies, which included 62 patients in total found a relative risk of
      rebleeding of 0.76 (95% CI: 0.64 to 0.85) and a decrease of 2.2 transfusions (95% : -3.9 to
      -0.5) between the period before the treatment and the period of treatment with octreotide.

      To date, there are no randomized phase III study to suggest the efficacy of somatostatin
      analogues in the prevention of rebleeding due to angiodysplasia.

      Pasireotide is a new analogue of somatostatin which has a higher affinity of Octreotide to
      like receptors 1, 3 and 5. A preliminary study showed that pasireotide could be effective in
      the symptomatic treatment of endocrine tumors beyond the octreotide therapy. This superior
      efficacy of pasireotide compared to Octreotide justifies the evaluation pasireotide in the
      prevention of rebleeding due to angiodysplasia. Side effects described with the LP
      pasireotide are the possibility of post prandial hyperglycemia transient dose-dependent.
      Episodes of intestinal disorders have been reported (diarrhea, nausea, vomiting), but usually
      require no medicinal treatment and disappearing spontaneously during treatment.

      All these data suggests for a randomized study against placebo to establish the efficacy of
      treatment with pasireotide LP in the prevention of rebleeding due to angiodysplasia. A
      randomized phase II feasibility study will be conducted to verify the the investigators
      hypotheis and followed if necessary by a phase III study.

      Somatostatin analogs have vascular action that has been shown in other pathologies
      (gastrointestinal bleeding in patients with portal hypertension). Cohort studies suggest
      efficacy in reduction of transfusion requirements in patients with gastrointestinal
      angiodysplasia. In case of failure of endoscopic treatment there is no currently licensed
      treatment for the prevention of rebleeding in these patients.

      The investigators objective is to evaluate the reduction in the number of red blood cells
      transfused to M6 in patients treated with pasireotide LP or placebo.
    
  