
    
      E) Study Procedures Visit 1: Screening (Approximately 30 mins) Informed consent will be
      obtained by the principal investigator or a co-investigator. The subjects will be instructed
      to read the informed consent form (ICF), given ample time to have any questions answered, and
      then instructed to sign the ICF. Subject will be given a copy of the ICF.

      Subject will be asked to complete demographic information and a medical history.

      Inclusion/exclusion criteria will be evaluated.

      The pre-operative height of the bony crest will be evaluated on the pre-existing radiographs
      from the referring clinic if they are less than 6 months old. If recent radiographs do not
      exist, radiographs will be taken at this visit. It is standard of care to have radiographs
      from within the past 6 months prior to surgery.

      Visit 2: Surgery (Approximately 180 mins) Medical history will be reviewed as standard of
      care. Eligibility and subject withdrawal criteria will be reviewed to ensure the subject
      still qualifies for the study.

      Surgeries will be performed by either of two investigators, Yong Hur (Co-I) and Yumi Ogata
      (PI).

      The use of d-PTFE for vertical ridge augmentation will be randomly assigned to one side of
      the mouth of each subject (randomization is for research purposes) and Ti-mesh to the other
      side of mouth, and therefore, subjects will receive both of the following procedures:

        -  Guided Bone regeneration (GBR) procedure using a d-PTFE: (standard of care excluding
           clinical measurements) The following steps will be performed following standard of care
           procedures: local anesthesia, muco-periosteal incision, full thickness flap reflection,
           de-cortication of the alveolar ridge, bone harvesting using bone scrapers, tenting screw
           placement, clinical measurements, DBBM graft material placement, the placement and
           stabilization of the d-PTFE membrane according to manufacturer's instructions, sutures.

        -  Guided Bone regeneration (GBR) procedure using Ti-mesh: (standard of care excluding
           clinical measurements) The following steps will be performed following standard of care
           procedures: local anesthesia, muco-periosteal incision, full thickness flap reflection,
           de-cortication of the alveolar ridge, bone harvesting using bone scrapers, tenting screw
           placement, clinical measurements, DBBM graft material placement, the placement and
           stabilization of the titanium mesh according to manufacturer's instructions, sutures.

      Bone harvesting using bone scrapers will be performed during GBR procedures with both
      techniques (d-PTFE and Ti-mesh). Bone harvesting using bone scrapers is for harvesting
      particulate autogeneous bone graft material. The investigators will use a mixture of 50:50
      DBBM and autogenous bone graft material for all vertical augmentation procedures in the
      study. Particulate autogenous bone graft will be harvested from the retromolar region of the
      mandible. This area is just next to the area of GBR procedures (posterior mandible) and will
      be visible after flap elevation for vertical augmentation. Therefore, the investigators do
      not need any additional steps except harvesting autogenous bone graft. Intraoral harvesting
      by bone scrapers from the retromolar region is a simple and safe method for collecting
      cortical bone chips.

      The intrasurgical clinical measurements of the ridge height will be taken during surgery. The
      distance between the top of the tenting screw and bone crest will be measured with a
      periodontal probe during the procedure. Duration of each procedure and surgical complications
      including flap tear and bleeding will be collected. All outcome measurements will be
      performed by a Co-I who did not perform the surgery.

      The subject will be asked to complete a pain/discomfort survey using VAS scale from zero to
      ten. A medication log will be given to the patient to track the number of pills of the
      prescribed painkiller they have taken in order to examine the amount of pain after the
      surgical procedures. The mean number of pills used after surgical procedures will be
      analyzed.

      Post-operative medication will be prescribed following TUSDM standard of care guidelines.

      Visit 3 (7±3 days after procedure): Post-operative Follow-up (Approximately 20 mins)

      Medical history will be reviewed as standard of care. Eligibility and subject withdrawal
      criteria will be reviewed to ensure the subject still qualifies for the study.

      Each subject will have a post-operative visit, which is standard practice at TUSDM
      periodontology clinic. Standard of care procedures including suture removal and evaluation of
      surgical site will be performed.

      For research, information regarding bleeding, presence of infection, bruising, and/or other
      complications will be collected. Each subject will complete a survey to evaluate the level of
      pain/discomfort, bleeding, and swelling following the surgical procedure for each side - each
      classified on a VAS scale from zero to ten. In addition, the subject will return his or her
      completed medication log.

      Visit 4 (21±3 days after procedure): Post-operative Follow-up (Approximately 20 mins)

      Medical history will be reviewed as standard of care. Eligibility and subject withdrawal
      criteria will be reviewed to ensure the subject still qualifies for the study.

      Each subject will have a post-operative visit, which is standard practice at TUSDM
      periodontology clinic. Standard of care procedures including suture removal and evaluation of
      surgical site will be performed.

      For research, information regarding bleeding, presence of infection, bruising, and/or other
      complications will be collected. Each subject will complete a survey to evaluate the level of
      pain/discomfort, bleeding, and swelling following the surgical procedure for each side - each
      classified on a VAS scale from zero to ten.

      Follow-up visits during the six month post-operative period of the vertical ridge
      augmentation surgery will be scheduled. Standard of care procedures and evaluations will be
      completed during follow-up visits. The surgical sites will be evaluated after the vertical
      ridge augmentation procedures, in order to assess the presence of postoperative
      complications, such as the exposure of a d-PTFE membrane or Ti-mesh, infection, swelling,
      paresthesia or any other complications. All will be noted in the subject's axiUm record and
      reviewed at the time of Visit 4.

      Visit 5 (6±1 months after Visit 4): Evaluation visit (Approximately 20 mins) Medical history
      will be reviewed as standard of care. Eligibility and subject withdrawal criteria will be
      reviewed to ensure the subject still qualifies for the study.

      Surgical sites will be evaluated and the subject's axiUm record will be reviewed for any
      complications.

      Each subject will complete a survey to evaluate the level of pain/discomfort, bleeding, and
      swelling following the surgical procedure for each side - each classified on a VAS scale from
      zero to ten, as at Visit 3.

      Radiographs will be taken. It is standard of care to have radiographs taken prior to implant
      placement. The post-operative (after the vertical GBR augmentation procedure) height of the
      bony crest will be evaluated on the radiographs taken as part of standard of care.

      Visit 6 (Up to 1 month after Visit 5): Bone core harvesting, implant placement visit
      (Approximately 120 mins) Medical history will be reviewed as standard of care. Eligibility
      and subject withdrawal criteria will be reviewed to ensure the subject still qualifies for
      the study.

      The subject will present for their regularly scheduled implant placement. The following steps
      will be performed following standard of care procedures: local anesthesia, muco-periosteal
      incision, full thickness flap reflection, membrane (Ti-mesh/d-PTFE) removal, clinical
      measurements, tenting screws removal, bone core harvesting, implant osteotomy, implant
      placement, and sutures.

      The intrasurgical clinical measurements of the ridge height will be taken at during implant
      placement surgery. The distance between the top of the tenting screw and bone crest will be
      measured with a periodontal probe during the procedure. The bone height gain will be
      calculated by subtracting the second measurement form the first measurement (taken during
      initial surgery).

      At the time of the implant placement a bone core will be harvested from each site of the
      implant locations for histological analysis. For the bone samples in this study, a hollow
      (trephine) bur, rather than solid bur, will be used to allow for sampling. A trephine bur
      with 3-4 mm diameter will be used. The core size will not exceed the amount of bone removal
      required for designated implants. Removal of bone is standard during implant placement in
      order to create space for the fixture.

      The bone core biopsies will be placed in fixative and labeled with subject ID. The collected
      bone samples will be placed in alcohol for storage and stored in a basic science laboratory
      DHS-635.

      The implant placement will not be considered a part of this study.

      After Visit 6 - Laboratory analysis of bone core sample Histological slides will be prepared
      and histomorphometric analysis will be performed by the commercial laboratory (CBSET). The
      samples will be coded as subject numbers and histological analysis will be blinded. All
      collected bone core samples will be shipped to the laboratory (CBSET) by Yumi Ogata (PI) or
      Yong Hur (Co-I).

      Histomorphometric measurements of the tissue fractions (DBBM, autogenous bone, newly formed
      bone and marrow and/or connective tissue) will be performed for the grafted area. The
      sections will be digitally photographed with computerized software.
    
  