
    
      The overall goal of this feasibility trial is to determine the acceptability of a randomized
      controlled trial to ascertain the optimal strategy for the treatment of severe malnutrition
      in children with sickle cell disease (SCD) older than 5 years of age. No international
      standard or evidence-based guidelines exist for the treatment of severe malnutrition (defined
      as BMI Z-score below -3) in children with SCD. With an expanding pediatric population of more
      than 75 million in Nigeria, coupled with decreasing childhood infectious disease-related
      mortality, the next emerging threats to preventable childhood deaths are non-communicable
      diseases. Data from our ongoing NIH-funded randomized controlled primary stroke prevention
      trial in Nigeria (NCT02560935), in which the investigators evaluated children with SCD
      between 5 and 12 years of age, demonstrated that 29% (230/803) of the cohort met criteria for
      severe malnutrition. Approximately 92% of the cohort in northern Nigeria identified as having
      severe malnutrition was below the 5th percentile for weight of children with SCD living in
      the US, Canada, or Europe. These data indicate older children with SCD living in northern
      Nigeria are undernourished when compared to children living with SCD in high-resource
      settings. A potentially unique attribute to treating malnutrition in children with SCD is the
      use of FDA approved anti-metabolite, hydroxyurea, to prevent vaso-occlusive pain events in
      children. The beneficial effects of hydroxyurea include, but are not limited to, decreased
      inflammation and increased hemoglobin levels. Preliminary evidence in this cohort of older
      children with sickle cell anemia (SCA) in northern Nigeria reveals that moderate fixed-dose
      hydroxyurea (20 mg/kg/day) significantly increases BMI in children with severe malnutrition.
      The investigators propose a randomized controlled feasibility trial in older children (5 to
      12 years of age) with SCA living in northern Nigeria. In preparation for a definitive phase
      III trial to determine if a nutritional supplement (SoyaPlus) and moderate fixed-dose
      hydroxyurea therapy is superior to a nutritional supplement alone, the investigators will
      randomly allocate 100 children between 5 and 12 years of age with SCA and severe
      uncomplicated malnutrition to each of the two arms. In aim 1, the investigators will assess
      the feasibility (rate of recruitment, retention, and adherence) of a randomized controlled
      trial (RCT) in children with SCA and severe malnutrition to a 12-week intervention period.
      For aim 2, the investigators will establish the safety protocol to monitor for unknown rates
      of complications associated with treating malnutrition in children with SCD. To decrease the
      likelihood of sharing limited food resources in a poor family and to determine the
      specificity of malnutrition for children with SCD in northern Nigeria, the investigators will
      screen and treat up to 100 malnourished non-SCD siblings of the trial participants. After
      completion of this feasibility trial, the investigators will use the acquired knowledge to
      design a phase III trial to definitively determine the optimal treatment strategy for severe
      malnutrition in older children with SCD living in Africa, potentially affecting thousands of
      children in this region.
    
  