
    
      People with OUD co-occurring with depression or PTSD (COD) may not seek out treatment for
      their substance use or mental health issues, but they do visit their primary care provider.
      However, because providers generally lack specialized training in substance use and mental
      illness and are focused on the immediate reason for the visit, patients' substance use and
      mental disorders often go unrecognized and untreated. This missed opportunity can have lethal
      consequences. Individuals with COD are at higher risk of dying from suicide or overdose than
      individuals with mental illness or OUD alone.1-4 The parent study (NCT04559893) will provide
      a definitive answer as to whether collaborative care (CC) improves access, quality, and
      outcomes of care for individuals with COD. While a primary goal is to improve access to and
      retention in medication treatment for OUD (MOUD) (which is linked to decreased mortality and
      overdose risk), the interventions CC-COD supports do not proactively address suicide or
      overdose risk, an important limitation. In addition, CC-COD does not include families in the
      patient's care. The investigators address these limitations and tackle the public health
      crisis of increasing deaths from suicide and overdose with this study. Because family members
      can play an important role in a patient's decision to engage with treatment and in overdose
      and suicide prevention, the study team investigates family members' views and use this
      information to strengthen CC-COD. This revision will develop and then test the incremental
      effectiveness of three additional CC-COD components. Care coordinators will (1) educate
      family members about MOUD with the goal of increasing patient retention in treatment; (2)
      train family members and the patient to administer naloxone and on how to reduce overdose
      risk behaviors; and (3) implement Caring Contacts, a suicide prevention intervention that
      sends compassionate mailed or text messages to individuals to decrease social isolation and
      reduce suicide risk.
    
  