
    
      Sickle cell anemia is an inherited form of anemia, a condition in which there aren't enough
      healthy red blood cells to carry adequate oxygen throughout the body. These patients are at
      increased risk of death, stroke, frequent pain crises, acute chest syndrome as well as
      chronic conditions including: lung damage, retinopathy, kidney damage, leg ulcers, and
      pulmonary hypertension.

      There's no cure for most people with sickle cell anemia. However, treatments can relieve pain
      and help prevent co-morbid conditions associated with sickle cell anemia. Hydroxyurea is the
      only FDA approved drug to help alleviate symptoms associated with sickle cell disease. The
      mortality rate is still high in patients using hydroxyurea and a significant percentage of
      patients still have aggressive disease despite the hydroxyurea treatment. Hydroxyurea therapy
      also does not seem to prevent the development of many of the complications of sickle cell
      disease such as pulmonary hypertension.

      Historically, stem cell transplantation in sickle cell disease was mainly done in the
      pediatric population. The options were more limited for adults with sickle cell disease with
      aggressive disease despite hydroxyurea. Most rely on chronic red blood cell transfusions
      which carry significant risks of infection, iron overload, and alloimmunization.
      Alloimmunization refers to the production of antibodies which occurs in up to 50% of patients
      with sickle cell disease who are on chronic transfusion therapy making further transfusions
      difficult with a high potential for hemolytic transfusion reactions.

      Recently the use of a non-myeloablative stem cell transplantation regimen (relying on
      immunotherapy instead of chemotherapy) for sickle cell disease in adults showed 88%
      engraftment rates (30 out of 34 patients) with no GVHD and 0% mortality. However, these
      transplants used only fully HLA-matched siblings, which are unavailable to all but
      approximately 14-28% of patients who could benefit from such a transplant at UIC.

      A recent study at Johns Hopkins carried out a similar haploidentical (half matched)
      transplant with 14 sickle cell patients who lacked fully HLA-matched donors. Approximately
      two years following transplant, 57% of patients successfully engrafted (8 or 14 patients).
      There were no deaths and only one episode of acute GVHD of the skin which resolved without
      therapy.

      The investigators plan to offer stem cell transplantation to sickle cell patients with
      aggressive disease who only have a partially matched HLA sibling donor. Haploidentical
      transplants are considered only for patients with no other standard options available who
      would normally be treated with supportive (palliative) care or given the option to
      participate in a clinical trial. Donors who are HLA-haploidentical will be the source of
      hematopoietic stem cells. Potential donors can include any relative (e.g. parents, offspring,
      siblings, cousins, aunts/uncles, grandparents).

      The related donor stem cell transplantation using the alemtuzumab/TBI platform has been shown
      to be a safe strategy to cure severe sickle cell disease. However, due to a lack of suitable
      donors, many patients cannot benefit from this strategy. Alternative donor sources are
      desperately needed to fill this gap. Nearly all patients will have a haploidentical family
      member who would be able to donate. The use of post transplantation cyclophosphamide has
      greatly improved the outcome of haploidentical stem cell transplantation. The investigators
      propose to combine this with alemtuzumab/TBI conditioning.

      The investigational component of this study is the combination of the Alemtuzumab
      (immunotherapy) and Total Body Irradiation conditioning regimen and the HLA Haploidentical
      Transplant with post-transplant Cyclophosphamide. Investigators plan to study the engraftment
      rates (transplant success rates) at Day 60 in sickle cell patients undergoing an HLA
      haploidentical stem cell transplant with post transplant high dose cyclophosphamide.
    
  