
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the median survival from randomization for patients receiving carboplatin
           and paclitaxel with high-dose radiation therapy (HDRT) or same regimen with sorafenib
           tosylate.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the overall response rate, failure-free survival, and survival for patients
           receiving carboplatin/paclitaxel with 74 Gy HDRT or same regimen with sorafenib
           tosylate.

        -  To determine the feasibility of concurrent sorafenib tosylate and chemoradiation as
           measured by safety (the rate of grade 3 or higher radiation related esophagitis or
           pulmonary toxicity or chemotherapy related grade 4 hematological or other
           non-hematological toxicities occurring within 60 days of the start of treatment) and
           compliance (the completion of the treatment regimen with no more than minor variations).

        -  To correlate outcomes (survival, toxicity, quality of life) with biological parameters.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Phase I:

             -  Chemoradiotherapy: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 60 minutes and carboplatin
                IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats weekly for 7 weeks. Patients undergo
                concurrent high-dose external beam radiotherapy (HDRT) 5 days a week for 7.5 weeks.
                Cohorts of patients also receive escalating doses of oral sorafenib tosylate twice
                daily for 7 weeks.

             -  Consolidation therapy: Beginning at week 11, patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3
                hours and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks
                for 6 weeks. Patients also receive oral sorafenib tosylate at the maximum tolerated
                dose (MTD) twice daily.

             -  Maintenance: Patients receive oral sorafenib tosylate twice daily at the MTD.

        -  Phase II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I:

                  -  Chemoradiotherapy: Patients receive paclitaxel, carboplatin, and HDRT as in
                     phase I.

                  -  Consolidation therapy: Patients receive paclitaxel and carboplatin as in phase
                     I.

             -  Arm II:

                  -  Chemoradiotherapy: Patients receive paclitaxel, carboplatin, and HDRT as in
                     phase I. Patients also receive oral sorafenib tosylate as in phase I at the
                     MTD.

                  -  Consolidation therapy: Patients receive paclitaxel, carboplatin, and sorafenib
                     tosylate at the MTD as in phase I.

                  -  Maintenance: Patients receive sorafenib tosylate at the MTD as in phase I.
                     After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for 2
                     years and then every 6 months for 2 years.
    
  