
    
      Background:

        -  Vaccines based on recombinant heat inactivated yeast have been shown to be immunogenic
           and well tolerated in animals and humans.

        -  Using a computer-based differential display analysis tool to conduct global comparison
           of expressed sequence tag (EST) clusters in the Unigene database, the gene encoding for
           the transcription factor Brachyury was identified as highly represented in tumor-derived
           libraries and rarely observed in normal tissue-derived libraries. By using
           reverse-transcription followed by polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), investigators in
           the LTIB have identified the overexpression of Brachyury in gastrointestinal, bladder,
           kidney, ovary, uterus, and testicular carcinomas. Similar studies also found
           over-expression of Brachyury mRNA in cell lines of lung, colon and prostate cancers, but
           not in the majority of normal tissues tested, with the exception of expression in the
           testis, thyroid and low levels of expression in B cells pooled from multiple normal
           donors.

        -  Brachyury is a member of the T-box family of transcription factors, characterized by a
           highly conserved DNA-binding domain designated as T-domain. Data indicates that the
           transcription factor Brachyury confers on the tumor cells a mesenchymal phenotype, as
           well as migratory and invasive abilities and enhances tumor cell progression.

        -  A murine model of MC38 cells engineered to over express human Brachyury gene has
           demonstrated increased metastatic potential of Brachyury over-expressing MC38 cells.

        -  Brachyury specific T cells can lyse human cancer cells expressing Brachyury in an MHC
           restricted manner.

        -  GI-6301 (Yeast-Brachyury vaccine) has been tested in vitro and in the mouse model. These
           studies showed Brachyury-specific T cell responses and decreased metastasis in mice
           treated with vaccine.

        -  An ongoing study of a Hepatitis B vaccine (GS-4774) using the yeast platform (heat
           killed Saccharomyces cerevisiae) indicated safety of 80 YU dose (4 injection sites at 20
           YU injections per site).

      Objectives:

      -The primary objectives are to:

        -  Determine the safety and tolerability of escalating doses of GI-6301 (Yeast-Brachyury
           vaccine) a heat-killed yeast-based vaccine

        -  Determine in an expanded cohort if a significant change in Brachyury specific T cells
           will be detectable post vaccine.

      Eligibility:

        -  Adults with histologically proven metastatic or locally advanced solid tumors for which
           standard curative or palliative measures are no longer effective. Efforts will be made,
           as much as possible, to enroll patients with tumor types with known increased expression
           of Brachyury (such as lung, breast, ovarian, prostate, colorectal, pancreatic or
           chordoma).

        -  Adequate organ function as defined by liver, kidney, and hematologic laboratory testing.

        -  Patients with acquired immune defects, systemic autoimmune disease, concurrent use of
           steroids, pericardial mass > 1 cm, chronic infections, concurrent tricyclic
           antidepressant therapy, or allergy to yeast or yeast-based products will be excluded.

      Design:

        -  This is an open label, phase I trial with sequential dose escalation cohorts of patients
           (3-6 patients per dose cohort) for 3 doses of GI-6301 (Yeast-Brachyury vaccine).

        -  GI-6301 (Yeast-Brachyury vaccine) will be administered subcutaneously at 4 sites
           biweekly for 7 visits (day 1, 15, 29, 43, 57, 71, 85), then monthly until patients meet
           off-study criteria

      (patients who have been on study for one year or more and have had stable disease or better
      (PR, CR) have the option to receive vaccine once every 3 months instead of monthly).

        -  All patients on a given dose level will have completed 28 days on-study without DLT
           before enrollment can begin on the next dose level or on the expansion phase (see
           statistical analysis section).

        -  Expansion Phase: 10 additional patients will be enrolled on the MTD dose level (or the
           highest dose level explored in the event that a true MTD is not reached), receiving the
           same treatment regimen, to assess for immunologic responses and clinical responses.

        -  Amended dose escalation: 10 patients will be enrolled at an additional dose level (80 YU
           per dose, 4 injection sites at 20 YU per site) to determine the safety of this dose
           level.

        -  Up to 33 total patients may be required to complete enrollment of this study.
    
  