
    
      This is a multi-centre, individually randomized-controlled, three-armed pragmatic trial
      comparing CRP guided antibiotic prescription in febrile patients to the current standard
      prescribing systems. The study will be implemented in low and middle-income countries in
      tropical settings, including Myanmar and Thailand in the first instance.

      As participation in the study itself may raise awareness amongst the health centre staff and
      local community, current antibiotic prescribing rates will be assessed in an observational
      run-in period before the intervention. Health workers will be asked to complete case record
      forms (CRF) for patients presenting to their health centre with current or recent fever. This
      aims to capture current antibiotic prescribing habits before the study is launched.

      During the intervention phase, patients fulfilling the inclusion criteria and who consent to
      participate in the study will be randomised to one of the three arms, as follows:

        1. Control group: The health care provider will manage the patient using standard
           guidelines. No CRP will be measured onsite

        2. Group A: CRP will be measured by a study nurse and the result will be communicated to
           the health care provider as "High-CRP" or "Low-CRP" using a low CRP cut-off of 20mg/L.

        3. Group B: CRP will be measured by a study nurse and the result will be communicated to
           the health care provider as "High-CRP" or "Low-CRP" using the higher CRP cut-off, of
           40mg/L.

      For the two intervention arms, the following guidance will be given to the health care
      provider: if the CRP test is reported as 'high', antibiotic treatment is recommended,
      following local guidelines, and if it is reported as 'low' antibiotics are not recommended.
      In either case the information provided by the CRP test should be interpreted alongside their
      clinical judgement.

      A second CRP will be sampled at day 5 of the follow-up (+/- 1 day) for all the patients,
      using capillary blood from a finger prick.

      The investigators will use the NycoCard Reader II (Axis Shield, Norway or equivalent) to
      measure CRP levels.

      A venous blood sample and a nasopharyngeal swab will be taken in the control group at
      enrolment and sent to a central laboratory in order to detect the presence of the following
      key pathogens by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR):

        -  Flavivirus

        -  Alphavirus

        -  Influenza A & B

        -  Rickettsia including typhus group and spotted fever group

        -  Leptospirosis

        -  PCR 16s for the detection of any bacteria.

        -  Malaria

      CRP will also be retrospectively measured in these blood samples to validate its ability to
      distinguish between viral and bacterial infections.

      A urine sample will be collected to detect the presence of antimicrobials at day 0 and day 5.
      This procedure will ascertain pre-study antibiotic intake, as well as the patient's
      compliance to the health care worker's prescription or advice that antibiotics are not
      required, during their participation in the study. The urine samples will be collected at the
      sites, divided into aliquots and frozen to -80°c to be stored on site. Monthly shipments will
      be made to the laboratory at Mahidol Oxford Tropical Research Medicine Unit in Thailand for
      analysis.

      The investigators aim to follow-up every patient face to face on day 5 (+/-1 day), and either
      by phone or face-to-face interviews 14 days (+/-2 days) after the initial visit.
    
  