
    
      Cardiac surgery associated acute kidney injury (CSA-AKI) is a significant problem. The
      prevalence varies from 0.3% to 22.9% depending on the definition of AKI. The pathogenesis of
      AKI in this population is multifactorial. Factors associated with AKI in such patients
      include increased age, preoperative elevated creatinine, presence of diabetes, reduced
      ejection fraction, increased body weight, and presence of carotid artery bruit, duration of
      cardiopulmonary bypass, aortic cross clamp time, and duration of surgery. CSA-AKI is an
      independent predictor of mortality, morbidity, increased length of stay and hospitalization
      costs. Moreover these patients are also at increased risk of chronic kidney disease and end
      stage renal failure in the future.

      Various pharmacologic approaches that have been tried to prevent early CSA-AKI such as
      diuretics, vasodilators, and anti-inflammatory drugs. Fenoldopam, atrial natriuretic peptide,
      and brain natriuretic peptide have shown little renoprotection. However these strategies lack
      high quality evidence to support their use and are not standard of care. There is no strong
      evidence to suggest any single or multiple pharmacotherapy that significantly impacts in
      reducing CAS-AKI. Thus the current best therapy for CSA-AKI is prevention, supportive care,
      hemodynamic optimization and renal replacement therapy.

      AKI is an extremely complex process involving multiple pathophysiologic pathways. Glycogen
      synthase kinase 3β (GSK3β) is implicated in many pathways beyond glycogen metabolism and has
      been shown to be an important player in the development of AKI . Lithium is a US Food and
      Drug Administration (FDA)-approved drug which has been used for over 50 years as first line
      agent to treat mood disorders. It is a standard inhibitor for GSK3β. Latest evidence in
      murine models of cisplatin-induced AKI and ischemia/reperfusion-induced AKI suggests that
      lithium treatment may attenuated kidney dysfunction and kidney histologic injury following
      AKI. Lithium was able to promote kidney tubular cell repair hence improvement of AKI in
      murine models. In addition, lithium has also been found to exert an anti-proteinuric and
      renal reparative effect. On this background we want to explore the potential preventive and
      therapeutic role of lithium carbonate in CSA- AKI.
    
  