
    
      Denutrition in patients with COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease) is characterized by
      muscle atrophy and loss of strength in the lower extremities. It worsens the symptomatology,
      exercise intolerance, impaired quality of life and prognosis of patients.

      Consequence of a protein deficiency associated with systemic inflammation, denutrition is
      becoming increasingly important in patients with chronic respiratory failure (CRF).
      L-citrulline is an amino acid having a direct action on muscle protein synthesis. The
      citrulline supplementation is an effective treatment to fight against muscle loss in aging
      subjects. Its impact on the functional and nutritional status of COPD patients has not been
      studied.

      Our main objective is to determine the impact of supplementation with Citrulline on mass and
      peripheral muscle strength in COPD with CRF. Our secondary objectives are to identify whether
      these benefits are dependent on the severity of the disease and if they are associated with
      increased physical activity, exercise tolerance and an improvement in symptoms and quality of
      life. This prospective, randomized, controlled, double-blind study will include 60 stable
      COPD patients (stage 3 and 4), with long-term oxygen therapy and / or non-invasive
      ventilation, BMI <25 kg.m2 and suspicion of sarcopenia.

      For 45 days, patients will receive either citrulline (ProteoCIT®, 10mg) or placebo. The
      severity of COPD will be assessed by spirometry and blood gas data, the BODE index,
      exacerbations, comorbidities, nutritional status and systemic inflammation (CRPs,
      Fibrinogens). the investigators will evaluate before and after supplementation: body
      composition (DEXA), quadriceps strength and grip strength, walking speed, the exercise
      tolerance (6MWD), dyspnea (MMRC scales, BDI / TDI), quality of life (CAT and VSRQ
      questionnaires). Physical activity will be assessed by continuous actigraphy. This
      multicenter study will be conducted in 3 French hospitals: Grenoble, Nancy, Dijon.
    
  