
    
      The EGRI, a multivariate risk index that combines seven variables associated with DTI, was
      evaluated in all patients during the pre-anaesthesia visit. The results were reported in the
      clinical chart. All tracheal intubations in obese patients needing surgery were routinely
      performed using GVL. The intubations were performed or assisted by five board-certified
      anaesthesiologists who had prior experience with at least 20 GVL intubations, as well as at
      least two years of experience with anaesthesia in obese patients. In cases where the GVL
      intubation was performed by anaesthesiologists that were in training, the GVL expert was
      actively advising the operator during all of the intubating procedures. The standard
      equipment included a GVL with blade number three to five and an orotracheal hockey stick tube
      with a malleable single-use stylet (Fr 14, Intubating Stylet, DEAS). The standard anaesthesia
      induction started with 3-5 minutes of pre-oxygenation using 5 cm H2O PEEP in a 30° head-up
      position, as well as induction with fentanyl 3 μg kg -1 (LBW), propofol 2-3 mg kg -1 (LBW)
      and suxamethonium 1 mg Kg -1 (TBW). When spontaneous respiration ceased, the patient was mask
      ventilated with 100% oxygen. The tube was lubricated and advanced into the mouth under direct
      visual guidance to avoid complications, and then, under indirect visual guidance using the
      GVL monitor. The correct placement of the cuffed tube was verified using a capnograph and a
      stethoscope. The tube sizes were 7.0 for women and 7.5 for men. Each patient was monitored
      using an electrocardiogram, non-invasive arterial blood pressure measurement, and pulse
      oximetry before both tracheal intubation and anaesthesia induction. The basic demographic
      data and airway characteristics necessary to evaluate the primary outcome and to calculate
      the EGRI score were registered prior to anaesthesia. Patients with an EGRI score of 7 or
      higher were scheduled for elective fibre optic flexible bronchoscopic intubation (FFBI),
      while patients with an EGRI score of less than 7 underwent anaesthesia induction and GVL
      intubation, according to a predefined algorithm
    
  