
    
      The current study is a case control study that was done in the period from January 2015 to
      January 2016. The study included 70 participants presented with clinical and
      electrophysiological evidence of common peroneal neuropathy at the fibular neck (CPN)
      attending to Zagazig University Hospitals (Neurology, Rheumatology& Rehabilitation, and
      Orthopedic departments) and insurance hospitals of Sharkia governorate (47 male and 23
      female). Their age (mean ± SD/years) was 40.4± 12.9, the duration between the onset of
      symptom and enrollment in the study ranged between 21 days to 6 months. Seventy (45 males and
      25 females) apparently healthy volunteers were included as controls, and their age (mean ±
      SD/ years) was 41.3 ± 11.8. They were selected from the persons attending to blood bank for
      blood donation.

      All participants included in the present study are subjected to:

        1. Full history taking.

        2. Thorough clinical and neurological examination.

        3. Routine laboratories tests for exclusion of other systemic affection like diabetes
           mellitus, renal or hepatic failure.

        4. Electrodiagnostic studies

           All tests were done in the same room, at the time of clinical diagnosis using a Nicolet
           Viking Quest cart electrodiagnostic system. Lower extremity temperature was maintained
           at or above 30º C at time of examination. The electrophysiological studies included the
           following:

           A-Motor nerve conduction studies:

           Motor conduction study of the common peroneal nerve (ankle-fibular neck -popliteal
           fossa), tibial motor nerve conduction study were performed with surface disc recording
           electrodes for the affected limb and the contralateral limb in all subjects. Evaluations
           of both upper limbs were added to exclude more wide lesions if suspected.

           Common peroneal CMAPs were recorded over extensor digitorum brevis and tibialis
           anterior.

           Investigators considered that the lesion is axonal via axonal loss estimation:

           Axonal loss of the motor branch of the common peroneal nerve was estimated by comparing
           the CMAP amplitude recorded from the extensor digitorum brevis on the affected and
           contralateral sides.

           An estimate of EDB axonal loss was obtained from the formula (U -A)/U ×100 U : (extensor
           digitorum brevis response amplitude from the unaffected side).

           A : (extensor digitorum brevis response amplitude from the affected side).

           Categorization based on the motor estimated axonal loss as follow:

           No loss: (<50%). Mild to moderate loss: (50-75%). Severe loss: (>75%).

           B- Sensory nerve conduction studies:

           Antidromic evaluation of the superficial peroneal nerve sensory potential (SPSP) at the
           ankle was studied with surface stimulating and recording electrodes on the affected limb
           and the contralateral limb in all subjects. The site of stimulation was just anterior to
           the edge of the shaft of the fibula and 14 cm proximal to the active ankle electrode.
           The active recording electrode was placed midway between the edge of the tibia and the
           tip of the lateral malleolus or 3 cm proximal to the bimalleolar line. The reference
           recording electrode was placed 3 cm distal to the active electrode.

           SPSP was considered affected when any one of the following is detected :

             -  No constant wave forms could be detected.

             -  SPSP amplitudes < 5 μv or < 50% of the contra lateral side.

             -  Increased peak latency ≥ 4.4 ms (based on standard distance of 14 cm).

           C-Electromyographic study (EMG) was carried out using concentric needle in the following
           muscles: extensor digitorum brevis (EDB), tibialis anterior, peroneus longus, tibialis
           posterior, extensor halucis longus, short head of biceps femoris, vastus lateralis,
           medial head of gastrocnemius, iliacus, gluteus medius, tensor fascia lata and Paraspinal
           muscles. Concentric needle EMG was performed in all patients. Spontaneous and voluntary
           motor unit activity was assessed.

        5. Radiological examination:

      A) Ultrasonographic assessment of participants:

      Ultrasonographic examination by radiologist was conducted with a General Electric Logiq 7 Pro
      machine (GE Healthcare, Chalfont St Giles, England), using a 5- to 12-MHz linear array
      transducer. The cross sectional area (CSA) of the common peroneal nerve was determined within
      the echogenic rim surrounding the nerve at the level of the fibular neck with the probe
      perpendicular to the main nerve course in the transverse and longitudinal plane. The
      sonographic measurements were done on the same day or within 1 week after the
      electrodiagnostic studies.

      The radiologist was blinded to the participants' electrophysiological study data. However,
      the radiologist was aware of the clinical and electrophysiological suspicion for common
      peroneal neuropathy.

      Authors of the present study considered that common peroneal nerve is affected by the
      sonographic measurements if the value of CSA of the common peroneal nerve at the fibular neck
      was >11 mm2 according to the study control group.

      B) Plain radiographs were done to detect the underlying traumatic injuries, such as a
      proximal fibular head fracture or osseous tumors, or in assessing the severity of angular
      deformities about the knee. Lumbosacral plain X ray or MRI were done only if needed to rule
      lumbosacral affection.
    
  