
    
      We are conducting an epidemiological prostate cancer case-control study in Baltimore,
      Maryland. Participants will be African American and Caucasian males who reside in Baltimore
      city and surrounding areas. The study is ongoing and will recruit 1000 prostate cancer cases
      and 1000 population-based controls. The cases are recruited at two Baltimore hospitals, the
      Veterans Affairs Medical Center and the University of Maryland Center. Cases will have
      pathologically confirmed prostate cancer. The population-based controls are identified
      through the Maryland Department of Motor Vehicle Database, and are frequency-matched by age
      and race to cases. Enrollment of controls started concurrently with case accrual. The first
      12 months of the study constituted a pilot study, during which we evaluated the recruitment
      procedures. The study involves the administration of two questionnaires and collection of
      blood from all study subjects. The two questionnaires consist of a main questionnaire and a
      supplemental questionnaire. The questionnaires evaluate family cancer history, tobacco use,
      medication, occupational history, socioeconomic status and risk factors for prostate cancer.
      Fresh-frozen tumor specimens will be obtained from cancer patients if available. The study is
      supported by an epidemiological infrastructure that has been developed by our resource
      contractor at the University of Maryland for a lung cancer case-control study. This lung
      cancer study is ongoing, and the controls that are recruited for the prostate cancer study
      are joint controls with the lung cancer study. Hence, population-based male controls
      recruited by our contractor have double eligibility for the concurrent lung and prostate
      cancer studies. To achieve an age and race matching of cases and controls in the prostate
      study, we will over-sample male controls in the lung study.

      We will test the primary hypothesis that genes and environmental exposures, including
      infections and medical history, and interactions between those exposures and genetic factors
      modify prostate cancer susceptibility. As the secondary goal, we will study gene expression
      profiles of prostate tumors to identify changes in tumor biology that are associated with
      exposure to genetic and environmental risk factors. It is a focus of this research to
      identify mechanisms in tumor biology that may cause the aggressive nature of prostate cancer
      in African American men.
    
  