
    
      Intervention type 1: Day camp and resident camp:

      The intervention is divided into two parts - an intensive six week day or resident camp with
      a subsequent ten month follow-up intervention program. The children participate in a six week
      day camp where they are engaged in fun-based physical activity and sports, health classes as
      well as math lessons, Danish language and science classes. All classes are planned and
      conducted by health professionals and specialist instructors. All physical activity classes
      are primarily held using outdoor recreational facilities such as soccer fields, basketball
      courts, and forest areas within bicycling distance to the camp. Three hours of physical
      activity and sports are scheduled every day, and the classes are designed to reinforce motor
      skills, fitness, muscle strength, and confidence within the sporting environment. The planned
      sports activities are both competitive and non-competitive providing the children with both
      positive experiences in relation to physical activity and tools to cope with competitive
      situations in their normal environment including commuter bicycling. Bicycles are available
      for all children. Beside scheduled physical activity the children are encouraged to stay
      physically active during breaks and leisure time. Six hours a week health classes with the
      purpose of increasing their knowledge on health issues such as the benefits of a healthy diet
      and sports participation and increasing body awareness are scheduled. The classes consist of
      nutritional training, physiology, exercise and goal setting. For this purpose "Appreciative
      Inquiry" (AI) is used. Briefly, this deals with inquiry into and dialogue about strengths,
      successes, values, hopes and dreams related to lifestyle behaviors.

      The nutritional education consists of theoretical education in the national Danish dietary
      recommendations in combination with personal guidance at every meal. At the camp food intake
      is prepared and served according to the national Danish dietary recommendations.(15) The
      actual eating situation is supervised and guided by specialist instructors, but no calorie
      restriction is enforced. All camp staff will receive extensive training by specialist
      instructors with in the field of pedagogic and psychology.

      Intervention arm specifications:

      Children allocated to this intervention arm will stay at a day camp from 7 a.m. to 8.30 p.m.
      seven days a week during six weeks including transportation to the day camp. The children
      will stay at home with their parents outside this time period. The camp is located in the
      city of Odense, Denmark. The children, together with their family, participate in an initial
      counseling session. The aim is to support the participants in their efforts to uphold the
      designed program on diet and food intake. Following this session, the families sign a
      so-called commitment contract confirming their continuing involvement. During the
      intervention, text messages will be sent to the children in order to help them comply with
      the program, and the parents will receive a handbook on dietary recommendations. The children
      will commute using bicycles to and from the school camp in combination with parent
      transportation. The children will commute in smaller groups arranged according to the
      residential area. Active commuting will be supervised and arranged by the camp instructors.
      Parent transportation will be coordinated by the camp staff.

      Early parent involvement - Intervention and Satellite arm:

      In the beginning of the intervention a parent council is founded. Experiences from the
      resident camp project have revealed a positive influence regarding networking and general
      parent involvement and support due to the foundation of an active parent council (personal
      communication).

      During the day camp the families are offered a dietary course, led by a dietician, consisting
      of 3x2 hour meetings. Themes at the course are; Healthy cooking, Grocery Shopping, Healthy
      Eating Patterns in their every day context and parental influence on physical activity
      behavior.

      The subsequent family-based intervention- Intervention and Satellite arm:

      After the six week intervention, a family based intervention consisting of four meetings will
      be planned with the family (the participant and their parents/legal guardian) targeting
      physical activity and dietary behavior delivered by school health nurses and teachers from
      the day camp intervention. The following four themes will be attended during the four
      meetings: "Everyday diet for the family", "Active transport and sports participation",
      "Weight management in the family" and "Networking and support". Appreciative Inquiry (AI)
      will be used as a method to equip families with a method to handle challenges related to the
      targeted behaviors. At all meetings the families will discuss and share experiences related
      to the central topic of the meeting. The children must be accompanied by at least one parent
      or legal guardian during the meetings. The investigators have had promising results and
      feedback from children and families as regards using AI during the family based intervention
      in the pilot study.

      Intervention type 2- control group: Standard intervention:

      Children allocated to this intervention will receive a standard intervention, which consist
      of: 1) one weekly physical activity session (one hour duration) for six weeks arranged by the
      municipality; 2) two educational sessions, delivered by a dietician and physical activity
      specialist, for the parents concerning diet and physical activity behavior.
    
  