
    
      We are proposing a 4-year trial to determine if long-term blood pressure (BP) control after a
      pharmacist intervention requires continuation of the intervention or if a less intense
      strategy is equally efficacious. The intervention builds on the Chronic Care Model, recent
      Veteran Affairs (VA) trials, and our pharmacist interventions. This research has convincingly
      shown that collaborative interventions can improve BP control over 6-9 months. However, no
      randomized study has evaluated strategies to sustain the effect of such interventions.

      The study will enroll 300 patients with uncontrolled HTN at the Iowa City Veteran Affairs
      Medical Center (VAMC) and an affiliated community based outpatient clinic (CBOC). All
      patients will receive a pharmacist intervention for 6 months that will follow VA HTN
      guidelines. Patients completing the intervention will then be randomized to continuation of
      the high intensity intervention or to a one-time patient and provider education intervention
      that was recently shown to be effective. The high intensity (HI) intervention will intensify
      medication regimens when BP deteriorates, sustain adherence, and improve monitoring to reduce
      adverse drug reactions. The low intensity (LI) intervention will involve usual care by
      patients primary care provider (PCPs) and a one-time education intervention including a
      letter emphasizing the importance of medication adherence and behavioral strategies to
      improve BP control (e.g., low-salt diets, exercise). PCPs of low intensity patients will also
      receive a computerized alert with treatment recommendations and links to BP guidelines.

      The primary endpoint-BP-will be assessed using standard measurements at 6, 12, 18, 24, and 30
      months post enrollment (24 months after randomization). The 24-month evaluation phase will
      determine if BP control can be sustained or improved with a continued high intensity
      intervention, relative to a low intensity intervention (Aim 1). All medication changes will
      be assessed to compare rates of medication intensification over the follow-up period (Aim 2).
      Finally, validated self-report adherence questionnaires will be used to compare medication
      adherence in the two groups and determine relationships between BP control and medication
      adherence (Aim 3).
    
  