
    
      Study Objectives

      The study objectives were to:

        1. Examine scale-up mechanisms that enable increased SP coverage through community-based
           primary health care delivery, without reducing facility uptake of SP.

        2. Examine community acceptance of SP and the likelihood of long-term community-sustained
           demand.

        3. Document associations, if any, between increased SP coverage and improved intrauterine
           conditions for newborn, as measured by head circumference increments and declines in
           still birth rates.

        4. Estimate the costs of delivering SP at scale per woman for a three doses or higher
           regimen.

      Study Location and Relevant Contextual Information

      The study was undertaken in four LGAs: Dange Shuni Goronyo and Silame (combined 2015
      population, according to official Sokoto State estimates = 661,606) LGAs which were
      purposively selected as intervention LGAs; and Yabo LGA, the fourth (2015 population,
      according to official Sokoto State estimates = 167,971), was purposively selected as the
      counterfactual LGA. The selection criteria were that all LGAs had a high prevalence of
      malaria in pregnancy and that at one LGA each in the intervention group, was selected from
      each of the State's three senatorial zones.

      Sampling Size Considerations

      Given the intention of the study to examine the prospects of scaling up an already existing
      program, to reach all eligible pregnant participants, no sampling regimen was included in
      this study.

      Data Collection Procedures

      The community-based health volunteer (CBHV) system has an inbuilt data collection system
      managed by a community drug keeper (CDK) and a supervising facility-based health worker to
      monitor distribution at the community level. Investigators used an outcome form to collect
      data. Data captured in the outcome form included the condition of the newborn and mother at
      birth, of the newborn at birth-live birth or stillbirth-at days 7, 14 and 28 postpartum. For
      this study, the investigators modified the outcome form to also capture the number of SP
      doses a participant received and date/month the participant got them. The modified outcome
      form also collected data on a pregnant participant's primipara status, ANC status, gestation
      in months at time of delivery, the state of newborns (live or stillborn), sex of the newborn
      and head circumference measurements.

      Nominal cost and expense data in 2015 Nigerian Naira (NGN) directly related to community and
      facility distribution of SP in the intervention and counterfactual LGAs were obtained from
      project records and other sources. The cost estimates obtained are what it would cost the
      state government and LGAs as de facto providers of primary health care in Nigeria, to deliver
      SP-related services at both the community and facility level, including start-up costs. Six
      cost centers were included in the analyses: health facility, LGA technical administration,
      CBHV supervisors, ward development committees, CBHV, and logistics for SP distribution.

      Data Quality Procedures

      Twelve teams of four data quality auditors, independent of other project staff, were
      recruited to track data quality obtained from communities. Each team comprised of three
      females and one supervisor. Over the life of the project, the teams visited all the
      participants recorded with at least one birth-that occurred during the project-in the 42
      wards of the three intervention and one counterfactual LGAs. The data auditors also sought
      for and compiled information on omitted mothers and births. The auditors were expected to
      directly inquire of a participant-or an informed family member - in the event of a maternal
      death-if a CBHV and CBHV Supervisor visited, the status of newborns, alive or stillborn, and
      if head circumference was measured within seven days among live births. With participants'
      responses as the gold standard, births, status of births, and confirmed head circumference
      measurements were verified.

      Statistical Analyses

      Programmatic data was used to assess the coverage of SP doses during pregnancy in the
      intervention and counterfactual LGA's. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used by
      investigators to test associations between doses of SP and newborn head circumference and the
      odds of stillbirth. These analyses were conducted in Statistical Analysis System (SAS) v.9
      and excel.

      For cost data, the investigators calculated two ratios: cost per dose and cost per woman
      served, disaggregated by number of SP doses in the intervention and and counterfactual group.
      Analyses were conducted in Excel®.
    
  