
    
      Aim 1: to compare the incidence of urinary retention following retropubic midurethral sling
      placement in those women receiving normal saline vs lidocaine for retropubic hydrodissection.
      The investigators will compare rates of failed retrograde voiding trials between patients
      receiving normal saline to those receiving the same quantity of lidocaine. This will be
      completed using a standardized retrograde voiding trial 1-2 hours postoperatively (as
      outlined in "Data and Statistical Methods" below). The investigators hypothesize that
      patients receiving normal saline compared to a local anesthetic will have a reduction in
      postoperative urinary retention following retropubic midurethral sling placement.

      Aim 2: to assess postoperative pain in women receiving retropubic normal saline vs lidocaine
      during midurethral sling placement. Postoperatively, subjects will be asked to mark their
      pain on a VAS scale administered 2 hours and 6 hours following surgery. The initial
      assessment will be performed by nursing personnel at the time of routine vital sign
      assessment; the subsequent assessments will be completed by patients with an at-home form
      through postoperative day #7. Narcotic use will be queried through the electronic medical
      record as well as with a pain diary administered at time of discharge until postoperative day
      #7.

      Aim 3: to examine differences in patient satisfaction and quality of life following
      retropubic midurethral sling placement between women receiving retropubic normal saline vs
      lidocaine at time of midurethral sling placement. Differences in patient satisfaction will be
      compared using a Likert Scale. Patients will be asked to rate their satisfaction with surgery
      on a Likert scale (with 1 being the least satisfied and 5 being the most) at their 6 week
      postoperative follow up visit. The investigators hypothesize that women receiving normal
      saline for hydrodissection will have improved patient satisfaction as evidenced by higher
      Likert scores compared to those receiving lidocaine.
    
  