
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory disease of the central nervous system. It
      is one of the most common neurological diseases in young adulthood. The main symptoms of MS
      are gait and mobility impairments, which also determine the severity of the disease.
      Currently, subjective clinical functional tests are commonly used to evaluate therapy
      outcomes. Due to advancing mechanization, body-worn accelerometers have been established as a
      potential instrument for the objective detection of mobility in clinical research. The
      accuracy of these devices for determining the mobility is therefore essential. However,
      current studies, especially in people with altered gait, show large deviations in step
      detection accuracy.

      In the present study we want to investigate: i) whether a commercially available smartwatch
      (Polar M600) counts steps in persons with multiple sclerosis (pwMS) accurately and ii)
      whether it counts steps as accurately as an accelerometer commonly used in clinical research
      (ActiGraph wGT3X-BT). In addition, the accuracy of the step detection by the algorithms of
      the manufacturer of the two devices (Polar M600 and ActiGraph wGT3X-BT) will be compared with
      an own-developed algorithm.

      For this purpose, 63 pwMS with low to severe functional restriction (EDSS: 0 - 6.5) will
      participate in this validation study. The validation protocol consists of three walking tests
      with different walking velocities. During these three conditions the participants will wear
      the Polar M600 on the wrist and the ActiGraph wGT3X-BT with a belt over the hip. In the first
      walking test, the subjects will complete 250 steps with comfortable walking velocity (CWV).
      After a sufficient break, the participants will be randomly assigned to either a fast walking
      velocity condition (FWV: CWV + 20%) followed by a sufficient period of rest and a slow
      walking velocity condition (SWV: CWV - 20%) or vice versa. Each of the walking tests with
      modified walking velocity also consists of 250 steps. To analyze the accuracy of step
      detection, the measured steps of the devices will be compared with the actually walked 250
      steps.
    
  