
    
      Standard of care radiation therapy (RT) for head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC)
      involves conventional fractionation delivered over a course of 7 weeks. Although
      hypofractionated RT (HFRT) delivering higher dose of RT each day over a shorter overall
      treatment time has been studied and adopted as standard of care in many disease sites
      including breast and prostate cancers, data on HFRT in HNSCC is limited.

      There is a strong radiobiological rationale for HFRT for HNSCC to decrease the overall
      treatment time and thus the effects of accelerated repopulation in this disease entity. In
      addition, if similar outcomes can be achieved with a reduced number of fractions, cost
      effectiveness of care can be improved while minimizing the disruption to the patient's
      personal and professional lives. A substantial decrease in treatment time may improve
      compliance and financial toxicity associated with the patient's oncologic treatment.

      The global COVID-19 pandemic is highlighting the health risk to society at large of having no
      viable alternative to a 7 week daily RT course for HNSCC, especially in the setting of
      compromised immune systems associated with concurrent chemotherapy frequently used in this
      patient population. Thus, the study of HFRT for HNSCC is both timely and potentially paradigm
      changing for practices across the United States.

      The incidence of human papilloma virus (HPV)-associated oropharynx cancer is increasing in
      the United States, now accounting for 70-80% of all oropharynx cancers. It has a favorable
      prognosis vs. non-HPV-associated cancers and studies are ongoing to determine the best
      strategy to de-intensified therapy while maintaining good oncologic outcomes.

      The purpose of this single-arm Phase I study is to assess the tolerability and signal for
      efficacy of de-intensified HFRT for favorable HPV-associated oropharynx cancer.
      De-intensification will be achieved in two ways. First, the equivalent biologically effective
      dose (BED) of HFRT used on trial will be 60 Gy of conventionally fractionationated RT (vs.
      the current standard of care of 70 Gy). Second, the elective nodal volume irradiated will be
      limited to involved nodal levels and one immediately adjacent level (vs. the current standard
      of care of entire bilateral neck nodal regions). Patients will complete RT in 15 fractions (3
      weeks) with concurrent weekly cisplatin on dose level 0, and if well tolerated, escalate to
      level 1 delivering RT in 12 fractions (3 weeks). If a 3-week regimen is not well-tolerated, a
      20 fraction regimen will be used on dose level -1.
    
  