
    
      A growing body of literature suggests that animal-assisted interventions (AAI) have important
      clinical effects on humans, e.g. decreased physiological stress, reduction of depression and
      anxiety symptoms and reduction in pain perception and experience. Such evidence leads to an
      increased interest in using AAI in clinical practice. However, it is still not quite clear
      how AAI works or in other words what it is that makes AAI effective. Therefore, it is crucial
      to investigate how the inclusion of animals in clinical practice contributes to beneficial
      therapeutic outcomes.

      In this regard, it has been assumed that the presence of an animal enhances the development
      of the therapeutic alliance, which, in turn, has been shown to play a crucial role in the
      outcome of the treatment.

      However, results from a recent study suggest that a relationship between patient and
      health-provider alone is not sufficient to influence treatment outcomes, but that a
      therapeutic rationale is needed and that verbal instructions and suggestions are highly
      important in shaping participants' treatment expectations.

      As placebo effects are related to therapeutic rationale and relationship, the investigators
      would like to use an expectancy-induced placebo intervention to identify if animal-assisted
      intervention also works through these two components.

      Given that placebo analgesia works well through therapeutic rationale the investigators
      decided to employ an animal-integrated placebo intervention study with healthy participants
      (N=128) in a standardized experimental heat pain paradigm. Even though a growing body of
      evidence highlights the positive effects of animal-assisted interventions until this day
      little is known about the mechanisms. There exist various hypotheses trying to explain why
      AAI works, most focusing on the crucial role of the animal in the intervention. However, to
      the best of the investigator's knowledge there has been no study which examined if the
      effectiveness of animal-assisted interventions could simply be explained by the power of the
      therapeutic rational and the relationship. Therefore, it is still unknown if AAI is effective
      because of the animal or because of its influence on the therapeutic relationship and the
      given therapeutic rationale.

      It is important to understand how AAI works. Moreover, if AAI, like other interventions, is
      about expectation and relationship, this could have important implications for clinical
      practice and a better understanding of how AAI must be used to be effective.

      If AAI works through similar mechanisms as the placebo, then both interventions should have a
      similar impact on the outcome of the intervention (reduced pain perception, increased placebo
      analgesia). Findings of this study could have important implications, not only for clinical
      practice of AAI but also for intervention in general as the results could help to better
      understand the importance of these two components.
    
  