
    
      The Spiration Valve is a small, one-way valve that is used to block air from entering
      diseased portions of the lung. This helps to reduce the volume in diseased lung due to
      hyperinflation. Volume reduction of diseased lung has been shown to improve lung function and
      other quality of life measures for people living with emphysema.

      The Spiration Valve is placed in the diseased section of the lungs using a tool called a
      bronchoscope. A bronchoscope is a small tube that has a camera on the end. The bronchoscope
      enters the lungs through the mouth. The Spiration Valve is delivered and placed in the
      targeted airways via another thin tube called a catheter that travels through the
      bronchoscope.

        -  Once in place, the Spiration Valve expands and contracts with breathing, creating a
           complete seal around the airway

        -  The seal blocks air from entering the target lobe while at the same time allowing
           trapped air and fluids to escape.

        -  This causes the diseased (hyper-inflated) lung to reduce in volume or collapse

        -  Studies have shown volume reduction may allow healthier lung to function better

        -  More information and a description of the Spiration Valve System can be found on the
           EMPROVE clinical trial website, www.EmphysemaTrial.com

      Safety and outcomes of the Spiration Valve System in emphysema have been published in several
      peer-reviewed journals. The articles listed below represent a summary of existing literature
      regarding the use of the Spiration Valve System for the treatment of emphysema. The selected
      articles are being provided to help understand the body of data describing the use of the
      Spiration Valve System.

        1. Unilateral Versus Bilateral Endoscopic Lung Volume Reduction: A Comparative Case Study,
           NCT00995852

           Eberhardt R, Gompelmann D, Schuhmann M, Heussel CP, Herth FJ. Complete unilateral vs
           partial bilateral endoscopic lung volume reduction in patients with bilateral lung
           emphysema. Chest. 2012 Oct;142(4):900-908

        2. Clinical Trial to Evaluate the Safety and Effectiveness of the IBV® Valve System for the
           Treatment of Severe Emphysema (IBV®Valve), NCT00475007

           Wood DE, Nader DA, Springmeyer SC, Elstad MR, Coxson HO, Chan A, Rai NS, Mularski RA,
           Cooper CB, Wise RA, Jones PW, Mehta AC, Gonzalez X, Sterman DH; IBV Valve Trial Research
           Team. The IBV Valve trial: a multicenter, randomized, double-blind trial of
           endobronchial therapy for severe emphysema. J Bronchology Interv Pulmonol. 2014
           Oct;21(4):288-297

        3. European Multi-Center Post Market Study of the IBV Valve System, NCT00880724

      Ninane V, Geltner C, Bezzi M, Foccoli P, Gottlieb J, Welte T, Seijo L, Zulueta JJ, Munavvar
      M, Rosell A, Lopez M, Jones PW, Coxson HO, Springmeyer SC, Gonzalez X. Multicentre European
      study for the treatment of advanced emphysema with bronchial valves. Eur Respir J. 2012
      Jun;39(6):1319-1325
    
  