
    
      Recurrent pregnancy loss can affect up to 5% of women in child-bearing age and is considered
      one of the most common causes of female sterility. In recent years, the association between
      thrombophilia and pregnancy failure has been observed in a number of studies, varying
      according to the nature of the thrombophilia (for example the antiphospholipid syndrome as
      opposed to the hereditary forms) or the type of pregnancy loss (either isolated or recurrent,
      or early or late). It has therefore been accepted that thrombophilia is detected in a
      significant number of idiopathic pregnancy losses, reaching 66% of the cases in some series.

      Since the 1990's, a number of studies have associated recurrent pregnancy loss with FVL
      mutations (most frequently) and G20210 PT. In a systematic review, it was confirmed that
      women with thrombophilia have a higher risk of developing thromboembolism and complications
      in pregnancy. Another recent meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies concluded that women
      who were carriers of FVL had a higher risk of late pregnancy loss, at 52%, as opposed to
      non-carriers (OR=1.52), though the differences in absolute risk were discreet (4.2% and 3.2%,
      respectively). However, the analysis of these 2 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) showed
      low discriminative capacity and diagnostic sensitivity.

      This study hypothesize that the use of the Thrombo inCode速 in the screening for hereditary
      thrombophilia in patients with recurrent pregnancy loss can improve the diagnostic
      sensitivity and predictive capacity of the routine genetic panel, based on FVL and G20210A
      PT. Thus, the Thrombo inCode速 model can accurately identify more patients with
      clinical-genetic risk of thromboembolism and therefore establish the appropriate preventive
      measures.

      A transversal observational case-control study will be carried out, with retrospective data
      analysis. The screening for hereditary thrombophilia will be performed through the Thrombo
      inCode速 panel in cases and controls. The results produced from a single genetic analysis will
      allow comparison to the centres' routine protocol (FV Leiden and G20210A PT) with the
      complete Thrombo inCode速 panel, that also includes the previously-mentioned classical
      variants.
    
  