
    
      Although stress is likely not a cause of infertility, research has shown negative effects of
      psychological stress on in vitro fertilization (IVF) outcomes. IVF processes have also been
      shown to increase stress in infertility patients. Patients that have had failed at IVF cycles
      are noted to have more stress. The practice of elective egg freezing is relatively new and
      little is known on the psychological wellbeing of these patients as they start ovarian
      stimulation for egg freezing. The practice of yoga has been shown to be an effective stress
      reducing agent. The investigators demonstrated in a pilot project that yoga postures coupled
      with a yoga focused discussion session decreases stress in infertility patients compared to
      controls. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to further explore this relationship and
      determine which aspect of the intervention had the most impact.

      Participants will include women with a history of at least one IVF failure or women
      undergoing fertility preservation for elective egg freezing. The participants who elect to
      include yoga as part of their infertility treatments will self select one of three treatment
      groups: 1) In person yoga + discussion; 2) online yoga + discussion; 3) In person discussion
      only. The investigators will also recruit non-yoga participators as a control group.

      The yoga participants and controls will be asked to fill out two questionnaires: The
      State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) and the Fertility Problem Inventory (FPI). STAI is a
      widely used measure of trait anxiety (a person's disposition towards being anxious over time)
      and state anxiety (how anxious a person feels at the present time). It is a 40-question
      survey that uses a 4-point Likert scale per question. A score of 20 corresponds to low
      anxiety and a score of 80 corresponds to high anxiety. It has been shown that higher anxiety
      scores exist in the infertility population. Mean STAI scores in the infertility population
      range between 30-50. The FPI is used as another tool for assessing a person's state anxiety
      and has been found to better discriminate between general stress and infertility-related
      stress. Participants will complete these at the beginning of participation and then again six
      weeks later. The design of the study will include a pre-test and post-test analysis.

      The primary outcome is to determine whether stress reduction is greater in those women that
      participate in the yoga postures and discussion group when compared to those in the
      discussion only group or controls. The secondary hypothesis is that reduction in stress will
      be equivalent between online and in-person participators. Additional outcomes include an
      assessment of whether age or other demographic factors influence baseline stress levels or
      reduction in stress. The investigators also plan to examine whether the yoga participation
      has any influence on ovarian stimulation or pregnancy outcomes. Therefore, baseline patient
      demographic characteristics, clinical outcomes regarding ovarian stimulation as well as
      future pregnancy outcomes will also be collected.

      The investigators plan to recruit at least 150 participants who are currently undergoing
      in-vitro fertilization (IVF) at Fertility Centers of Illinois (FCI) and 150 patients
      undergoing elective egg freezing for fertility preservation at FCI. Those 150 patients will
      then be further subdivided into one of the three treatment groups mentioned above or the
      control group.

      Before starting the study, the participants interested in a treatment group involving yoga
      postures will be evaluated including a review of medical history and an assessment of ability
      to perform basic, gentle yoga without injury. All interventions will occur once weekly for a
      total of six weeks. The participant will be expected to participate in at least five of the
      six sessions in order to complete the study. If the participant is in the in person yoga +
      discussion group, she will complete a Yoga for Fertility class Pulling Down the Moon: An
      Integrative Center for Fertility which consists of a 30 minute discussion session followed by
      a 60 minute Vinyasa style yoga class. If the participant is in the online yoga + discussion
      group, she will attend an online webinar of the Yoga for Fertility class and engage in a home
      yoga practice with the Pulling Down the Moon Yoga DVD. If the participant is in the
      discussion only group, she will attend an in-person 30 minute discussion session at Pulling
      Down the Moon.

      The investigators will be using paired t-tests to compare mean pre-test and post-test scores
      between groups and logistic regressions to evaluate the secondary outcomes.
    
  