
    
      Recombinant soluble CD4 protein (rCD4) is a drug that has been produced by genetic
      engineering techniques. In laboratory studies, rCD4 binds to HIV and reduces its ability to
      enter the cell, thus inhibiting its reproduction. Before rCD4 can be tested for therapeutic
      effectiveness in HIV-infected patients, it is necessary to determine the maximum dose that
      can be tolerated by humans. AMENDED: To date, Biogen's original sequence recombinant soluble
      CD4 and Biogen's natural sequence recombinant soluble CD4 have both been referred to as
      recombinant soluble CD4 (rsCD4). In order to distinguish between these two products, a change
      in nomenclature has been made. In this protocol, whenever the original sequence CD4 molecule
      is referred to, it is called recombinant soluble T4 (rsT4). Whenever the natural sequence
      molecule (currently under study in this protocol) is referred to, it is called BG8962 or
      rCD4. Whenever the drug is discussed generically, it is referred to as rsCD4.

      The initial dose level is the highest dose previously established with other patients in this
      trial to be safe when administered intramuscularly (IM). Dose escalation is by
      semilogarithmic steps. A shift from IM injection to continuous subcutaneous infusion (CSCI)
      is necessitated by the volume of drug which is administered as part of the escalation dose.
      Three groups of eight patients each are treated as follows. The first group of 8 patients
      receives BG8962 daily and consists of two cohorts of four patients each. One cohort receives
      BG8962 as an IM injection. The second cohort receives BG8962 as a continuous 24 hour
      infusion. All patients in this group are treated for 12 weeks. The second dosing group of 8
      patients receive daily BG8962 by CSCI for 12 weeks. The third group of 8 patients receive
      BG8962 by CSCI for 6 weeks. Every two weeks during the study the following tests and
      evaluations are done: Blood chemistry, hematology, urinalysis with microscopic exam, and
      T-cells and T-cell subsets.
    
  