
    
      Patients who are already scheduled to have a gynecologic, urologic or uro-gynecologic
      procedure involving cystoscopy will be approached to participate in the study. They will be
      approached either at the time of an office visit or on the day of the scheduled procedure in
      the preoperative area.

      Study-Related Once consented, they will be requested to fill out the study questionnaires. IC
      Problem Index/IC symptom Index, Pelvic Pain and Urgency/Frequency Patient Symptom Scale(PUF),
      IBS (Irritable Bowel Syndrome) questionnaire, Functional Esophageal Disorder Questionnaire,
      and Painful Bladder questionnaire. Completion of these questionnaires should take
      approximately 15 minutes.

      Cystoscopy-Standard of care The bladder will be be emptied prior to cystoscopy. Cystoscopy
      will be performed with a 5 mm 30o or 70o cystoscope. The angle of view through the scope (or
      what the physician sees) is described as 30 degrees or 70 degrees. Sterile saline or water
      will be infused under direct visualization. Fluid bag will be held at 80 cm above the
      patient. After 200 cc's of filling the infusion will be stopped. This is the standard
      procedure for cystoscopy. A resurvey of the bladder will be performed. A minimum of two
      pictures will be taken - one of the back wall and one of the dome of the bladder. Any
      abnormal findings will be recorded as well.

      Hydrodistension- standard of care or study related. The bladder will be filled by gravity (no
      pressure) the fluid bag is held 80-100cm above the bed level and the bladder is filled by
      gravity. Fluid will stop when the bladder reaches capacity or the physician will stop the
      flow when 700cc is reached. Once the bladder is filled, it is then partially emptied. This
      procedure should take no more than 60 seconds. The bladder is left partially filled so the
      physician can take a final look (resurvey) at the bladder before the procedure is completed
      and the scope withdrawn. This is the standard procedure for hydrodistension. At least five
      pictures will be taken: trigon, left and right bladder wall, posterior wall of the bladder,
      and dome of the bladder. A short video clip (approximately 10-15 seconds long) will be taken
      as well for documentation. Again, any abnormal findings will be documented.

      Image review-study related Cystoscopic images will be de-identified and pooled. Batches of 25
      sets of images will be evaluated by a panel of urogynecologists. Each reviewer will evaluate
      each set of images, ranking them as: positive, equivocal or negative for interstitial
      cystitis findings. A minimum of 10 glomerulations per quadrant in 3 out of 4 quadrants, or
      any Hunner ulcers will be required for positive diagnosis. Glomerulations will be graded by
      distribution and number. Additional findings will be recorded: trabeculations, metaplasia,
      masses, stones, etc. In cases of equivocal findings, the panel can review video clip that may
      contain additional visual information.

      Study related Patients who have positive findings for interstitial cystitis during cystoscopy
      with hydrodistension, will be notified of the findings after the procedure. At their 4 week
      and 6 month followup visits these patients will be asked to fill out the IC Problem Index/IC
      symptom Index questionnaire, this will be compared to the same questionnaire the patient
      filled out pre op. If the patient is unable to come to the office they may receive a phone
      call to complete the questionnaire or if they have access to e-mail they may be able to
      complete the questionnaire on a secure web base site (Red Cap). The follow up questionnaire
      will not be completed by those who are not diagnosed with interstitial cystitis and their
      participation in this study will end after the procedure, and they will be referred back to
      their primary or referring physician for follow up.

      Study related The patient's medical record will also be reviewed for history and
      demographics.

      Standard of care Patients with IC will be treated by their primary providers as clinically
      indicated.
    
  