
    
      This study will involve identification of patients with ischemic steal who are deemed
      candidates for distal revascularization with interval ligation (DRIL), followed by
      prospective data collection of intraoperative noninvasive data at key points in the
      operation.

      After informed consent, chart review will be performed to identify patient characteristics as
      well as details of their presentation of steal syndrome, including symptomatology, duration,
      characteristics of contributory arteriovenous access, and preoperative data including upper
      extremity/forearm pressures, fistula flow data, and finger pressures with and without fistula
      compression.

      Patients will have noninvasive intraoperative measurement of bilateral forearm blood pressure
      measurements using automated blood pressure cuffs within sterile bands on the operative side
      as well as the contralateral ("control") side. Automated blood pressure measurements will
      then be performed at four time points in the operation, simultaneously on both arms
      (operative versus control):

        1. After surgical exposure but before any intervention has been performed,

        2. After clamping of the brachial artery after dissection and control of the vessel to
           assess for the effect of interval ligation (IL) alone on the forearm blood pressure.

        3. After performance of the distal revascularization (DR) but BEFORE interval ligation of
           the brachial artery.

        4. After completion of the procedure, including both distal revascularization AND interval
           ligation (DRIL).

      The performance of blood pressure measurements will not alter the performance of the
      operation, nor will this have any influence on intraoperative decision-making. Intraoperative
      patient positioning and set-up will be unaffected by the addition of a distal forearm blood
      pressure cuff for data acquisition. Neither the pre-operative selection or post-operative
      care will be influenced by participation in this study, nor by the data acquired. It should
      be noted that this technique is intermittently used as standard of care when needed in
      current practice.

      Patients will be assessed for symptom improvement and DRIL patency at their standard 14 day,
      3 month, 6 month, 9 month and 1 year follow up visits.
    
  