
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the complete response (CR) rate in newly diagnosed, untreated follicular
      lymphoma patients receiving 6 cycles of ofatumumab-bendamustine (bendamustine hydrochloride)
      (ARM A) and 6 cycles of ofatumumab, bortezomib, and bendamustine (ARM B) using International
      Harmonization Project Response Criteria.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with untreated follicular
      lymphoma after 6 cycles of ofatumumab-bendamustine (ARM A) followed by maintenance ofatumumab
      and after 6 cycles of ofatumumab, bortezomib, and bendamustine followed by maintenance
      ofatumumab and bortezomib (ARM B).

      II. To determine the toxicity profile of ofatumumab and bendamustine and ofatumumab,
      bortezomib, and bendamustine in patients with untreated high-risk follicular lymphoma.

      III. To determine if changes in both qualitative and semi-quantitative fludeoxyglucose
      (FDG)-positron-emission tomography (PET) findings at baseline, after cycle 2 (day 32-35), and
      at end of therapy (6-8 weeks after the last cycle of induction chemotherapy but prior to
      maintenance therapy) with ofatumumab-bendamustine and ofatumumab, bortezomib, and
      bendamustine correlate with response and PFS in patients with high-risk follicular lymphoma.

      IV. To assess if a combinatorial approach using both qualitative and semi-quantitative
      changes in FDG-PET and computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies
      at baseline, after cycle 2 (day 32-35), and at end of therapy (6-8 weeks after the last cycle
      of induction chemotherapy prior to maintenance therapy) would result in a higher predictive
      value for response and PFS in patients with high-risk follicular lymphoma.

      V. To correlate all molecular parameters with FDG-PET parameters in determination of response
      and PFS.

      VI. To correlate pre-treatment single nucleotide polymorphisms with response and PFS
      following ofatumumab-bendamustine and ofatumumab, bortezomib, and bendamustine therapy in
      patients with untreated high-risk follicular lymphoma.

      VII. To correlate cluster of differentiation (CD)-68, B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia
      (CLL)/lymphoma (bcl)-2, marker of proliferation Ki-67 (Ki-67), forkhead box P3 (FOXP3),
      activated cytotoxic T-cells, lymphoma-associated macrophages (LAM), melanoma associated
      antigen (mutated) 1 (MUM1), CD10, nuclear v-rel avian reticuloendotheliosis viral oncogene
      homolog A (p65) and v-rel avian reticuloendotheliosis viral oncogene homolog C (cREL)
      subunits of nuclear factor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B-cells (NFkB), and
      selected genetic translocations by fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis (such as
      Bcl-2 and Bcl-6) with response and PFS in patients receiving initial therapy for high-risk
      follicular lymphoma.

      VIII. To determine whether immune gene signatures previously identified as prognostic factors
      in follicular lymphoma can be applied to paraffin-embedded tissues in ofatumumab and
      bendamustine or ofatumumab, bendamustine, and bortezomib treated patients; evaluate
      micro-ribonucleic acid (RNA) signatures associated with these gene signatures and outcome.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A:

      INDUCTION: Patients receive ofatumumab intravenously (IV) over 2-8 hours on day 1 and
      bendamustine hydrochloride IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 2. Treatment repeats every 35
      days for up to 6 courses. Patients without disease progression continue on to maintenance
      therapy.

      MAINTENANCE: Beginning 8 weeks after the start of induction course 6, patients receive
      ofatumumab IV over 2-8 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 56 days for up to 4 courses.

      ARM B:

      INDUCTION: Patients receive ofatumumab IV over 2-8 hours on day 1, bendamustine hydrochloride
      IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 2, and bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds or subcutaneously
      (SC) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 35 days for up to 6 courses. Patients
      without disease progression continue on to maintenance therapy.

      MAINTENANCE: Beginning 8 weeks after the start of induction course 6, patients receive
      ofatumumab IV over 2-8 hours on day 1 and bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds or SC on days 1, 8,
      15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 56 days for up to 4 courses.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for up to 10 years.
    
  