
    
      In 10-15 patients undergoing back surgery (laminectomy or back surgery with lumbar pedicle
      screw placement or revision back surgery), will be asked to give informed consent to receive
      a bilateral lumbar erector spinae block before surgery. In this population it will be clear
      after 10-15 patients if there is a beneficial effect since these patients normally require a
      substantial amount of postoperative opioids because of significant postoperative pain.

      The blocks will be performed by experts in the field of ultrasound guided locoregional
      anaesthesia in a separate block room with ultrasound after placement of an iv line and
      application of standard monitoring (ECG, NIBP, saturation)

      Description of block performance according to Chinn et al but at a lumbar level:

      The patient will be placed in the lateral or sitting position. With a curve array probe or a
      high frequency linear probe, depending on the BMI of the patient, will be placed in a
      longitudinal position 2-3 cm lateral of the vertebral column. The transverse processes of the
      vertebrae at the (mid) level of surgery, the erector spinae muscle and the psoas muscle are
      identified. Depending on the depth a 5 or 8 cm 22 G ultrasound needle (pajunk) will be
      inserted in an in plane technique in a cephalad to caudad direction until bone contact with
      the top of the transverse process is reached. After slight retraction of the needle, 20 ml of
      ropivacaine 0,375% will be injected behind the erector spinae muscle. The same procedure will
      be repeated on the contralateral side.

      Sensory loss of the posterior dermatomes and dermatomes of the anterior roots of the spinal
      nerves (lumbar plexus, upper leg) will be tested Motor function of the legs will be evaluated
      with a Bromage (0-3) score.

      General anaesthesia will then be induced in a standardized way with propofol, sufentanyl and
      rocuronium. The maintenance of anaesthesia and the procedure will be performed according to
      protocol.

      After surgery analgesia will be provided with nsaid when applicable and 1000 mg paracetamol
      IV 4 times daily combined with a PCA (patient controlled analgesia) pump depending on the
      site:

        -  AZ klina protocol: PCA piritramide/dhbp pump: 0ml/h, 2 mg bolus, 20 minutes lockout

        -  UZA protocol: Morphine/dhbp pump: 0ml/h 1 mg bolus, 8minutes lock out) and Pain scores
           (NRS, 0=no pain 10= worst pain ever), will be tested on the post anesthesia care unit
           every hour and according to hospital postoperative protocol at the ward during the fist
           24 hours.

      The amount and frequency of the opioid usage of the first 24 hours will be extracted out of
      the PCA pump. In patients without a block, opioid consumption is mostly expected between
      25-40 mg morphine/24h (loading dose excluded) according to weight. We expect to see a
      substantial decrease (at least 50 %) in opioid consumption.
    
  