
    
      This study will be conducted in five phases. Each phase utilizes the results from the
      previous phase. Each phase is also associated with at least one specific aim.

      Phase One (Aim One): Complete a revised version of a standard, widely utilized,
      multi-component, cognitive-behavior treatment manual for tobacco dependence to include
      commonly utilized, cognitive-behavioral interventions that specifically address the key
      factors associated with treatment outcome disparities.

      Phase Two (Aim Two): Using the PEN-3 Model,1-3 target and tailor RITCh_1 to address the needs
      of smokers who are of lower SES as well as smokers who are minority, particularly African
      American. In this preparatory activity, the research team will tailor and target RITCh_1
      using this well-accepted theoretical model and produce the second draft of the revised
      treatment, called RITCh_2. Human subjects are not involved with this phase of the research.
      No data will be collected.

      Phase Three (Aim Three): Pilot test RITCh_2 with three treatment groups (5-10 participants
      per group) to assess understandability and acceptability and to ensure that it can be
      delivered in the same 60-minute per session time frame as the standard treatment. This is a
      qualitative study in which the investigators will pilot test RITCh_2 with 21 participants who
      will be consented as pilot study participants. See Pilot Study Informed Consent Form. Contact
      and demographic information will be collected from participants, but not baseline and outcome
      assessments. Participant feedback will be provided in a group format and will not be linked
      to identifying information. The research team will incorporate participant feedback into a
      third draft of the revised treatment, RITCh_3.

      Phase Four (Aim Four): Compare the effects of SES on treatment outcomes in a
      socioeconomically and racially diverse group of participants treated with RITCh_3 and the
      standard treatment. The investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial (n=253)
      comparing the efficacy of RITCh_3 to the standard treatment. Investigators will use a
      randomized treatment design and two methods for assessing abstinence (latency to relapse and
      six-month point prevalence abstinence rates) to compare the effects of SES and treatment
      condition on treatment outcomes. Investigators expect RITCh_3 to demonstrate fewer treatment
      outcome disparities than standard treatment.

      Phase Five (Aim Five): Compare the effects of RITCH_3 and standard treatment on each of the
      key factors associated with treatment outcome disparities (see Aim One and Table 1). Using
      analysis of covariance and logistic regression as appropriate, investigators will analyze the
      effects of treatment condition on each of the key factors (see Table 1). The investigators
      expect participants treated with RITCh_3 to demonstrate more improvement on each of the key
      factors than participants treated with standard treatment.
    
  