
    
      The concept of multimorbidity was first published in 1976. Multimorbidity has been defined by
      the World Health Organization (WHO) as people being affected by two or more chronic health
      conditions. Multimorbidity is a very interesting and challenging concept particularly for
      Family Medicine (FM), given the increasing prevalence of chronic illness in an aging
      population across all developed countries. It is closely related to a global or comprehensive
      view of the patient, which is a core competency of FM, as defined, for instance, by the World
      Organization of National Colleges, Academies and Academic Associations of General
      Practitioners/Family Physicians (WONCA). It is a global 'functional' view (useful for
      Long-Term Care) versus a 'disease' centered point of view (useful for acute care).

      The European General Practice Research Network (EGPRN) has created a research agenda
      specifically designed for methodological and instrumental research, which includes the
      development of primary care epidemiology, focusing on patient-centered health. A
      comprehensive definition of the concept of multimorbidity (i.e. one which is both
      understandable and usable for further collaborative research) was an important objective for
      this research network. The objective was to help researchers in FM to investigate the
      complexity of patients' conditions and their overall impact on patients' health. This concept
      of multimorbidity could be an additional tool for Family Physicians (FPs), enabling them to
      prevent decompensation.

      A research team, including 9 national groups, all active within the EGPRN, has created a
      research community for the purpose of clarifying the concept of multimorbidity for FM
      throughout Europe. This group produced a comprehensive definition of the concept of
      multimorbidity through a systematic review of literature. This concept was translated into
      most European languages for use in further collaborative research. Finally, it was validated
      using qualitative research throughout Europe and a specific research agenda was issued. The
      EGPRN concept of multimorbidity included a set of different variables assessing patients'
      multimorbidity, multimorbidity modulating factors and multimorbidity consequences.

      Decompensation (i.e. death or hospitalization in acute care) is a challenge for FM as FPs,
      being familiar with their patient's health status, could miss tiny factors which, if noticed,
      could help to prevent decompensation. A predictive model that could be integrated into their
      clinical practice could help them to prevent decompensation and avoid serious health outcomes
      for their patients. The EGPRN concept of multimorbidity was considered highly suitable for a
      purpose such as this. It could lead to a usable model for preventing decompensation.

      The French population is aging, with one in three people over 60 years of age in 2050.
      Consequently, the number of dependent patients, some requiring institutionalization in Care
      homes (CHs), is growing. Patients residing in CHs are included in the EGPRN definition of
      multimorbidity. In France, as in most European countries, patients in residential care are
      treated by FPs.

      The purpose of this research was to assess which criteria in the EGPRN concept of
      multimorbidity could detect decompensating patients in residential care within a primary care
      cohort at a 6-month follow-up.
    
  