
    
      Differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) is the most frequent malignant neoplasm of the endocrine
      system, accounting for approximately 95% of the cases of carcinomas in this system. DTC is
      considered to be an indolent behavioral neoplasm with low rates of morbidity and mortality
      (mean survival in 10 years from 93 to 98%), being one of the malignancies with a greater
      chance of cure.

      In recent years, the use of the initial treatment response, called "dynamic risk
      classification", has been advocated in order to better estimate the risk of unfavorable
      outcomes in patients with DTC. Using this classification, the recurrence rate in the
      contemporary CDT cohorts has been shown to be very low, at a household of 1-5%. In a cohort
      of our center, which evaluated 786 patients, the recurrence rate in the group of 357 patients
      classified as excellent response after the initial treatment was 2.8%, and none of these
      patients presented structural relapse (median follow-up of 4 years). Thus, it is possible to
      affirm that most of the patients classified as having an excellent response after initial
      treatment are permanently free of disease. However, the main consensus on the management of
      DTC recommends long-term follow-up, not defining the maximum follow-up time. This follow-up
      consists of consultations in specialized centers (preferably with endocrinologists),
      laboratory tests (TSH, thyroglobulin and antithyroglobulin antibody) and imaging.

      In Brazil, the health network is characterized by the heterogeneity of hospital structures
      regarding the incorporation of technologies and service complexity, with a concentration of
      financial resources and specialized personnel in large cities and regional imbalance. Within
      this context, specialized outpatients with high complexity face overcrowding (of patients
      already under follow-up) and restricted access (to patients in need of follow-up). In this
      sense, transferring the care of follow-up patients in specialized hospitals to primary care
      level in their place of origin to maintain follow-up brings benefits to individuals and the
      system as a whole. The structure of referral of patients to the different levels of care in
      the Brazilian public health system occurs through the reference and counter-referral system,
      a fundamental point to guarantee the accessibility, universality, and integrality of care. It
      is understood as a counter-referral to a primary care level, with a lower degree of
      complexity, and should be the health unit closest to the patient's home. Facilitating
      mechanisms of reference and counter-reference processes are fundamental to guarantee the
      principle of integrality, adequate patient care and rational use of resources.

      One of the formats for developing health care support and continuing education activities are
      teleconsulting, which are consultations recorded and performed among workers, health
      professionals and managers, through telecommunication instruments, with the purpose of
      clarifying doubts about clinical procedures, health actions and issues related to the work
      process. It is known that this type of systematic intervention based on practice is one of
      the most effective ways to promote permanent health education. The use of telehealth, through
      teleconsulting, for cases referred by primary care physicians to tertiary services is a
      strategy that aims to qualify and reduce referral lists for other medical professionals.
      Likewise, the use of telehealth emerges as a counter-referral strategy for patients already
      served by tertiary care for primary care units, ensuring patient and physician security of
      adequate management and assisted return for tertiary care, when necessary.

      In this study, 472 patients with a diagnosis of DTC consecutively attended at the thyroid
      clinic of the Hospital de Clínicas of Porto Alegre and who presented excellent response to
      the initial treatment will be invited to participate in the study, and then randomized to two
      follow-up strategies:

        1. Control group: patients will remain in care at the HCPA thyroid disease outpatient
           clinic;

        2. Intervention group: outpatient discharge with telehealth support.

      Patients with definitive postoperative hypoparathyroidism and/or postoperative vocal cord
      paralysis requiring tracheostomy will be excluded. All patients will be evaluated by the
      study team after completing 18 of follow-up. Clinical, laboratory (TSH, thyroglobulin and
      antithyroglobulin antibody) and imaging (cervical ultrasonography) for DTC relapse will be
      evaluated in this follow-up visit. The primary endpoint will be the DTC recurrence rate. This
      will be divided into biochemistry (when there are only signs of disease in laboratory tests)
      and structural (when demonstrated by clinical or imaging examination). Outcomes related to
      quality of life and use of the health system will also be evaluated. Both follow-up
      strategies are expected to be equivalent in relation to DTC recurrences, potentially enabling
      optimization of the use of the health system.
    
  