
    
      PURPOSE:

        1. To evaluate the impact of anti-malarial medications (hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine)
           on the development and severity of COVID-19 infection during the current COVID-19
           pandemic in an inception cohort registry of northern Alberta rheumatoid and psoriatic
           arthritis patients who are on complex biologic therapies for the duration of the
           pandemic.

        2. To further evaluate the impact of all biologic medications currently in the registry on
           the development and severity of COVID-19 by mechanism of action (eg. TNF antagonism vs
           IL-6 blockade, etc).

      HYPOTHESIS: We hypothesize that the "case" group of patients on concomitant anti-malarial
      treatment with their biologic agent will have a lower incidence and severity of COVID-19
      infection compared to those not on anti-malarials based on anecdotal reports of efficacy of
      anti-malarials on COVID-19 infection from international reports.

      JUSTIFICATION: The COVID-19 pandemic has introduced unforeseen challenges internationally and
      led to great uncertainty for patients who are immunocompromised, such as patients in the
      RAPPORT registry. Recent anecdotal reports from other countries have been associated with
      media and political escalation of the potential benefit of anti-malarial drugs on the course
      of COVID-19 infection. This has led to threats to the supply of anti-malarials drugs for
      patients with rheumatic diseases like lupus and rheumatoid and psoriatic arthritis, where the
      benefits are proven. The RAPPORT inception cohort registry provides a unique opportunity to
      evaluate the impact of COVID-19 in an immunocompromised population, while also evaluating the
      potential impact of possible treatments for COVID-19.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        1. To evaluate the impact of anti-malarial medications (hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine)
           on the development and severity of COVID-19 infection during the current COVID-19
           pandemic in an inception cohort registry of northern Alberta rheumatoid and psoriatic
           arthritis patients who are on complex biologic therapies for the duration of the
           pandemic.

        2. To further evaluate the impact of all biologic medications currently in the registry on
           the development and severity of COVID-19 by mechanism of action (eg. TNF antagonism vs
           IL-6 blockade, etc).

      Secondary

        1. To evaluate the incidence of COVID-19 versus other infections over the remaining
           duration of the pandemic in an immunocompromised population.

        2. To compare the incidence of COVID-19 versus other infections over the remaining duration
           of the pandemic in the proportion of patients from the RAPPORT registry who take
           concomitant anti-malarials versus those patients that do NOT take anti-malarials.

        3. To compare the impact of different mechanisms of action of biologic medications within
           the RAPPORT registry, on the incidence of COVID-19 versus other infections

      RESEARCH METHOD/PROCEDURES:

      For this case control study, we have identified ~900 patients within the RAPPORT-ONTRAAC
      registry who are taking concomitant anti-malarial medications with their biologic medication
      compared to ~ 1500 patients who are NOT taking concomitant anti-malarial medications. The
      current consent for the RAPPORT-ONTRAAC registry allows patients to be contacted for their
      potential participation in future studies. Based on this consent, we aim to send a letter to
      all existing RAPPORT patients inviting them to participate in this study.

      This letter will be sent by email to those with an associated email address and by Canada
      Post mail for those who do not. Similar to previous surveys we have conducted, the letter
      will provide a synopsis of the current situation with the COVID-19 pandemic and request for
      the patient to consent to the following: (1) consent to receive email/letters with surveys of
      their clinical status at week 0 (the first point of contact), week 2, then every 4 weeks
      until the pandemic is over according to the World Health Organization or most appropriate
      local declaration and (2) consent to allow the study team access to the patient's medical
      health records (Connectcare/Netcare) for the duration of the pandemic to provide complete
      information regarding any healthcare utilization, investigations and outcomes over time. The
      act of consent will be obtained if the patient answers specifically that the study team can
      access their records and by the act of completing the survey every time. We will collect a
      blood sample when the pandemic is over from the consenting patients for consideration of
      serology testing.

      The survey will screen for clinical symptoms of COVID-19 and concomitant status of their
      inflammatory arthritis and medication use. This information is linked by a unique identifier
      with the RAPPORT-ONTRAAC registry. The RAPPORT-ONTRAAC registry collects baseline, and at
      least annual information including patient demographics, ethnicity, disease characteristics,
      serologies, and patient-reported outcomes evaluating the impact of arthritis on their
      activities of daily living. With the additional linkage to their electronic medical records,
      we aim to identify the following: hospitalizations, and laboratory and diagnostic
      investigations. Access to the entire cohort's electronic medical records will provide the
      opportunity to capture patients who may not develop any symptoms consistent with COVID and/or
      may not be keen to participate in ongoing surveys but may be impacted by COVID-19. The subset
      of patients who develop COVID-19 will be contacted to participate in the associated study
      (Persistence of SARS-CoV2 in immunocompromised patients; Dr. M. Osman) for more in-depth
      serological evaluations and nasopharyngeal swabs. At the end of the study, we will collect a
      blood sample as well to ensure that COVID-19 serological evaluations are completed on
      asymptomatic individuals who participated in the study.

      The survey, developed in collaboration with Infectious Disease experts (Drs. Sonpar, Swartz,
      Shafran, Singh), will screen for currently recognized signs and symptoms of COVID-19.
      Additionally, confirmation of current arthritis medication use including all disease
      modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDS) as well as biologics will be captured. Surveys will
      be completed on REDCAP through email link, provided directly on the email or as a hyperlink
      that the patient can type in if they receive the survey by Canada Post. The REDCAP survey
      will be developed and housed by EPICORE (Epidemiology and Research Coordinating Center).

      For the remainder of the pandemic, electronic medical record and NETCARE searches will be
      conducted for all consenting patients with pre-specified outcomes and interim investigations
      and/or procedures or hospitalizations in Alberta Health Services facilities. REDCAP survey
      responses will be collated with these searches.

      PLAN FOR DATA ANALYSIS: A response rate of 40% is expected for this study. Descriptive data
      analyses will be conducted to describe the population of inflammatory arthritis patients
      divided between those who are currently taking an anti-malarial and those who are not. The
      registry provides information including demographics (gender, age, ethnicity) and at least
      annual disease activity status with validated disease activity scores which differentiate
      between low disease activity state/remission and mild, moderate and severe disease activity.
      Co-morbidities through the Charlson Comorbidity Index will be identified and compared between
      groups. Survey results over the pandemic per patient will be analyzed. Electronic medical
      records will be reviewed at least monthly for all consenting patients to identify and
      quantify investigations, procedures and healthcare resources utilized during the pandemic.

      With multivariate analyses, the impact of anti-malarial use on the development and severity
      of COVID-19 will be evaluated between the two groups, adjusting for important confounders
      including the following: co-morbidities (eg. cardiac and respiratory diseases, diabetes),
      biologic mediations, steroid use and other DMARDs. Further stratification by biologic DMARD
      might be conducted. Healthcare utilization between groups will be compared over time.
      Quantification of antibodies to Covid-19 will be compared between the anti-malarial and
      non-anti-malarial groups.
    
  