
    
      Sickle cell disease (SCD) is the most common genetic disease in African-Americans,
      characterized by recurrent painful vaso-occlusive crises. Standard medical therapies for
      controlling or preventing crises are limited because of efficacy and/or toxicity. Published
      studies focus on the frequency of acute pain crises resulting in emergency department use and
      a number of hospitalizations. However, few studies focus on pain manifestations outside the
      typical healthcare delivery system. Furthermore, the proportion of patients who are able to
      self-manage their crises at home without accessing healthcare professionals is unknown.
      Adjunctive approaches using psychosocial interventions may be effective in further reducing
      and/or preventing painful crises, as well as in improving quality of life and reducing health
      care utilization. Recent evidence suggests that learning a cognitive-behavioral intervention
      centered on self-hypnosis for pain management may be helpful in modulating pain frequency,
      improving sleep quality, and decreasing use of narcotic pain medications in patients with
      SCD.

      This protocol describes a randomized, controlled, single-crossover, single-blinded pilot
      study trial of hypnosis for managing pain in SCD patients. Subjects receive hypnosis
      (experimental intervention) during 4 weeks of face-to-face encounters with a physician
      trained in hypnosis. For 6 weeks following the instruction period, the participants will
      perform daily self-hypnosis using customizable digital media. Subjects in the control arm of
      the study will receive face-to-face education regarding sickle cell disease for the same
      length and frequency as the treatment group hypnosis encounters before crossing over to the
      experimental intervention arm of the study. Primary outcome measures include patient
      assessments of pain frequency, intensity, and quality. Secondary outcome measures include
      face-to face assessments of psychosocial variables including anxiety, coping strategies,
      sleep, depression and health-care utilization.
    
  