
    
      Adherence to the controller inhalation medication is an important component of asthma and
      COPD care. Good adherence to the prescribed medication is asthma patients is associated with
      better symptom control and improved lung function. Also, lower exacerbation rate and
      mortality risk, less healthcare utilisation, lower healthcare-associated costs and a better
      quality of life are linked with better adherence in asthma and COPD patients.

      However, studies have shown that the adherence to therapy in chronically ill patients
      averages around 50%. In asthma patients the level of adherence varies between 30-70%, while
      compliance rate in COPD patients is around 20-60% (though the numbers vary). Adherence in
      asthma and COPD patients is thus generally low.

      Adherence in these patients is measured in studies in different ways: electronic device
      monitoring, dispensing data, drug levels or several self-administered questionnaires, among
      others. Each technique has its own benefits and drawbacks. However, the easiest to use are
      the self-administered questionnaires. Although many of these exist, a particularly
      interesting questionnaire is the TAI (Test for the Adherence to Inhalers). It exists in 2
      versions: a 10-question and a longer 12-question test. The 12 question TAI has 2 added
      questions, in which a healthcare professional evaluates the use of the inhaler by the
      patient. All 12 questions can then be used to identify different non-compliance behavioural
      patterns. The advantages of this questionnaire are therefore that it can be used for both
      asthma and COPD patients, that it is designed specifically for inhalation medication and that
      it not only measures adherence but also the type of non-compliance .

      The main aim of the study is thus to evaluate the adherence to controller inhalation
      medication in asthma and COPD in Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel. Adherence will be assessed
      using the 12-question TAI (Test for the Adherence to Inhalers). The aim of the study is also
      to compare the adherence between the 2 study subgroups (asthma and COPD patients). Several
      other factors which could influence the compliance of the patients will also be evaluated:
      age, sex, pack years, FEV1, exacerbation history, symptom control, type of inhaler and number
      of inhalers. By identifying different patient and treatment characteristics that lead to
      non-adherence, future education efforts could be better targeted to these patients presenting
      the most important unmet need in terms of adherence.

      Patient recruitment will take place at the Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel respiratory
      outpatient clinic. Before their scheduled appointment, patients they will be screened to
      participate in the study. Recruitment will start January 2019 until March 2019, or until the
      target number of patients is reached. On the day of their appointment, the participants will
      receive all necessary information about the study and the informed consent process from the
      principal investigator.

      Patients will have sufficient time to reflect on their participation in this study and to ask
      questions. After obtaining the written informed consent from the patients, the necessary
      interventions (filling in questionnaires and gathering information from the patients files)
      will take place.

      It will be allowed for the patients to provide informed consent and to participate in the
      study on a later date.

      Statistical analysis:

      The statistical analysis will be conducted in 3 steps :

        1. Preliminary one-way ANOVA to evaluate the dependent variable (TAI level of adherence)
           for each independent variable.

        2. A multi-way ANOVA model will be constructed to include the relevant independent
           variables and potential two-way interactions, by maximization of adjusted R2 obtained
           through a backward elimination in order to correct for multicollinearity.

        3. In a final step, the model residuals will be checked to satisfy the normality condition
           through application of the Kolmogorov-Smirnov and Shapiro-Wilk tests, also exploring the
           influence of potential heteroscedasticity.
    
  