
    
      Smoking is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality, making it one of the most serious
      public health problems in the world. The majority of smokers would like to stop smoking and
      the number of smokers seeking treatment has increased by 25% between 2017 and 2018 in France.
      Indeed, many effective interventions have been developed to stop smoking, but many patients
      continue to relapse after a quit attempt. Only 10% to 30% achieve long-term abstinence and
      the majority relapse.

      The therapeutic approach to addiction is based on a bio-psycho-social model. It aims to limit
      the runaway of subcortical processes (the cause of craving) via a medicinal approach and to
      strengthen the cortical control mechanisms via a psychotherapeutic approach.

      As far as psychotherapeutic approaches are concerned, they seek to obtain a modification of
      cognitions and emotions related to tobacco through, for example, a relearning of the
      management of the product mediated by evocation or exposure. This may involve, for example,
      the repeated presentation (or evocation) of a signal (e.g. a place of consumption...),
      previously linked to consumption but in the absence of a reinforcer (product consumption).
      Most addiction remediation therapies have been developed and practiced with "imagination"
      (the patient is asked to think of stimulating situations) but they are difficult to control
      (because the patient's imagination can be more or less large) and are rarely used with
      situations that induce consumption. In this context the use of a 3Dimension (3D) tool, which
      allows a controlled and progressive exposure without confrontation, seems an interesting
      perspective. Virtual reality is recognized as a "tool" in the fields of neuroscience and
      psychology. It allows a patient-controlled exposure to complex, dynamic and three-dimensional
      stimuli.

      Thus, virtual reality has logically been proposed as a tool in exposure therapies and its
      benefit has been measured in substance dependencies (Hone-Blanchet et al 2014). Since 2000,
      several researchers have successfully used virtual reality applications in addictions, but
      there is little data on objective evaluations of the effectiveness of cybertherapy in the
      treatment of tobacco addiction, particularly in association with the two reference treatments
      for smoking cessation that are nicotine substitution associated with cognitive behavioural
      therapy. For tobacco, the results are heterogeneous and did not take into account the
      different factors for maintaining tobacco use (Lee et al 2004, Choi et al 2011, Park et al
      2014). Virtual therapy appears to be more effective when combined with other relapse
      prevention techniques such as cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT).
    
  