
    
      A healthy diet is an important pillar for public health and for the prevention of several
      lifestyle diseases (e.g. obesity, cardiovascular diseases). However, diet choices are often
      not conscious choices. While it may help to make individuals more aware of healthy options
      for example through education or nutrition labels, it remains difficult for many to eat
      healthy. The food environment in which choices are made has an impact on the choice. Smart
      design of the food environment may help individuals to make a healthier choice, by nudging
      them towards the healthier alternative, while not limiting the availability of the less
      healthy choice.

      This study tests how these 'nudges' can affect food behavior and health of participants in a
      4-week rehabilitation course at Feiring Heart clinic. Nudges will be implemented in the
      cafeteria at the clinic.

      Three types of nudges will be tested:

        -  Salt nudge: aims to reduce salt (sodium) intake. Salt will be less easily available in
           the cafeteria, and other spices (without sodium) will be made easily available. Food in
           the buffet that is either very high or very low in salt will be labeled.

        -  Vegetable nudge: aims to increase vegetable intake. Names of the vegetable dishes in the
           buffet will be made more attractive, signs will be placed with reminders to eat more
           vegetables, and with visual indications of the percentage of vegetables that should be
           part of a meal.

        -  Portion size nudge: aims to decrease portion size. Smaller plates will be provided, and
           utensils for self-serving calorie-dense foods in the buffet will be smaller than normal.

        -  One period will also combine all the nudges described above.

      Outcomes include measures of food intake during the 4-week rehabilitation course, and whether
      food habits 6 weeks and 6 months after the 4-week course have changed, compared to before the
      course. BMI will be monitored during the 4-week period and self-assessed in the 6 months
      after. Physical activity habits will be considered during the entire experimental period, and
      satisfaction with the cafeteria food and service will be monitored throughout to assess
      whether the nudges impact customer satisfaction.

      Results are expected to be transferable to other heart clinics, and cafeterias in other
      institutions.
    
  