
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine whether the addition of cetuximab to postoperative intensity-modulated
           radiotherapy (IMRT) will improve overall survival (OS) in patients with locally advanced
           squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck at intermediate risk following surgery.

      Secondary

        -  Assess the impact of the addition of cetuximab to postoperative IMRT on disease-free
           survival (DFS) of these patients.

        -  Assess the impact of the addition of cetuximab to postoperative IMRT on acute and late
           dysphagia, xerostomia, skin toxicity, and other toxicities according to common Toxicity
           Criteria for Adverse Effects (CTCAE), v. 4 and their relationships with patient-reported
           outcomes at 3, 12, and 24 months.

        -  Analyze tumor for epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), specifically the extent of
           EGFR overexpression by immuno-histochemistry (IHC) and FISH analysis, EGFRvIII
           expression, as well as the association of these assay data with OS and DFS.

        -  Analyze tumor for human papillomavirus (HPV) infection (as defined by in situ
           hybridization), specifically, within the cohort of patients with oropharynx cancer, to
           perform an exploratory analysis of the impact of HPV on DFS and OS of this patient
           subset.

        -  Analyze tumor DNA for TP53 mutations as a predictor of response to cetuximab and
           prognosis.

        -  Analyze germline DNA of polymorphic variants in EGFR intron repeats as a predictor of
           response to cetuximab.

      Tertiary

        -  Assess the impact of the addition of cetuximab to postoperative IMRT on loco-regional
           control.

        -  Assess the impact of the addition of cetuximab to postoperative IMRT on patient-reported
           quality of life, swallowing, xerostomia, and skin toxicity based on head and neck
           specific instruments, including the Performance Status Scale for Head and Neck Cancer
           (PSS-HN), the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Head & Neck (FACT-H&N), the
           University of Michigan Xerostomia-Related Quality of Life Scale (XeQOLS), and the
           Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI).

        -  Assess the impact of the addition of cetuximab to postoperative IMRT on cost-utility
           analysis using the EuroQol (EQ-5D).

        -  Evaluate the utility of image-guided radiotherapy (IGRT) as a means of enhancing the
           efficacy (i.e., loco-regional control) of IMRT while reducing the acute and/or late
           toxicity (particularly xerostomia) and improving patient-reported outcomes (particularly
           XeQOLS scores).

        -  Retrospectively compare the loco-regional control rate in patients treated with IMRT
           alone (no IGRT or cetuximab) with similar patients treated with external beam
           radiotherapy alone in the postoperative clinical trial Radiation Therapy Oncology Group
           (RTOG)-95 01.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to clinical stage
      (T2-3 vs T4a), EGFR expression (high [≥ 80% of cells staining positive] vs low [< 80% of
      cells staining positive] vs not evaluable), primary site of disease (oral cavity vs larynx vs
      oropharynx p16+ vs oropharynx p16- vs oropharynx, p16 not evaluable), and use of image-guided
      radiotherapy (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) once daily 5 days a week
           for 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo IMRT as in arm I. Patients also receive cetuximab IV over 1-2
           hours once weekly beginning at least 5 days prior to the start of IMRT and continuing
           for 4 weeks after the completion of IMRT (for a total of 11 doses) in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and at 3, 12, and 24 months.

      Tissue samples are collected periodically for further laboratory analysis.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 and 3 months, every 3
      months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  