
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To demonstrate feasibility of wearing (at least 70% of the time) and tracking data (daily
      physical activity, heart rate, sleep pattern) using a Fitbit Charge 2 activity wrist band (or
      any comparable activity wristband that the patient may already use and is capable of the same
      functions, such as Fitbit Charge HR, Fitbit Surge or Fitbit Blaze) in 30 patients with
      recurrent ovarian cancer who are progressing on treatment and starting first cycle of a new
      regimen for a total of 9 months.

      II. To demonstrate feasibility of using persuasive fitness technologies to increase physical
      activity by 30 % from baseline and to increase patients? active minutes to 30 minutes, five
      times a week, or by 30% if patient is meeting that goal already, for 6 months period of time.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess how patient?s physical activity level, without providing specific counseling or
      exercise regimen, compares to American Heart Association (AHA)?s recommendation and to the
      target of 10,000 steps promoted by various activity tracking devices.

      II. To determine whether patients? perception on quality of life, physical activity and
      energy level assessed by questionnaires: Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom Inventory-Short
      Form (MFSI-SF), Goldin Leisure-Time Exercise Questionnaire and European Organization for
      Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ)-Core (C)30 and
      Ovarian Cancer (OV)28 correlates with activity tracked by the device.

      III. To assess the association between subjectively measured sleep duration/quality (using
      the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Scale), compared to sleeping pattern tracked by the activity
      device.

      IV. To determine whether increased physical activity correlates with less chemotherapy
      related toxicity in the ovarian cancer patient population (any Common Terminology Criteria
      for Adverse Events [CTCAE] version 4, grade 3 or 4 toxicity).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess whether persistent increase of heart rate could predict adverse events related
      to surgery or adjuvant treatment.

      II. To examine if the change in level of inflammatory biomarkers and T cell subsets in
      circulation correlates with increased physical activity.

      III. To examine the immunoscore on tumor specimens and whether it correlates with level of
      physical activity.

      IV. To examine the composition and diversity of gut microbiome in correlation with physical
      activity level.

      OUTLINE:

      Participants wear Fitbit Charge 2 to monitor physical activity for 3 courses (9-12 weeks).
      Participants then increase their activity minutes to 30 minutes, 5 times a week or by 30% for
      6 additional months.

      After completion of study, participants are followed up for up to 3 years.
    
  