
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the cytotoxic T-cell response to each of 12 melanoma peptides restricted by
           Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA)-A1, -A2, or -A3 in patients with metastatic melanoma
           vaccinated with or without these 12 melanoma peptides and with or without helper
           peptides.

        -  Compare the helper T-cell response to each of 6 melanoma helper peptides restricted by
           HLA-DR molecules in patients treated with these vaccinations.

        -  Determine whether the addition of 6 melanoma helper peptides to a vaccine containing
           multiple class I Major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-restricted peptides augments
           T-cell responses to the class I restricted peptides in these patients.

        -  Determine, preliminarily, whether booster vaccination maintains immune response in
           patients treated with these vaccinations.

        -  Compare the rates of clinical response and survival in patients treated with these
           vaccinations.

        -  Determine, preliminarily, whether cellular immune response correlates with clinical
           response and survival rates in patients treated with these vaccinations.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to HLA
      type (HLA-A1 vs HLA-A2 vs HLA-A1 and -A2 vs HLA-A3) and planned sentinel immunized node
      biopsy (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive 2 injections of multi-epitope peptide vaccine comprising 12
           melanoma peptides restricted by Class I MHC (12MP) emulsified with sargramostim
           (Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, GM-CSF) and Montanide ISA-51 or
           Montanide ISA-51 VG (ISA-51) intradermally (ID) and subcutaneously (SC) on day 1 of
           weeks 1-3 and 1 injection at the primary site only on day 1 of weeks 5-7.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive 2 injections of multi-epitope peptide vaccine comprising 12MP
           and 1 tetanus helper peptide emulsified with GM-CSF and ISA-51 ID and SC on day 1 of
           weeks 1-3 and 1 injection at the primary site only on day 1 of weeks 5-7.

        -  Arm III (closed to accrual as of 5/19/08): Patients receive 2 injections of
           multi-epitope peptide vaccine comprising 12MP and 6 melanoma helper peptides (6HP)
           emulsified with GM-CSF and ISA-51 ID and SC on day 1 of weeks 1-3 and 1 injection at the
           primary site only on day 1 of weeks 5-7.

        -  Arm IV: Patients receive 2 injections of multi-epitope peptide vaccine comprising 6HP
           emulsified with GM-CSF and ISA-51 ID and SC on day 1 of weeks 1-3 and 1 injection at the
           primary site only on day 1 of weeks 5-7.

      In all arms, patients continue therapy in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease
      progression necessitating other urgent therapy.

      Patients are evaluated at 8 and 12 weeks. Beginning 2-3 weeks after the week-12 evaluation,
      patients with no evidence of disease progression may receive booster vaccinations according
      to their randomized treatment arm. Patients receive booster vaccination ID and SC once weekly
      for 3 weeks. Treatment repeats every 9 weeks for 1 course, every 12 weeks for 2 courses, and
      then every 24 weeks for 2 courses OR for up to 2 years (whichever comes first) provided the
      patient does not require an urgent change in therapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and
      then for survival for 5 years from study randomization.

      ACTUAL ACCRUAL: A total of 175 patients were accrued for this study during March 2005 and
      January 2009.
    
  