
    
      Colorectal cancer is one of the most common cancer-diagnosis in Denmark. In 2014, 5186
      pa-tients with colorectal cancer were registered. 1674 patients had cancer in the rectum and
      1316 in the sigmoid colon. 668 patients underwent surgery with low anterior resection (LAR)
      and primary anastomosis, and 850 patients had a sigmoid resection with primary anastomosis.

      A serious complication is anastomotic leakage (AL). In 2014 a total of 67 (10%) patients were
      registered with AL.

      In general AL increases the post-operative mortality, decreases long-term survival and
      reduces the functional result and thereby reduces quality of life.

      Due to the possible severity of AL all measures possible should be taken to ensure an early
      diag-nosis and timely treatment, as this has been shown to reduce morbidity and mortality.
      The symp-toms of AL are uncharacteristic; the diagnosis cannot only rely on the development
      of clinical symptoms. However, specific clinical scoring symptoms, measuring C-reactive
      protein (CRP) and radiologic examinations are proven useful.

      Treatment of AL varies with the degree of leakage, from conservative treatment with rectal
      lavage, endo-VAC therapy, drainage of abscesses, re-laparoscopy or laparotomy with a
      diverting stoma, and finally to break down the anastomosis and creating a temporary or
      permanent colostomy, all procedures with or without antibiotic treatment.

      It is essential that surgeons continuously strive to improve the operative technique with
      regard to anastomosis construction. Many factors influence the anastomotic healing:
      instrumentation error, tension on the anastomosis, bacterial contamination, etc. An important
      factor to ensure most opti-mal conditions in anastomotic healing is to ensure sufficient
      blood-supply/oxygen tension.

      The surgeon evaluate so-called surrogates of bowel perfusion (evaluation of colour,
      mesenteric pulsation and arterial bleeding) prior to form the anastomosis, but studies have
      demonstrated that surgeon's intraoperative judgment in predicting of anastomotic leakage AL
      has an extremely low sensitivity and specificity.

      Studies suggest that performing an indocyanine-green enhanced fluorescent angiography
      (ICGeFA), the blood perfusion in the bowel can be visualised. It is suggested that by
      evaluating perfusion of bowel ends, and, if needed, doing a re-resection, the risk of
      anastomotic leakage can be diminished. It is suggested that evaluating the anastomosis with
      ICG-FA and revising the anas-tomosis if necessary, the relative risk reduction of AL is about
      54-67%. Several studies in robotic and laparoscopic colorectal surgery, confirms feasibility
      of using ICGeFA, also showing promising results in evaluating the bowel perfusion. Most
      studies and a newly published systematic review conclude that there is great need for larger
      controlled studies or randomised trails.

      The primary objective with this study is to evaluate the feasibility of using ICGeFA in
      colorectal surgery and to evaluate if the surgeon's interpretation is dose and time
      dependent. Secondary ob-jective is to establish a nationwide research team, joining all the
      Robotic Surgery Centres in Den-mark for future research.

      Last we wish to identify the optimal design for a further study, evaluating whether ICG is a
      helpful tool in diminishing the risk of anastomotic leakage.
    
  