
    
      There is accumulating evidence for positive effects of exercise on gait speed, strength,
      balance, and quality of life for people with PD. Habitual physical activity can lower risk
      for developing PD. In toxin-induced animal models of PD, exercise may decrease neuronal
      injury. The key components of an exercise program in PD include: 1) cueing strategies to
      improve gait; 2) cognitive movement strategies to improve transfers; 3) exercises to improve
      balance, and 4) training of joint mobility and muscle power to physical capacity. Traditional
      exercise programs can meet these needs but often they are not very appealing for older adults
      including patients with PD. Unfortunately more than half of individuals with PD does not meet
      the recommended daily level physical activity.

      There is a connection between music and level of Dopamine, which is pivotal for establishing
      and maintaining behavior. According to recent study music-induced emotional states can
      increase dopamine release, partially explaining how musical experiences are so valued and why
      music is an especially potent pleasurable stimulus for most people, and is frequently used to
      affect emotional states.

      The development of interventions which combine exercise, with accessibility, enjoyability,
      good motivation to practice regularly improving mood and stimulating cognition would be ideal
      for individuals with PD. Dance may provide all of these characteristics, and so may be an
      affective useful and accessible intervention to improve motor impairments. Dance requires
      dynamic balance and permanent adjustment to the environment at the same time. It promotes
      enjoyment and encouragement interest in continuing participation. Habitual social dancers
      have superior balance, gait function, and reaction times compared with age-matched
      nondancers. Regular dancing improves balance and functional mobility, and increases
      motivation to continue healthful exercise-related behaviours in older adults.

      There is also evidence that exercise has a positive impact on cognitive function in
      vulnerable populations. Musical exercise improved cognitive function in residents of long-
      term care facilitations without diagnosis of dementia and in patients with established
      Alzheimer's disease. Particularly dance produces clinically important changes in measures of
      mental status and behaviour in patients with moderate to severe dementia.

      Social isolation is an important cause of the development of depression in the older
      population and it may be caused by numbers of factors, including mobility limitations:
      medical illness, and economic difficulties. The relationship between social isolation and
      depression is clear, as is the link between social engagement and improved mood and perceived
      quality of life. There is also an important link between social disengagement, depression and
      cognitive decline in elderly population. Dance classes occur in a group setting and it is
      forced social interaction, which may produce noticeable improvement in mood and subsequently
      decrease cognitive decline.

      There is currently an insufficient body of literature on dance for PD and much additional
      work is needed. Most studies on dance in PD have used small sample sizes and assessed
      short-term effects and long-term effects of dance intervention only focused in motor
      manifestations of PD. Consequently, the effect of dance on cognition, mood and motivation has
      not been yet explored in PD. There is insufficient literature about what type of dance is
      more beneficial for motor and non-motor manifestations in PD.

      Why Argentinean tango?

      Better improvements of balance and complex gait were observed in elderly participants in
      tango lessons compared with a walking group. Beneficial effect of Argentine tango was also
      suggested, compared to traditional exercise for improving balance and functional mobility in
      patients with PD. Furthermore, a positron emission tomography (PET) study has shown increased
      activity in the basal ganglia when tango movements were performed with a metered and
      predictable beat. Tango requires particular motor skills, including frequent initiation and
      cessation, a variety of movement speeds, rhythmic variation, and spontaneous multidirectional
      perturbations. These features target motor impairments with movement initiation, turning, and
      bradykinesia. Interesting, tango could also effectively address freezing of gait (FOG),
      because some step patterns mimic the rehabilitation exercises designed for those with FOG.
      Visual cues, such as a foot to step over, can improve FOG. Tango technique which involve
      stepping over a partner's foot, tapping a partner's foot, or crossing one foot over another,
      are steps similar to conventional rehabilitation for FOG. In addition, tango involves
      rhythmic rocking, or alternating shift of center of mass from foot to foot, which can be
      another good strategy for freezing. Tango appeared to have a larger effect on freezing
      compared to other styles of dancing (waltz/foxtrot). Tango involves the practicing of control
      of movement speed and size, which may improve walking velocity and stride length. It also
      adds slow and quick steps of varying lengths and requires continual adjustment of these
      features. Tango may be especially beneficial for addressing backward walking, a critical area
      given the tendency for falls in the backward direction in PD6. Surprisingly in a recent
      study, tango even significantly improved upper extremity function, which it may be reflective
      of a global impact of exercise on bradykinesia. Better improvements of balance and complex
      gait were observed in elderly participants in tango lessons compared with a walking group. No
      studies have examined the effect of tango on cognitive function, mood and motivation in
      patients with PD.
    
  