
    
      Postoperative mortality in patients undergoing surgery is on average still 4% in Europe as
      evaluated recently in a cohort study across 28 European countries and is considered to be
      even higher in high risk surgery. But besides this significant risk of death, in particular
      moderate and severe postoperative complications, affecting up to 40% of patients after major
      surgery, frequently lead to severe reductions of quality of life and cause high healthcare
      costs in western nations. Perioperative hemodynamic goal-directed optimization is believed to
      be an integral part to reduce in particular postoperative morbidity significantly and
      possibly also mortality. Algorithm driven optimization of macrocirculation aiming on best
      possible oxygen and substrate delivery to end organs and tissues is thought to be the
      theoretical mechanism of this therapy. A recent large multi-center trial based on such a
      pragmatic, non-individualized protocol failed to reduce composite morbidity underlining this
      weak point of this approach. The reason for failing statistically significant improvement of
      clinical outcome first of all has to be seen in not taking into account individual
      hemodynamic needs of each single patient. Every patient was hemodynamically treated according
      to a "one size fits all of maximizing stroke volume" approach. In contrast, a first
      mono-center trial gave evidence that individualized early goal-directed therapy based on an
      individually optimized volumetric cardiac preload parameter (global end-diastolic volume)
      reduces complications and ICU length of stay after cardiac surgery. Further, and even more
      important, a first multi-center pilot study using a goal-directed algorithm aiming to
      optimize blood flow oriented on individual cardiac capacities (individualized optimal cardiac
      index) in major abdominal surgery demonstrated feasibility and a reduction in postoperative
      complications. This finding needs to be confirmed in a multi-center study that is adequately
      powered to detect changes in specific complications and in mortality before clinical practice
      can be changed accordingly. Therefore, the hypothesis of this proposed prospective two arm
      randomized study is that algorithm driven individualized hemodynamic goal-directed therapy
      reduces moderate and severe postoperative complications being a massive burden on quality of
      life and health care costs. The proposed study develops the concept of hemodynamic
      goal-directed therapy to individually set goals and is designed to assess its impact on
      morbidity and mortality.
    
  