
    
      Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is a thrombotic microangiopathy defined by the
      spontaneous formation of platelet thrombi in the microvessels. These platelet microthrombi
      are responsible for a mechanical hemolytic anemia, a thrombocytopenia and a multivisceral
      ischemia. TTP is a rare but life-threatening disease in the absence of appropriate treatment
      (PLASMATHERAPY). The onset of the disease usually occurs in adulthood (MOSCHCOVITZ syndrome)
      and rarely in childhood (UPSHAW-SCHULMAN syndrome). TTP is either sporadic or recurrent with
      multiple unpredictable relapses. TTP pathophysiology has remained obscure until a new
      metalloprotease, ADAMTS13, has been demonstrated to be involved in about 90% of all cases.
      Physiologically, ADAMTS13 function consists in limiting the size of von WILLBRAND factor
      (VWF) multimers and consequently, their hemostatic capacity. A large majority of TTP is
      associated with a severe deficiency of ADAMTS13 activity leading to the accumulation of ultra
      large VWF multimers in plasma inducing the formation of platelet microthrombi in the
      microcirculation. In most cases, ADAMTS13 severe deficiency is acquired via auto-antibodies
      to ADAMTS13; more rarely, ADAMTS13 deficiency is hereditary via ADAMTS13 gene mutations.
      ADAMTS13 auto-antibodies are either inhibitory of the catalytic activity or non inhibitory.
      ADAMTS13 mutations are spread all over the gene.

      TTP prognosis is quite heterogeneous. Indeed, in about one third of the patients, TTP is
      refractory to PLASMATHERAPY and/or chronic relapsing. Until now, TTP prognosis factors are
      not known. Their identification is however crucial both to adapt the curative treatment of an
      acute episode (addition of first intention immunosuppressive agents to PLASMATHERAPY) and to
      prevent relapses.

      In this context, the aim of the current project is to identify some ADAMTS13 related
      prognosis factors in TTP. A national prospective multicenter study including both adult and
      pediatric patients with TTP related to a severe ADAMTS13 deficiency will be designed over a
      three-year period. This study will involve our group as the French reference center for
      ADAMTS13 and about 50 clinical departments from various French hospitals. Patients will be
      tested for ADAMTS13 activity and antigen, ADAMTS13 antibodies and ADAMTS13 gene sequencing.
      Our main hypothesis is that the inactivation of the ADAMTS13 domains crucial for its
      catalytic activity, either by inhibitory auto-antibodies (acquired TTP) or by genetic
      mutations (hereditary TTP) is a major bad prognosis factor.
    
  