
    
      The U.S. Deaf community - 500,000+ Americans who communicate using American Sign Language
      (ASL) - experiences nearly triple the rate of lifetime problem drinking compared to the
      general population and twice the rate of trauma exposure. Although there are validated
      treatments for comorbid alcohol use disorder (AUD) and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
      in hearing populations, there are no evidence-based treatments to treat any behavioral health
      condition with Deaf clients. Current treatments fail to meet Deaf clients' unique linguistic
      and cultural needs. Deaf people's median English reading level falls at the fourth grade, and
      many have low health literacy due to reduced incidental learning (e.g., inability to
      communicate with hearing parents, overhear family conversations, or understand spoken health
      information on TV/radio/public service announcements). Written treatment materials,
      therefore, require plain text revisions, ASL translations, or ASL narrative storytelling.
      Equally important are materials that incorporate Deaf values and social norms, increasing
      clinicians' cultural competence and enhancing client engagement.

      To address these barriers, the Principal Investigator conducted a pilot study to develop a
      prototype of "Signs of Safety": a Deaf-accessible toolkit to be used alongside a
      widely-disseminated protocol for addiction/PTSD - Seeking Safety. Seeking Safety has
      demonstrated efficacy for reduction of AUD and PTSD symptoms in hearing populations. Among
      available evidence-based protocols, "Seeking Safety" is the optimal choice to adapt for Deaf
      clients - its focus on simple coping skills that simultaneously target AUD and PTSD (or
      either alone) is an ideal match for Deaf people's language and learning deficits, which
      prohibit use of verbal problem-solving and cognitive processing strategies that other
      psychotherapies require. Yet, Seeking Safety's client materials rely on written English and
      are not well understood by Deaf clients. As such, the "Signs of Safety" toolkit includes a
      therapist guide and population-specific client materials (e.g., visual handouts; ASL teaching
      stories on digital video). It is designed for Deaf/signing clinicians, as well as non-signing
      clinicians working with ASL interpreters.

      Data from the Principal Investigator's "Signs of Safety" single-arm pilot study (n = 13) show
      significant reductions in alcohol use frequency and PTSD severity from baseline to immediate
      post-treatment follow-up. Participants also reported high levels of satisfaction with the
      model, and provided detailed feedback about how to further improve "Signs of Safety" for a
      professional-quality, second iteration. The proposed study builds upon the Principal
      Investigator's pilot work by generating a final, professional iteration of Signs of Safety to
      be used in future efficacy work. Based on pilot results, the study team created a second
      iteration of the "Signs of Safety" toolkit, including re-filming ASL teaching stories,
      re-designing visual handouts, and revising the therapist companion guide. The study team will
      then develop a training program for "Signs of Safety" and certify four study clinicians.

      The study team proposes to conduct a two-arm pilot RCT of "Signs of Safety". The study team
      aims to enroll 60 Deaf adults with past-month PTSD and past-month alcohol consumption to
      participate in 12 weekly individual treatment sessions. The pilot RCT will compare the
      12-session protocol of Seeking Safety + "Signs of Safety" toolkit with an assessment-only
      waitlist control. Across conditions, assessment will occur at baseline, week 4, week 8,
      immediate post-treatment/week 12, and one-month follow-up/week 16. The study team will
      analyze key aspects of feasibility for both study arms (e.g., recruitment, retention,
      assessment process). Primary clinical outcomes at immediate post-treatment and one-month
      follow-up are past 30-day alcohol use frequency/quantity and past 30-day PTSD severity.
      Exploratory analyses will be conducted to examine potential moderators and mediators of
      change (e.g., motivation for treatment, provider cultural competency, coping skills,
      self-compassion, understanding of health information) leading to positive outcome. Results
      from this study will produce feasibility and preliminary efficacy data to support for a
      full-scale RCT to evaluate "Signs of Safety", and a community-engaged model for conducting
      RCTs with Deaf participants.
    
  