
    
      Oral squamous cell carcinomas (OSCC) is among the most common malignancies worldwide. Despite
      the introduction of microsurgical reconstruction options and advances in multimodal tumor
      therapy, the prognosis has not improved significantly in the last 30 years.

      The most important aspect for increasing survival rate is seen in the early detection of OSCC
      and its precursor lesions. Up to 67 % of OSCC develop on the basis of oral leukoplakia (OLP),
      which frequently occur prior to the diagnosis of carcinoma. OLP treatment depends on the risk
      of malignant transformation. Therapeutic approaches range from simple observation to complete
      surgical excision of OLP. The scientific evidence regarding the handling of OLP is low.
      Current literature outlines missing evidence in therapeutic management of OLP. The early
      identification of OLP with a high risk of malignant degeneration is a relevant clinical
      question, since approx. 2% of OLPs transform malignantly each year. In lesions with dysplasia
      this rate increases to about 17%.

      Gold standard for determining the risk of malignant transformation of OLP is the histologic
      determination of the degree of dysplasia. As the histological degree of dysplasia increases,
      so does the risk of developing PECM on the basis of OLP. The decision for a surgical or a
      conservative therapy currently depends on the degree of dysplasia of the OLP. The
      histopathological assessment of the degree of dysplasia is subjective and depends on the
      experience of the pathologist making the assessment. However, the major disadvantage in
      assessing the malignant transformation potential with this method is that many precursor
      lesions do not follow the histopathologically determined degree of dysplasia. Thus, 0-3% of
      hyperplasias (D0) and up to 30% of mild dysplasias (D1) transform to OSCC. D0 OLP are
      lesions, which are usually only observed according to current therapy recommendations. Thus,
      an assessment of the dignity of OLP and a long-term prediction of the risk for the
      development of OSCC are not reliable. OLP with a histopathologically low malignancy potential
      but a cell-biologically probable malignant transformation must be identified in order to
      prevent undertreatment of these patients.

      The aim of this explorative study is to investigate whether the malignant transformation of
      OLP can be reliably predicted using immunohistochemical and molecular biological methods. A
      significant association of the expression of MAGE-A expression with the malignant
      transformation of OLP to OSCC has already been demonstrated in retrospective studies. It is
      now necessary to further develop these available test procedures and evaluate them in a
      prospective study in order to transfer them into clinical routine. Sensitivity and
      specificity of the investigated markers will be investigated in a prospective, multicenter
      setting. A non-selected group of patients will be examined. The aim is to establish a test
      procedure that can be used cost-effectively. The MAGE-A expression should serve as an
      indicator and for the application of new, innovative therapy concepts such as the
      immunotherapy of OLP.

      The following questions will be answered:

      i) Do OLP with malignant transformation show an increased MAGE-A expression in a time
      interval of 3 years (follow-up up to 5 years)? ii) How high is the sensitivity and
      specificity of MAGE-A expression as a predictive diagnostic test? Is immunohistochemical or
      molecular biological (RT-PCR) detection of MAGE-A better suited as a diagnostic test? iii)
      Can MAGE-A be used successfully as a diagnostic test in practice? iv) Is there an association
      between MAGE-A expression and immunological changes preceding malignant transformation
      (macrophage polarization, T cell infiltration, checkpoint expression, TLR expression)? v) Are
      the immunological changes in OLP potentially amenable to immunomodulatory therapy?

      Short summary of the study protocol:

      After the patient has been informed and included in the study, the first step is the photo
      documentation and then the incision biopsy of the OLP. The treating physician is free to
      choose whether to take a sample from one or more sites of the lesion. This procedure complies
      with the standard diagnostic guidelines and is not a study-specific measure. Thus, there is
      no deviation from the clinical routine for the study and no invasive measure required by the
      study. The sample taken is then divided. The total amount of tissue taken corresponds to the
      amount taken in the routine outside the study. One part of the sample is conventionally fixed
      in formalin. The second part (max. 5x5x2mm) is preserved in RNA later for later PCR analysis.
      Both samples will be sent to the study center in Erlangen. There the histological evaluation
      of the tissue takes place in the Pathological Institute of the University Hospital Erlangen
      within routine diagnostics. The result is communicated to the treating physician and the
      study centre. The immunohistochemical and molecular biological analyses are carried out in
      the laboratories of the Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Erlangen. The results of the analyses
      are not communicated to the attending physician (blinding). A therapy decision is only made
      on the basis of clinical and classical histological parameters (degree of dysplasia). D0 and
      D1 lesions are monitored. D2 and D3 lesions are treated surgically or with laser coagulation
      depending on the decision of the treating physician and patient. This corresponds to the
      current clinical standard. If the patient rejects the treatment of the lesion and wishes to
      continue observing its progress, he remains included in the study. The follow-up time during
      the study period is 3 years (evaluations also after 2 years). After completion of the study a
      further follow-up of 2 years is planned in order to achieve a total follow-up of 5 years.
    
  