
    
      Patients receiving combination therapy for chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection
      (standard or pegylated interferon alfa [PEG-IFN] in combination with ribavirin [RBV])
      frequently develop moderate to severe anemia. In large, prospective, clinical trials of
      PEG-IFN alfa-2b and PEG-IFN alfa-2a, the reported mean decreases in hemoglobin (Hb) were 2.5
      g/dL and 3.7 g/dL, respectively. Furthermore, in a retrospective study, 54% of standard
      interferon/RBV-treated patients had hemoglobin (Hb) decreases of at least 3 g/dL. It is
      important to understand the causes, natural history, and risk factors associated with HCV
      therapy-induced anemia, because such decreases in Hb can result in RBV dose reduction or
      discontinuation, which may adversely affect the likelihood of a virologic response.
      Erythropoietin is an endogenous hormone that acts in the bone marrow to increase the number
      of erythroid progenitor cells. Normally, a decrease in the Hb level is accompanied by an
      increase in the serum erythropoietin (sEPO) level, which will ultimately normalize the Hb
      level. The relationship between Hb and sEPO is less apparent in patients with chronic
      diseases such as cancer and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. It is not known
      whether HCV-infected patients receiving combination PEG-IFN/RBV therapy have a similarly
      diminished erythropoietic response to anemia.

      One hundred HCV-infected patients who are receiving combination RBV/IFN or RBV/PEG-IFN
      therapy will be enrolled in this multicenter study. No study medication will be administered
      during this study. Weekly blood samples will be collected at specified times during the
      initial 8 weeks of RBV/IFN or RBV/PEG-IFN therapy. Assessment of laboratory tests, vital
      signs, incidence and severity of adverse experiences will be obtained.

      The objective of this study is to document the pattern of hemoglobin changes and
      erythropoietic response (from baseline to final assessment, up to Week 8) in HCV-infected
      patients receiving combination therapy with RBV/IFN or RBV/PEG-IFN. N/A
    
  