
    
      Increasing antimicrobial resistance due to inappropriate antimicrobial use is a global
      concern. Multi-disciplinary antimicrobial stewardship teams have become an integral part of
      the response to this issue. Through prospective review of antibiotic prescriptions and
      feedback (PRF) to healthcare providers, antimicrobial stewardship has been shown to improve
      clinical response, reduce adverse effects and mortality. However, this strategy is
      labor-intensive to implement and skilled healthcare workers are an expensive and scarce
      resource. Antibiotic computerized decision support systems (CDSS) have been used to
      facilitate these processes and may circumvent the limitations of lack of manpower. In
      previous studies, CDSS led to increased susceptibility of Pseudomonas aeruginosa to imipenem
      and Enterobacteriaceae to gentamicin and ciprofloxacin, and an overall reduction in
      broad-spectrum antibiotic use. CDSS could improve clinical outcomes. Currently, there are
      limited studies comparing the combined effects of these two strategies.

      At Tan Tock Seng Hospital, a university teaching hospital in Singapore, antimicrobial
      stewardship has focused on PRF by a multi-disciplinary team since 2009. This team reviews
      piperacillin-tazobactam and carbapenem orders against hospital antibiotic guidelines from day
      two of antibiotic prescription. In March 2010, we implemented CDSS triggered at the point of
      antibiotic ordering and compulsory for the prescriber to review. Prescribers are free to
      accept or reject the CDSS recommendations. While PRF and CDSS are performed following the
      same institutional guidelines, there may be differences in physicians' acceptance of
      recommendations and the accessibility to recommendations between these two interventions. In
      previous studies, PRF recommendations had an acceptance of 60-70% while compulsory CDSS was
      40%. The investigators hypothesized that compulsory CDSS and PRF would improve clinical
      outcomes compared with voluntary CDSS and PRF, and compulsory CDSS would improve appropriate
      antibiotic practice and reduce the requirement for subsequent PRF.
    
  