
    
      In recent years the role of arterial stiffness in the development of cardiovascular diseases
      has garnered attention. Indeed, arterial stiffness is now well accepted as one of the most
      important determinants of increasing systolic and pulse pressure thus playing a germane role
      in the risk of stroke and myocardial infarction. Longitudinal epidemiological studies have
      demonstrated the independent predictive value of arterial stiffness for cardiovascular events
      after adjustment for classical cardiovascular risk factors. Arterial stiffness is now a
      recognized intermediate endpoint for cardiovascular events. The pressure wave speed in large
      arteries is directly related to square root of the elastic modulus of the arterial wall
      (Moens-Korteweg Equation). Carotid-femoral PWV is considered the gold standard method for
      assessing aortic stiffness. The stiffness gradient along the aorta and central arteries,
      local arterial branchings and narrowing of the arterial lumen cause partial reflections of
      forward pressure waves traveling back to the central aorta. Forward and reflected pressure
      waves overlap, and the final amplitude and shape of the pulse pressure wave are determined by
      the phase timing of these component waves. In the aorta, forward and reflected waves are not
      in phase. In subjects with low PWV, reflected waves reach the central arteries during
      late-systole and diastole, increasing the aortic pressure in early diastole, which is
      physiologically advantageous. With increasing PWV, the reflected waves return earlier and
      impact on the central arteries during systole, thereby augmenting systolic and left
      ventricular pressure. This is why increasing PWV is accompanied by increasing AIx (defined as
      the difference between the second and first systolic pressure peak) and central PP. AIx and
      central PP depend on the speed of wave travel, the amplitude of reflected wave and the
      duration and pattern of ventricular ejection, especially with respect to change in heart rate
      and ventricular contractility. Where PWV is considered a direct measure of arterial
      stiffness, central PP and AIx are only indirect, surrogate measures. However, they provide
      additional information concerning wave reflections. Whether PWV, AIx and central PP
      measurements are influenced by the presence of AF is unknown. Studying AF patients before and
      after elective electrical cardioversion offers an appropriate setting to evaluate the effect
      of heart rate and rhytm on PWV, AIx and central PP. Patient specific confounding factors are
      minimized because each patient serves as its own control.
    
  