
    
      Two groups are included:

        1. The study group: women between 20-35 years of age who practice high level of physical
           activity, as defined by International Physical Activity Questionnaire , for the past 3
           years

        2. The control group: women between 20-35 years of age who practice low level of physical
           activity, as defined by International Physical Activity Questionnaire , for the past 3
           years

      Women who meet the criteria for inclusion for will be recruited to the study after signing a
      consent form. Recruitment will be done through sport centers. The control group will include
      women being examined in gynecologic emergency department, after signing a consent form, if
      they meet the control group's inclusion criteria. These women will be asked to fulfill the
      International Physical Activity Questionnaire and additional questionnaire regarding relevant
      demographic and medical information (see below). Blood samples to anti-mullerian hormone ,
      leptin, and hormonal profile will be obtained in day 3 of menstruation. Ultrasound will be
      performed to measure Antral Follicular count and ovarian blood flow.

      Data collection:

        1. Demographic information on age, weight, height, BMI, marital status

        2. Medical information regarding chronic diseases and medications

        3. Obstetrical history

        4. Information regarding physical activities in the version of International Physical
           Activity Questionnaire .

        5. Information about menstrual behavior: irregularity (yes/no) frequency (less than 21 days
           between 21-35 days, over 35 days), menstrual duration (less than 3 days 3-7 days, or
           over 7 days) bleeding amount according to the number of pads per day (up to 1, 2, 4 or 5
           pads).

        6. Hormonal profile - Follicle-stimulating hormone , Luteinizing hormone , progesterone,
           Estradiol, Thyroid-stimulating hormone .

        7. Antral Follicle Count, Anti-mullerian hormone

        8. Leptin levels -reflecting metabolic changes.
    
  