
    
      Lack in vitamin D reduces the absorption of calcium in the body, accelerates bone loss and
      may increase the risk of fractures due to osteoporosis. Vitamin D can be ingested by foods
      and specific supplements, but the main source for the vitamin is its synthesis in the skin by
      using sun radiation. Today, quantification of vitamin D levels is performed using a blood
      test. Mostly, the physician will send the patient to check the levels and vitamin D if he
      suffers from osteoporosis, hypertension, renal impairment, suspected for activity of the
      thyroid gland, tuberculosis or sarcoidosis.

      Studies have shown that it is possible to quantify the different elements in the contents of
      the blood, such as melanin and hemoglobin, using spectroscopy of the skin (Zonios et al,
      2001; Tseng et al, 2009), but to the investigators' knowledge, the identification of levels
      and vitamin D in similar means has not been reported in professional literature.

      The rationale for this research: an algorithm that will allow immediate and non-invasive
      quantification of vitamin D levels will shorten the time of diagnosis, reduce lab costs and
      prevent hazards or discomfort to the patient associated with a blood test.

      The goal of this study is therefore to develop a non-invasive method for quantifying vitamin
      D levels in the body using spectroscopy.

      Methods:

      40 subjects aged 18-65 will be recruited for this research: 20 patients be recruited from the
      population of patients in the rehabilitation department who were diagnosed with osteoporosis.
      Also, 20 healthy subjects will be recruited.

      All participants will be able to understand the study protocol and sign a consent form
      independently.

      In this study, the investigators will look for a correlation between the results of
      conventional blood test for detection of vitamin D levels in the blood and the results of
      measurements of spectral examinations that will be performed on various locations on the
      upper body of the subject. These measurements will take place in Hillel Yaffe Medical Center
      as the subject arrives to the chemistry lab for the blood test. Visible light spectrometer
      (manufactured by Ocean Optics, USB 2000 model), connected to an optical fiber (manufactured
      by Ocean Optics, diameter 1mm) will be used. The measurement will use a light source
      (Fiberoptics Technology Inc. company., Model SOL-R 150) connected also to an optical fiber.
      Both ends of the fiber will be positioned on the upper body of the patient one of two
      configurations: for areas with greater thickness, e.g. the forearm, the fibers would be
      placed next to each other on the same side of the limb to measure the return of the light,
      and in areas with smaller tissue thickness, e.g. finger tip, the fibers will be placed to
      both sides of an organ and record light transmission through the target.

      First, the investigators will attempt to find correlation between the spectral analysis
      results of the visible wavelengths and the blood test. Then the investigators will further
      compare the subjects' blood samples using FTIR spectrometer in the mid infrared (device
      manufactured by Oriel, Model MIR8025). The device is equipped with plug-ATR (Attenuated Total
      Reflectance) and allows testing of a small sample of fluids. Vials of samples delivered to
      Rupin on foil-wrapped test using a cooler with ice will be tested in Ruppin on the day of
      extraction. The samples will be disposed of as biological waste.

      Trial protocol:

      Each subject will arrive at the lab at Hillel Yaffe Medical Center. the subject will read and
      sign an informed consent form for participation in the study. The subject will fill out a
      short questionnaire reporting on the nature of sun exposure, dietary habits and chronic
      medications.

      Then two tests will be performed:

        1. Blood test for vitamin D levels.

        2. Test using the spectrometer: two fiber optic guided by the researchers on different
           places on the torso of the patient, when one side of the fiber optic is connected to a
           light source and the anther optical fiber end is connected to the spectrometer.

      There is no expected risk or discomfort to the subject beyond the risk associated with
      regular blood tests.

      Spectral test to be held Ruppin on the patient's blood samples, as described in the methods,
      and will not require the presence of the patient.

      Data analysis:

      Several algorithms will be developed to be used on the spectral database, in order to
      identify individuals suffering from vitamin D deficiency.

      The data processing will be as follows:

        1. Statistical analyzes will be carried out using regression methods to find correlation
           between the level of vitamin D quantified with laboratory chemical test of the blood and
           spectral measurements in the visible light as performed at the hospital in different
           areas of the body.

        2. Statistical analyzes will be carried out using regression methods to find correlation
           between the level of vitamin D quantified with laboratory chemical test of the blood and
           spectral measurements in middle infrared (MIR), as performed on blood samples taken from
           subjects.

        3. The tested population will be divided into two groups according to the blood test
           results: subjects defined as having vitamin D deficiency and subjects classified as
           having normal vitamin D levels. Clustering methods of analysis will be carried out, such
           as PCA and LDA, to find distinguishing characteristic between the two populations.
    
  