
    
      The postoperative delirium picture is a serious and common complication seen after any major
      surgery, including hepatic resection. Delirium is an acute state of confusion characterized
      by impaired consciousness, reduced ability to focus on attention, changes in cognitive
      functions, a perceptual disturbance development, and an uncomfortable sleep-wake cycle.
      Postoperative delirium has an acute onset and has a fluctuating course. This complication
      results in a long recovery period, a longer stay in the intensive care unit, higher
      complication rates, extra nursing care, and higher costs. Therefore, appropriate methods are
      needed to prevent and treat postoperative delirium.

      The pathophysiology of delirium is thought to be due to many reasons. Examined in titles:
      Changes in the electrolyte and fluid balance, nutritional imbalance (low serum
      protein/albumin level, hypovitaminosis, especially cobalamin deficiencies (B12), folate (B9),
      niacin (B3, pellagra), thiamine, age (> 65) and gender (m> f), hyperthermia and hypothermia,
      major surgical procedures, endocrine disorders, drug use, anemia, anoxia, hypoxia and low
      perfusion/oxygenation states, postoperative pain and painkiller medication, end-organ
      failure, social isolation, decreased intellectual stimulation (long-term intensive care
      therapy), sleep disorders and changes in the circadian rhythm, metabolic disorders (acidosis,
      alkalosis, hyperammonemia, hypersensitivity reactions, glucose, and acid-base disorders,
      limitations, and inactivity. Cases are exposed to these predisposing causes.

      Postoperative delirium is a type of delirium that is exposed to surgical procedure and
      anesthesia, usually seen between the 1st and 3rd days after surgery. Postoperative delirium
      can be seen at rates ranging from 9 to 87% depending on the age of the patient and the type
      of surgery. Although its etiology is not yet understood, it is probably thought to be
      multifactorial.

      S100β is secreted by astrocytes in brain damage. S100β rises while brain damage starts, so it
      can be used in the diagnosis of early brain damage. Neuron-specific enolase (NSE) acts as an
      intracytoplasmic enzyme, and serum levels are increased in neuron damage. The glial fibrillar
      acidic protein (GFAP) is the intermediate filament cytoskeleton protein in astrocytes. It
      originates from the same root structure as S100β. After hepatectomy, the donor candidates are
      exposed to physiological changes that include the central nervous system due to surgical
      stress as well as the functional change of the remaining liver tissue. Determining the
      increase in serum level of biomarkers specific to the central nervous system mentioned before
      the development of cognitive disorders such as delirium may prevent the complications that
      may arise during the postoperative period. It also helps to provide treatment in the
      postoperative period as well as evaluation.

      The aim of this study is to analyze the delirium incidence and postoperative early S100β,
      NSE, and GFAP levels within the first week following the hepatectomy performed in living
      donors for liver transplantation.
    
  