
    
      Raman spectroscopy (RS) is an established analytical technique and has been extensively used
      in medicine to study individual cells and complex tissues, including skin and skin cancers.
      This technique is based on inelastic scattering of laser light following its interaction with
      vibrating molecules of biological samples; therefore, a Raman spectrum represents a "chemical
      fingerprint" of the sample. Recently, the investigators demonstrated that Raman
      micro-spectroscopy is able to discriminate between healthy skin and BCC.

      With National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) i4i funding (2007-2013), the investigators
      developed a new technology ("Fast Raman") that can detect BCC regions in skin layers excised
      during Mohs surgery [13]. A first laboratory prototype based on this technology was able to
      analyze specimens in 30-60 minutes. In a follow-up i4i project (2014-2016), the investigators
      have built a fully automated "Fast Raman" device that can be used by non-specialist users and
      meets the safety requirements to be used in the clinic. The investigators now intend to test
      this device in real clinical practice and to compare the diagnosis generated by the device
      with the standard pathology diagnosis.

      If the performance of the device achieves the proposed target (~95% sensitivity and
      specificity, inter-and intra-user reliability higher than typical histopathology, assessment
      time shorter than frozen section histopathology), it will provide important benefit to BCC
      patients and health care providers. Faster tissue assessment could speed up Mohs surgery
      (around 90 mins rather than 3 hours), which is more comfortable for patients. By reducing the
      costly histopathology procedures needed to process and diagnose skin samples, the Fast Raman
      device will reduce health care costs, allowing Mohs surgery to become more widely available,
      and reducing the postcode lottery that currently exists. As the Fast Raman device is designed
      to be used by non-specialist user, it can be used during any type of BCC surgery, including
      standard wide local excisions of BCC (>80,000 procedures/year in UK), to provide on the spot
      an answer on whether the entire tumour has been excised or not.
    
  