
    
      Cardiac allograft vasculopathy (CAV) is a major limitation to longevity after heart
      transplantation (HT), accounting for almost 30% of deaths after year 5. The only cure is
      re-transplant which is associated with a 30-day mortality of 30%, and raises ethical issues
      due to limited resources. Standard preventive measures, such as statin therapy, have limited
      success due to the multi-factorial nature of the process and influence of transplant-specific
      risk factors. Consensus regarding the management of CAV is lacking due to the absence of
      prospective studies evaluating timing of initiation of therapy, effect of therapies on
      long-term outcomes, and effective diagnostic strategies. Primary prevention of CAV, which
      will be evaluated in the proposed study, could improve longevity of heart transplant
      recipients and optimize use of a limited resource.

      The current gold standard for evaluation of CAV is surveillance coronary angiogram, which is
      highly insensitive, particularly in early disease. Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) is the
      most sensitive tool for the diagnosis of CAV, providing specific information such as the
      appearance and thickness of the intima and media, however it is not widely used in the
      clinical setting. Physiologic studies of the coronary arteries are also useful in assessing
      risk, but are not practical in a clinical setting. These invasive studies expose the heart
      transplant recipient to radiation, nephrotoxic contrast, and potential vascular
      complications. During the evolution of CAV, there are important structural, functional, and
      genomic changes that occur in parallel and possibly before.

      Study Objectives

        1. Determine the structural, functional and genomic changes associated with severe CAV

        2. Identify novel and noninvasive markers of CAV

      Study Design This is a cross-sectional study which will evaluate structural, functional and
      genomic changes associated with severe CAV in heart transplant recipients within 15 years of
      transplant. 30 heart transplant recipients identified via our study database and the
      transplant clinic will be enrolled into the study. We will enroll 15 heart transplant
      patients with severe CAV and 15 without CAV.

      Subjects will undergo a one-time assessment of radial artery elasticity, blood draw for gene
      expression profiles, and cardiac MRI.
    
  