
    
      Pedestrian injury poses significant risk to healthy older adults and patients with
      Parkinson's disease. Several age-related changes, including slowing of visual processing
      speed, increase risky pedestrian behavior. Persons with Parkinson's disease (PD) are at even
      higher risk of pedestrian injury due to motor and non-motor symptoms. Parkinson's disease
      (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor symptoms including
      slowness, tremor, stiffness, and balance problems. Visual processing speed abnormalities,
      anxiety, and cognitive problems are common non-motor symptoms.

      The Useful Field of View (UFOV®) test is a measure of visual processing speed. The UFOV® test
      is performed on a touch-screen computer that displays objects in the central and peripheral
      visual fields for brief durations. Successful performance on the test requires integration of
      visual sensory information and higher-order cognitive processing. Our own research has shown
      that the UFOV® test performance correlates with pedestrian behavior in PD patients.

      Speed of Processing Training (SOPT) is a computer-based training that uses visual exercises
      to improve cognitive processing. The training involves identifying and localizing visual
      information quickly in increasingly demanding visual displays. SOPT has been demonstrated to
      improve performance on the UFOV test in healthy older adults and PD patients. It is
      hypothesized that SOPT training will improve pedestrian safety in healthy older adults and PD
      patients.

      In the proposed study, we will use a within-subject, randomized, controlled, cross-over
      design to evaluate if a computer training program (Speed of Processing Training - SOPT)
      improves safe pedestrian behavior in patients with Parkinson's disease and in healthy older
      adults in a virtual reality pedestrian environment and if the effects of training persist
      long-term.
    
  