
    
      The purpose of the proposed project is to compare the efficacy of two fully developed
      physical therapy interventions in 8-24 months olds with or at high risk of having Cerebral
      Palsy (CP). Sitting Together And Reaching To Play (START-Play) targets sitting, reaching and
      motor-based problem solving in infancy to improve global development. Usual Care Physical
      Therapy (UCPT) focuses on advancing motor skills and preventing impairments. The project
      builds on a nearly complete clinical trial evaluating the efficacy of the START-Play
      intervention compared to a non-dose matched comparison group. The proposed study directly
      addressed the need for a dose-matched clinical trial to consider the impact of dose of
      intervention on efficacy. A direct comparison of START-Play with the dose matched (24 visits
      in 3 months) UCPT provided in the same environment (homes) and provided by licensed physical
      therapists will allow for a direct comparison of the efficacy of interventions based on two
      different set of key principles.

      START-Play is based on developmental and basic science, motor learning, and neuroplasticity,
      in addition to our extensive preliminary efficacy data. START-Play has been fully described
      with a protocol manual, training documents, and fidelity measures. The UCPT intervention is
      based on videotaped session of the comparison group community based intervention sessions and
      parent report for the ongoing clinical trial. A fidelity measure used the previous research
      quantifies differences in the focus of these interventions and will be used to maintain
      adherence to both intervention groups. Three sites in different regions of the United States
      will recruit from local intervention and medical centers for a total of 150 infants with or
      at high risk of having cerebral palsy between ages 4-24 months of age, when they show
      readiness skills for early sitting and reaching. Risk for CP will be based on the early
      detection guidelines and all outcome measures are included in the NIH supported Common Data
      Elements for Cerebral Palsy. Each infant will be randomized into a group and will receive the
      START-Play or the UCPT intervention for 3 months, with follow up extending for 12 months from
      baseline.

      The primary objectives examine change over time in sitting gross motor and cognitive
      development.

      Differences in outcomes between the two intervention groups will be examined. In addition, we
      will begin to identify predictors of response to developmental motor interventions by
      evaluating the relationship between intervention outcomes and 1) infant and family
      characteristics, 2) presence of white matter, cerebellar, basal ganglion, or gray matter
      injury.
    
  