
    
      Over 5 million people in the United States have heart failure, and 500,000 more develop this
      condition each year. Up to 80% of people with heart failure experience cognitive functioning
      difficulties, including problems with memory, attention, and other thinking skills. People
      with heart failure often participate in a cardiac rehabilitation program, which is an
      individualized program that aims to improve a person's physical and mental health while
      dealing with a heart-related condition. Cardiac rehabilitation is different for each person,
      but it can include medical counseling on how to manage a heart condition and how to modify
      risk factors for further heart problems, including lowering blood pressure and cholesterol
      levels, stopping smoking, and losing weight. Nutritional counseling and an exercise program
      may also be a part of cardiac rehabilitation. Preliminary research has shown that people with
      heart failure who participate in a cardiac rehabilitation program may experience improved
      cognitive function. This is thought to be a result of increased blood flow to the brain and
      improved autonomic nervous system function, which is responsible for regulating various body
      functions. In this study, researchers will explore the relationship between heart failure and
      cognitive function, examine how cognitive function changes over time in heart failure
      patients, and evaluate how cardiac rehabilitation may affect cognitive function in older
      adults. Specifically, researchers will examine how physical activity and patterns of blood
      flow affect cognitive function.

      This study will enroll people with heart failure who are participating in a 12-week cardiac
      rehabilitation program and people with heart failure who are not participating in a cardiac
      rehabilitation program. All participants will attend study visits at baseline, Week 12, and
      Month 12. At each study visit, participants will undergo neuropsychological testing, heart
      rate and blood pressure measurements, and a walking exercise test. They will also complete
      questionnaires to assess diet, physical activity, and stress levels. Participants will
      undergo an imaging procedure to measure blood flow in the neck and head, and some
      participants will also undergo a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) procedure of their brain.
      For 1 week after each study visit, participants will wear a physical activity monitor. At
      Months 6 and 9, participants will complete questionnaires and mail these back to study
      researchers.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "Completed Date"
      entered in the Query View Report System (QVR).
    
  