
    
      Purpose

      The purpose of the present study is to evaluate a two-stage hepatectomy with a left-lateral
      living donor liver transplantation and right portal vein ligation for treatment of otherwise
      irresectable liver metastases of colorectal carcinoma in curative intent.

      Study setting

      The study is an investigator-initiated, bi-institutional, one-arm trial. For ethical reasons,
      it was decided to perform no control group since the superiority of the liver transplantation
      procedure is to be expected. Therefore, it was decided to compare the transplantation cohort
      with a historic control group who has received the actual gold-standard of chemotherapy.

      Endpoints Primary endpoint The primary endpoint is the overall patient survival 36 months
      after the 2nd step of liver transplantation in a two stage procedure.

      This time point was chosen since the patient has to be regarded as "free of tumor" from this
      last step of tumor operation.

      Secondary endpoints

      Secondary endpoints are:

        -  the recurrence-free survival of the patients 36 months after second stage of
           hepatectomy.

        -  the morbidity of both donor and recipient, defined as complications ≥ IIIb according to
           the Clavien-Dindo classification.

      Patient selection

      All patients with irresectable colorectal liver metastases and no extrahepatic tumor burden
      (except resectable lung metastases) are potential candidates for study inclusion, if:

        -  the tumor burden is at least a "stable disease", according to the RECIST criteria at
           least after eight weeks of systemic chemotherapy

        -  an external, independent review board, composed of a surgeon, an oncologist and a
           radiologist, checked and approved the criteria for study inclusion.

      Exclusion criteria

      Patients are ineligible for study participation, if:

        -  there is an extrahepatic tumor burden, except resectable lung metastases

        -  no suitable donor available

        -  significant comorbidities that preclude transplantation

        -  there is a tumor progression during chemotherapy.

      Treatment methods If the potential recipient fulfills the in- and exclusion criteria and has
      a potential suitable living donor, the patient will be admitted to a special transplantation
      ward, where the evaluation process for liver transplantation in this special setting begins
      according to the standard evaluation protocol of the specific centre. The procedure includes
      a PET-CT scan for tumor burden additional to the standard evaluation for liver
      transplantation.

      If contraindications for liver transplantation are excluded, the potential recipient will be
      discussed in the transplantation board and subsequently listed as organ recipient at
      Eurotransplant waiting list.

      Furthermore, the patient's history and all available imaging will be sent to an external
      review board, consisting of an experienced hepatobiliary surgeon, an oncologist and a
      radiologist, who will assess the individual case from their specialized field. Only if all
      three reviewer approve the study inclusion of the patient, the following steps are performed.

      Now the potential donor will be evaluated for the living donation process. This includes an
      ultrasound, an MR scan for the visualization of the biliary tract and a CT scan. The latter
      ones will be analyzed with exact volumetric analyses of the donated and remaining liver
      parenchyma. Furthermore, the evaluation process includes a cardiologic examination and the
      premedication visit as well as a LiMAX test. Both, donor and recipient, will be interviewed
      by a clinical psychologist.

      At the end of the evaluation procedure, the individual patient case will be judged by an
      independent living donation committee of the respective State Chamber of Physicians.

      Operative procedure - Step 1 The transplantation procedure starts with an extensive
      exploration of the abdominal cavity of the recipient to exclude an extrahepatic tumor
      manifestation. If there is no extrahepatic tumor burden, a left hemihepatectomy is performed
      (the liver resection itself is undertaken using an appropriate device, e.g. Cavitron
      Ultrasound Aspirator), whereby the resection plane depends on the localization of the
      metastases and might vary between individual patients. For the subsequent reconstruction of
      the arterial inflow of the left lateral graft, a venous interposition graft (usually
      saphenous vein of the recipient) is established from the common hepatic artery.

      Parallel, the donor procedure is started, whereby a left-lateral hepatectomy (resection of
      the segments II and III) is performed (also using standard devices for parenchymal
      transsection, e.g. Cavitron Ultrasound Aspirator).

      The left-lateral graft is transplanted orthotopically. To induct a more rapid growth and
      regeneration of the graft, the right portal vein is ligated (according to an ALPPS procedure)
      while measuring the portal pressure. The reconstruction of the biliary tree of the graft is
      realized performing a bilio-enteric anastomosis. This allows an easier procurement of the
      right liver in step 2.

      The immunosuppression is performed according to the following protocol:

        -  Intraoperative

           500 mg Methylprednisolone i.v.

        -  Early postoperative phase

      Tacrolimus Target level 5 - 10 ng/ml

      Mycophenolat-Mofetil 1000 mg twice daily

      Basiliximab 20 mg i.v. on the day of the transplantation and on POD 4

      Prednisolone 0,5 mg/kgBW/d from POD 1 - 10 and reduction of 0,1 mg/kgBW/d every 10 days

      * 3 months after the transplantation procedure

      Everolimus in combination with Tacrolimus Both with a target level of around 5 ng/ml

      Between both operative steps, continuous laboratory analyses as well as ultrasound
      investigations will be performed. Presumable after three weeks, a CT scan, a subsequent MEVIS
      analysis and a LiMAX test are performed. If a normal liver function is diagnosed, step 2 is
      scheduled for the following day.

      Operative procedure - Step 2 In this operation, the remaining right liver will be removed.
      Hereby, additional parenchymal transsection is usually not necessary since both liver has
      been completely separated in Step 1.

      Follow-up The follow-up is coordinated by the transplantation unit of the centers. It
      includes a CT scan of thorax and abdomen six, nine, 18 and 30 months after the finalization
      of the two-stage procedure (step 2). Furthermore, a PET-CT scan will be performed after three
      months and 1, 2 and three years after step 2. At these points in time, a LIMAX-test will also
      be performed to assess the liver function of the graft. Furthermore, the individual
      immunosuppressive regime is recorded. In case of an adjuvant chemotherapy, agents, duration
      and tolerance of the drug(s) will be registered.

      Statistical methods The primary endpoint (overall survival) and the secondary endpoint
      "disease-free survival" are examined in a model using a Gray's test since they are competing
      events. For both events, the calculated hazard ratios are indicated with a confidence
      interval of 95 %.

      All other secondary endpoints, reflecting the morbidity of donor or recipient, are compared
      using Fisher's exact test between the groups. The absolute and relative frequency of these
      adverse events per group will be reported.

      The significance level for all tests is defined as α=0,05. The analysis is performed
      according to an "intention-to-treat"-principle. Subgroup analysis are not planned.

      Centralized monitoring and the Data and Safety Monitoring Committee The data monitoring will
      be performed by the Center of Clinical Studies in Jena and Tübingen.

      Participating institutions The German Medical Association approved the study protocol for the
      liver transplantation centers in Jena and Tübingen. During this study, it is not provided to
      enable other transplantation centers the study participation.
    
  