
    
      This is a research study comparing the outcomes of LASIK surgery to PRK surgery for
      nearsightedness when using the two different procedures. You will have one eye treated with
      LASIK using the Intralase FS laser and your other eye treated with PRK. You will be one of
      100 sighted patients at Stanford to undergo treatment in this clinical research trial. This
      will be a prospective, randomized, research study in which up to 200 consecutive eyes
      scheduled to undergo excimer laser in situ keratomileusis (LASIK) in one eye and
      photorefractive keratectomy (PRK) in the fellow eye for the correction of myopia
      (nearsightedness) with or without astigmatism will be enrolled. The choice of which eye
      receives LASIK and which eye receives PRK will be randomized prior to enrollment.
      Randomization will be done according to a randomization schedule. You will know which eye is
      being treated with which procedure. The randomization will determine only whether your right
      or left eye is treated with the LASIK procedure. The other eye will be treated with PRK. You
      have a fifty percent chance of having your left eye treated with LASIK as your right eye.
      Subjects will undergo either bilateral (both eyes at once) wavefront (a more precise custom
      laser system) guided LASIK and PRK treatments using the VISX Star S4 excimer laser. All
      subjects will be followed for one year after the vision correction procedure. Subjects
      scheduled to undergo LASIK and PRK for the correction of myopia (nearsightedness) with or
      without astigmatism will be screened for eligibility. Eligible subjects will be examined
      preoperatively to establish a baseline for ocular condition (the general health and glasses
      prescription of the eyes). Postoperatively, subjects will undergo an ophthalmic evaluation
      (complete eye examination) at regular intervals as specified in this protocol. Retreatments
      (a second operation on the same eye for residual nearsightedness) will not be allowed during
      the first six months of this study. If you elect to undergo a retreatment of your LASIK or
      PRK surgery prior to the 6-month post-operative visit, the retreated eye will be exited from
      the study as of the retreatment date.

      Any significant new finding developed during the course of the research which may relate to
      the subject's willingness to continue participation will be provided to the subject or
      subject's representative in a timely manner.
    
  