
    
      Urolithiasis affects 1 in 11 Americans and is associated with annual health care expenditures
      of up to $4.5 billion. Fifty percent of stone risk can be attributed to diet and fluid
      intake. Modifications in sodium intake can dramatically reduce risk of kidney stone disease
      as determined by 24-hour urine results. Despite this understanding, dietary counseling is
      largely ineffective as kidney stone formers have difficulty adhering to low sodium diets. The
      precise reasons behind this are unknown, but it is hypothesized that socioeconomic factors
      such as low income and low education contribute to a lack of knowledge of, and access to,
      healthy alternatives to salty foods. The relationship between lithogenic diet consumption and
      stone disease requires a more in depth understanding of patients' home food environments,
      dietary habits, and perceived barriers to following a low-sodium diet. This understanding
      will help direct appropriate interventions to prevent recurrent stones.

      Routine historic face-to-face clinic visits rapidly have been replaced with telehealth
      encounters with the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic. Such changes will likely remain the standard of care
      and will define the new "normal" for some time. This presents an opportunity to integrate
      robust information now available through the exponential growth of video visits with directed
      dietary counseling. Through video exchange with patients in their homes an abundance of
      previously untapped information is immediately available to healthcare providers. Smartphone
      video capabilities are available to most stone patients irrespective of their financial
      status. Images from telehealth video visits, including patient lifestyle, behaviors,
      resources, and home environment will give objective data as to types of food consumed
      regularly by patients and their capacity to prepare healthy foods at home.

      The following specific aims are proposed: 1) Assess which data from video visits are most
      informative for identifying how to counsel patients to reduce patient sodium intake, and 2)
      Administer virtual home visit-informed individualized dietary counseling to stone formers and
      compare this to survey-informed dietary counseling. 24-hour urinary sodium results and
      patient dietary sodium knowledge and perceptions will be monitored over 6 months. This study
      will leverage the rapid growth of telehealth medical visits as a consequence of the
      SARS-CoV-2 pandemic to better understand and improve food consumption behavior of recurrent
      stone formers.
    
  