
    
      GT0918 treatment was initiated with the first dose of 50 mg/day in a cohort of 3 patients,
      and 6- patients per cohort for the subsequent escalated dose levels at 100 mg, 200 mg, 300
      mg, 400 mg, 500 mg and 600 mg/day. Patients received orally administered GT0918 once daily at
      the indicated doses for 28 consecutive days (4 weeks), followed by a 7-day off-treatment
      period for PK analysis. This concluded the Cycle 1 treatment. Patients who could not complete
      the first cycle of 28 days for DLT evaluation were to be considered as early termination and
      replaced. Upon completion of the Cycle 1 treatment, if no DLT occurred in the cohort of 3
      patients, or no more than 1 patient had DLT in cohorts with at least 6 patients, dose
      escalation was allowed for the subsequent higher dose.

      Patients were to receive up to 6 cycles of GT0918 treatments at their assigned dose levels if
      they were evaluated by the investigator to have no unacceptable toxicity and show evidence of
      clinical benefit (stable disease or a response) per RECIST v1.1 criteria and PSA assessments.
      No off-treatment periods were scheduled for the additional cycles from Cycle 2 beyond.
      Patients had to be evaluated bi-monthly for their eligibility to continue the treatment of
      additional cycles. Patient evaluations included CT and/or MRI scans performed every 2 cycles
      (8 weeks), as well as physical examinations, ECOG performance status, PSA measurements, which
      were performed every 4 weeks. Cycles beyond the 6th cycle were optional for eligible subjects
      that did not exhibit progressive disease (PD). Eligible patients could be treated for a total
      of 6 months at their assigned dose level at the investigator's discretion.

      Patients would have an End-of-Study (EOS) visit if treatment were discontinued due to
      intolerable toxicities, disease progression, withdrawal of consent. Safety follow-up for
      possible delayed drug-related AE or side effects can be performed by phone call or office
      visit if needed.
    
  