
    
      Background

      Cancer research in developing countries has not received adequate attention in spite of
      having great potential to improve our understanding of genes and environmental exposures such
      as diet in the etiology of cancer. Specifically, an Indian dietary cohort would substantially
      expand the intake range and variety of different foods and lifestyles that have not been
      adequately explored, e.g., spices, type of oils, lentils, vegetarianism (tied to religion
      rather than healthy life-style ), and types of physical activities. Indians also have
      distinct cancer incidence patterns. Establishing a cohort will allow us to study multiple
      cancer outcomes as well as other disease end-points (e.g., cardiovascular disease and
      diabetes), and it will avoid potential bias resulting from differential recall of past diet
      by subjects, a critical concern in case-control studies that assess nutritional intake. As
      measurement of various biological markers will be an integral component of this study, it
      will be important to collect biological specimens prior to illness and treatment. This is
      particularly important in India as cases may present with late stage disease.

      Because a study of this magnitude and complexity has not been carried out in India, I have
      proposed a pilot study to determine the feasibility of conducting a large cohort study in
      India. The pilot study consists of three parts: 1) evaluation of logistical issues; 2)
      characterization of the diet; and 3) evaluation of issues related to follow-up and end-point
      ascertainment. In Part A of this pilot study there will be 4,000 subjects. This part of the
      study will be evaluated for logistical issues, including questionnaire administration,
      collection, storage, and analysis. Response rates for questionnaires, collection of
      biospecimens and the centers ability to carry out the proposed research will be evaluated as
      well. Part B of the pilot study consists of a characterization of Indian diet to determine
      within- and between-person variability in intake in a subset of 1,400 subjects; an evaluation
      to determine whether Indians can estimate food quantities accurately; assess the degree of
      measurement error in selected nutrients; and ascertain whether using multiple forms of intake
      instruments in combination with biomarkers may categorize intake with less error. In Part C
      of the pilot study, issues related to follow-up and end-point ascertainment in 1200 subjects
      will be evaluated. In addition, an evaluation of the likelihood of cancers and other chronic
      diseases remaining completely undiagnosed owning to lack of access to health care; assess
      movement pattern and traceability of Indian populations; as well as an evaluation of the
      cancer registry coverage and determine whether supplementary activities are required.
    
  