
    
      As the second leading cause of death and major cause of disability in the world, stroke is
      the rapid loss of brain function due to disturbance in the blood supply to the brain.
      Approximately two thirds of patients with stroke have impaired motor function even at three
      to six months after stroke onset. The abnormally increased interhemispheric inhibition driven
      from the unaffected to the affected hemisphere is associated with the motor impairment, which
      is characterized by increased cortical excitability in the unaffected hemisphere and
      decreased cortical excitability in the affected hemisphere. Rebalancing the cortical
      excitability between two hemispheres is associated with a better overall prognosis.

      Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is a painless, noninvasive brain
      stimulation technique. High-frequency rTMS facilitates cortical excitability, whereas
      low-frequency rTMS decreases the cortical excitability of the stimulated hemisphere.
      Therefore, rTMS can be used to increase and decrease the cortical excitability of the
      affected and unaffected hemispheres, respectively, and may facilitate motor function after
      stroke. However, the previous studies commonly applied behavioral scales to evaluate the
      effect of the rTMS treatment, little is known how the brain function and structure recover
      after rTMS treatment and whether the different frequency of rTMS will affect the recovery in
      the brain of stroke patients.

      Non-invasive neuroimaging techniques provide promising avenues to detect brain function and
      structure in patients after stroke onset and have been increasingly applied to this disease.
      The morphology of the brain (cortical thickness, gray matter volume) is commonly assessed
      using T1-weighted MRI (Structural MRI). Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) is a promising
      technique to study human brain structure, especially white matter anatomy, by providing
      multiple quantitative parameters to characterize tissue microstructure from different
      aspects. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a functional neuroimaging technique
      which measures the changes of the blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signal that are
      highly correlated with neural activities. Task fMRI which applies stimulus-response pattern
      to identify the regions activated by performance of a cognitive task, while resting-state
      fMRI (rs-fMRI) is a promising tool to map intrinsic function of the human brain, which has
      unique advantages in clinical conditions because it does not require participants to engage
      in cognitive activities.

      In this study, the investigators aim to evaluate functional and structural improvements in
      the brain of stroke patients after rTMS treatment using multi-modal MRI techniques.
      Specifically, the investigators sought to determine whether rTMS treatment modulate the brain
      function and structure in stroke patients and, if so, whether different frequency of the rTMS
      treatment will affect the degree of the motor recovery in patients' brain.
    
  