
    
      To combat iron deficiency anemia, the challenge is not so much knowing "what" to do, but to
      understand "how" to implement effective and sustainable interventions. In this perspective,
      the aim of this trial is to assess the effectiveness of a community based anemia management
      therapeutic intervention delivered to rural anemic women (aged 13 years and above) in remote
      hilly villages (unit of randomization) in terms of change in anemia prevalence (unit of
      analysis) after 3 months of iron supplementation.

      The intervention programme "Directly Observed Home Based daily Iron Therapy"(DOHBIT) by local
      village volunteers is conceived as a whole community approach to improve the hemoglobin
      status of affected patients in remote villages. A cluster-randomized trial will be thus the
      design of choice from the outset. For intervention arm of trial, each anemic patient will
      receive DOHBIT (Directly Observed Home Based daily Iron Therapy) by local village volunteer
      for a total of 90 days whereas in the control arm of trial each patient will receive usual
      standard iron therapy without daily supervision for the same duration. Information,
      educational and counseling strategies will be similar for the two groups.

      Primary outcome will be the anemia prevalence (difference of proportions) in intervention vs.
      control groups after trial intervention. Secondary outcomes in two groups include mean
      hemoglobin levels, compliance and side effects of iron therapy, body mass index and quality
      of life scores.

      Sample size estimates, adjusted for cluster randomization (assuming Intracluster Correlation
      Coefficient of 0.05 and mean cluster size of 30 patients/village based on our pilot study),
      show that with 10 villages, each for intervention and control groups, an average 300 anemic
      patients per treatment arm would need to be treated to provide sufficient power to determine
      a 20% difference in anemia prevalence in two groups- a reduction deemed to a worthwhile
      impact of the intervention to be reliably detected at 80% power.

      Then a statistically valid approach to the analysis of primary outcome variable will be to
      calculate a single outcome measure for each randomized unit and apply standard parametric
      method (chi-square) to the set of summary measures, keeping in mind that any conclusion will
      be strictly applicable only at the cluster level. Since, covariate adjustment will be
      required on an individual level for various secondary outcomes, thus a different approach
      based on the individual, as unit of analysis, adjusting for clustering will be more
      appropriate in analyzing various secondary outcome measures.

      Overall, DOHBIT is one of the strategies to increase the capacity of individuals and
      communities to define, analyze and act to address their own health needs. Moreover, in the
      supply-demand continuum, DOHBIT by utilizing facilitators and motivators at the local level
      will optimize demand as well as supply of iron supplementation programme in the community.
    
  