
    
      Objective: Central serous chorioretinopathy (CSC) is a retinal disorder characterized by an
      accumulation of serous fluid under the retina thought to be due to excessive choroidal
      hyperpermeability. The retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) plays a critical role in removing
      fluid from the subretinal space. This RPE "pump" is believed to be a key player in the
      reabsorption of subretinal fluid and maintenance of retinal attachment. Fluid transport
      assays have examined whether interferon gamma induces changes in fluid transport across human
      fetal RPE monolayers and showed an increase in fluid absorption from the retinal to the
      choroidal side of the tissue. An in vivo rodent model of retinal detachment has been used to
      measure the effect of interferon gamma on re-absorption following retinal detachment and
      showed that the addition of interferon gamma to the anterior eye surface caused a
      significant, rapid decrease in retinal detachment volume in the first hour of observation.
      This pilot study will investigate the safety, tolerability and potential efficacy of serial
      ocular instillations of topical interferon gamma-1b for classic CSC.

      Study Population: Five participants with subretinal fluid due to classic CSC will initially
      be enrolled. However, up to an additional two participants may be enrolled in order to obtain
      the five participants to be included in the analysis if any participants withdraw from the
      study.

      Design: In this Phase I/II, non-randomized, prospective, uncontrolled, dose-escalation,
      single-center pilot study, a series of ocular instillations of topical interferon gamma-1b
      will be administered in the study eye over a two-week period. If the fluid re-accumulates or
      increases, participants will be eligible for re-challenging with topical interferon gamma-1b
      in the study eye at Week 4. Participants will be followed for one year. Participants may be
      eligible for additional re-challenges after the initial eight week study period ends if their
      fluid re-accumulates or increases further.

      Outcome Measures: The primary outcome measure related to the safety and tolerability of
      serial ocular instillations of topical interferon gamma-1b will be assessed by the number and
      severity of adverse events (AEs) related to the investigational product and the number of
      withdrawals. Secondary efficacy outcomes include changes in best-corrected visual acuity
      (BCVA), central retinal thickness and maximum lesion volume as measured on optical coherence
      tomography (OCT), leakage as observed on fluorescein angiograms (FA), autofluorescence
      patterns as observed on fundus autofluorescence (FAF) imaging and mean macular sensitivity as
      assessed by microperimetry.
    
  