
    
      There is a stark paucity of data published concerning reinfection rates post successful
      treatment for HCV in currently injecting drug users. The investigators research will focus in
      this important area and provide desperately needed evidence to increase confidence in
      treating this population who carry the burden of the disease. Treating larger numbers of
      individuals in this population will reduce the incidence of HCV in injecting drug users and
      therefore reduce the overall prevalence of the disease. This will reduce the current threat
      to public health that HCV produces.

      DETAILS OF MD RESEARCH PROJECT

      STUDY HYPOTHESIS:

      HCV therapy in the currently injecting group is beneficial with reinfection rates and long
      term outcomes comparable to those who are not current injectors.

      AIMS:

        1. The main aim is to determine if patients who have been successfully treated for HCV and
           who are currently injecting drug users have comparable rates of reinfection to those who
           injected drugs in the past (at least 6 months ago).

        2. A secondary aim is to determine if currently injecting drug users have comparable long
           term outcomes to those who injected drugs in the past (at least 6 months prior to
           treatment) in terms of liver fibrosis and progression.

      OBJECTIVES:

        1. To determine the rates of reinfection in an historical cohort of drug users with HCV who
           have been previously treated and achieved SVR compared to those who have injected drugs
           in the past (at least 6 months prior to treatment) and achieved SVR with treatment.

        2. To determine long term outcomes in those who injected drugs at the time of treatment and
           compare this to past injecting drug users (those who injected drugs at least 6 months
           prior to treatment).

      RESEARCH QUESTIONS:

        1. Do current drug users have higher rates of reinfection than past drug users?

        2. Is the rate of reinfection in drug users as a whole low?

        3. Does progression of fibrosis continue following successful treatment for HCV?

        4. How often do currently injecting drug users stop injecting during or after treatment for
           HCV?

        5. How often do past drug users return to injecting drug use during or following treatment?

        6. Does any rise in liver enzymes persist following successful treatment?

        7. What are the most commonly used drugs for injection?

        8. How often do currently injecting drug users share needles/equipment?

        9. Do injecting drug users know that they can be reinfected following SVR?

       10. What proportion of injecting drug users drink more than the recommended weekly allowance
           for alcohol?

       11. What is the quality of life post SVR?

      METHODOLOGY

      STUDY DESIGN:

      This is a prospective study looking at reinfection rates based on a historical cohort of
      intravenous drug users that have been previously treated and achieved an SVR.

      PARTICIPANTS:

      There is a HCV database set up at North Manchester Hospital of all patients started on
      treatment since 2004. The investigator will access this and create a separate database of
      those patients with injecting drug use at any time as their risk factor for acquisition of
      HCV. The investigator will then identify those who were injecting drugs in the 6 months prior
      to treatment including those who continued to inject during treatment. These will be the
      'active' drug using group. The investigator will then identify the group of patients that
      stopped injecting drugs at least 6 months prior to commencing treatment. These will be the
      'past' drug using group.

      CONSENT:

      The investigator will be responsible for obtaining informed consent from the participants.
      Two copies of the consent form will be obtained - one for the participants records and one
      for the study file. Prior to obtaining informed consent The investigator will highlight that
      if any information comes to light during the course of the study pertaining to a potential
      criminal activity The investigator will obliged to pass this information on to the relevant
      authorities.

      DATA COLLECTION:

      All potential participants will be sent written information detailing the study and inviting
      them to take part. This is to avoid any possible selection bias. The investigators aim to
      follow up this group for 2 years to collect data on outcomes including reinfection rates
      using annual HCV RNA (with subsequent genotyping if positive) and liver disease progression
      using standard liver function blood tests and a fibroscan (a non-invasive method to assess
      liver fibrosis and cirrhosis).

      A questionnaire regarding drug use post treatment will be done detailing any high risk
      practises. They will also be questioned again about drug use on treatment in order to confirm
      which group they should be assigned to and to reduce the possibility of previous
      underreporting for fears of exclusion from the treatment programme initially. Alcohol history
      will also be assessed. Quality of life questionnaires validated for use in HCV will be used
      during follow up.

      The investigator is aiming to recruit 45 participants in to each group. The participants will
      be asked to attend for 2 visits in total one year apart. One major limitation of this study
      is the frequency of sampling for HCV RNA. By doing this annually the investigators may miss
      those reinfections that the patient clears spontaneously. However, the investigator feels
      that it is those with persistent viraemia and therefore persistent reinfection that are
      important to quantify. This is because much of the physicians' reluctance to treat active
      drug users comes from the perception that reinfection will occur resulting in the need for
      further repeated courses of treatment. Whilst those transient reinfections that the
      investigators may miss are very important in terms of onwards transmission, they largely do
      not result in the need for further treatment.

      DATA HANDLING:

      All new data gathered will be included in a specially designed database which will be
      password protected and on a limited access drive on the NHS computer, following the
      principles set out in the data protection act. Identifiers will be kept to an absolute
      minimum. Data will be stored for 25 years before being destroyed.

      COMMUNICATION OF RESULTS:

      The investigator is aiming to distribute and communicate the results of this study at
      national and international conferences. The investigator is also aiming to publish a paper in
      a peer reviewed journal. The participants will be informed prior to consenting that they are
      entitled to access to the overall results.
    
  