
    
      IBD often presents clinically as abdominal pain, diarrhea (with and without blood), fever,
      weight loss, failure to thrive, and many related symptoms. Complications of the disorders may
      also include anemia, skin rashes, arthritis, severe chronic fatigue, and eye inflammatory
      changes.

      It is felt that IBD disorders may be caused by combination of environmental, immune, genetic,
      and bacterial factors. Results of these issues produce a chronic inflammatory disorder, in
      which the immune system attacks the gastrointestinal tract, perhaps directed by certain
      microbial antigens. The group appears not to be a pure autoimmune disease reaction, but may
      relate to a immunodeficiency state.

      There are no medications or surgical procedures that are known to cure the diseases. Most are
      aimed at reduction of symptoms, maintain remissions, and try to prevent relapses. Temporary
      anti-inflammatory medications may improve the acute process, followed by methotrexate or
      thiopurine to maintain remission states. Surgery appears important in cases of perforation,
      abscesses, obstructions, or cancer management.

      Actual occurrence is unknown, as there are more than Crohn's Disease and Ulcerative Colitis
      which appear related. It is estimated that more than 35,000 deaths were reported in 2010.
      Crohn's Disease alone appears to affect 3.2 per 1000 people in Europe and North America
      alone.

      The usual onset of symptoms may appear before actual diagnoses are made, with typical
      diagnoses occurring between 15-30 years of age. Lead by abdominal pain symptoms (usually
      lower right quadrant) and the recurrent periods of flare and remission. Many dietary,
      bacterial, antimicrobials, and environmental factors receive attention, some new interest in
      evaluating alternative therapeutic modalities to deal of issues of immune system. Use of the
      immune privileged cellular agents held within the AD-cSVF is proposed to help with the
      inflammatory contributors as well as the modulation of inflammation which favors chronic
      wound healing and avascular systems. Known to provide secretory antibiotic (ll-37)
      contributions, some thought of pro- and anti-microbials, may prove of value in those areas
      specifically. Cytokine and growth factors implications at the lesion sites remain to be
      poorly understood, but those experienced in biocellular regenerative therapies have
      experienced contributions to healing and prevention of recurrences of ulcerative skin
      lesions.

      Harvest of autologous of adipose-derived tissue stromal vascular fraction (AD-tSVF) is a
      proven rich resource of microvascular stem/stromal cell elements with well documented growth
      factor and cytokine contributors. With the advent of safe, measurable, and efficacious and
      reproducible numbers in a closed isolation environment, the ability to isolate and
      concentrate a cell-only product. This AD-cSVF is capable of reintroduction into patients, via
      a Normal Saline Solution, via parenteral route.

      This study is intended to evaluate the safety (adverse outcomes) and efficacy of using
      autologous cellular therapy in cases of IBD.
    
  