
    
      Double-blind clinical trial.

      Two groups:

        -  GROUP A (standard treatment): Prednisone 40 mg a day + Placebo (manufactured by the same
           laboratory with the same presentation and physical appearance as the nanoemulsifyied
           pomegranate seed oil rich in Omega 5 fatty acid)

        -  GROUP B (combined treatment): Prednisone 40 mg per day + nanoemulsifiyied pomegranate
           seed oil rich in Omega 5 fatty acid (2 capsules of 0.64g each / day).

      STUDY UNIVERSE: Patients> 18 years old, indistinct gender, with a diagnosis of severe
      alcoholic hepatitis.

      STUDY POPULATION: Patients with clinical and laboratory diagnosis of alcoholic hepatitis
      Severe Maddrey score ≥32.

      SAMPLE SIZE: Double-blind clinical trial, which will include 20 patients for standard
      treatment and 20 patients for combined treatment, patients who meet the inclusion criteria
      will be invited to participate. If they agree to participate (after signing the informed
      consent), the AUDIT C and CAGE questionnaires will be applied, as well as the measurement of
      anthropometric values and the taking of 3 blood tubes (2 purple and 1 yellow) for the
      measurement of cytokines, markers of oxidative stress, lipid peroxidation and protein
      carbonyls.

      The initial evaluation will include liver ultrasound, heart rate, blood pressure,
      temperature, anthropometric evaluation (weight (kilograms), height (meters), BMI (kg/m2),
      evaluation of ascites (abdominal circumference), hepatic encephalopathy (West Haven Scale).
      Alcohol abuse will be assessed using the AUDIT and CAGE score. Start-up laboratories will be
      carried out: TP, INR, Complete liver function tests (BT, BD, FA, AST, ALT, GGT, Albumin),
      Seric electrolytes (Na, K, Phosphorus, Magnesium), Creatinine, Blood cytometry (Leukocytes
      (PMN) ), hemoglobin, VCM, platelets), lipid profile (ColT, HDL, LDL, TGs), ferritin and
      transferrin saturation, Anti-nuclear antibodies, Anti mithochondrial antibodies, AgHBs,
      AcHBc, anti HCV, anti HIV. The scrutiny of bacterial infections will be carried out through
      urine culture, blood cultures and in case of suspicion of SBP (paracenthesis). Child-Pugh
      score (A5-6, B7-9, C10-12), Maddrey score, MELD, ABIC score, Glasgow score. Chest x-Ray,
      General Urine Test.

      Patients who meet the inclusion criteria, previously described, will be proposed to
      participate in the study, explaining in detail the procedures as well as the studiesthat will
      be performed. If they agree to participate, they will proceed to the signature of the
      informed consent by the patient and their responsible family member. Samples (2 yellow tubes
      and 2 purple tubes) will be taken for the measurement of cytokines, markers of oxidative
      stress, lipid peroxidation and protein carbonyls prior to the supply of the supplement vs
      placebo as well as the start of standard treatment. It will be explained to the patient that
      these samples will be done in 4 times (at diagnosis, on day 7, 14 and 28), which will be
      carried out during their hospitalization and follow-up.

      Both treatments will be taken for 28 days.
    
  