
    
      Poor self-regulation (i.e., inability to harness cognitive, emotional or motivational
      resources to achieve goals) contributes to a number of unhealthy behaviors across the life
      course, including overeating, a lack of physical activity, smoking, alcoholism and substance
      abuse that are linked to poor long-term health. The self-regulation processes that generate
      the desire for such substances or that make it difficult to engage in healthy habits are
      theorized to begin very early in the lifespan. Targeting early self-regulation profiles that
      signal risk for engaging in unhealthy behaviors would allow more effective intervention. The
      investigators will assess self-regulation during pre-adolescence, a critical transition when
      children gain responsibility for managing their health choices and self-regulation becomes
      increasingly associated with health outcomes. Obesity is a complex health issue with
      early-emerging biological and behavioral precursors that are related to self-regulation; as
      such it is a good model for understanding a broad range of health conditions that require
      active self-management. Childhood obesity is also an ongoing public health crisis, with
      almost 25% of children overweight by age 4 years (35% by school-age). The goal of this study
      is to measure childhood self-regulation targets known to be associated with obesity risk and
      poor adherence to medical regimens and to assess whether intervening on these mechanisms can
      improve self-regulation. The investigators will do so in a cohort of children with a high
      rate of obesity who have been extensively phenotyped for bio-behavioral self-regulation and
      obesity risk factors from early childhood.

      The aim is to, in low-income school-age children from extant cohorts, develop and field-test
      interventions designed to address self-regulation targets using a Multiphase Optimization
      Strategy (MOST) design to detect intervention effectiveness and child or family factors
      (e.g., maternal education, family stress, early childhood eating or stress regulation
      pattern) that may moderate intervention effects. The investigators hypothesize that our
      interventions will cause change in the self-regulation targets most closely related to the
      intervention components (e.g., EF-focused intervention will change EF targets).
    
  