
    
      Human viral infections are controlled by the immune system. However, the multiple immune
      responses provoked by HIV infection do not control the infection in most people. The ability
      to specifically augment CTL responses with an immunotherapeutic vaccine may strengthen the
      containment of viremia afforded by antiretroviral agents and thereby extend the durability of
      viral suppression. The current study will attempt to determine whether therapeutic
      immunizations with HIV-1 immunogen and vCP1452 are safe and able to augment HIV-1 specific
      immune responses for a longer period of time than antiretroviral therapy alone, and if both
      agents are better than either by itself.

      Patients currently enrolled in A5058s under A5057/A5058s Versions 1.0 and 2.0 will be given
      the option of continuing their participation in A5058s through this independent study.
      Rollover patients register to Step II and begin treatment/evaluations on A5058s at the same
      study week that they were on in Versions 1.0 and 2.0 of A5057/A5058s. New patients enter Step
      I and will not need to register to Step II. Step I patients are stratified on the basis of
      HIV viral load, antiretroviral history, and current antiretroviral treatment. Within each
      stratum, patients are randomized to 1 of the following 4 treatment arms: HIV-1 immunogen plus
      ALVAC placebo, HIV-1 immunogen placebo plus ALVAC placebo, HIV-1 immunogen placebo plus
      vCP1452, or HIV-1 immunogen plus vCP1452. Patients receive an injection at study entry and
      every 12 weeks thereafter until the end of the study, a minimum of 2 years. Step II patients
      receive the same treatment as patients in Step I. Patients are evaluated every 12 weeks for
      clinical, immunologic, and virologic parameters. Patients continue taking the antiretroviral
      treatment that they were taking at study entry until reaching a virologic relapse as defined
      in the protocol. If no response to a new drug regimen occurs, or the antiretroviral therapy
      is not changed, immunizations may continue as long as the viral load remains below 5,000
      copies/ml.
    
  