
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Collect human tumor tissue and other biological specimens (blood, serum, and bone marrow)
      from patients with rhabdomyosarcoma or non-rhabdomyosarcoma soft tissue sarcoma diagnosed
      and/or treated at a Children's Oncology Group (COG) member institution.

      II. Provide a repository for storage of tissue and other biological specimens collected by
      COG investigators from these patients.

      III. Make these specimens available for approved projects by laboratory-based investigators.

      IV. Collect clinical data on these patients who are not being treated on a COG therapeutic
      study.

      V. Define and compare the clinical features of patient subgroups with alveolar
      rhabdomyosarcoma whose tumors carry the t(2;13), t(1;13) or neither translocation.

      VI. Investigate the relationship between evidence of submicroscopic disease and response rate
      (CR/PR), failure-free survival, and survival of patients with alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma, as
      determined by positive or negative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR)
      assay for the t(2:13) and t(1:13) on peripheral blood and bone marrow specimens obtained at
      diagnosis.

      VII. Compare the clinical, cytogenetic, and molecular biologic features of patient subgroups
      with anaplastic rhabdomyosarcoma and other subtypes of rhabdomyosarcoma.

      OUTLINE:

      Surgical tissue, bone marrow, and blood specimens are collected at diagnosis (initial or
      relapse) and, if applicable, at the development of a second primary tumor. Specimens are used
      for research purposes. A certificate of confidentiality protecting the identity of research
      participants in this project has been issued by the National Cancer Institute.

      Patients who are not enrolled on a Children's Oncology Group treatment trial are followed
      every 6 months for at least 10 years or until disease progression or development of a second
      malignancy.
    
  