
    
      Upon arrival, when patients are found to be febrile, the parent and patient are informed by
      the treating physician about their study eligibility. They are provided with study
      information and a consent form, and given the opportunity to discuss the study with a
      research nurse or assistant.

      Within 10 minutes a decision to consent for the study must be made, and if no consent is made
      the patient is excluded from the study.

      After consent into the study, study subjects will be randomized to arm 1,2,3 or 4.

      Study Medications: Arm 1,2,3,4:

      Will have an intravenous catheter placed by standard method practiced in the Al Saad
      Pediatric Emergency Center. All febrile patients admitted in the facility have an intravenous
      catheter placed as a standard practice, so they will not require an IV catheter simply for
      the purpose of delivering study medications. This will typically be a 24 gauge or 22 gauge
      angiocatheter, secured with tegaderm and tape. After placement of this IV catheter, the
      patient will receive the study medication(s).The dosing of these medications, specifically
      ibuprofen 10 mg/kg and paracetamol 15 mg/kg is standard dosing routinely used in pediatrics.

      Arm 1- Patients will receive IV Ibuprofen 10 mg/kg to a maximum of 400 mg intravenously over
      15 minutes. This medication will be diluted as per manufacturer instructions with 100 mL
      normal saline.

      Arm 2- Patients will receive 15 mg/kg IV Paracetamol to a maximum of 1000 mg intravenously
      over 15 minutes. This medication will be diluted as per manufacturer instructions with normal
      saline.

      Arm 3- Patients will receive an infusion of both IV Paracetamol and IV Ibuprofen. They will
      initially receive IV Ibuprofen as described above. Their IV catheter will then be flushed
      with 10 ml of normal saline, and the patient will receive IV Paracetamol as described above.

      Arm 4- Patients will receive PO ibuprofen given as a 100mg/5ml syrup or 200 mg tablets to a
      maximum of 400 mg. The treating nurse will ask the parental preference to use syrup or
      tablets. If they vomit the medication within 15 minutes of administration, another full dose
      will be administered.

      .
    
  