
    
      The purpose of this research study is to measure the chemicals produced by the brain after it
      is injured and also if Cyclosporine A treatment changes these chemicals. By doing this study,
      the investigators hope to learn if cyclosporine A therapy helps patients with this injury.

      The research procedures will happen at the University of Kentucky (UK) Chandler Medical
      Center. The study will last for the first 7 days while the participant is admitted to UK
      Medical Center, or until they are released. Participants will not be asked to stay longer in
      the hospital for this research study.

      Participants in this study will receive all therapies currently available for treatment of
      severe brain injury. Each participant will be assigned randomly (by chance) to either placebo
      (a substance without active drug) or cyclosporine A treatment. Neither the participant nor
      any of the study personnel will know what study treatment has been assigned to the
      participant.

      If assigned to the cyclosporine A treatment group (study drug) participants will be
      continuously administered the study drug through a tube placed into the vein. A placebo will
      be given to participants assigned to the placebo group.

      Blood and cerebrospinal fluid will be collected at the following time points (12, 24, 36, 48,
      60 and 72 hours) for research purposes. These tests will help us understand the participant's
      ability to make red and white blood cells to fight infection, how well their kidneys
      function, how well their liver functions, and triglyceride/cholesterol levels.

      Cerebrospinal fluid will only be collected from participants who have a drain catheter placed
      as part of their routine care.

      Daily blood collections will occur so the investigators can measure how much of the study
      drug is present, to assess the body chemicals from the brain and also for safety. Blood
      samples will be collected by using an already placed line through a vein or artery, or by
      puncturing the skin with a needle. The chemicals will be measured daily in the urine and also
      any fluid draining from the line placed into the head for medical management for up to 7
      days.

      Any unexpected events (side effects) possibly caused by cyclosporine A will be noted and
      medically managed by the physician. The investigators will be notified when there is need for
      intervention.

      After up to three days of continuous dosing, the study drug will be stopped, but the
      participant will continue to be carefully monitored for up to 7 days, or until they are
      released.

      Participants will receive the usual treatment for severe traumatic brain injury in addition
      to receiving the cyclosporine A treatment or placebo.
    
  