
    
      Introduction

      Many studies have reported an association between epilepsy, including nodding syndrome (NS),
      and onchocerciasis. A meta-analysis of African population-based surveys showed a variation in
      epilepsy prevalence consistent with onchocerciasis prevalence, with epilepsy prevalence being
      increased, on average, by 0.4% for each 10% increase in onchocerciasis prevalence. NS is an
      epileptic disorder occurring in children in onchocerciasis (river blindness) endemic regions,
      initially only observed in South Sudan, Uganda and Tanzania. NS occurs in previously health
      children, aged mainly between 5-18 years and is characterized by head-nodding, an atonic
      epileptic seizure. Individuals may also develop other types of seizures and stunted growth.
      NS should be considered part of a spectrum of onchocerciasis associated epileptic (OAE)
      disorders. We recently suggested that these epileptic disorders share etiological factors
      related to Onchocerca volvulus (OV) infection and therefore considered Ivermectin, used to
      treat Onchocerciasis, as a treatment option for OAE.

      One dose of Ivermectin eliminates microfilariae very rapidly. A mathematical model predicted
      that microfilariaedermia would be reduced by half 24 h after the intake of Ivermectin.
      Therefore, if the microfilariae load plays an important role in causing OAE, it may be that
      Ivermectin also has a rapid effect on the frequency of seizures.

      Ivermectin treatment may decrease seizure frequency in patients with OAE In a study in
      Kabarole district in Uganda in 1992, 34/91 (37%) patients reported some decrease in either
      the frequency or severity of seizures after one dose of Ivermectin (150 µg/kg). After being
      treated with Ivermectin, 13 (14%) individuals had no seizures for 3.7 months (on average).
      Seizures were unchanged in 51 (56%), and worsened in 6 (7%). In a recent trial in the DRC,
      comparing Moxidectin (an anti-OV experimental drug with a longer half-life than Ivermectin)
      with Ivermectin, 6 (80%) out of 7 OV infested patients with epilepsy became seizure free
      after treatment with Moxidectin or Ivermectin (the randomization code has not been broken
      yet). In one person seizure frequency was significantly reduced over the 18 month follow-up
      period. In this person, microfilariae remained present in skin snips, though at a lower level
      than before the onchocerciasis treatment. In all subjects who became seizure free, the skin
      snips too became microfilaria free.

      To assess whether Ivermectin treatment may reduce the frequency of seizures and leads to
      seizure freedom, we intend to conduct a short proof of concept randomized clinical trial to
      compare immediate Ivermectin treatment with delayed (after 4 months) Ivermectin treatment in
      onchocerciasis infested persons with epilepsy. The primary outcome is seizure freedom at 4
      months. Reducing the burden of epilepsy will have a major impact on quality of life and
      socio-economic status of families with affected members in Africa. If we are able to
      demonstrate an effect of Ivermectin on the frequency of seizures, this would be an extra
      argument that Onchocerciasis is causing epilepsy and that therefore we should increase our
      efforts to eliminate onchocerciasis.

      Methods

      Study design

      This is a proof of concept randomized treatment trial consisting of 2 treatment arms,
      immediate (arm A) and delayed (4 months later) Ivermectin treatment (arm B). A
      computer-based, pre-planned age and frequency of seizures stratified randomization list will
      be used. The trial will not be placebo-controlled as this will be costly and we do not expect
      this to greatly influence reporting of seizures, our primary outcome. Epilepsy patients in
      both arms will additionally receive anti-epileptic drugs (AED) following local guidelines of
      epilepsy treatment in DRC. Study investigators collecting and analysing data will be blinded
      for treatment.

      Study population, setting and enrollment.

      The trial will take place in selected villages in the Logo health zone an onchocerciasis
      endemic region in the Ituri province in the DRC in areas were so far mass Ivermectin
      administration has not been implemented but where the National onchocerciasis program is
      planning to start community directed distribution of Ivermectin in 2017. Pilot studies by our
      group in this area show prevalence estimates of OAE of approximately 5%.

      Before starting, the village chief and community health workers will be informed on the
      purpose and specifics of our study. When permission is obtained our medical team will visit
      the village and set up a mobile clinic. Patients that may fulfil eligibility criteria are
      selected and examined for a screening visit after informed consent is obtained from patient
      and/or caretaker in the local language (Alur). If the patient fulfils enrolment criteria
      he/she is invited to participate in the treatment trial. Detailed information about the trial
      is given in local language and enrollment informed consent is obtained.

      The study population consists of epilepsy patients of 5 years and above with onchocerciasis
      and without other obvious risk factors for epilepsy.

      Screening of epilepsy patients for OV infection

      After informed consent is obtained , trial candidates with epilepsy will be tested for the
      presence of antibodies to the parasite antigen Ov16 with the Onchocerciasis IgG4 rapid test
      (SD BIOLINE Onchocerciasis IgG4 rapid test, Alere, Standard Diagnostics, Inc.; Yongin,
      Republic of Korea). Moreover, a skin snip will be taken from the left and right iliac crests
      with a Holtz corneoscleral punch (2mm). One sterilized punch will be used per subject. Each
      snip will be weighed on an analytical balance and incubated for 24 hours in isotonic saline
      in a well of a flat-bottomed microtitre plate. The microfilariae that emerged will be counted
      using an inverted microscope. The number of microfilaria in each well and the weight of the
      associated skin snip before incubation will be recorded. The mean of the skin microfilarial
      (mf) density = mf count/weight of snip across all 4 skin snips will be calculated and
      recorded as mf/mg. Skin biopsies will further be stored in 90% ethanol to be tested for Ov by
      an in-house PCR method.

      Diagnosis of Onchocerciasis infection will be made when microfilaria are detected in skin
      snip and/or antibodies to the parasite antigen Ov16 are detected.

      To identify eligible epilepsy patients with generalized tonic clonic seizures we will use a
      10-item Epilepsy Questionnaire previously used in international epilepsy prevalence studies.
      A persons identified on the basis of this questionnaire as possibly a person with epilepsy
      will be examined by a neurologist to make an accurate diagnosis according to definitions
      proposed by the International League Against Epilepsy (ILAE). A case of epilepsy will be
      defined as a patient who had (1) at least two times, unprovoked and without fever, lost
      consciousness with convulsions with a minimal time difference of 24h between the two events
      or (2) one unprovoked seizure and a probability of future seizures similar to the general
      recurrence risk after 2 unprovoked seizures. Detailed questions among others on the age of
      seizure onset, seizure frequency, family history of seizures are part of the baseline
      questionnaire.

      Blood samples will be tested for Taenia solium antibodies and antigen, but in the absence of
      a point of care test, results will only become available after screening. Therefore these
      test results are not part of the eligibility criteria. However, they will be taken into
      account in analysing the results.

      Ivermectin treatment strategy

      Following recommendations 1 dose of 150 µg/kg Ivermectin (Mectizan®) will be administered
      orally, treatment will be directly observed (DOT). Ivermectin is generally well tolerated.
      Common side effects of ivermectin include fever, itching, skin rash, oedema, myalgia and head
      ache.

      Anti-epileptic drug treatment strategy

      Both treatment arms will receive anti-epileptic treatment according to a standardized
      protocol. Treatment will start with phenobarbital 100 mg once a day which may be increased to
      150-200 mg per day after 2 months if there is insufficient seizure reduction (less than 50%
      reduction of seizure frequency). If there are contraindications for use of phenobarbital
      (intellectual or behavioural disorders) or persistent side effects, carbamazepine will be
      prescribed (in adults initial dose 100-200 mg per day, maintenance dose 400-1400 mg, in
      children initial dose is 5 mg/kg/day, maintenance dose 10-30 mg/kg day). In the case of side
      effects related to carbamazepine we will start with sodium valproate (in adults initial dose
      400 mg/day, maintenance dose 400-2000 mg/day, in children initial dose 15-20 mg/kg/day and
      maintenance dose 15-30 mg/kg/day). In the case of carbamazepine and sodium valproate we will
      prescribe initial dose in all patients and will increase this to the lowest maintenance dose
      at 2 weeks visit. In case of dose-determined side effects dose reduction is permitted. Dose
      may be increased at the 2 months visit if there is insufficient seizure control (less than
      50% reduction in seizure frequency). Individual treatment decisions will be made by the team
      physician who has received specific training in epilepsy treatment and can consult with the
      team neurologist. Patient and family will be informed on the following regarding epilepsy
      treatment;

        -  the delay in onset of effect and the time course of treatment;

        -  potential side-effects and the risk of these symptoms; to seek help promptly if these
           are distressing;

        -  the risk of abrupt discontinuation/withdrawal symptoms on missing doses;

        -  the need for regular follow-up.

      Compliance

      Indirect (pill count) and direct (AED blood levels) methods will be used to check for
      compliance to AED treatment. Community volunteers will be trained to assist the research team
      and local health team with the follow up of the trial participants and for compliance
      monitoring at the home of the participants. The centre visit at week 2 is scheduled to check
      for side effects in order to minimize withdrawal from AED treatment. Although non-compliant
      patients are expected to be equally distributed among treatment arms because of
      randomization, and therefore not to influence outcome, it is of importance to put effort in
      minimizing non-compliance. Community volunteers will also be trained to become community
      directed distributors of Ivermectin after completion of the trial.

      Endpoints

      Primary endpoint is proportion of patients who have achieved seizure freedom after 4 months.
      Seizure freedom will be defined as no seizures the last month of the trial (month 4).
      Secondary endpoints are proportion of patients at month 4 with >50 % reduction in seizure
      frequency compared to reported seizure frequency at randomization, and microfilarial load
      measured in skin snip. The seizure frequency data will be collected starting from day 1 using
      a "seizure diary". Reduction of seizures will be compared between Ivermectin and
      non-Ivermectin arms.

      Baseline and follow-up procedures

      At baseline information will be collected on seizure semiology, frequency, risk factors,
      treatment history and Ivermectin treatment in the past. A full physical and neurological
      examination will be performed together with serological testing and skin snip examination.
      Weight and height measurements will be carried out and the participants body mass index will
      be calculated at baseline and follow-up visits.Trial participants will be instructed how to
      fill out a seizure calendar and record intake of AEDs. Two weeks after randomization a centre
      visit is scheduled to assess potential side effects of AED. Side effects will be recorded
      using a structured questionnaire inquiring about known side effects of phenobarbital,
      carbamazepine or sodium valproate. To assess seizure frequency centre visits are scheduled
      after 2 weeks, 1, 2, 3 and 4 months. To minimize loss to follow-up we use GPS coordinates to
      locate study participants. During these visits neurological and physical examination will be
      repeated, adverse events will be evaluated and we will count AED pills for indirect
      measurement of AED compliance. At the 4th visit skin snip examination and OV serology will be
      repeated. Additionally, AED blood levels will be measured to directly assess AED compliance.

      If a participant is not able to visit the study centre, a home visit will be performed to
      monitor AED use and seizure frequency.

      Data Analysis

      Sample size calculation

      It is expected that 4 months of treatment with AEDs (phenobarbital, carbamazepine or sodium
      valproate) will lead to seizure freedom in 50 % of the patients (experience of R Idro in
      Uganda). In a clinical trial performed in Rethy (Ituri) comparing the safety and
      parasitological efficacy of Moxidectin vs Ivermectin treatment in persons with OV infection
      not receiving anti-epileptic treatment, 6 (80%) of 7 trial participants with epilepsy were
      seizure free at 4 months.

      Null hypothesis: The probability of seizure freedom at 4 months for immediate Ivermectin
      treatment is equal to the probability of seizure freedom at months for delayed Ivermectin
      treatment. If we expect that seizure freedom at 4 months will be obtained in 50% of the
      participants with phenobarbital alone and that with additional Ivermectin treatment 80% of
      patients will achieve seizure freedom at 4 months, about 104 subjects (52 per group) are
      needed to achieve the power of 90% to reject the null hypothesis at the 5% significance
      level. Considering that 5% of the patients will be lost to follow up 110 patients will be
      enrolled in the trial.

      All comparative analyses will be based on the intention- to- treat principle: all randomized
      patients will be included in the analysis according to the result of the randomization.

      For the primary endpoint, the null hypothesis will be tested by comparing the observed
      proportion of responses in arm A with the corresponding proportion in arm B at the one sided
      5% significance level by using the Cochran Mantel Haenszel test for comparison of two
      independent proportions. The Cochran Mantel Haenszel test will be performed controlling for
      baseline frequency of seizures. The same test will be used for the secondary end point.
      Change vs baseline in skin micofilarial load at month 4 will be analyzed by means of the
      T-test. Frequencies of seizures will be compared between participants with and without
      positive microfilaria skin snips at month 4.

      Patients lost to follow up will be regarded as non-responders. Similarly, patients for whom
      the AED regimen had to be adapted because of an increasing number of seizures will be
      considered as non-responders. AED treatment changes because of side effects or possible
      interactions with other drugs will not be considered a treatment failure.

      Data handling and record keeping

      All relevant clinical information will be collected on tablets. The identity and information
      of trial participants is kept confidential. Data will be entered in a web-based electronic
      database, compliant with GCP, as defined by the International Conference on Harmonisation
      (ICH), that is access-controlled and data anonymized.

      Monitoring, Oversight, and Reporting

      The trial Sponsor is the University of Antwerp. The study team will undergo Good Clinical and
      Laboratory Practice (GCP, GCLP) training) protocol training and training in special
      procedures. An independent experienced clinical trial monitor will monitor the trial and
      report to the Sponsor. The monitoring will include checking the consent procedure, clinical
      event reporting, compliance with protocol SOPs, and treatment adherence. Data queries will be
      handled according to a quality management plan. A Data Safety Monitoring Board will be
      established to review safety, not for efficacy as early-stopping for efficacy is not
      considered. All adverse study drug reactions, serious adverse events and deaths will be
      reported to the Sponsor.
    
  