
    
      A number of individual and group interventions targeting maternal depression have been
      developed and tested, mostly in developed countries. Group-based approaches have usually been
      used to improve outcomes in children through parent-training programmes. A meta-analysis of
      such programmes shows that these can also be effective in improving psychosocial and mental
      health of the mothers. However, a number of health system and cultural differences make it
      difficult for mental health interventions to be extrapolated from the developed to the
      developing world.

      Design:

      The interventions will be assessed using a prospective randomised controlled design, using
      two groups: psychosocial group therapy (Learning Through Play + principles of Cognitive
      Behaviour Therapy)and treatment as usual.

      Defining the intervention:

      The intervention will include a supportive component, an educational component, and practical
      advice on using health services, a parenting component, and a psychosocial component. The
      objective will be to help mothers feel supported, empowered and confident about their
      parenting abilities, which in turn may help to reduce their level of depression. Further
      qualitative testing of the intervention will take place to refine the manualized
      intervention.

      Psychiatric Measures:

      The level of severity of depression will be assessed using the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression
      Scale (EPDS) (Cox and Holden, 1994) and the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS)
      (Hamilton, 1960).

      Women scoring 12 or over on the EPDS and 13 or over on the HDRS will be asked to undergo a
      diagnostic interview using the Clinical Interview Schedule-Revised (CIS-R).

      To measure mother infant attachment the Maternal Attachment Inventory (Muller, 1994) will be
      used.

      OSLO-3 item Social Support Scale (Dalgard, 1996) will be used to measure social support.

      The adapted Verona Service Satisfaction Scale (Tansella, 1991) will be used to measure
      patient satisfaction with support and treatment.

      Quality of life will be measured by using the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D).

      The qualitative interviews will be used to elicit information about previous attempts for
      help with mental health issues and questions regarding participants understanding of their
      postnatal depression and their future expectations from a perinatal service.
    
  