
    
      Objective: Uveitis refers to intraocular inflammatory diseases that are an important cause of
      visual loss. Standard systemic immunosuppressive medications for uveitis can cause
      significant adverse effects and many patients continue to experience disease flare-ups.
      Ustekinumab is a human IL-12 and -23 antagonist. The involvement of IL-12 and IL-23 in the
      pathophysiology of uveitis and other autoimmune diseases known to be associated with uveitis
      suggests that ustekinumab could be a potential treatment for uveitis. The study objective is
      to investigate the safety, tolerability and potential efficacy of ustekinumab as a possible
      treatment for active intermediate uveitis, posterior uveitis or panuveitis.

      Study Population: The first cohort will consist of five participants with active intermediate
      uveitis, posterior uveitis or panuveitis who meet the inclusion criteria. The second cohort
      will include up to four participants with active intermediate uveitis, posterior uveitis or
      panuveitis who meet the inclusion criteria. Up to eleven participants may be enrolled, as up
      to two participants may be accrued in the second cohort to account for participants who
      withdraw from the study prior to Week 16.

      Design: This is a prospective, non-randomized, uncontrolled, two-arm pilot study to evaluate
      of ustekinumab as a possible treatment for active intermediate uveitis, posterior uveitis or
      panuveitis. Five participants in the first cohort will receive a 90 mg subcutaneous (SC)
      injection of ustekinumab at baseline and a second and third injection at Week 4 and 8 for a
      total of 3 injections. For the second cohort, up to four participants will receive an initial
      high, weight-based dose of ustekinumab via intravenous (IV) injection (up to 55 kg, 260 mg (2
      vials); greater than 55 kg to 85 kg, 390 mg (3 vials); greater than 85 kg, 520 mg (4 vials)),
      followed by a single 90 mg subcutaneous injection at Week 8. In participants who demonstrate
      allergic reaction to the first dose, the second dose can also be administered as IV infusion
      with pre-infusion desensitization instead of a subcutaneous injection as it allows better
      control on the rate of drug administration. Participants will continue in the study for a
      total of 28 weeks and will be able to receive standard of care after the first 16 weeks.

      Outcome Measures: For each cohort, the primary outcome is the number of participants who
      experience treatment response by Week 16. Secondary outcomes for each cohort include changes
      in visual acuity, the number of participants who experience a recurrence, the number of days
      to recurrence, presence or extent of macular edema, the amount of retino-vascular leakage,
      changes in retinal thickening, the length of time to quiescence and the ability to taper
      concomitant immunosuppressive medications. Safety outcomes for each cohort include the number
      and severity of systemic and ocular toxicities and adverse events, the proportion of
      participants who experience vision loss of greater than or equal to 15 letters as measured by
      Electronic Visual Acuity (EVA) and the number of participants who experience a substantial
      rise in elevated intraocular pressure (IOP).
    
  