
    
      Recruitment has been suspended because of the COVID-19 crisis and the Iowa City VA is just
      beginning to have face to face appointments.

      The hypotheses to be studied in the following specific aims is that changes in cornea
      sensitivity to a hyperosmotic solution will provide a novel screening tool for early
      diagnosis of diabetic peripheral neuropathy. The investigators also propose that clinical
      feasibility studies will demonstrate that treatment with fish oil will improve outcome
      measures of diabetic peripheral neuropathy.

      Specific aims:

        1. Determine if the reflex squinting and blinking response to the application of a
           hyperosmotic solution to the cornea is impaired in patients with type 2 diabetes with or
           without peripheral neuropathy.

           a. Determine whether changes in corneal sensitivity correlate with loss of cornea nerves
           in the sub-epithelial layer of the cornea and symptom scores for PN.

        2. Determine if treating human subjects with type 2 diabetic peripheral neuropathy with an
           oral fish oil supplement increases circulating levels of resolvin D1, restores cornea
           sensitivity to a hyperosmotic eye drop challenge and improves corneal nerve density and
           symptom scores for peripheral neuropathy.

      For this first phase the investigators will enroll 75 subjects to participate (Fifty subjects
      with type 2 diabetes; 25 with clinically detectable peripheral neuropathy and 25 without
      neuropathy will be enrolled as well as 25 age-matched control subjects). In the second phase
      of the study the investigators will investigate whether increased intake of fish oil improves
      diabetic peripheral neuropathy. Subjects will receive 4g (2g twice a day) of fish oil per day
      in capsule form.

      The investigators first introduced fish oil as a successful treatment of peripheral
      neuropathy in pre-clinical studies with diabetic rodents and will now expand those studies ,
      culminating in this feasibility study of treatment using human subjects with type 2 diabetes
      and neuropathy. In this study non diabetic subjects (control) and subjects with type 2
      diabetes with mild to moderate peripheral neuropathy will be recruited from phase 1 of this
      study to participate in the phase 2 treatment phase of the study. A baseline determination of
      their neuropathy (Subjective Peripheral Neuropathy Screen Questionnaire) including evaluation
      of corneal nerve structure and sensitivity and blood sample will be performed. Tests besides
      the questionnaire to be used to screen the subjects for peripheral neuropathy will include 10
      g mono filament, vibration threshold, ankle reflex and sensitivity to warm and cold stimulus.
      Subjects will then be instructed to take 2 fish oil capsules twice a day. Subjects will
      return at 4, 8 and 12 months for re-evaluation. If successful, the feasibility study will
      provide a proof of concept to advance fish oils to a larger clinical trial for diabetic
      peripheral neuropathy.

      Visual acuity (subject's vision) will be measured by having the subject read the smallest
      letters on an eye chart with their glasses or best correction. This takes about 5 minutes or
      less.

      Slit lamp examination: A standard slit lamp examination will be performed to insure that no
      exclusion criteria are present and no corneal abrasion is present.

      The corneal sensitivity procedure will consist of applying a drop of 2.5% and 5% Muro 128 to
      the eye and recording the blinking and squinting response over the next 5 minutes. Based on
      preclinical studies it is anticipated that normal subjects will have an increased blinking
      and squinting response seconds after the addition of the hyperosmotic solution (5% Muro 128),
      whereas diabetic subjects with neuropathy will have a attenuated response.

      Corneal sensation threshold: Corneal sensation will also be measured in each eye using a
      handheld Luneau Cochet -Bonnet aesthesiometer. This device contains a thin, retractable,
      nylon monofilament in which the length (stiffness) is varied between 6.0 mm and 1.0 mm until
      the subject can detect the touch on their central cornea, resulting in a blink reflex. In
      each eye, testing will begin with the 6.0 mm filament, after which the length will be
      progressively shortened by 0.5 mm until the patient reports sensing the corneal contact. Each
      eye will be tested three times and the best performance (in terms of longest filament that is
      perceived to touch the cornea) will be recorded as the corneal sensation threshold.

      Ocular Coherence Tomography (OCT):

      The thickness of the optic nerve and macula will also be measured inside of the eye using a
      special camera that forms an image of the layers of the retina. The imaging is harmless and
      measures the thickness or structural health of retinal layers and optic nerve. A new feature
      of OCT is eye-tracking. Eye tracking does not take any longer since it is done simultaneously
      with the imaging. Eye tracking during OCT may give us new insight into some eye disorders.
      This test takes approximately 10 minutes.

      A hand-held pupillometer/electroretinogram device (RETeval, LKC) will be held in front of the
      subject s eye, but will not touch the eye. The device will provide a brief, a series of brief
      light stimuli and then record the pupil response and the elicited electrical response from
      the retina from a surface skin patch (electrode) placed below each eye, from the light as a
      measure of whether the inherent sensitivity of the eye in the retina is normal. The
      investigators will repeat this in the left eye. The visible light stimulus is safe and is
      given at an intensity experienced in normal daily light exposures. The test takes about 2
      minutes per eye.
    
  