
    
      Objectives

      The main objective of this pilot RCT is to examine if distraction by using a humanoid robot
      during a port-a-cath (PAC) puncture or peripheral venous cannulation (PVC) (I) contributes to
      less negative pain and pain-related fear memory biases (O) in comparison with the usual care
      (C) in children with cancer or CID between 8 and 12 years old and their parents (P).
      Furthermore, it wil bel investigated if the use of a humanoid robot to distract children with
      cancer or CID during respectively a PAC puncture or PVC contributes to lower levels of
      self-reported experienced pain-related fear and pain during the PAC puncture or PVC and less
      negative expectations regarding future painful procedures. The investigators expect to see
      the same positive effects in the proxy reports of the parents. Also, the role of possible
      moderator variables such as child's self-efficacy, attention control, attention bias and
      energy-balance related behavior, child's and parent's pain catastrophizing about the child's
      pain, parent's emotions and responses to children's pain episodes will be investigated.

      Methods

      Participant recruitment

      Patients will be recruited by the oncology department and day unit of the children's hospital
      of the University Hospital Brussels and Ghent. All children between 8-12y with cancer and a
      PAC and children with a CID undergoing PVC every 2-6 weeks, and their parents will be
      informed about the study and receive a consent form. The recruitment procedure will start in
      July 2019 and pursue until the calculated sample size is reached.

      Given the observation that children up to 12 years of age are more likely than children over
      12 years to believe that a robot possesses human characteristics, the study will focus on
      children between the ages of 8 and 12 years. The lower age limit is chosen because child
      self-report questionnaires have been validated from that age. Self-reports in children also
      require a variety of cognitive skills, which develop gradually and are only acquired at the
      age of 7 or 8 in most children. Children and their parents can only be included in the study
      if they meet the inclusion criteria and after written informed consent from the
      (co-participating) parent/guardian and child is obtained. All parents/guardians and children
      will receive verbal and written information on all aspects of the study prior to consent for
      participation.

      Sample size calculations were performed with G*Power 3.1.9.2. The a priori sample size
      calculation was based on the treatment effects on children's pain-related fear memories in
      the study of Pickrell et al. (2007) and targeting a study power of (80%) with α=0.05.
      Allocation ratio (N2/N1) was defined as 1, resulting in 47 patients in the experimental group
      and 47 in the control group (n=94 for the total sample size). Accounting for a 10% dropout
      and keeping in mind that every sample size calculation has its limitations, the investigators
      propose studying at least 52 patients per group for this study. Hence, the total number of
      participants to be included will be equal to 104. Because of the low number of new cases of
      childhood cancer (<15 years of age) per year in Belgium (2), the monocentric nature of this
      trial and the limited time for data collection (1 year 9 months) the calculated sample size
      remains as a target.

      Risk management: In case of slow patient recruitment or a dropout rate that exceeds 10%, the
      age range of the participants will be extended (1) and French speaking children and their
      parents will no longer be excluded (2).

      Assessments:

      Using an online questionnaire battery (↑ study feasibility), a number of measures will be
      assessed in the participating children and their parent(s). Online questionnaires will set up
      with LimeSurvey.

      Risk management: In case the online questionnaires are not filled in by the start of the
      procedure, the test day will be moved to the next puncture procedure.

      Measurement time points: T0 = day before puncture procedure, T1 = immediately before puncture
      procedure, T2 = immediately after puncture procedure, T3 = one week after puncture procedure

      Demographics and medical data

      At T0 demographics (e.g. age, sex, ethnicity, socioeconomic status) and medical information
      will be collected from the patient's clinical charts and will be further supplemented by
      child and parent report.

      Anthropometrics

      At T1, basic anthropometrics (body height, body weight, waist circumference) will be gathered
      from each participating child. In addition, the body composition (i.e., body mass index, fat
      mass, fat free mass, muscle mass, intra- and extra cellular water, etc.) will be determined
      by a body composition analyzer (Tanita).

      Pressure hyperalgesia: pressure pain threshold (PPT) - CHILD

      At T1, pressure hyperalgesia of all participating children will be assessed by evaluating
      pressure pain thresholds (PPTs) at the dominant tibialis anterior and trapezius muscle by
      means of a digital pressure algometer (FPX 50, Wagner Instruments, Greenwich, CT, USA). To
      familiarize the subject with PPT measurements, one familiarization session will be done at
      the idominant upper leg. This technique to evaluate PPTs is a well-known and well validated
      method in the exploration of pathophysiological mechanisms involved in pain. High reliability
      levels of this technique are apparent from various studies. Also, pressure algometry has
      proven to have an excellent intra-rater agreement, a satisfactory inter-rater agreement and
      is well tolerated even by very young children.

      Pain catastrophizing Scale for Children (PCS-C) - CHILD

      At T0, children's catastrophic thinking about pain will be assessed with the Dutch version of
      the Pain Catastrophizing Scale for Children (PCS-C). The PCS-C consists of 13 items
      describing thoughts and feelings which the child may experience when they are in pain, in
      independent but strongly related dimensions of rumination, magnification and helplessness.
      Children are asked to rate how frequently they experience these thoughts and feelings on a
      5-point Likert scale (0 = 'not at all', 4 = 'extremely'). The PCS-C results in a total score
      (ranging from 0 to 52). The PCS-C has been shown to be a reliable and valid tool for children
      of 9 to 15 years old and a strong internal consistency for pain catastrophizing (α=.90) is
      already demonstrated in the pediatric population.

      Pain Catastrophizing Scale for Children (PCS-C state) - CHILD

      Just before (T1) and immediately after (T2) the puncture procedure, the extent of child state
      (i.e. situation-specific) catastrophizing thoughts about the procedure will be assessed using
      an adaptation the PCS-C. Based on previous research, the investigators use a state version of
      the PCS-C, consisting of 1 adapted item from each of the 3 subscales. A mean score of these 3
      items will be calculated ranging from 0 to 10. Research has shown a significant association
      between child state catastrophizing and child pain intensity.

      Attentional Control Scale for Children (ACS-C) - CHILD

      At T0, attention control will be assessed using the Attentional Control Scale for Children
      (ACS-C), which is a 20 item self-rating scale that assesses abilities to focus and shift
      attention. Ten statements assess the focusing component of attention (''When I concentrate
      myself, I do not notice what is happening in the room around me'') and the other ten
      statements assess the shifting of attentional resources (''When I am doing something, I can
      easily stop and switch to some other task''). A higher score on this scale indicates a better
      capacity of attentional control. Several studies report good internal consistency of the
      ACS-C.

      Attention Bias Assessment (dot-probe task) - CHILD

      At T1, all participating children will be asked to complete a dot-probe task, which is a
      well-investigated reaction time task designed to measure selective attention to threat. In
      this dot-probe task, a threatening (i.e., pain) and neutral stimulus are presented
      simultaneously (i.e., a painful child face paired with a neutral child face) at two different
      spatial locations on a screen for a short time. Because both stimuli are in different spatial
      locations, they compete for attention. After the appearance of these stimuli, a dot probe
      emerges at the location of the threatening/pain stimulus (congruent presentation) or at the
      location of the neutral stimulus (incongruent presentation). The assignment of attention is
      measured by the time needed to respond to the dot probe. It is reasoned that responding to
      the probe will be faster when the child's attention is already allocated to location where
      the probe appears. Most probe detection studies found indeed that anxious individuals respond
      faster to congruent trials than to incongruent trials (congruency effect). This task is
      implicit, does not require instruction, and subjects need no or minimal training to perform
      the test successfully. To enhance personal salience of the dot-probe task, children will be
      informed that pictures they will see during the dot-probe task are derived from other
      children who underwent a puncture procedure.

      Energy balance-related behavior (ENERGY CSS child) - CHILD

      At T0, a selection of questions regarding physical activity and sedentary behavior of the
      ENERGY Cross-Sectional Survey (ENERGY CSS child) used in the ENERGY-project will be assessed
      by the participating children. This ENERGY-child questionnaire was developed in order to
      assess energy balance-related behaviors of the child as well as personal, family and
      school-environmental determinants related to these behaviors. The questionnaire has been
      shown to have good test-retest reliability and moderate to good construct validity for the
      large majority of items.

      Numerical Rating Scale for anticipated pain and pain-related fear (NRS-11) - CHILD&PROXY

      Before (T1), immediately after (T2) and 1 week after (T3) the puncture procedure, child's
      pain-related fear and pain with regard to the procedure will be assessed using an 11-point
      1-item scale with the anchors of 0 (not scared) and 10 (extremely scared), and 0 (no pain)
      and 10 (extremely painful). Research has shown that the NRS-11 and FPS-R are strongly
      associated (r = 0.78,p < 0.001) and that the score distribution of the NRS-11 is comparable
      with that of the FPS-R. Miró et al. (2009) showed good convergent, discriminant and criterion
      validity for the NRS-11.

      Faces Pain Scale-Revised (FPS-R) - CHILD&PROXY

      Before (T1), immediately after (T2) and 1 week after (T3) the puncture procedure, child's
      pain with regard to the puncture procedure will be assessed using The Faces Pain
      Scale-Revised (FPS-R). This is a revised version of the original scale, which was developed
      by Bieri et al. (1990) for the self-assessment of pain severity by children. The revised
      scale consists of 6 sex-neutral line drawings illustrating an increasing level of pain
      intensity from the most left face to the most right face. The participant responds by
      indicating which of the 6 faces corresponds to his or her level of pain. It is easy to
      administer and requires no equipment except for the photocopied faces. Its adequate
      psychometric properties have already emerged from several studies.

      Children's fear scale (CFS) - CHILD&PROXY

      Before (T1), immediately after (T2) and 1 week after (T3) the puncture procedure, child's
      pain-related fear with regard to the puncture procedure will be assessed using the Children's
      Fear Scale (CFS). This scale is based on the Faces Anxiety Scale, developed by McKinley et
      al. (2003). This one-item scale consists of a row of 5 sex-neutral faces varying from a not
      afraid (neutral) face on the left to a face that shows extreme fear on the right. The
      participant responds by indicating which of the 5 faces corresponds to his or her level of
      pain-related fear. It is easy to administer and requires no equipment except for the
      photocopied faces. The scale has been shown to have a good interrater reliability and
      test-retest reliability.

      Self-efficacy (1 item) - CHILD&PROXY

      Before (T1), immediately after (T2) and 1 week after (T3) the puncture procedure, the child
      and the parent will score the same question about how he/she or his/her child is
      dealing/dealt with the puncture procedure on a standard 11-point numeric rating scale from 0
      (not good at all) to 10 (extremely good).

      Pain Catastrophizing Scale for Parents (PCS-P) - PARENT

      At T0, parent's catastrophic thinking about their child's pain will be assessed with the
      Dutch version of the Pain Catastrophizing Scale for Parents (PCS-P). The PCS-P consists of 13
      items describing different thoughts and feelings that parents may experience in relation to
      their child's pain, in independent but strongly related dimensions of rumination,
      magnification and helplessness. Parents are asked to rate how frequently they experience
      these thoughts and feelings on a 5-point Likert scale (0 = 'not at all', 4 = 'extremely').
      The developers reported strong internal consistency (α=.93) and validity as demonstrated by
      associations with parent distress and child disability.

      Pain Catastrophizing Scale for Parents (PCS-P state) - PARENT

      Before (T1) and immediately after (T2) the puncture procedure, the extent of parental state
      (i.e. situation-specific) catastrophizing thoughts about the procedure will be assessed using
      an adaptation of PCS-P. Based on previous research, the investigators use a PCS-P state,
      consisting of 1 adapted item from each of the 3 subscales. A mean score of these 3 items will
      be calculated ranging from 0 to 10.

      Inventory of parent/caregiver responses to the children's pain experience (IRPEDNA) - PARENT

      To measure the responses of the parent to their child's pain episodes at T0, a shortened of
      the inventory of parent/caregiver responses to the children's pain experience (IRPEDNA) will
      be used. This scale is a self-administered questionnaire with three subscales: (1)
      solicitousness, (2) discouragement, and (3) promotion of well-behaviors and coping. The
      shortened version of 10 items only includes solicitousness and promotion of well-behaviors.
      All items reflect actions and behaviors that the parents may enact after seeing the
      children's pain behaviors. A good internal consistency of the 3 subscales has been
      demonstrated (coefficient alphas of 0.87, 0.83 and 0.87 respectively) and the subscales also
      show good criterion-related validity.

      Emotions of the parents regarding their child undergoing a painful procedure - PARENT

      Before (T1) and immediately after (T2) the puncture procedure, a series of emotion adjectives
      is used to assess the emotions of the parents in response to the child's painful procedure.
      This method is based on the work of Batson et al. (1987). All emotion adjectives will be
      rated on an 11-point scale ranging from 0 (not at all) to 10 (extremely). This method is
      short and easy-to-complete, which lends itself well to adapt to assess distress in response
      to a specific situation, in this case parental distress as a reaction to their children's
      painful puncture procedure. Based on Batson et al. (1987) and with the aim of reflecting
      self-oriented emotional responses or distress, 4 adjectives will be presented (worried,
      upset, anxious and sad). The mean score of these 4 adjectives will be calculated, whereby
      higher scores represent higher levels of parental distress. This method has proven to be
      valid and reliable.

      Total time of procedure

      The total time of duration of the procedure will be registered for each participant using a
      stopwatch, starting at the point at which the door closes after arrival of each person
      concerned in the room and ending when the puncture procedure is totally finished (everything
      is fixated on the body with a bandage). In this way, a difference in the duration of the
      procedure can possibly be established between the usual care group and the robot intervention
      group.

      Kalinox® registration

      Whether or not and how much Kalinox® (mixture of nitrous oxide (50 %) and oxygen (50 %)) is
      administered via a respirator during the puncture procedure is registered for each
      participant.

      Randomization procedure and intervention:

      Randomization

      Stratified block randomization (balanced by sex (M/F) and age (8-9 year/10-12 years)) will be
      used to assign patients to the control group or experimental group. Randomization will be
      executed by an independent researcher who will not be involved in treatment provision,
      assessments or in statistical analyses. This independent researcher will prepare a list with
      patient numbers/codes and the group allocation that results from this randomization
      procedure. Group allocation will take place after baseline assessments have been performed.
      Both groups will have the same people present in the operating room: 1 child, 1 parent, 1 or
      2 nurses, 1 researcher.

      Intervention:

      Usual care

      All the performed punctures are in any case part of the standard/usual care. So, no extra
      puncture procedures are scheduled for this study. Within the usual care, no one of the
      attendees in the room will have specific interaction with the child during this procedure,
      with the exception of normal/necessary interaction by the nurse and/or parent. The child will
      sit down on the treatment table with the legs stretched out in front of him and the
      puncture-side arm in a 90-90 position next to the head supported by the table (cancer
      patients) or stretched out and lying down along the body (CID patients), with the nurse at
      the puncture side and the parent at the other side standing next to him. The researcher is
      also present in the room, within the child's field of vision. At the end of the procedure,
      the nurse tells the child that he/she did very well.

      Robot-assisted puncture procedure

      During the experimental intervention, the child, a nurse, one of the parents/guardians, a
      researcher and the humanoid robot NAO (H25 Academic Edition, Aldebaran Robotics, Paris,
      France) will be present in the same room. The child will sit down in the same position as
      with the usual care. Next to the patient a humanoid robot of three-foot tall will sit on eye
      level on a slanted reading table, at the non-puncture side. The nurse will carry out the
      puncture procedure as performed as usual. The robot is programmed to distract the child
      during the entire procedure (before, during and after the puncture) by playing a game with
      the child based on his/her interests. The child can therefore choose between a number of
      games in different themes. In the end the robot tells the child that he/she did very well.
      During the whole intervention, the robot will be re-activated for each phase only when the
      child and the nurse are ready.

      Remarks:

      Whether or not and how much Kalinox® (mixture of nitrous oxide (50 %) and oxygen (50 %)) is
      administered via a respirator during the procedure is registered for each participant.
      Breathing the gas mixture causes the child to feel a bit drowsy, but the child's awareness
      and communication possibilities are preserved.

      After all child and parent questions have been filled out, a closed envelope will be handed
      to the parent. This envelope contains the questionnaires that the parent and child will be
      asked to answer within 1 week after the procedure in a telephone interview. This telephone
      interview is aimed to assess child and parent (proxy) pain/pain-related fear memory, future
      pain/pain-related fear expectancies and child and parent self-efficacy expectancies towards
      future similar procedures. Also a free memory recall and a prompted recall about contextual
      details is conducted in the children. Parents and children are instructed to leave this
      envelope closed until they are asked to open it in the telephone interview.
    
  