
    
      Urogenital region accounts for 9% of the total human microbiome. The role of vaginal
      microbioma in infertility and assisted reproductive technologies has not yet been clarified.
      It is thought that microorganisms such as mycoplasma, chlamydia and Neiseria gonorrhea are
      associated with infertility, and changes in subclinical microbiota such as bacterial
      vaginosis (BV) may be a risk factor for subfertility. The majority of the normal elements of
      the vaginal flora are the various Lactobacillus species. Lactobacilli constitute a healthy
      environment for the embryo in the pre- and peri-conception period. They are thought to
      support implantation not only by their presence but also by the lactic acid, hydrogen
      peroxide, bacteriocin and probiotics they produce. Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is the reduction
      of lactobacilli in the dominance of the vaginal microbiota and the transition of the
      microbial environment to the dominance of Gardnella vaginalis.The two main functions of
      lactobacilli in translating the balances in the reproductive system in favor of successful
      implantation and pregnancy rates; lactic acid production and H 2 O 2 recovery. It has been
      shown that up to 40% of patients undergoing in vitro fertilization (IVF) cycles have abnormal
      reproductive tract microbiata. To date, studies on vaginal microbiata and implantation have
      been carried out to identify vaginal microbiome by genetic sequencing of the vaginal
      specimens. In these studies, endometrial microbiota; When lactobacilli were classified as
      dominant (> 90%) and non-lactobacilli were dominant; In the presence of lactobacilli
      non-dominant microbiota, decreased implantation, pregnancy and ongoing pregnancy rates and
      more negative reproductive results were obtained.

      To date, the limited number of studies evaluating the effects of lactobacilli on assisted
      reproductive methods success and implantation; vaginal or endometrial lactobacilli burden was
      evaluated. Therefore, for the first time in our study; The aim of this study was to evaluate
      the effect of vaginal lactobacilli, a regulator of normal vaginal flora, on embryo
      implantation success during IVF / ICSI cycle follow-up.The study group will be composed of
      patients who will receive 4 vaginal lactobacillus tablet immediately after the OPU
      procedure.The ones who will not receive vaginal lactobacillus tablets will compose the
      control group.

      Patients will be selected from infertile patients that underwent IVF/ICSI protocol. There
      will be no change in the routine ovarian stimulation protocols and luteal phase support
      treatments that patients should receive routinely. Following ovulation induction with
      controlled ovarian stimulation (KOH), which is routinely administered in IVF treatment
      cycles, following the collection of oocytes, the luteal phase support is routinely
      recommended for the preparation of the endometrium to embryo transfer in artificial,
      stimulated cycles on the evening of the same day. If pregnancy occurs, luteal phase support
      should be continued for an average of 8 weeks. In fresh embryo transfer cycles, vaginal
      progesterone is routinely used for luteal phase support in all patients in our clinic. All
      patients will receive the same luteal phase treatment routinely.For the study the patients
      who will have day 5 good quality embryo transfer performed will be selected.
    
  