
    
      Introduction: Preoperative anxiety has been reported in 60-80% of the patients who will
      undergo surgery. Preoperative anxiety and fear may be due to the type of anesthesia, as well
      as to the patient's previous experiences, personality traits, concerns about surgical
      intervention, and postoperative pain. The anxiety levels of the patients can be affected by
      various factors such as their previous experiences, the way they come to the hospital, their
      gender, age, and the type of surgery they will undergo. The most widely used medical test for
      anxiety measurement is the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) scale developed by Spielberg
      et al.

      Objective: The primary aim of our study is to evaluate the effects of preoperative anxiety on
      intraoperative hemodynamics and recovery, and the secondary aim is to determine its effect on
      intraoperative drug consumption.

      Hypothesis: Our hypothesis is that preoperative anxiety levels affect intraoperative
      hemodynamics and recovery and affect intraoperative drug consumption.

      Materials and Methods: The study was planned prospectively, observationally. In the
      neurosurgery operating room of Sultan Abdülhamit Han Training and Research Hospital, patients
      whose operation is planned to be performed under neuromonitoring between 1 September 2019 and
      1 February 2021 will receive a preoperative Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI)
      questionnaire and anxiety scores will be recorded. Afterward, routine anesthesia induction
      and follow-up will be performed for patients who are taken to the operating table. The
      preoperative anxiety score will be compared with the data recorded after the operation
      (hemodynamic data, total drug amount, recovery time).

      Inclusion Criteria: Patients undergoing TIVA (Total Intravenous Anesthesia) due to
      Neuromuscular monitoring during neurosurgery operation, aged 18-70, who are literate, who do
      not have any psychiatric and neurological diseases, who are in ASA I and II class, Patients
      who do not drink alcohol regularly will be included in the study.

      Exclusion Criteria: Patients who do not agree to participate in the study, patients who can
      not cooperate, patients using psychiatric drugs regularly and patients with chronic drug
      habits will be excluded from the study.

      Study population: 80 patients
    
  