
    
      Postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) is a frequent complication of surgery, which can
      lead to subject discomfort and dissatisfaction as well as considerable subsequent medical and
      economic consequences. In this multi-center, open-label, parallel, randomized, pilot study,
      outpatient surgical patients who experience post-operative nausea or vomiting in the PACU
      will be stratified by gender and randomly assigned to either palonosetron HCl 0.075 mg IV or
      ondansetron 4 mg IV in a minimization random allocation. Male or female outpatients,
      scheduled for elective laparoscopic abdominal or gynecological surgery under general
      endotracheal anesthesia will be enrolled. All subjects will be asked to attend 2 visits to
      the study center:

        1. Screening (Days -14 to -1)

        2. Treatment (Day 1, the day of the surgical procedure and randomization) Subjects treated
           will receive a follow-up telephone call by the Study Coordinator on Study Day 4 or 5 to
           review the subject diary for completion, to review adverse events, and concomitant
           medications, prior to the subject returning the completed diary to the site.

      At the Screening visit, subjects who provide their informed consent will undergo a clinical
      assessment. Demographic and baseline characteristics, including entrance criteria
      determination, medical history, history of PONV and/or currently prone to motion sickness,
      smoking status, prior and concomitant medication, physical examination, and vital signs will
      be documented.

      On the day of surgery, all subjects who meet the eligibility criteria will be
      prophylactically treated prior to anesthesia with ondansetron 4 mg IV, as preoperative
      antiemetic treatment. As clinically indicated for rescue therapy, subjects experiencing a
      nausea severity score ≥4 on the 11-point NRS, vomiting, or indicating a subject request will
      receive blinded study medication as their first line rescue therapy for PONV while in the
      PACU and no more than 6 hours after PACU admission. Subjects requiring rescue medication need
      to be dosed within 10 minutes of identifying the need for rescue medication. In an effort to
      ensure that this timeline is not exceeded, the sites will be allowed to randomize the subject
      prior to surgery, on the day of surgery. Subjects who are randomized but do not require
      rescue therapy and therefore not dosed with study drug, will be considered 'Subjects
      randomized but not treated'.

      Subject diaries will be used to record the date and time of study drug administration, the
      reason for administering rescue medication, baseline emetic symptoms immediately prior to
      administration of rescue medication, the occurrence of emetic episodes, the severity and
      duration of nausea, and subject functioning evaluations for nausea and emesis assessed
      according to the modified Osoba questionnaire (Martin et. al. 2003). The baseline assessment
      that is performed just prior to administering the rescue medication must indicate that at
      least one of the following conditions was met:

        1. the subject had a nausea severity score ≥4 on the 11-point (0-10) NRS

        2. vomiting

        3. subject request: subject request must be approved by site staff and must be based on
           either nausea or emesis symptoms
    
  