
    
      Patients will be identified when an organ from live or deceased donor becomes available for
      kidney transplant. Prior to receiving their kidney transplant, subjects will be screened for
      inclusion/exclusion criteria on the day of transplantation. During the pre-operative
      preparation for transplant, patients will be consented for surgery and consented for the
      study at the same time if they volunteer to be included. The transplant surgeon performing
      the transplant operation will be responsible for screening the patients for inclusion and
      exclusion criteria as well as obtaining informed consent. Patients will need to provide
      informed consent to be included in the study, and will receive a copy of their consent. Each
      potential participant will be approached by the transplant surgeon and informed of all
      information pertinent to the study prior to providing consent. No advertisements for
      recruitment will be performed and no compensation will be provided for participation.

      This study is a single center prospective observational study conducted at Temple University
      Hospital (TUH). All participants will be consented for all procedures involved in this study.
      This study will utilize the QUEST questionnaire (attached) to evaluate the severity of
      tremors at 1 month. Data to be collected includes tacrolimus trough levels, study drug
      dosing, hemoglobin A1c, incidence and severity of tremors, potassium, glomerular filtration
      rate, and rejection episodes.

      Day 0 Study drug (tacrolimus) initiated at 0.13/mg/kg/day for all patients (the day of
      initiation decided per transplant surgeon discretion)

      Day 0-4 Inpatient laboratory parameters checked every 24 hours (serum creatinine, tacrolimus
      level, glomerular filtration rate, potassium, blood glucose)

      Day 4-30 Outpatient laboratory parameters checked three times weekly on Monday, Wednesday,
      and Friday (serum creatinine, tacrolimus level, glomerular filtration rate, potassium, blood
      glucose)

      Day 30 visit (within 5 days) Draw tacrolimus trough levels, serum creatinine, estimated
      glomerular filtration rate, serum potassium, and blood glucose. Complete tremor questionnaire
      with participant.

      During or prior to Day 30 visit Oral swab performed to be analyzed for testing of metabolic
      enzymatic activity (This will be performed to determine ability of the patient to metabolize
      tacrolimus)
    
  