
    
      Following myocardial infarction (MI), the incidence of heart failure and mortality rates are
      approximately two-fold higher in patients with diabetes compared to those without diabetes.
      This increased risk for heart failure and mortality appears to be refractory to currently
      available treatments such as angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, despite the
      effectiveness of such treatments in reducing overall morbidity and mortality following MI.
      Hyperglycemia stimulates cardiomyocyte angiotensin II (Ang II) formation, which has been
      implicated in increased myocyte cell death in diabetes. Furthermore, in humans, chymase is
      the predominant pathway of Ang II formation and this pathway of Ang II production is not
      blocked by ACE inhibition. Therefore, in diabetes where Ang II levels may already be elevated
      due to hyperglycemia the increase in Ang II formation associated with left ventricular (LV)
      remodeling continued Ang II formation from chymase could be particularly detrimental.

      In addition to enhanced Ang II production, hyperglycemia and diabetes also amplify the
      production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). ROS are associated with increased in LV
      remodeling and myocyte apoptosis. Furthermore, xanthine oxidase (XO), an important source of
      ROS in myocytes, is increased in a rat model of myocardial infarction and in diabetes. Thus,
      increased XO-mediated ROS production following MI may be especially damaging in diabetic
      patients where ROS production is already elevated. Interestingly, acute treatment with
      Allopurinol, an inhibitor of XO, improves cardiac function in heart failure and improves
      endothelial dysfunction in patients with type-2 diabetes.

      To test our hypothesis the investigators will investigate the following aims in diabetic
      patients after acute MI:

      Aim 1: Show that the progression of LV remodeling and dysfunction in diabetic patients will
      be attenuated to greater extent by AT1RB than by ACE inhibitor.

      Aim 2: Show that the addition of XO inhibition results in further attenuation of LV
      remodeling than with AT1RB or ACE inhibitor alone.

      Aim 3: Show that baseline and follow-up LV remodeling and dysfunction and inflammatory
      markers differ in diabetic and non-diabetic patients post-MI.
    
  