
    
      Patients in paediatric intensive care units (PICU) are among the main groups of transfusion
      recipients. Blood transfusions expose recipients to infectious and non-infectious serious
      hazards. Despite an increasing number of red blood cell (RBC) transfusion threshold
      randomised controlled trials (RCT) to date, only one large RCT, the Transfusion Requirement
      In PICU (TRIPICU) study (Lacroix. N Engl J Med 2007;356:1609-19) informs practice in PICU.
      This dearth of paediatric data was reiterated by a recent National Heart, Lung and Blood
      Institutes state of the art symposium. Despite being internally robust, the generalizability
      of TRIPICU has been questioned given that nearly 90% of critically ill children with
      haemoglobin (Hb) level ≤ 95 g/L were not enrolled for a range of pre-specified reasons
      including severity of illness, clinical instability and uncertain physician buy-in, thus
      threatening broader application of this critical knowledge into practice. Recent data and
      evidence summarised in systematic reviews support the need to explore the benefits and safety
      of Hb threshold ≤ 70 g/L for almost all critically ill children, not only those who would
      have been enrolled in TRIPICU.

      We propose an international pilot study that will inform the design of a large pragmatic
      non-inferiority RCT (termed OpTTICCA) conceived to derive generalizable transfusion guidance
      for physicians.

      Objectives of the pilot-RCT. Specific aims are to:

        1. Establish the feasibility of enrolling ≥80% of eligible patients.

        2. Document adherence to study intervention ≥80% (restrictive transfusion policy).

        3. Assess the incidence rate of the primary outcome measure of the full RCT (new and
           progressive multiple organ dysfunction syndrome, which includes mortality).

        4. Establish the feasibility of using routinely collected clinical information from
           electronic medical data monitoring system (eMDMS) to enhance cost-efficiency.

      In the pilot-RCT, we will enrol 120 patients (20 to 40/site) in PICUs equipped with
      electronic medical data monitoring system (eMDMS). This trial builds on successful prior RCTs
      that involved international collaboration and funding (Canada, United Kingdom, France):
      TRIPICU, Age of Blood Evaluation (ABLE) (Lacroix. N Engl J Med 2015) and Age of Blood in
      Children in PICU (ABC-PICU study: Tucci et al. Trials 2018). The pilot-RCT will be considered
      as the vanguard phase of the full OpTTICCA RCT if no important design changes are required.

      Expected results. This pilot-RCT will focus on feasibility parameters. It will explore
      whether we can 1) recruit a much broader eligible patient group, 2) assess protocol
      adherence, 3) assess the primary outcome measure, and 4) abstract most data electronically. A
      definitive trial will provide transfusion guidance for many important subgroups in whom
      evidence is presently lacking including children admitted with bone marrow failure, head
      injury, some cardiac disorders, and sepsis.
    
  