
    
      The study will evaluate whether an experimental medical device that emits a series of brief,
      intense magnetic pulse will relieve foot pain from Diabetic Neuropathy (DN). The United
      States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved a similar device for treatment of
      migraine headaches, but this type of device has not been studied for the treatment of DN. No
      significant adverse reactions or side effects have been reported from the use of magnetic
      stimulation for the headache treatment. Some patients who have migraine headaches have
      excellent pain relief with the magnetic treatment even if they did not get pain relief using
      medications.

      The investigators do not know whether this magnetic treatment will relieve the foot pain
      caused by diabetic neuropathy, so they will test this by applying 50 strong magnet pulses to
      the painful area of each foot. This procedure will be repeated onto three parts of each foot.
      First onto the bottom of the foot, then the top of the foot and then the back of the foot
      including a portion of the ankle. The effect on pain in each foot while walking for about 10
      steps will be recorded before the study begins and periodically for 28 days. This testing
      will provide data as to any improvement in pain relief. If the participants' reported pain is
      reduced as a result of the magnetic treatment, then the magnetic pulses will have shown that
      they have reduced the pain. Additional studies will be needed to further investigate this
      treatment and to determine how to obtain statistically significant data as to whether this
      therapy reduces the foot pain caused by diabetic neuropathy.

      One side effect of this treatment may be some muscular jerking of the foot or the leg during
      the application of the magnetic pulses. This jerking will last only during the treatment and
      will not be painful or harmful.
    
  