
    
      INTRODUCTION

      Upper tract urothelial carcinomas (UTUC) are relatively uncommon compared to bladder cancer
      and account for only 5-10% of urothelial carcinomas [Munoz et al., 2000; Siegel et al., 2012;
      Rouprêt et al. 2015], with an estimated annual incidence in Western countries of ~2 cases per
      100,000 inhabitants. In 17% of cases, concurrent bladder cancer is present [Cosentino et al.,
      2013].

      Urinary cytology, cystoscopy and computed tomograpy urography should be performed as the
      standard diagnostic work-up with the grade A of recommendation [Rouprêt et al., 2015].
      Diagnostic ureteroscopy and biopsy should be performed, certainly in cases where additional
      information will impact treatment decisions. Such ureteroscopic biopsies can determine tumour
      grade in 90% of cases with a low false-negative rate [Rojas et al., 2012]. Ureteroscopy can
      prove invaluable in cases of suspected UTUC, especially when the diagnosis is equivocal, or
      if nephron sparing surgery is considered. However, it can pose potential hindrances,
      including difficulty in obtaining adequate tissue, inconsistent pathologic interpretation and
      prediction, and a high rate of upgrading and upstaging at the time of nephroureterectomy
      [Potretzke et al., 2015].

      Recurrence in the bladder after management of UTUC occurs in 22-47% of UTUC patients [Xylinas
      et al., 2012; Zigeuner et al., 2006; Novara et al., 2008], compared with 2-6% in the
      contralateral upper tract [Li et al., 2010; Novara et al., 2009]. At our institution, we
      reported that 30.8% of UTUC patients developed intravesical recurrence, which was in line
      with the global trend [Fang et al., 2013]. Although the risk factors for development of
      bladder tumor post surgical management of UTUC were previously studied, considerable
      variations were observed in the literature. In previously published studies, we pointed out
      that lower tumor grade, tumor multifocality, concomitant carcinoma in situ (CIS), tumors
      located in the lower ureter, ureteroscopy history and unmethylated promoter of GDF15 and
      RASSF1A promoters were considered as predictors to develop bladder recurrence after surgery
      by univariate and multivariate analysis [Fang et al., 2013, Xiong et al., 2015]. As an
      effective tool to evaluate UTUCs visually or by biopsy, ureteroscopy was selectively used in
      early UTUC patients without atypical radiography. It was our hypothesis that retrograde flow,
      increased urine flow rate and intraluminal pressure might lead to the shedding of tumor cells
      (intraluminal tumor seeding is thought to contribute to intravesical recurrence after
      nephroureterectomy), which implant in the bladder to develop recurrences [Xiong et al.,
      2015].

      AIM OF THE WORK This clinical trial is designed to evaluate the efficacy of single immediate
      intravesical chemotherapy instillation in the prevention of bladder recurrence after
      diagnostic ureteroscopy for UTUCs.
    
  