
    
      According to the National Cancer Institute's Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results
      Program, there will be an estimated 8,490 new cases of Hodgkin's Lymphoma (HL) in the United
      States in 2010, with an estimated 1,320 deaths (Jemal, Siegel et al.). The unadjusted rates
      of 5 year overall survival are approximately 95%, and remain among the highest of all
      childhood and adult malignancies. With many children and young adults surviving into advanced
      age, the impetus has been to develop less toxic yet equally effective treatments. One of the
      main approaches taken over the last 25 years to minimize long-term treatment toxicity has
      been to limit the amount and volume of radiation received by patients. This pilot study
      continues along those lines, attempting to further refine the delivery of radiation therapy
      (RT) in order to avoid one of the most notorious long-term side-effects: secondary breast
      cancer.

      Multiple studies investigating late toxicity in long-term survivors of pediatric Hodgkin's
      Lymphoma have shown the risk of breast cancer in young females receiving mediastinal
      radiation to be 50 times greater than their age-matched counterparts. The Late Effects Study
      Group, with a median follow-up of 17 years, reported a breast cancer incidence of 16% with a
      standardized incidence ratio of 55.5 (Bhatia, Yasui et al. 2003). Through utilization of
      breast-sparing proton therapy, we hope to provide young female patients with the benefits of
      radiation therapy while decreasing their risk of secondary breast cancer, thus increasing the
      therapeutic ratio.

      In a prior computer-based, in-silico, dose planning study, utilizing the most basic beam
      orientation (a single PA beam), we showed that dose to breast tissue was reduced by a minimum
      of at least 80% with proton treatment compared to standard AP-PA photon treatment (in
      publication). Furthermore, dose to clinical target volume was maintained, and dose to other
      normal structures was statistically no worse. We now aim to validate these findings by
      verifying the beam range, in-vivo, via post-treatment combined Positron Emission
      Tomography-Computer Tomography (PET-CT) imaging in young females undergoing
      supra-diaphragmatic radiotherapy for Hodgkin's Disease.
    
  