
    
      OBJECTIVES

      Main objective: to assess the levels of SHS in a range of private settings and outdoor
      settings in different European countries according to the type of setting, the smoke-free
      legislation and socioeconomic characteristics.

      Specific objectives:

        -  To assess levels of SHS in homes and cars according to socioeconomic status

        -  To assess levels of SHS in outdoor settings (children playgrounds, terraces of
           hospitality venues and entrances of school buildings) according to socioeconomic status

        -  To analyze associations between air nicotine concentrations and self-reported
           information related to tobacco smoking and exposure to SHS in homes and cars

        -  To analyze associations between air nicotine concentrations and observational variables
           related to exposure to SHS in outdoor settings (children playgrounds, terraces of
           hospitality venues and entrances of school buildings)

        -  To assess relationships between levels of SHS and type of smoking legislation and
           socio-demographic characteristics across Europe according to different types of settings
           measured

        -  To develop evidence-based policy recommendations for policy makers and health
           authorities

      METHODS

      STUDY DESIGN

      This is a multi-country cross-sectional study based on objective environmental measurements
      of SHS levels.

      STUDY SETTINGS

      The study will be carried out in private and outdoor settings in the following 12 European
      countries: Bulgaria, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Poland, Portugal,
      Romania, Spain and the United Kingdom. Private settings studied will be homes and cars and
      outdoor settings will be terraces of hospitality venues, children playgrounds and entrances
      of primary school buildings.

      SAMPLING

      A total of 1,080 environmental measures will be collected. 20 environmental measures will be
      collected from homes and each of the outdoor settings for the 12 countries involved in the
      study (20 samples × 4 settings × 12countries = 960 samples). Regarding cars, 60 environmental
      measurements will be collected in two countries (Spain and UK) (120 samples), which have been
      selected taking into account differences in smoking legislation.

      A convenience sampling will be performed considering feasibility and trying to include
      participants from different socioeconomic status (SES). Neighborhood SES will be measured
      using ecological synthetic SES indexes available in each country. Measures will be taken in
      private and outdoor settings located in the most deprived neighborhoods (those below the 20th
      percentile of the SES distribution) and the least deprived neighborhoods (those above the
      80th percentile of the SES distribution).

      FIELDWORK

      Private settings: homes and cars

      For each country, the investigators will measure levels of nicotine in 20 homes. We will
      recruit 20 non-smoking volunteers living in different homes with at least one smoker: 10
      participants living in more deprived neighborhoods and 10 participants living in wealthier
      neighborhoods. Nicotine vapor phase will be measured during one week using passive SHS
      samplers. At the end of the week, the investigators will administer a specific questionnaire
      about SHS exposure to the participant.

      The investigators will measure levels of nicotine in 30 cars (two samples per car) in two
      European countries with different smoke-free legislation (Spain and UK). A convenience
      sampling will be performed considering feasibility and trying to include participants with
      different smoking habits. The investigators will recruit 30 drivers: 10 daily-smoking
      volunteers that usually smoke within their car; 10 daily-smoking volunteers that do not smoke
      within their car; and 10 non-smoking volunteers. To be eligible, participants have to spend a
      minimum of 30 minutes per day within the car. Nicotine vapor phase will be measured using
      passive SHS samplers. Two samplers will be hung up in each car during a period of 24 hours.
      One sampler will be open during the 24-hour sampling period. The other sampler will be only
      open during travelling time. Outdoor settings: nicotine vapor phase will be measured using
      active SHS samplers. For each country, a convenience sampling of 60 outdoor settings (20
      children playgrounds, 20 terraces of hospitality venues, and 20 entrances of primary school
      buildings) will be performed considering feasibility and trying to include the outdoor
      settings from different SES neighborhoods. Data collection will be conducted from March to
      October. The measurements will be able to be taken at any time of day providing that there
      are at least five adults. The investigators will collect nicotine samples using samplers
      attached to an air pump. Measurements will last 30 minutes. While measures are being taken,
      data collectors will also conduct observations in accordance with the protocol of active
      sampling collection. In each country, the investigators will measure levels of nicotine in 30
      outdoor settings (10 playgrounds, 10 terraces of hospitality venues, and 10 entrances of
      primary school buildings) located in more deprived neighborhoods and 30 outdoor settings (as
      above) located in wealthier neighborhoods.

      MAIN OUTCOMES

      Vapour-phase nicotine (μg/m3) is the main objective outcome. The investigators will also
      register sample's code, location sampled, date and time when the monitor was installed and
      removed, time of tobacco exposure, volume of the area, smoke-free rules of the setting, and
      further relevant information related to the SHS exposure according to the different settings
      studied (e.g., for private settings: socio-demographic variables, intensity of tobacco
      exposure (number of smokers), minutes of exposure per day, number of cigarettes smoked per
      day, ventilation, use of air-conditioning or heating (only in cars), etc.; for outdoor
      settings: no smoking signs, presence of ashtrays and butts, smoke smell, number of people
      smoking, total number of adults and children, kind of venue, age group allowed to play (only
      in playgrounds), number of walls or roof (only in terraces), etc.).

      DATA SOURCES

      Environmental samples: Nicotine vapor phase will be measured using SHS samplers, which
      consist of a 37-mm diameter plastic cassette containing a filter treated with sodium
      bisulphate.

      Passive samplers will be placed in private homes and cars. The samplers will be placed for a
      period of seven days in homes and of 24 hours in cars. In homes, samplers will be hung freely
      in the air approximately 2 meters high. They will not be placed where air does not circulate
      such as a corner, under a shelf or buried in curtains.

      Active samplers will be used in outdoors settings. The samplers will be attached to an air
      pump with a flow rate ranging from 2 to 3 L/min, and 30-min measurements will be taken.

      Questionnaire/Form: Questionnaires or forms will be fulfilled by trained personnel at the
      same time the samples are taken. There is a specific questionnaire or form to be filled for
      each setting. All questionnaires/forms gather some common questions and other specific
      questions according to the setting studied. Questionnaires/forms gather information on
      sampling area, date and time the samplers are placed and removed, the presence of tobacco
      smoking, specific characteristics of the setting studied, attitudes and behaviors towards
      tobacco, etc.

      DATA MANAGEMENT

      The study data will be kept in different databases according to the setting studied.
      Information obtained through forms and questionnaires will be entered on a computer by
      collaborators from each country. Then, all data bases will be encrypted and later on sent by
      e-mail to the ASPB. Individual forms and questionnaires will be scanned and sent
      electronically to the ASPB. Original versions will also be sent by post. All forms and
      questionnaires will be stored by the ASPB in agreement with the current law. Nicotine samples
      will be sent properly stored and identified to the ASPB during the fieldwork.

      LAB ANALYSIS

      All the nicotine samples will be analyzed by the laboratory of the Public Health Agency of
      Barcelona (Spain) using the gas chromatography/mass spectrometry method. Nicotine analysis
      will be conducted by the gas chromatography/mass spectrometry method, which has been
      officially accredited by the Spanish National Accreditation Entity (ENAC) according to ISO
      17025 guidelines. This method allows quantifying the total amount of nicotine in the sample,
      with a lower limit of detection of 5 ng. Subsequently, the time weighted average nicotine
      concentration (μg/m3) can be estimated by dividing the amount of extracted nicotine by the
      volume of air sampled multiplied by the total number of minutes the filter has been exposed.

      Blank samples will be analyzed for quality assurance and to assess potential contamination of
      the filters during manipulation of monitors, storage, shipment or shipment. A blank sample
      for each 20 samples will be analyzed.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

      A first descriptive analysis will be conducted for all outcomes included in the study.
      Categorical variables will be described by raw frequencies and percentages and continuous
      variables will be described by means and standard deviations or medians and interquartile
      range (IQR). Medians and IQR of nicotine concentrations will be calculated by country for
      each setting studied. Box-plots will be used to visualize the distribution of nicotine
      concentrations. Nicotine concentrations obtained will be compared according to country, SES
      and other determinants of exposure for each setting, using non-parametric tests (the Mann
      Whitney U test or Kruskal-Wallis test as appropriate). Finally, correlations between nicotine
      concentration and variables related to the SHS recorded in the questionnaires or forms will
      be also assessed.

      ETHICS

      All participants taking part in environmental measurements collected in private settings
      (homes and cars) will be properly informed verbally and in writing, providing all pertinent
      information about the aims, methods, procedures, ethical issues and measures taken. Enrolling
      in the study will be voluntary and signing a written informed consent will be mandatory to
      take part in the study as agreement to participate. Informed consent will not be obtained to
      collect environmental measurements in outdoor settings. All written informed consents will be
      firstly stored in locked filing cabinets and principal investigators will be responsible for
      the informed consent of participants of their country. Later, written informed consent will
      be scanned, copied and sent electronically to the ASPB. All original informed consent will be
      post to the ASPB using a traceable mail courier. All original informed consent will be stored
      in accordance with Spanish legislation. All personal information will be treated as
      confidential and will be stored in agreement with the current laws. The study will be
      conducted in accordance with the Good Clinical Practice Guidelines of the Declaration of
      Helsinki and the current legal regulation about confidentiality of data.

      INFORMED CONSENT

      All informed consent will be written in English and in official language, according to the
      country involved in the project, to ensure potential participant's comprehension. The
      informed consent gathers information about the aims, methods and procedures of the study and
      properly informs about involvement of the participants and their rights as participants of
      the study. Two different specific informed consents have been designed according to the
      private setting (homes or cars) where the measurements are taken.
    
  