
    
      Presently, consensus guidelines for the surgical management of anterior glenohumeral
      instability are lacking. While there has been continual evolution in available arthroscopic
      instrumentation, this has not translated to improvements in patient outcomes. Isolated
      arthroscopic bankart repair is often associated with unacceptably high rates of failure, with
      a recent systematic review identifying continued recurrence rates of 14.2%. Improved
      recognition of bone defects and identification of critical defect sizes that contribute to
      recurrent instability and failed stabilization have lead to improvements in treatment
      algorithms. It has been widely accepted that glenoid defects exceeding 20% of anteroposterior
      (AP) width and humeral head defects exceeding 30% of the humeral head width contribute to
      recurrent instability. For defects of this magnitude, isolated arthroscopic Bankart repair is
      insufficient in restoring joint stability, and more extensive procedures are required. This
      can include adding a remplissage to the arthroscopic Bankart repair or open allograft
      reconstruction for humeral defects; or Latarjet coracoid transfer for glenoid defects.

      However, often patients present with combined 'bipolar' bone loss, where individual defects
      are subcritical in size. There is increasing recognition that the presence of this combined
      bone loss may lead to increased rates of failure with an isolated arthroscopic bankart
      repair. Currently, accepted treatment options for bipolar bone loss include a combined
      arthroscopic Bankart repair and remplissage, or a Latarjet coracoid transfer. While there is
      supportive biomechanical data for each procedure, and limited case series in the literature,
      there remains a paucity of high-quality evidence to guide treatment for this complex clinical
      scenario. Consequently, we aim to perform a pilot study designed as a prospective, randomized
      controlled trial comparing arthroscopic Bankart repair and Remplissage with an open Latarjet
      coracoid transfer.
    
  