
    
      This ExAblate Transcranial system was built atop the ExAblate Body system technology, which
      has received EMA and CE approvals for the treatment of uterine fibroids and bone metastasis
      palliation, and is currently being evaluated under various EMA Investigational Device
      Exemptions "IDE". It should be noted that the ExAblate Transcranial/Neuro has received CE
      approval (Dec-2012).

      There are many potential advantages for applying ExAblate Transcranial subthalamotomy for the
      treatment of idiopathic PD:

        -  The procedure is transcranial, requiring no incision, no burr hole, and no electrode.
           The risk of hemorrhagic complication should be reduced, and this procedure should
           eliminate the risk of infectious complications.

        -  Unlike stereotactic radiosurgery, ExAblate Transcranial system does not use ionizing
           radiation and does not carry a risk of radiation-induced tumorigenesis. The effects are
           immediate and not latent as with radiosurgery.

        -  Unlike radiofrequency ablation, ExAblate Transcranial system thermal lesioning can be
           performed without open surgery.

        -  The ExAblate treatment can be monitored in real-time with MRI and MR-thermal feedback
           which permits immediate confirmation of the targeting process. Additionally, the
           treatment can be monitored with clinical testing.

        -  Unlike DBS treatment, there is no implanted hardware, no concern of interference with
           external sources of electromagnetic noise, no need for extensive follow-up for
           programming, and no need for periodic battery replacement.

      ExAblate Transcranial treatments may represent a simpler treatment algorithm for a patient
      suffering from a complicated disease process like PD. Hours of clinic time will be saved from
      DBS device management and replacement and health care costs may be greatly reduced.

      - Rational for ExAblate Transcranial System subthalamotomy for the Treatment of PD
      Conceptually, lesioning the subthalamus seems logical since preclinical studies have
      confirmed the role of the subthalamic nucleus in the development of parkinsonism and by the
      fact that the experimental Parkinsonian state by MPTP can be relieved by exocytotic or
      thermolytic lesions of the STN. Furthermore, clinical studies of deep brain stimulation
      targeting the subthalamic nucleus have proven that this nucleus is the most effective for the
      treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease.

      From a clinical perspective, unilateral subthalamotomy for medication-refractory Parkinson's
      disease certainly has proven beneficial in the alleviation of contralateral off-medication
      motor symptoms in several series. The largest and best reported experience comes from the
      CIREN (La Habana, Cuba) where this project was initiated and directed by Prof. Jose Obeso
      over a 10 years period leading to a large accumulated experience. This was described for 89
      patients followed for up to 36 months. In these reports, significant improvements were noted
      on UPDRS ratings with bradykinesia, rigidity and tremor. Improvements remained at two years
      and were most pronounced for tremor. With regards to the "on" state, contralateral dyskinesia
      was reduced during the two-year study and the mean dose of Levodopa was decreased by 34-47%
      while the total on time without dyskinesia increased fourfold. In the study significant
      reductions in part three of the off-medication UPDRS were noted at 12 (50%), 24 (30%), and 36
      months (18%) following unilateral subthalamotomy. In the "on" state, contralateral dyskinesia
      improved throughout the 3-year study period although ipsilateral dyskinesia progressively
      worsened during this time. In a limited number of patients bilateral staged ( N-7) and
      simultaneous ( N-11) subthalamotomy was carried out without major adverse effects and highly
      significant motor improvement. Cognitive changes were specifically ascertained prospectively
      without evidence of deterioration. More recently, the impact of unilateral subthalamotomy on
      inhibitory mechanisms was also reported from the same study group. Unexpectedly, speed of
      stopping an initiated action was improved after STN lesion.

      Subthalamotomy has never been widely accepted because of concerns for hemiballismus primarily
      due to observations in humans with stroke in the region of the subthalamus (Purdon Martin
      1927) and by the confirmation in the 1940's by Whittier and Mettler who were able to
      experimentally reproduce this by subthalamic lesions in primates. Arguments against such
      dogma were amply discussed years ago leading to the understanding that the parkinsonian state
      modifies the threshold to hemiballism after STN lesion.

      The ExAblate modality permits a very precise focused lesion to be created without disruption
      of other motor pathways or nuclei. In order to test the feasibility of using the ExAblate
      Neuro system for the ablation of the subthalamic nucleus two patients (University of
      Virginia) were active-sham treated using a sublethal dose of energy (50-54⁰C). The subjects
      were observed for 30 days without developing any adverse effects like worsening involuntary
      movements. Since there were no adverse effects of worsening involuntary movements, the actual
      second stage treatment was then performed. Again, no adverse effects of worsening involuntary
      movements were observed. The safety profile remains favorable.

      Interestingly, the rationale for choosing target temperatures of 50-54⁰C as a '
      subtherapeutic/test' lesion was based on the experience acquired during the feasibility study
      for Essential Tremor under IDE # G10016969 and preclinical lesioning in a swine model. In 15
      patients with ET, the typical onset of neurologic phenomena (ie sensory symptoms) or tremor
      suppression is observed when the peak voxel temperatures on MR thermography reached the low
      50's ⁰C. It was observed that the tremor effect first occurs during the titrated lesioning
      process with transient suppression of postural and rest tremor. Later at higher temperatures
      of 55-65⁰C, the tremor effect becomes more lasting. Also T2 signal change on MRI is not
      typically visible acutely in human thalamus until peak voxel temperatures approach this
      55-65⁰C range. These higher temperatures resulted in thalamotomy volumes comparable to
      traditional radiofrequency lesions where the diameter became maximal at 1 week (mean=171 mm3)
      and measured 6.8mm in diameter. Soon by one and three months, HIFU thalamotomy volumes
      subsided to 55 and 14 mm3, respectively.

      Thus, small lesions with reversible clinical effects would occurre by confining the first,
      subtherapeutic/test lesion to 50-54⁰C. The therapeutic treatment goal must be to perform the
      final, peak voxel temperatures of 55-65⁰C which will result in a substantial target ablation
      which is analogous to the volume achieved with contemporary RF lesioning.

      The rationale for unilateral subthalamotomy for advanced PD is summarized as follows:

        1. A well-placed stereotactic lesion is similarly efficacious to DBS.

        2. Stereotactic radiofrequency subthalamotomy has been shown to ameliorate the motor
           features of PD .

        3. The risk for involuntary movements like hemichorea-ballism following subthalamotomy in
           humans is about 15% but only in the 9% of patients a second procedure (pallidotomy) was
           needed to treat the dyskinesias.

        4. Studies of DBS in PD have consistently shown equivalent results between the stereotactic
           targets: STN and GPi.

        5. The subthalamus is amenable to an image-guided ablation because it is small and easily
           visualized with contemporary MRI.

        6. DBS, while effective for advanced PD, has complexities for patients, their caregivers,
           and their doctors and potentially carries a higher risk than ExAblate mediated lesion.

      Summary Based on published animal and human studies, ExAblate Transcranial subthalamotomy can
      be as safe and as effective as any of the surgical treatments within the currently accepted
      standard of care including RF lesioning and DBS. A unilateral lesion of the subthalamic
      nucleus has shown reduction of contralateral motor symptoms in PD. Using ExAblate
      Transcranial MRgHIFU to create the subthalamotomy has several potential advantages over
      current therapies including the fact that transcranial lesioning can be performed in a
      precise manner with simultaneous as well as continuous clinical and radiographic monitoring.
      If the potential of ExAblate Transcranial subthalamotomy can be realized, it could supplant
      radiofrequency and radiosurgery techniques and provide a viable alternative procedure for
      subjects considering DBS.

      This study will include ten Parkinson's disease patients who will be treated with unilateral
      subthalamotomy performed by MRIgHIFU and followed in an open-label fashion for up to 6 months
      to demonstrate safety and sustained benefit.
    
  