
    
      The investigators contacted patients who had an appointment for esophagoendoscopy(EGD) at
      Chulalongkorn Hospital to inform and review patient's history. If patients matched inclusion
      and did not meet exclusion criteria, the participants would tell the information of the study
      including proposal, method, risk and benefit then the investigators asked for consent to
      participate in the study.

      If patients decided to participate then the investigator corrected the information in CRF
      form which was sex, age, underlying disease, smoking history, alcohol drinking history,
      current and past medication especially PPI and NSIADs, EGD and rapid urease test history, H.
      pylori treatment history, duration of taking PPI drug.

      EGD was done by endoscopist with standard method. The investigator performed biopsy at
      antrum, 5 cm proximal to pylorus lesser curvature, and body, greater curvature opposite to
      angularis by standard forceps. The biopsy would take 2 times from each site for rapid urease
      test and histopathology test for H. pylori. The endoscopists change forceps after finishing
      biopsy in each site to reduce contamination. The EGD finding was recorded After the
      investigators test H. pylori by rapid urease test, the result was read at 24 hours at room
      temperature. The color changing from yellow to pink was positive test, which mean there was
      H. pylori infection. In contrast, negative test was no color changing.

      For Histopathologic test, the investigators fixed sample in formalin, infiltrated the tissue
      with paraffin then embedded. Stained with Hematoxylin & Eosin and looked for H. pylori by 2
      histopathologists, who were blinded the result to each other and result of rapid urease test.
      If negative study, the histopathologists would stain tissue with giemsa and corrected data
      again. All gastric tissue will be sent for immunohistochemistry as a gold standard for this
      study.
    
  