
    
      The purpose of this trial is to test the hypothesis that A-dmDT390-bisFv(UCHT1) can act as an
      immunomodulator of late stage metastatic melanoma when combined with palliative radiation (to
      induce the priming of activated T cells with tumor antigens) and Pembrolizumab.

      A-dmDT390-bisFv(UCHT1), an anti-T cell immunotoxin is currently being studied as a treatment
      for cutaneous T cell lymphoma and other CD3+ malignant diseases (NCT00611208 and
      NCT02943642). During the course of this study, data accumulated that A-dmDT390-bisFv(UCHT1)
      could be acting as an immunomodulator. This was based on the observation that four out of six
      partial responses converted to complete responses at times ranging between 6 and 24 months
      following the completion of the 4-day treatment protocol (serum half life ~45 min.) and no
      other treatment took place. Complete response durations were 4-6+ years.

      Checkpoint inhibitors have revolutionized the treatment of certain solid tumors, notably
      melanoma, NSCLC and renal cancer. Yet the overall response rate remains low and the
      mechanisms limiting responses have not been elucidated.

      Based on the findings that checkpoint inhibitors have higher response rates when the tumor
      neoantigen burden is higher (over 1 mutation per megabase, Shumacher & Schreiber, 2015) the
      investigators propose to increase the neoantigen burden by combining two distinct
      manipulations:

        1. Treatment with an anti-CD3 fusion protein Resimmune days 1-4 to induce a 20-fold
           increase in CD8+ central memory T cells and

        2. Treatment with anti-PD1 day 16 and q. 3 weeks to block PD-1/PD-L1 negative regulation on
           the newly activated T cells (Blake et al., 2015) and to block high levels of PD-1 in the
           tumor microenvironment (Ahmadzadeh et al., 2009).

      Palliative tumor radiation day 5 will provide the tumor antigen release needed to convert the
      expanded central memory T cells to effector memory T cells.

      The study will be a single-arm, uncontrolled phase I/II trial to estimate the safely of the
      combined treatment and then estimate the efficacy in terms of RECIST 1.1 in patients with
      stage Stage IV metastatic melanoma. The primary endpoint is the clinical response as defined
      by progression-free survival (PFS). The second end point will be tolerability to treatment.
      Secondary end points to be considered are overall survival (OS).

      The study is conducted in 2 phases. In phase I (safety), the investigators will enroll 6
      patients. In first stage, 25 total patients will be enrolled. Using Simon's two stage minimax
      design for phase II trials, the investigators plan to enroll a maximum of 63 patients.
    
  