
    
      Background:

      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is highly prevalent in the Veteran population given the risk
      factors of male gender, being overweight, and increasing age. OSA is caused by upper airway
      obstruction, resulting in arousals from sleep and hypoxia. While continuous positive airway
      pressure (CPAP) is a highly efficacious treatment for OSA, compliance with treatment is
      suboptimal. Because research shows that adherence patterns are established early in
      treatment, we seek to use a technology that enables early and frequent productive
      interactions between patient and provider

      Objectives:

      The objective of this proposal is to explore the feasibility and initially evaluate the
      potential efficacy of a video teleconferencing system for patients with Obstructive Sleep
      Apnea syndrome (OSA) that facilitates patient- centered, collaborative management for
      patients who are prescribed the gold-standard treatment, continuous positive airway pressure
      (CPAP).

      Methods:

      The evaluative aspect of this proposal was designed as a pilot randomized, controlled
      clinical trial of Video Teleconferencing (VTC) compared to Usual Care (UC). The key feature
      of the Video Teleconferencing intervention was the use of a telemedicine system that allows
      for audio/visual conferencing with the patient in their home environment from the start of
      treatment initialization. The provider is able provide more direct feedback to the patient
      based on the telemedicine interaction, and the patient benefits from increased contact with
      the provider. Specific inclusion and exclusion criteria included: age > 18 years; confirmed
      diagnosis of moderate-severe OSA; being newly prescribed CPAP therapy; having chronic
      symptoms as noted on screening symptom checklist; and fluency in English. Patients were
      recruited from the VA San Diego Healthcare System Pulmonary Sleep Clinic. Patients were
      enrolled for a 2-month time period. Groups were compared on quantitative and qualitative
      measures.

      Status:

      Study Complete
    
  