
    
      The investigators will perform a prospective randomized non-blinded clinical study where the
      investigators will recruit a total of 100 patients undergoing RTSA at our institution
      according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Participants will be randomly assigned to
      one of two rehab groups (50 in each group) - short immobilization combined with
      patient-directed home therapy (Patient-led rehab) vs long immobilization combined with
      supervised physical therapy (Supervised rehab) - using a randomization protocol developed by
      our biostatistics department. The group assignment will be kept sealed in an envelope until
      the day of surgery to blind both the patients and surgeons.

      Surgical procedure and postoperative rehabilitation Enrolled patients will undergo RTSA with
      one of the two shoulder and elbow surgeons under general anesthesia combined with
      interscalene block. A standard deltopectoral approach will be used, and the subscapularis
      tendon will be repaired using transosseous sutures if it is reparable. Tornier reverse
      shoulder arthroplasty system (Ascent Flex humeral stem with 132.5°inclincation angle,
      standard Perform Reversed glenoid components, and standard polyethylene liner) will be used
      in all patients. The size of the humeral stem, baseplate, glenosphere, and polyethylene liner
      will be chosen on the basis of the patient's anatomy. A sling with an abduction pillow will
      be used for postoperative immobilization in 30° abduction and 45° internal rotation in all
      patients. The patient-led rehab group will be educated on their postoperative rehab in detail
      prior to surgery. The detailed rehab methods for each group are as follows.

        1. Patient-led rehab group Duration of the sling: 1 week in sling with abduction pillow for
           immobilization; then optional for comfort only Start of shoulder exercise: Within 1 week
           of surgery once pain subsides Mode of rehab: Patients performing exercises on their own
           following instructions Phase 1 (3-5 days to 2 weeks): Pendulum, deltoid and periscapular
           muscle isometric strengthening Phase 2 (2-4 weeks): passive, active assisted motion
           Phase 3 (4-8 weeks): Active motion Phase 4 (8-12 weeks): Strengthening

        2. Supervised rehab group Duration of the sling: 4 weeks in sling with abduction pillow for
           immobilization; then optional for comfort only Start of shoulder exercise: At 4 weeks
           after surgery Mode of rehab: Patients attending outpatient physical therapy sessions led
           by therapists Phase 1 (0-4 weeks): Immobilization in sling Phase 2 (4-8 weeks): Passive,
           active assisted motion Phase 3 (8-12 weeks): Active motin Phase 4 (12-16 weeks):
           Strengthening

      Postoperative outcome evaluation Strict adherence to the rehab protocol will be encouraged
      and monitored during the rehab period. The research coordinator will contact patients twice a
      week for the first 2 weeks and then once a week for the following 2 weeks. Patients will be
      given a pain diary where they will record their pain levels daily along with their daily
      narcotic use for the first 2 weeks. Patients will return for follow-up, undergo x-rays, and
      will be evaluated at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 12 weeks, 6 months, 1 year, and 2 years. The following
      data will be obtained during the study period.

        1. Pain measured using a visual analog scale daily for the first 2 weeks; then at each
           follow-up visit

        2. Patient-reported outcomes: ASES, QuickDASH, SANE, and PROMIS at each visit except at 2
           weeks.

        3. Range of motion: forward elevation, external rotation, internal rotation at each visit
           except at 2 weeks

        4. Radiographic findings of failure such as dislocation, implant dislodgement, migration,
           or loosening, scapular notching, periprosthetic humuerus fracture, or scapular fracture
           at any time: Will be included as complications

        5. Complications such as instability, hematoma, wound healing issue, abnormal level of pain
           due to rehab method at any time, or reoperation

        6. Overall patient satisfaction with their rehab method using a 5-point Likert-type scale
           at 6 months (Question: Were you satisfied with your rehab method? Very unsatisfied,
           slightly unsatisfied, neutral, somewhat satisfied, very satisfied)

      Statistical analysis Sample size calculation: Sample size was calculated to examine the
      superiority of patient-led rehab over supervised rehab. The null hypothesis is that there is
      no difference in the primary outcome measure (ASES score at 6 months) between the two rehab
      methods. Considering similar protocols in the literature12-14 and a mean difference in ASES
      scores of 11 points with corresponding standard deviation of 18 points, a minimum of 100
      patients (50 for each group) are needed to achieve at least 80% power using a two-sided type
      I error of 0.05. These numbers account for a 10% patient attrition.

      Statistical methods: Intention-to-treat analysis will be used for this randomized clinical
      trial study. Patients who are lost to follow up (dropout), do not comply with their assigned
      rehab method based on criteria (noncompliance), or change to the other rehab method
      (cross-over) will be analyzed according to their original group assignment. If there is
      greater than 10% of data is missing, the group data will be treated according to a missing
      data protocol - multiple imputation method under a missing at random (MAR) assumption.
      Patient-reported and objective clinical outcomes will be compared between the two rehab
      groups using two sample t-test or Mann-Whitney U-test if assumptions are not met. Differences
      between rehab groups across the follow-up period will be identified using a repeated measures
      ANOVA, and the appropriate covariance structure will be determined using BIC, a measure of
      overall model fit. Categorical data including the proportions of complications will be
      compared between the two rehab groups using Chi-square or Fisher's Exact tests; odds ratios
      and 95% confidence limits will be calculated where appropriate.
    
  