
    
      This is a pragmatic, randomized controlled clinical trial with blinding of the evaluator,
      performed in order to estimate the effectiveness, six (6) months after hospital discharge, of
      music therapy on the intra-hospital evolution and neurodevelopment of preterm neonates
      (gestational ages 28 to 37weeks) who are treated in Neonatal Intensive Care Units (NICU) in
      the Bucaramanga Metropolitan Area.

      The study population is premature neonates at gestational ages 28 to 37 weeks who are treated
      in Neonatal Intensive Care Units (NICU). They will receive an intra-hospital music therapy
      intervention and will be compared to premature neonates in the same unit who will receive an
      intervention without sound emissions. The purpose is to identify differences in the behavior
      of clinical parameters at the intra-hospital level as well as in neurodevelopment six (6)
      months after hospitalization.

      To begin recruitment for the study, a neonatologist will contact the father/mother or legal
      representative and will briefly explain the purpose of the study and its procedures. After
      this, if the father/mother or legal representative is interested in allowing the neonate to
      participate, they will be put in contact with the physiotherapist coordinating the study who
      will fully explain the research. The neonate's participation in the study will be confirmed
      by an informed consent form signed by the parents. Each subject will be randomly assigned to
      an intervention group (music therapy or no sound emissions) based on a previously generated
      random numbers table. The person who possesses this table will indicate to the project
      coordinator via telephone the group to which each neonate is assigned, which will be
      stratified according to the healthcare clinic.

      Since this is a pragmatic trial, given the nature of the intervention, before the trial the
      mother will need to decide which of three music therapy options she would like her child to
      receive: her favorite song which she will sing, her favorite song which is obtained
      externally or a lullaby. This process of choosing the song is done only when assigned to the
      music therapy group, but the parents or legal representative will be told that their child
      could be assigned to either of the two groups, with music therapy or without sound emissions.
      At no time during the interventions will the parents, representative or the health
      professionals know the group to which the preterm neonate is assigned.

      The intervention will begin 24 hours after birth or when admitted to the clinic and will
      start by collecting the data requested on the admissions form. The sample will be composed of
      90 neonates, 45 of which will receive music therapy and 45 will receive intervention without
      sound emissions. This sample was estimated based on an alpha of 0.05 and a power of 0.9.

      The intervention parameters for volume intensity will be 55-65 decibels (db). The
      intervention will be performed by two physiotherapists who will alternate shifts to cover all
      the intervention days, since these two people will carry out the intervention on all of the
      days during which the infants will remain hospitalized. The exposure time will be 15 minutes
      per day. A mini baffle (JBL Bluetooth Go Brand) will be individually placed in a sealed
      sterile sleeve and put inside the incubator or on the top-center part of the crib aligned
      with the head of the neonate. The decibels will be measured with a Sonometer, which will be
      placed on the edge of the top access window on the right side of the incubator, facing in the
      direction of the neonate's ear.

      The variables to be registered for each intervention are: heart rate, respiratory rate,
      oxygen saturation and blood pressure. Each variable will be measured before the intervention,
      at 5, 10 and 15 minutes into the intervention, and 5 minutes after the intervention. During
      this time, the infant will be observed and any physical changes will be registered, including
      movement, crying, calming or anything that is different from the ordinary daily development
      of the neonate. When the infant is discharged (either to the pediatric intensive/intermediate
      care unit or home), a discharge report will be completed which will describe the clinical
      conditions under which the infant is leaving the unit. If the infant continues to be
      hospitalized in another unit, such as the pediatric/intermediate unit, he or she will receive
      the intervention until leaving the clinic, with the same parameters mentioned previously.

      In addition, a nurse in each unit (neonatal or pediatric) will register the changes from the
      previous day using a clinical monitoring data collection form, which includes the variables:
      relevant changes in vital signs, diagnoses, treatments, etc. (information obtained from the
      clinical chart or from the printed nursing report).

      All the measurement procedures will be standardized prior to application. The evaluators will
      be trained in the field using a pilot test, based on which the needed corrections will be
      applied. In addition, 10% of the measurements will be repeated or verified by the field
      coordinator. All the evaluators will be blinded to the intervention assignments and to the
      clinical status of the patients in order to prevent differential information bias.

      The father/mother, legal representative or medical team can decide to withdraw the infant
      from the study at any time and for any reasons they consider valid. The reason for withdrawal
      will be recorded on the last monitoring form that is completed.

      If the infant is discharged and on the next day is again hospitalized, and the Bayley III
      evaluation of the development of the infant has not yet been obtained, he or she will
      continue to receive the intervention in the hospital according to the protocol described by
      this study. If the Bayley III evaluation has been obtained and the infant returns to the
      clinic, the infant will not be treated because he or she would already be part of the next
      phase of the study, which involves the neurodevelopment of the infant.

      When the infant meets the criteria (corrected developmental age and is not hospitalized), the
      researcher shall immediately contact the father/mother or legal representative to perform a
      Bayley III evaluation of the development of the infant, which must be performed no later than
      six (6) days post-hospitalization. This evaluation will be conducted in the laboratories of
      the Manuela Beltran University (Gesell campus) under the following parameters: the evaluators
      (psychologist and physiotherapist) shall have at least 6 months of prior experience working
      with infants and will be trained in the use of this development scale prior to its
      application; the evaluators will be blinded to the type of intervention the infant is
      receiving; the evaluations (psychological and physiotherapeutic) will be performed
      simultaneously and the professionals will not be able to communicate among themselves during
      the intervention, and they will be recorded and monitored in order to ensure this condition
      is met; in addition, with no prior warning, the project coordinator will periodically monitor
      the evaluators through a one-way mirror located in the laboratory. The evaluators will
      electronically record the data on two laptop computers (using Bayley III software) located
      far away from each other in the laboratory, and will give an electronic and printed copy of
      the Bayley III evaluation form to the coordinator before leaving the laboratory. The two
      types of registries must agree, which will serve as a strategy to control the quality of the
      data. This evaluation will be repeated six months after hospitalization under the same
      conditions and by the same evaluators.

      During the first six months after hospitalization, the coordinator will call the parents or
      legal representative every 15 days, with four objectives: achieve adherence to the project,
      update contact data, identify the health conditions of the infant; and remind the parents or
      legal representative of the different check-ups that the child should receive during those
      six months.

      To this end, a general follow-up form will exist, which will contain the personal data of the
      infant and the father/mother or legal representative, the intensive care unit where he or she
      is treated, situations pertinent to the infant's condition, review of the dates of the
      post-hospitalization follow-up calls; review of completion of daily nursing forms,
      interventions, the 2 Bayley III evaluations, among others, in order to generate a database
      and to collect the data at the times established.

      To handle missing data, several imputation techniques will be considered based on the
      variables observed in the subject. In addition, the results obtained with and without the
      imputations will be compared to explore the effect of the missing values on the estimators. A
      sensitivity analysis will be performed if a high number of values for key variables are
      missing.

      For the statistical analysis, generalized linear regression models will be used for repeated
      measurements (with identity link function and normal distribution for the continuous
      responses and Log link function with negative binomial distribution for count responses).
      This will take into account the correlation structure within each subject and the
      time-intervention interactions. The existence of random slopes and intercepts will be
      explored. All the models will be compared with Akaike models and the model hypotheses will be
      verified. All analyses will be performed with STATA 14.
    
  