
    
      Diabetic polyneuropathy is a frequent complication of diabetes mellitus. The impairment of
      peripheral nerve fibre function can be very variable, predominantly affecting large-diameter
      fibres (subserving touch), small-diameter fibres (subserving thermonociception), or both.

      Thermal detection threshold evaluation can be used to quantify the extent of function loss
      (hypoesthesia) and, to a lesser extent, gain (hyperesthesia) in patients with
      thermonociceptive impairments. They are important features of quantitative sensory testing
      (QST) protocols (Rolke, Baron, et al., 2006; Rolke, Magerl, et al., 2006) and are pivotal to
      the determination of sensory phenotypes (Baron et al., 2017; Raputova et al., 2017). Their
      role is particularly important in the diagnostic workup of neuropathies affecting small
      fibers (i.e., the subgroup of primary afferents responsible for thermonociception and
      autonomic functions) such as painful diabetic neuropathies (Terkelsen et al., 2017; Tesfaye
      et al., 2010).

      Currently, clinical measurements of thermal detection thresholds are mainly performed using
      the method of limits (Fruhstorfer, Lindblom, & Schmidt, 1976), in which a continuous heating
      or cooling ramp (usually at a slow rate, 1°C/s in the case of the DFNS QST protocol (Rolke,
      Magerl, et al., 2006)) is applied to the skin of the patient who is instructed to press a
      button as soon as he/she feels a warm or cold sensation. The detection threshold is then
      considered to be the temperature reached at the moment the patient pressed the button. The
      method of limits has been known for a long time to be methodologically biased due to its
      reliance on the reaction time (Yarnitsky & Ochoa, 1991), which lead to an overestimation of
      the threshold value corresponding to the temperature change that occurred between detection
      and it's signalling by a motor response. This is problematic as reaction times are under the
      influence of decision and motor reaction response speeds which may be affected by factors
      irrelevant to the assessment of sensory discrimination, such as cognitive or motor
      impairments.

      A methodologically sounder approach for threshold measurement is the method of levels or
      constant stimuli (Kingdom & Prins, 2010). A number of preselected stimulus intensities are
      presented a number of times in random order and the subject is asked whether he/she felt each
      stimulus. Unlike the method of limits, this approach is not biased by decision speed and
      motor function. Furthermore, this method enables the fitting of a psychometric function
      (probability of detection as a function of stimulus intensity) to the results, therefore
      moving thermal detection performance assessments from the outdated High Threshold Theory
      framework to that of the currently leading Signal Detection Theory (Kingdom & Prins, 2010).
      Whereas High Threshold Theory conceptualized detection as an ON/OFF process (below threshold,
      no detection occurs, above threshold detection always occurs), Signal Detection Theory sees
      detection as a probabilistic process (each stimulus intensity is associated with a
      probability of detection). This theoretical framework implies to redefine the threshold as
      the stimulus intensity for which detection probability equates 0.5. In addition to the
      threshold, the psychometric function is also defined by its slope, i.e. the rate at which
      detection probability changes around the value of the threshold. . Unfortunately, the method
      of levels has some important drawbacks. First, it is time consuming as it requires collecting
      responses to a large amount of stimuli (usually several hundreds) (Gescheider, 1997). Second,
      the range of stimulus intensities must be approximately centered on the actual threshold
      value and cover the transition range of detection probability.

      To overcome these limitations, several adaptive procedures have been proposed. These
      procedures actively adjust the intensity of the presented stimuli depending on the previous
      responses of the subject (Kingdom & Prins, 2010). In the present study, we implemented for
      the first time the Psi method (a Bayesian adaptive algorithm proposed by Kontsevich and Tyler
      (1999)) to estimate the thresholds and slopes of the psychometric function for heat and cold
      detection. This algorithm associates each potential values of slope and threshold with a
      probability, updates this probability distribution based on the response recorded after each
      stimulus presentation (detected/not detected), and selects the next stimulus intensity so
      that the response to its presentation maximizes the entropy (i.e. the uncertainty around the
      values of slope and threshold) reduction.

      In this study, we will test healthy controls with the conventional method of limit and the
      new psi method, in order to establish normative values for the new test.
    
  