
    
      Subjects:

      Twenty five overweight, healthy subjects were recruited. Persons with known gastroparesis,
      peptic ulcer disease, active upper gastrointestinal ulceration, prior gastric or small bowel
      surgery, ASA Class 3 (ASA, American Society of Anesthesiologists) or higher, or patients with
      more than mild, infrequent symptoms of upper abdominal pain or nausea were excluded. Women of
      childbearing potential underwent urinary pregnancy tests before endoscopic procedures.

      Measures:

      Satiation was assessed with the nutrient drink test, following the method of Tack et al.
      Subjects ingested 120 ml of a nutrient drink (Ensure®) per 4 min. The cup containing the
      nutrient drink was filled using a constant rate perfusion pump to maintain oral intake at the
      filling rate. Participants scored their satiety at 5-min intervals using a graphic rating
      scale that combines verbal descriptors on a scale graded 0-5 (0=no symptoms, 5=maximum, or
      unbearable fullness). Participants stopped meal intake when a score of 5 was reached, and the
      maximum tolerated volume (MTV) of nutrient drink was recorded. Normal values for MTV in
      adults in our laboratory are ≥850 cc. Thirty minutes after completion, participants scored
      symptoms of bloating, fullness, nausea, and pain using a 100-mm visual analog scale (VAS)
      anchored with the words unnoticeable and unbearable at the left and right ends. The aggregate
      symptom score was defined as the sum of the VAS scores for each symptom (i.e., maximum 400).

      Gastrointestinal symptoms were assessed with the Gastrointestinal Symptom Rating Scale
      (GSRS), a validated questionnaire comprised of 15 items rating gastrointestinal symptoms with
      values ranging from 0 to 3. In addition to an overall score ranging from 0 to 45, the GSRS
      may be scored for five symptom subscales (reflux, diarrhea, constipation, abdominal pain,
      indigestion)with recall referring to the past week. It is responsive to change.

      Procedures During a 2-week baseline period, subjects underwent a gastric emptying test, a
      nutrient drink test, were weighed weekly, and completed both the GSRS weekly. They then
      underwent esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) under propofol anesthesia. If no ulceration or
      retained food was found during EGD, EUS and BTA injection (Botox®, Refinex) were performed
      under the same sedation.

      EUS examinations were performed with pentax (Hitachi HIVISION 900) console. ??). BTA
      injections were made via a 25-gauge EUS needle. Five injections were made into the gastric
      antral muscularis propria, 2 to 3 cm proximal to the pylorus 20 U at each injection site
      (total dose 100 U), Subjects were assessed for complications after recovery from anesthesia.

      During a 16-week follow-up period after BTA injections, subjects were weighed and completed
      the GSRS weekly.

      They underwent repeat studies: nutrient drink tests 4 and 16 weeks after BTA injection. No
      behavioral or dietary interventions were offered to study subjects.
    
  