
    
      There is universal agreement that iatrogenic hypoglycemia is the single most prominent
      barrier to the safe, effective management of blood sugar in people with type 1 diabetes
      (T1D). The typical patient with T1D is required to "count" the number of carbohydrates they
      consume, estimate their own insulin doses and deliver this insulin subcutaneously to manage
      their own glycemic level. With these multiple degrees of freedom, it is not surprising that
      people with T1D frequently over-insulinize, thereby putting themselves at increased risk of
      developing hypoglycemia and its associated comorbidities.

      As the glycemic level falls in people who are generally healthy (i.e., non-T1D), the first
      response is an abatement of insulin secretion. This reduction is then followed by an increase
      in the release of the counterregulatory hormones glucagon and epinephrine as glycemia
      continues to fall. Collectively, this hormonal milieu causes an increase in liver glycogen
      mobilization and gluconeogenesis such that hepatic glucose production (HGP) increases,
      thereby preventing serious hypoglycemia from occurring. However, people with T1D are unable
      to reduce their own insulin levels (due to subcutaneous insulin delivery) and often have a
      diminished capacity to secrete both glucagon and epinephrine during insulin-induced
      hypoglycemia. Predictably, the HGP response to hypoglycemia in people with T1D is a fraction
      of that seen in non-T1D controls, thereby increasing the depth and duration of the
      hypoglycemic episode.

      Liver glycogen is the first substrate used to defend against hypoglycemia. Interestingly,
      hepatic glycogen levels in people with T1D are lower than those of non-T1D controls and their
      ability to mobilize liver glycogen to combat insulin-induced hypoglycemia is also diminished.
      Because of this, we carried out experiments in dogs to determine whether hepatic glycogen
      content is a determinant of the HGP response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia. Results of
      those studies showed that a 75% increase in liver glycogen (such as occurs in a non-T1D
      individual over the course of a day) generated a signal in the liver that was transmitted to
      the brain via afferent nerves which, in turn, led to an increase in the secretion of both
      epinephrine and glucagon. As expected, this increase in counterregulatory hormone secretion
      caused a 2.4-fold rise in HGP, despite insulin levels that were ~ 400 µU/mL at the liver.

      The finding that an acute increase in hepatic glycogen can augment hypoglycemic
      counterregulation has important clinical implications. However, despite the potential of this
      therapeutic avenue to reduce the risk of iatrogenic hypoglycemia, it remains unclear at this
      point if such a strategy translates to humans with T1D. Therefore, the overarching theme of
      this proposal is to determine whether an acute increase in liver glycogen content can augment
      the hepatic and hormonal responses to insulin-induced hypoglycemia in humans with and without
      T1D. Herein we are proposing studies that will advance the field, with the specific aims
      being as follows:

      Specific Aim #1: To determine the effect of increasing liver glycogen deposition on
      insulin-induced hypoglycemic counterregulation in humans with and without T1D.

      The discovery of ways by which the risk of iatrogenic hypoglycemia can be reduced in people
      with T1D is a priority. The proposed experiments will improve our understanding of the
      mechanisms by which increased glycogen improves hypoglycemic counterregulation. If
      hypoglycemia is reduced by increased glycogen, it will focus attention on the ways in which
      liver glycogen levels can be normalized in people with T1D. This would be a significant step
      forward in the ongoing effort to reduce the risk of iatrogenic hypoglycemia in people with
      T1D.
    
  