
    
      -  Random sample will be taken from patients presenting with atrophic rhinitis to ear, nose
           and throat outpatient clinic in Sohag University Hospital during the period extending
           from February 2021 to October 2022 (taking in consideration the follow up time of the
           last case which will take four months). Patients will be divided randomly into two
           groups. The division of patients subjected to treatment will be obtained by a random
           sequence of computer generated numbers. One group will be subjected to submucosal
           platelet-rich plasma (PRP) injection (study group) and the other group will be subjected
           to the usual conservative lines of treatment including nasal douchings, frequent local
           care and mucosal lubricants (control group).

      All patients will be subjected to:

        1. Full history taking and clinical examination.

        2. Symptom score, sinonasal outcome test-25 (SNOT 25) will be noted at the beginning and
           after treatment.

        3. Diagnostic nasal endoscopy and the results will be noted under four objective variables;
           these will be noted and the scores at the beginning and the end of 12 weeks of therapy
           will be statistically compared in both groups; 1. Crusting (nil = 0, minimal=1, gross =
           2) 2. Status of nasal mucosa (normal = 0, congested = 1, Pale Atrophic which often
           indicative of underlying squamous metaplasia =2) 3. Nature of secretions (thin = 0,
           thick = 1) 4. Condition of nasal cavity (normal size = 0, roomy (see nasopharynx) = 1)

        4. Routine Laboratory investigation: looking for iron deﬁciency anemia, thrombocytopenia.

        5. Baseline nasal biopsy and only those with histopathological features of atrophic
           rhinitis will be included in the study. Five subheadings for histopathology; Each
           variable was assigned a score of 0, 1 or 2 where 0 representing normal nasal mucosal
           features whereas 2 signifying extreme variation, the biopsy will be repeated after 12
           weeks of treatment;

        1. Status of epithelium: respiratory epithelium (pseudo stratified columnar ciliated
           epithelium, squamous metaplasia (partial/total ± keratinization); Denuded or not

        2. Status of mucous (goblet) cells (Normal glands / ↓ number and size / Absence)

        3. Condition of blood vessels (Reduced vascularity or Dilated blood vessels /
           Periarteritis/ Endarteritis).

        4. Tunica propria:

           Granulation tissue Presence of Chronic inﬂammatory cellular inﬁltrate Degree of Fibrosis
           Chronic inﬂammatory cellular inﬁltration with ﬁbrosis Basement membrane (Normal /
           Ill-deﬁned /Thickened) Seromucinus glands especially the serous component. 6-Assess the
           nasal mucociliary function using saccharin test (primary outcome at beginning of study):
           The test will be done at the commence of the study and 12 weeks later on. A score of 0-1
           is given to time lag where (0; normal: 1; prolonged).

           First group will be treated with nasal submucosal platelet rich plasma injection as
           follows; • The selected region will be inﬁltrated with a cold saline solution with
           addition of 1 mL of adrenaline and 25 mL of 2% lignocaine per 500 mL saline.

             -  Preparation of PRP:

             -  Platelet-rich plasma is prepared by drawing 10 mL of blood sample from the patient.

             -  The blood will be centrifuged at 1530 g for 10 min to obtain platelet-poor plasma.

             -  This will again centrifuged at 2720 g for 10 min to get platelet-rich plasma.

             -  Approximately 1 mL of platelet-rich plasma will be obtained from 10 mL blood.
                Usually amount of about 3ml is needed to be injected in each nostril at the
                affected sites of inferior and middle turbinates, septum and floor of the nose.
                Platelet rich plasma injected into the affected area after degranulating the
                platelet by adding 0.5 mL of calcium chloride.

             -  Injection interval and follow-up duration o Injection interval of 2 weeks (up to
                total 3 consecutive injections).

                o Follow-up duration: 4 months.

             -  Patients will be discharged from the hospital next day with oral antibiotics and
                anti-inﬂammatory agents for 1 week.

           Second group acting as a control, will be treated over a period of 4 months only with
           alkaline nasal douching and mucosal lubricants one -three times daily.

           • Patients will be followed-up at intervals of 2-4 weeks post-therapy for a period of 4
           months. Observation items, clinical assessment items and evaluation method will be
           statistically compared:

      1. Access the nasal mucosal status using diagnostic nasal endoscopy; monthly and at the end
      of therapy.

      2. Nasal mucocilirary flow rate by Saccharine test; once per month. 3. Fill in the nasal
      symptom scores using Nasal Obstruction Symptom Evaluation (NOSE) Instrument, SNOT- 25
      monthly.

      4. The nasal biopsy will be repeated in all cases at the end of 12-week therapy and the
      results will be noted under same variables and scored in the same manner. The scores at the
      beginning of the therapy and at 12 weeks, will be statistically compared.

      *All demographic data of the patients will be collected, analyzed and presented using SPSS
      version 21. Appropriate statistical tests will be used for comparing the results and
      statistical significance for each item between both groups of the study.
    
  