
    
      Social cognition encompasses a wide spectrum of abilities, enabling us to function properly
      in interpersonal interactions. Empathy constitutes one prominent ability of social cognition,
      which represents the human capability of understanding mental state of the other, and
      responding in sympathetic way (Leiberg & Anders, 2006). Two sets of theoretical mechanisms
      were designed in order to explain how empathy is possible. Theory of Mind (ToM) is usually
      regarded as a more cognitive mechanism of empathy, in which a theory we posses regarding the
      other enable us to infer his mental state. 'Simulation' processing is another different
      mechanism of empathy. In contrast to the ToM perspective, the simulation perspective asserts
      that understanding the other's state of mind is achieved by an inner representation of that
      mental state in our mind, thus simulating his mental state. Therefore, the simulation theory
      may be associated with more affective aspects of empathy.

      Schizophrenia encompasses a wide spectrum of psychotic disorders, characterized by severe
      cognitive, emotional and behavioral impairments. People who suffer from schizophrenia
      frequently exhibit social dysfunction, preventing them of a normal integration in healthy
      human environments. Recently it had been discovered that impairment in empathy and a specific
      impairment in effective TOM are mostly associated with the social malfunctioning of people
      who suffer from schizophrenia.

      One of the biological substances most connected to social cognition is the neuromodulator
      Oxytocin. Among its known involvement in uterine contractions and lactating females, numerous
      recent studies have found an indispensable role for Oxytocin in various complex prosocial
      behaviors such as maternal behavior, attachment, partner preference and trust. It was
      suggested that Oxytocin may mediate the beneficial affect of social support, and is found
      strongly involved in different kinds of attachment. In a recent study, Domes et al. (2006)
      found that an intranasal administration of a single dose of Oxytocin enhanced the ability to
      infer mental states as conveyed by the eyes region (RMET, Baron-Cohen et al. 1995). These
      findings suggest a mediating role for the ability to use social cues in order to infer the
      other mental states. In the proposed study, we plan to examine the influence of a single dose
      of intranasal Oxytocin on the two primary mechanisms of empathy, namely mentalizing (Theory
      of Mind) and Simulation, both in healthy people and in people who suffer from schizophrenia.
      Mentalizing will be assessed by a variation of a validated ToM task, which requires cognitive
      and affective mentalizing. Simulation will be tested in two different tasks: emotion
      recognition via a dynamic paradigm of facial expressions, and recognition of biological
      motion, which necessitates the identification of the emotion conveyed in a video clips of
      point light walkers. Both of these latter tasks have been associated with simulation
      processing.
    
  