
    
      Cancer patients in palliative care point to pain as their most important and most feared
      symptom. Bone metastases are a common cause of cancer pain, and the patients are prone to
      transient severe pain exacerbations (breakthrough pain), which can occur spontaneously or be
      triggered by movement. Patients with bone metastases experience pain of such high intensity,
      that it affects not only physical activity, but also sleep, mood and social relations. This
      results in poor quality of life for the patients and poses an increasing clinical and
      socio-economical problem. The pain is difficult to treat and often requires high opioid doses
      which results in unacceptable adverse effects, and there is an unmet need of novel
      therapeutic options and treatment strategies.

      Animal models of cancer-induced bone pain have suggested that pain arising from metastatic
      bone disease involve neuropathic and nociceptive pain mechanisms and, importantly, mechanisms
      that are specific to cancer-induced bone pain. Significant neuronal sprouting can occur at
      the metastatic site, and the inherent pain control system is found altered in animal models
      of cancer-induced bone pain; a system that can be exploited for treatment strategies and in
      the development of new analgesia. Yet, it is not known how the pre-clinical findings
      translate to patients.

      Quantitative sensory testing is a psychophysical method that uses a battery of sensory
      stimuli with predetermined physical properties, thus allowing the capture and quantification
      of stimulus-evoked negative and positive sensory phenomena in humans. Conditioned pain
      modulation is a psychophysical experimental measure of the endogenous pain inhibitory pathway
      in humans, which can be used to detect an impairment of the descending inhibitory pain
      pathway.

      This study aims to perform pain phenotyping of patients suffering from cancer-induced bone
      pain, through pain specific questionnaires, quantitative sensory testing and conditioned pain
      modulation.
    
  