
    
      The aim of the trial is to assess the effectiveness of the volunteer intervention Family Club
      Denmark (FCD). Participants are 200 vulnerable families with children aged 2-12 years, who
      would like to participate in a family club.

      The study is a prospective controlled trial with two conditions: (1) intervention group
      participating in Family Club Denmark and (2) wait-list control group. Participants are
      allocated to intervention after a first-come-first-serve principle. When the maximum number
      of participants in a specific family club is reached, any further families will join the
      wait-list and be offered participation after 6 months.

      Most participating families will be characterized by at least one of the following:

        -  Single parent

        -  Small or no network

        -  Low level of support

        -  Low income

        -  Physical or mental health problem

        -  Unemployed

        -  Loneliness

        -  Lack of contact with other adults

        -  Difficulty with creating relationships

        -  Having a hard time making ends meet during the week

      A family club consists of up to 9 families. Most families are vulnerable but each club also
      includes nun-vulnerable families. The club is run by 3-6 volunteers who have received a 1-day
      training. Participants meet every two weeks for 6 months (12 sessions).

      FCD is based on four principles: 1. Meal community; 2. Play, learning, and togetherness; 3.
      Support and advice; 4. Bridging to the civil society and the public sector

      The 12 sessions center around 7 value posters:

        1. Fun with smiles

        2. Together but not in line

        3. The time is now

        4. Notice and say thank you

        5. More than me

        6. Courage to dare

        7. Taste the world Data are collected at baseline, and after 6 and 12 months. The study is
           conducted in the Region South in Denmark.
    
  