
    
      The goal of this study is to investigate the epidemiology and natural history of
      childhood-onset diabetes, whether of autoimmune, non-autoimmune, or mixed etiology in
      affected probands and their relatives. The following hypotheses frame the research questions
      to be addressed:

      Hypothesis 1. Diabetes as it occurs in youth derives from a spectrum of etiologic processes,
      from the insulinopenia of autoimmune type 1 to obesity-related, insulin-resistant type 2
      diabetes. A subset of children develop diabetes through a combination of the 2 major
      etiologic pathways, with autoimmune ß-cell destruction aggravated by the presence of insulin
      resistance related to genetic susceptibility, obesity and/or physical inactivity. A fraction
      of young patients are unclassifiable at onset due to severe symptomatology and ambiguities in
      measures of ß-cell function. This poses the research challenge of misclassification of
      disease, as well as the clinical difficulty of potentially inappropriate treatment … Since
      patients are drawn from the city-wide registry, clustering of genetic and behavioral risk
      factors will be systematically identified without the selection bias inherent in case series
      and clinic-based studies.

      Research questions:

        1. Is it feasible to distinguish type 1 from early-onset type 2 diabetes at diagnosis?
           Which demographic, clinical, and family characteristics are most useful?

        2. Is the risk of developing diabetes among siblings of early-onset type 2 or mixed cases
           equivalent to that for siblings of type 1 patients? Which characteristics are most
           predictive of risk? Hypothesis 2. Changes in the epidemiologic parameters of childhood
           diabetes over the past 2 decades are directly related to changes in the prevalence of
           risk factors for both type 1 and type 2 diabetes, including obesity, physical
           inactivity, and perinatal exposures.

      Research questions:

        1. Is change in the incidence of childhood diabetes occurring uniformly across all age-,
           sex- and ethnic strata?

        2. Are secular changes in type 2 incidence rates continuing, and is this occurring in all
           age-, sex- and ethnic strata? Hypothesis 3. A complex interplay of heritable,
           behavioral, and treatment factors can accelerate or delay the development of chronic
           diabetes complications. It is particularly compelling to understand this process in
           young patients, those with the most years of productive life at risk. … Recent
           observations indicate that features of the metabolic syndrome, over and above glycemic
           control, are potent risk factors for macrovascular complications. Familial aggregation
           of these traits may itself play a role in determining the risk of chronic complications
           among young people with diabetes.

      Research questions:

        1. Do young people with diabetes who demonstrate signs and symptoms of early complications
           have greater insulin resistance or other characteristics that distinguish them from
           those patients who are free of complications, controlled for disease duration and
           metabolic control?

        2. Do young patients with early signs/symptoms of complications have more parents who
           themselves have elevated cardiovascular disease risk factors, than patients who are free
           of chronic complications, controlled for disease duration and metabolic control?
    
  