
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second most commonly diagnosed cancer and the third highest
      cause of mortality in Vietnamese and Asian Americans. CRC incidence is rising rapidly in
      Vietnamese Americans, but they have among the lowest rates of CRC screening (14%) and are
      more likely to be diagnosed with advanced stage disease, which is highly preventable. Over
      85% of Vietnamese Americans in our region (PA, NJ, and NYC) are foreign-born with limited
      English proficiency, have low SES, and live in economically disadvantaged neighborhoods. Many
      lack knowledge about CRC risks and screening benefits and have limited access to culturally
      appropriate preventive care. Thus, a multilevel intervention is needed to address the
      multiple barriers to and determinants of CRC screening in this community. Vietnamese
      community organizations (VCOs) serve dynamic social functions and represent an important
      resource for addressing this critical health disparity priority by promoting CRC screening.
      This project builds on established partnerships and successful work of Center for Asian
      Health, Temple University with Vietnamese CBOs that address their overwhelming health
      disparities. CBPR principles will be applied to engage 20 VCOs in all phases of planning,
      implementing, evaluating, and disseminating a culturally appropriate, theory- and
      evidence-based multilevel CRC intervention. The proposed intervention will be guided by
      Social Ecological Model, which addresses sociocultural, behavioral and environmental
      determinants and intervention strategies at the individual, interpersonal, and community
      organizational levels. CDC's Clinical Preventive Services Guidelines for adults 50+ (CPS)
      recommend that cancer screenings and other preventive services should be promoted. The
      standard CPS will be provided to both intervention and control groups, and intervention group
      will receive CPS + multilevel CRC intervention. Specific Aim 1 is to test the hypothesis that
      CPS + multilevel CRC intervention will yield higher CRC screening rates compared to CPS
      control at 12-month follow up; Aim 2 is to examine whether CPS + multilevel CRC intervention
      (which includes CHW-led group education, automated and interactive text messaging and
      phone-based peer support) is more effective in changing screening determinants (e.g. KAB,
      self-efficacy, risk factors, lifestyles, social support, social norms, access barriers) than
      CPS control condition; and Aim 3 is to assess costs and cost-effectiveness of CPS +
      multilevel CRC intervention compared to CPS control condition in relation to CRC screening
      rates in order to inform future dissemination efforts. In sum, this project represents the
      first large-scale community-based randomized controlled trial of a multilevel,
      culturally-appropriate CBPR intervention to increase CRC screening among underserved
      Vietnamese. If effective, this innovative multilevel CRC intervention can be used as a model
      program that has potential generalizability and sustainability in Asian American and other
      underserved ethnic communities to impact preventive behaviors at the population level.
    
  