
    
      The patient activities of daily living for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis survey (PADL-ALS,
      Appendix B) is a patient-centric revision of the standard revised ALS functional rating scale
      used in clinical trials, the ALSFRS-R. The PADL-ALS was developed based on patient
      interviews, and patient focus groups. The ALSFRS-R is made up of 12 categories detailing
      various activities of daily living and includes six bulbar-respiratory functions, three upper
      extremity functions (writing, cutting food, and dressing), and three gross motor functions
      (walking, climbing, and turning in bed). Each activity is recorded to the closest
      approximation from a list of five choices, scored 0-4, with the total score ranging from 48
      (normal function) to 0 (no function). The PADL-ALS includes questions from the ALSFRS-R, with
      revisions to make the questions easier to understand. In addition the PADL-ALS contains a
      question about pain; a question about emotional lability; and a general non-denominational
      question about faith. The survey will be composed of two parts, the initial survey, and then
      monthly follow up surveys. The initial survey will include the PADL-ALS with additional
      questions about symptom onset, date of diagnosis, initial region involved, patient impression
      of diagnosis, general demographic questions (age, gender, race, ethnicity, education), and
      medications related to their diagnosis of motor neuron disease.

      The survey data will be stored by the Rare Diseases Clinical Research Network's Data
      Management and Coordinating Center (DMCC) at the University of South Florida. Upon conclusion
      of the study period, the data will be sent to Jeffrey Statland, MD, University of Kansas
      Medical Center (Study Chair) and Michael Benatar, MD, PhD, University of Miami (CReATe
      Consortium PI). All data collected will be sent to the database of Genotypes and Phenotypes
      (dbGaP) to be stored indefinitely.
    
  