
    
      High-impact essential newborn care practices and interventions are available to support
      neonatal survival, but coverage remains a challenge in sub-Saharan Africa, where neonatal
      mortality is unacceptably high. Many newborns continue to die at home without health care
      services being sought. The reasons are multifactorial, at the societal, health system, and
      family levels. Decisions made within the household and the family's ability to reach care
      play a large part in determining neonatal outcomes. It is estimated that up to 80% of
      neonatal and child deaths may have delays in recognition of infant illness and decision to
      seek care. Two-way mobile health (mHealth) communication strategies can enable mothers to
      remotely interact with a healthcare worker (HCW) and receive real-time education, counseling,
      encouragement, motivation and decisional guidance to support care-seeking decisions and
      ultimately neonatal health and survival.

      The investigators developed a unique two-way SMS platform (Mobile WACh) that combines
      automated SMS messaging and dialogue with a HCW. The team adapted this approach for intensive
      neonatal support and evaluations (Mobile WACh NEO). Mobile WACh NEO (MWN) enhances the
      benefits of SMS messaging by engaging mothers with SMS communication and bringing timely
      information and support - asking critical questions at crucial times in order to assess the
      needs and health of newborns and assist in care seeking decisions.

      This is a randomized controlled trial of the MWN intervention among 5,000 participants (2,500
      MWN arm, 2,500 control arm) to determine the effect of MWN on neonatal mortality, essential
      newborn care, care seeking, and maternal mental health in the first 6 weeks postpartum.

      AIM 1: To determine the effect of Mobile WACh NEO on neonatal mortality, compared to no SMS
      control.

      AIM 2: To examine the effect of Mobile WACh NEO on maternal implementation of essential
      newborn care and care seeking behavior.

      AIM 3: To examine the effects of Mobile WACh NEO on maternal social support, self-efficacy
      and depression.

      Finally, investigators will explore the associations between maternal mental health,
      implementation of essential newborn care, neonatal care seeking and participant engagement by
      SMS.
    
  