
    
      Among scheduled children for cardiac catheterization at the Labatt Family Health Center
      Cardiac Diagnostic and Interventional Unit (CDIU) , potential participants will be identified
      at their pre-catheterization clinic visit, the study explained, and informed consent
      obtained. On the day of their procedure, participants will be randomized to one of 4 groups.
      In the pre-catheterization work-up area, a modified Yale Preoperative Anxiety Scale (mYPAS)
      plus anxiety and pain self-ratings on verbal 0-10 scales will be obtained. In intervention
      groups A and C a pre-procedure Comfort Talk script will be read while the parent or guardian
      is present. Patients in Group B and D will not have a script read. The participants will be
      reassessed by mYPAS and asked to rate their level of pain and anxiety again on entering the
      procedure room and then care will continue as usual. The team members and anaesthesiologist
      will be blinded to the prior treatment and behave naturally but abstain from formalized use
      of hypnosis, invitation to imagery, use of scripts or electronic means of distraction.
      Induction of anaesthesia and the procedure will continue according to laboratory routine. Use
      of premedication will be permitted as per judgement of the anaesthesiologist. After induction
      a Paediatric Anesthesia Behaviour score (PAB) rating will be obtained. Prior to extubation,
      one of the CDIU nurses will read the pre-extubation script for those subjects in Groups B and
      C. Extubation and transfer to recovery will follow usual routine.

      When the patients are transferred to the recovery room nurses will be unaware of group
      attribution. On waking from anaesthesia and up to 6 hours post-operatively, participants will
      again be asked to rate their levels of pain and anxiety at various intervals.

      Within 24-48 hours of discharge from the hospital, families will be called to follow-up on
      their experience in the CDIU using the follow-up questionnaire regularly used by the CDIU
      nurses. At the same time the parents will be reminded to fill in the Post Hospitalization
      Behaviour Questionnaire (PHBQ) reflecting the child's behaviour in the first week after the
      procedure and mail it back in the stamped addressed envelope provided. If the envelope has
      not been mailed back within 10 days one of the research team members will call and complete
      it with the parents over the phone.

      The pre-procedure script is based on a script that three large prospective randomized trials
      found to be effective in adults in reducing anxiety, pain, and complications of invasive
      image-guided procedures. It has been modified for use in paediatrics. The standardized script
      containing relaxing and hypnoidal language with suggestions for coping strategies will be
      read by CDIU RNs trained in Comfort Talk in the pre-catheterization work-up area. The
      pre-extubation script contains suggestions for healing, recovery, functioning of bodily
      systems, and acknowledgement of the patient's contribution.
    
  