
    
      Certain populations may be particularly susceptible to the adverse effects of chronic stress,
      particularly chronic work-related stress. One such population is that of clergy doing
      ministry work. Clergy exhibit high prevalence rates of chronic disease, including diabetes,
      hypertension, asthma, and joint-related disease, as well as obesity. Further, studies also
      indicate above-average rates of depression. While no studies directly compare rates of
      clinical anxiety among clergy versus non-clergy, anxiety rates among clergy are elevated. The
      high prevalence of physical and mental health issues among clergy may be due in part to
      stressors from the unique nature of clergy work.

      A prominent theory of stress is the job-demand-control-support (JDCS) model, which indicates
      that stressful jobs are those characterized by high demand, low control, and low support.
      Clergy perform many demanding roles, including inspiring the congregation, providing
      one-on-one care for congregants, performing sacraments, educating congregants, overseeing
      educational programming, and leading social justice activities. The work week typically
      averages 50 hours or more with the expectation of being on call around-the-clock and the
      range of skills needed is broad. While certain tasks such as preaching are predictable,
      clergy have no control over the timing of funerals and congregant crises, and only a variable
      degree of control over congregant perception of the direction the clergy are taking the
      congregation. Congregants who are committed to the congregation have strong and often
      conflicting opinions. In terms of support, clergy experience work-related support to varying
      degrees; they direct essentially a volunteer workforce and, with the wide range of tasks
      conducted, they often do not receive the support needed to match the tasks or the emotional
      challenges faced.

      Researchers have developed numerous approaches to manage stress, such as cognitive-behavioral
      therapy, mindfulness, and relaxation. Not all stress-management interventions are equally
      effective. Rather, stress-reducing activities are viewed as skills that require regular
      practice. As such, the most effective interventions are those that individuals are willing
      and motivated to practice (i.e., patient-preference is an important aspect of evidence-based
      practice). The current study builds on a pilot study that the investigators conducted with
      clergy to evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of four potentially stress-reducing
      interventions while taking participant preference into account. Three of those
      stress-reducing interventions showed trends of self-reported stress reduction in terms of
      reduced stress symptoms and/or reactivity to stress. In the current study, the investigators
      test those three interventions: Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction, the Daily Examen, and a
      set of stress inoculation and breathing exercises called Stress Proofing.

      The study design is a waitlist preferences design. As such, participants choose which of the
      three interventions they prefer, taking into account the intervention content, format, and
      scheduling dates. The intervention groups will consist of clergy who sign up for the
      intervention during the initial recruitment phase and are randomly assigned to start before
      November 2020. (A secondary per-protocol analysis will include in the intervention groups any
      clergy who sign up for the intervention after the initial recruitment phase.) The control
      group will consist of clergy who sign up for the intervention during the initial recruitment
      phase and are randomly assigned to an intervention start time of November 2020 or later. In
      addition to random assignment to immediate-start versus delayed-start (waitlist),
      participants who indicate equal preference for two or more interventions will be randomly
      assigned to one of their preferred interventions. The investigators' study design allows for
      testing stress outcomes between those participants who preferred that intervention and those
      who were waiting for intervention. The design will not allow for comparing outcomes between
      interventions.
    
  