
    
      Patients will be enrolled in the quit smoking before surgery program. Before participating in
      the education program, the investigators will ask patients questions about their smoking
      habits, and patient will complete pre-education questionnaires that should take about 5
      minutes. Patients will participate in a computer-based education program about quitting
      smoking for about 15 minutes. It will explain the importance of quitting smoking before their
      surgery, how to quit and coping with quitting. If they are not familiar with using a
      computer, we will provide an assistant for them to complete the education program. After
      completing the education program, they will complete a post-education questionnaire. patients
      will also receive an information pamphlet.

      All participants will receive the computer-based education program, brief counselling,
      pamphlet, Smokers' Helpline referral, and telephone follow-up.

      Altogether you will be spending about 30 minutes to complete the assessment, education
      program and counselling.

      patients will be asked for their permission to inform their family physician about their
      participation in this study. Their smoking status, date of surgery, quit date, and
      recommended medication (when appropriate) will be faxed to your family physician to assist
      them quitting process. If they are willing to accept the assistance from Smokers' Helpline,
      their name and phone number will be faxed to the Smokers' Helpline, and someone from Smokers'
      Helpline will call you in the next 48 hours to follow-up.

      The investigators will monitor patient's smoking behavior by measuring expired carbon
      monoxide, a gas in the air they breathe out, during their pre-surgery visit and on the day of
      surgery. We also will measure urine cotinine (a by-product of nicotine) by taking urine
      samples and check their smoking status by asking questions about their smoking habits on the
      day of surgery, 1 month, 3 months and 6 months after their surgery. During the telephone
      interview follow-up, we will remind them to do the urine cotinine and mail it to us. (Prepaid
      mail with urine cotinine strip will be provided at the time of the 2nd visit on the day of
      surgery.) Each follow-up phone call will take about 6 -10 minutes.

      A one-month,3 month and 6 month follow up will be done by the research coordinator to assess
      the smoking status. Brief counseling (< 5 mins) will be provided.
    
  