
    
      Alcohol use disorders frequently have a pediatric origin. Pediatric primary care offices,
      where the majority of adolescents receive health care, are a promising venue for early
      identification and intervention through universal screening and brief counseling. However,
      while the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends primary care-based alcohol screening
      and brief intervention for adults, it found insufficient evidence to recommend it for
      adolescents.

      The goal of the proposed study is to address this evidence gap by testing the effectiveness
      of a promising computer-facilitated Screening and Brief Intervention (cSBI) system for
      delivery by pediatric primary care clinicians to adolescents at well-visits. This
      cluster-randomized controlled trial will be conducted in the American Academy of Pediatrics'
      (AAP) Pediatric Research in Office Settings (PROS) national primary care practice-based
      research network. PROS has demonstrated success in >30 years of practice-based research, with
      >600 practices participating in recent studies. Drawing on more than 15 years of our prior
      research on adolescent alcohol screening and brief counseling in primary care offices, the
      cSBI system was developed to provide a time-efficient and feasible way for pediatric
      practices to improve both the frequency and quality of alcohol screening and counseling. cSBI
      includes: 1) computer self-administered screening that adolescents complete prior to seeing
      their clinician, 2) 10 interactive psychoeducational pages for the adolescent on substance
      use health risks, 3) a Clinician Report Form with screen results and prompts that clinicians
      use to provide motivational interviewing-based individualized counseling, and 4) clinician
      training materials and protocol.

      In a New England-based pilot study, we found that, compared to usual care (UC), the cSBI
      approach: 1) increased patient receipt of alcohol-related counseling during well-visits; 2)
      improved patients' ratings of the quality of their clinician encounter; and 3) among those
      who reported past-year use at baseline (n=192), was associated with a 34% lower risk of a
      heavy episodic drinking episode during 12 months follow-up. cSBI also reduced risk of riding
      with an impaired driver, a major safety risk associated with alcohol, by 42% among those with
      prior riding risk.

      A larger RCT of this approach, which employs an adequately-powered sample and tests
      generalizability of effects beyond New England, is needed. We will randomize >30 pediatric
      primary care clinicians in ~10 practices nationwide to deliver UC or cSBI (1:1) to their
      eligible and assenting 14- to 17-year-old patients arriving for well-visits. Our aims are to
      test cSBI's effect on heavy episodic drinking, and on riding with an impaired driver/driving
      while impaired, during 12 months follow-up among 1,268 adolescents screen-identified as
      at-risk. We hypothesize that, compared to adolescent patients receiving usual care, those
      receiving cSBI will have lower rates of reporting heavy episodic drinking and riding with an
      impaired driver/driving while impaired during the study follow-up period.
    
  