
    
      The TFOS DEWS II report redefines dry eye as:

      ". . . a multifactorial disease of the ocular surface characterised by a loss of homeostasis
      of the tear film, and accompanied by ocular symptoms, in which tear film instability and
      hyperosmolarity, ocular surface inflammation and damage, and neurosensory abnormalities play
      etiological roles." Dry eye disease (DED) is a global problem, afflicting at least 344
      million people worldwide, and is one of the most frequent causes of patient visits to eye
      care practitioners. However, the epidemiology of DED continues to be a challenge due to the
      lack of a standardised worldwide definition. The prevalence of DED, with and without
      symptoms, ranges from 5 to 50%.

      Tear hyperosmolarity, as well as inflammatory mediators, may induce DED symptoms and cause
      damage to epithelial cells, surface microvilli, barrier function, the glycocalyx, and goblet
      cells. Epithelial cell damage, lipid layer and blinking abnormalities, defective glycocalyx,
      loss of gel mucin and reduction in tear volume may result in loss of lubrication between the
      globe and eyelids, resulting in increased friction and also symptoms.

      Inflammation of the ocular surface can cause inhibition of lacrimal secretion and loss of
      epithelial barrier function at the ocular surface. Tear film breakup, leading to localised
      hyperosmolarity, can result in ocular surface damage either directly or through the cascade
      of inflammation that it initiates. Improved understanding of the role of subclinical
      inflammation in the early stages of DED also warrants further study.

      Amniotic membrane (AM) has been utilised for many years as an adjuvant for tissue healing,
      with the first recorded use by Davis in 1910 during skin transplantation and in the 1930s by
      Sorsby for chemical injuries to the eye. Transplantation of human amniotic membrane has since
      been used for many ophthalmic indications. Reports describe its efficacy in reconstructing a
      corneal surface severely damaged by chemical agents, promoting the healing of persistent
      corneal epithelial defects, enhancing the success of corneal surface reconstruction surgery
      and substituting for conjunctival autografts after excision of pterygium or removal of
      conjunctival lesions.

      Human AM has anti-bacterial, anti-angiogenic, anti-inflammatory and anti-fibroblastic
      properties. These characteristics may play a role in the use of AM in the treatment of DED. A
      recent study published by McDonald and colleagues in 2018 conducted in 84 patients (97 eyes)
      receiving cryopreserved AM treatment (Prokera) in addition to prior maximal medical
      management demonstrated an improved ocular surface along with a notable reduction of the
      severity of the overall DEWS score up to three months post treatment. Note the DEWS score is
      not a common assessment approach (as opposed to the OSDI score) but is indicative that
      amniotic membrane may have a positive effect in dry eye.

      Omnigen is a dehydrated amniotic membrane derived from human sources and certified by the UK
      Human Tissue Authority. It offers significant potential benefits compared to cryopreserved AM
      such as the ability to store at room temperature and to create optimum application options
      such as circular discs rather than squares. More importantly, Omnigen has been demonstrated
      to preserve more of the biochemistry of AM during processing which in turn should yield
      improved clinical outcomes. Omnigen is licenced for human application and is regulated by the
      Human Tissue Authority (HTA). NuVision has delivered over 5,000 Omnigen treatments for
      Ophthalmology use, without any reports of adverse events (reporting a prerequisite of the
      HTA).

      NuVision Biotherapies holds establishment licences under the HTA (Human Tissue Authority)
      that monitor and ensure the services and facilities comply with Good Manufacturing Practice.
      Many of the standard applied are above and beyond the minimum required by European/UK
      legislation and regulation. The donated tissue is collected aseptically in NHS operating
      theatres according to protocols approved by the HTA. These protocols include donor consent
      and testing, quarantine and release of product for clinical use. Once collected the donated
      tissue is processed in dedicated Grade A facilities and decontaminated using an antibiotic
      cocktail. The individual Omnigen pieces are also cut and packaged in controlled environments
      which are regularly assessed by the HTA. The final products are assessed through quality
      control procedures including individual visual examination and released only to units signing
      and applying the HTA approved tissue supply agreement. This enables full traceability from
      donor to patients.

      During production individual Omnigen pieces are marked using a surgical pen with a logo that
      enables clinicians to determine correct orientation of Omnigen. For use with OmniLenz BCL the
      epithelial side of the tissue should be towards the ocular surface.

      Omnigen pieces are individually packed in flat, sterile packaging. Each pack is clearly
      labelled according to HTA standards including individual item numbers in addition to batch
      details. The product is not irradiated and will remain sterile until opened. Omnigen is
      stored at room temperature which simplifies logistics. NuVision offer both advice and
      equipment to units receiving Omnigen but many units including the trial centre hold their own
      licences. This means they are also controlled and subject to inspection by the HTA. Enclosed
      within the packaging are adverse event or reaction reporting forms and advice that should
      such an event occur to telephone NuVision immediately. To date there are here are no reported
      cases of patient harm caused by the application of Omnigen.

      OmniLenz is a bespoke BCL designed to enable the application of Omnigen without the need for
      either sutures or glue. OmniLenz BCL is a CE marked lens, modified from a standard lens
      produced by Menicon, that has been used to treat millions of people world-wide. The
      modifications are minor adjustment to the back geometry of the lens to allow OmniLenz BCL to
      be inserted over the amnion. This development has created the clinical opportunity to treat
      numerous clinical conditions with AM in an in-clinic environment, rather than a surgical
      setting. It has been designed to meet the needs of patients including comfort, aesthetics and
      transparency.

      Over 900 in-clinic, suture less, applications of Omnigen using OmniLenz BCL have been used to
      date, predominantly for treatment of severe persistent epithelial defects and ocular
      inflammation conditions including DED.

      The proposed DOORS study aims to examine the impact of applying Omnigen in the clinic without
      sutures, for patients suffering from moderate to severe DED. It aims in particular to examine
      the impact on both symptoms and pathology including Quality of Life (QoL) measurements and
      relevant clinical markers of disease progression. Of particular note is a measurement of tear
      film osmolarity, data of which is currently lacking in most studies to date.

      The Ocular Surface Disease Index (OSDI), developed by the Outcomes Research Group at Allergan
      Inc (Irvine, Calif), is a 12-item questionnaire designed to provide a rapid assessment of the
      symptoms of ocular irritation consistent with dry eye disease and their impact on
      vision-related functioning.

      Risks of treatment

      Amniotic membrane is a human tissue and as such carries a risk of infection associated with
      receiving human tissue. These have been reduced at least by:

        -  Careful donor selection via medical assessment by trained clinical staff

        -  Infectious disease testing

        -  Omnigen is from donors who test negative for, Human immunodeficiency virus, Hepatitis B
           virus, Hepatitis C virus, Human T-lymphotropic virus 1 (HTLV-I), Syphilis,
           Cytomegalovirus

        -  Aseptic retrieval from living donors

        -  Processing in Grade A clean rooms

        -  Pathogen reduction by decontamination using an antibiotic cocktail during processing

        -  Quality control steps from donation through to final packaging performed by trained
           staff In particular, the risks of the use of any human tissue, or tissue derived
           product, must always consider the risk of prion infection. Prions are known to cause
           variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD). CJD is a rare and fatal human degenerative
           condition which can be sporadic, inherited (familial), iatrogenic or variant. An
           analysis of all 177 UK vCJD cases reported up to December 2013 looking for the
           possibility of vCJD transmission through organ/tissue transplantation in the UK provided
           no evidence of transplant-associated vCJD in the UK. Therefore, this evidence suggests
           that previous UK factors as risk for CJD contamination are minimum to non-existent.

      Omnigen is processed using the following antibiotics:

        -  Gentamycin 200 mg/ml

        -  Imipenem 10 mg/ml

        -  Nystatin 125,000 U/ml

        -  Polymyxin B 10 mg/ml

        -  Vancomycin 2.5 µg/ml Patients with antibiotic sensitivity should be identified and
           assessed according. Antibiotic levels in Omnigen are relatively low. When released from
           the tissue, most will be washed from the surface of the eye by tear production and
           blinking. However, research has shown that when drugs in tears come in contact with the
           vascular nasal mucosa, absorption into the bloodstream can occur. The 'one off' amount
           of antibiotic becoming systemic is unlikely to elicit and sensitivity reaction, but the
           potential risk needs to be considered.

      Human amniotic membrane lacks immunogenicity, and the cornea has immune privilege. It is safe
      to say that over 1 million amniotic membrane transplantation procedures have been performed
      worldwide. However, there is no reported literature evidence of amniotic membrane eliciting
      an immune response at the ocular surface, even after repeat application from different
      donors. Therefore, though the potential risk still needs to be considered and explained to
      the patients, the risk of sensitivity is low. Where the patient is treated in the clinic
      using Omnigen, applied with OmniLenz BCL, the transplant can be rapidly removed should any
      response present itself.

      Omnigen is processed using Raffinose a common lyoprotectant used in the preservation of cells
      and tissues, providing hypertonicity for cell desiccation. There is no reported literature
      evidence of any cases of sensitivity to raffinose pentahydrate.

      The trial design has been selected to reflect the recommendations of Design and Conduct of
      Clinical Trials: Report of the Clinical Trials Subcommittee of the International Dry Eye
      WorkShop (2007). This stated that "the most desirable design of a clinical trial is a
      prospective, randomized, double-masked, placebo- or vehicle- controlled parallel group or
      crossover study".

      The control arm has been chosen for the following reasons:

      i) The intervention being studied comprises two elements; the intended amniotic membrane
      (Omnigen), and a modified bandage contact lens (OmniLenz BCL) which is used to hold the
      amnion in place but may have an indirect benefit. Therefore, any change may potentially be
      due to either element or a combination of both.

      ii) The use of bandage contact lenses is a recognised treatment approach for DED. and
      represents an existing standard of care. OmniLenz BCL treatment alone is considered to be
      equivalent to a bandage contact lens.

      iii) OmniLenz BCL placement will be obvious to the patient. The application of an OmniLenz
      BCL without Omnigen will enable the patient to remain masked to receiving the investigational
      intervention.
    
  