
    
      The "signatures" of MHPIs is a term formulated by the American National Institute of Mental
      Health to designate the broad range of genetic, biological, psychological, and social factors
      that may "sign" a specific mental disorder, depending on an individual's sex, history,
      lifestyle habits, and so on. In 2010, the Research Centre of the Montreal Mental Health
      University Institute (MMHUI), in Canada, implemented the "Signature Bank" project for the
      collection of biological and psychosocial dimensional signatures from all psychiatric
      emergency patients of the MMHUI (catchment area of about 600,000 inhabitants). More than
      4,000 patients are treated annually at the MMHUI, while an additional 2,000 patients per year
      are treated by means of outpatient or ambulatory services. Our activities provide us with one
      of the largest populations of patients with MHPIs in Canada. By collaborating with the MMHUI
      Research Centre, MMHUI-hospital managers have contributed to the implementation of this
      large-scale project that aims at measuring the (epi)genetic, biological, psychological, and
      social signatures of people living with MHPIs who receive the MMHUI's clinical services.
      Typically, these measures are obtained at four different points in the clinical visit of
      patients at the MMHUI: (T1) when patients are admitted to the psychiatric emergency services,
      (T2) when they are discharged from the hospital, (T3) when they are admitted to an outpatient
      clinic, and (T4) 12 months after T3. This study now goes even further in understanding not
      only the signature of MHPIs, but also the dimensions of personal-civic recovery and as
      reported by our patients who will additionally complete the Recovery Assessment Scale (7),
      the Citizenship Measure (8) and the COVID19 Stress Scales (9) components.

      Several instruments have been developed by clinicians and academics to assess clinical
      recovery. Based on their life narratives and to assess personal-civic recovery, measurement
      tools have also been developed through community-based participatory research and validated
      by persons living with MHPIs; for instance the Recovery Assessment Scale and the Citizenship
      Measure questionnaires. As users of mental health services typically tend to prefer
      interventions to help them recover, reintegrate with society, and achieve their personal
      goals, this pre-post research feasibility trial design is undertaken to evaluate the outcomes
      on personal-civic recovery (primary outcome) and on clinical recovery (secondary outcome).
      Among the Signature Bank participants diagnosed with (a) psychotic disorders, or (b) anxiety
      and mood disorders, and who have further accepted to be invited to participate in this study,
      an half will only receive the corresponding control intervention, and the other half will
      also receive our experimental Peer Support Workers' online group intervention based on peer
      support (random allocation control/experimental intervention ratio = 2:1). The abovementioned
      additional measures of personal-civic recovery and the COVID19 Stress Scales will be
      repeated, along with the measures of clinical recovery, which are routinely collected among
      all Signature Bank participants.

      The aim is to collect data for a future Randomized Controlled Trial design by clarifying a
      certain number of remaining uncertainties and by determining an effect size that would be
      specifically attributable to transitional online peer support groups as facilitated by
      trained PSWs. Analyses will thus also consider scientific reasons, processes, resources, and
      management in preparation for a more definitive trial. Indicators of feasibility will include
      recruitment rates practices, participants and facilitators, as well as feasibility and
      retention rates in study protocol.

      When a person shows up at the Emergency Department of MMHUI for the first time, he or she is
      systematically approached by a Research Nurse after a first medical authorization is granted
      for that person to be approached (sometimes this authorization is not granted for medical or
      security reasons). The Research Nurse then explains what objectives of the Signature Bank
      project are and invites the person to participate. Those who accept sign the Information and
      Consent Form (T1), fill out a series of questionnaires, including for sociodemographic
      information, consent to the taking of biological samples, and they are also asked if they
      accept to be contacted for other research purposes (like our own study). Then, as with any
      other MMHUI patients, they are evaluated by the Evaluation and Liaison Module during their
      hospital stay when they are hospitalized. A diagnostic is established or confirmed by
      psychiatrists on the ward, and coded according to the World Health Organisation International
      Classification of Disease (ICD-10). According to these diagnoses, after discharge (T2) they
      are referred to a specialized outpatient clinic (T3). Whether for psychotic disorders or for
      anxiety and mood disorders, pharmacotherapy or psychotherapy, or a combination of both, are
      then offered in accordance with guidelines of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of
      Canada.

      PSWs will learn with participants via a series of co-learning workshops that they will
      organize and facilitate as focus group panels in a manner to simulate a typical peer support
      group. The difference of our experimental and transitional online peer support groups to real
      community-based peer support groups is that (A) they will have to be facilitated by trained
      PSWs and (B) they will have a personal-civic recovery focus. They will also (C) have a fixed,
      predetermined duration (a series of 10 weekly 90-minute online workshops), and this is why
      they are said to be transitional. Indeed, as defined by the World Health Organization: "Peer
      support groups bring together people who have similar concerns so they can explore solutions
      to overcome shared challenges and feel supported by others who have had similar experiences
      and who may better understand each other's situation. Peer support groups may be considered
      by group members as alternatives to, or complementary to, traditional mental health services.
      They are run by members for members so the priorities are directly based on their needs and
      preferences. Peer support groups should ideally be independent from mental health and social
      services, although some services may facilitate and encourage the creation of peer support
      groups" (10).

      The objective is to prevent the deterioration of the participants' recovery potential due to
      the COVID-19 pandemic and its aftermath. It is also about stimulating this potential by
      encouraging them to share their worries and their coping strategies in relation to the
      current situation. More generally, they will be asked to project themselves beyond this
      situation and to discuss future challenges of social inclusion and civic participation, for
      example by attending already existing community-based peer support groups, in the medium or
      long terms, and of which they will have heard of during the intervention. This is why this
      intervention is said to be transitional. Their own goals during the pandemic may be different
      from those post-pandemic and the effects of the response may also be different. However, the
      whole online intervention is intentionally designed to be readily adaptable to other
      (pandemic) situations.

      To generate a collective narrative, the output of each workshop will be a brief written
      account of the group discussion, to which the next workshop will open up, and so on. To
      trigger discussion, PSWs will use animation cards and techniques inspired and adapted from
      materials initially designed to help healthcare teams develop the psychosocial skills of
      patients in Therapeutic Patient Education. Each workshop will be filmed via a secured video
      communication system for subsequent qualitative observational and content analyses. In
      accordance with our model of patient engagement, PSWs will each time start by disclosing
      being themselves persons in recovery, and feed with content drawn from their lived experience
      while asking participants to share their own lived experience and coping strategies. This is
      in line with experiential learning (11). After each workshop, the PSWs will meet for a
      30-minute debriefing session, asking themselves what they have just learned, personally and
      professionally (also recorded). This is a process of recovery mentorship as an expression of
      psychological empowerment, as embodied in and practiced by the PSWs as mentors, and as an
      egalitarian relation that helps facilitate the empowerment of the mentees (12).
    
  