
    
      Hypertension in older adults is a known contributor to both cardiovascular disease and falls.
      The Centers of Disease Control advocates for low sodium, senior meal plans as a strategy to
      lower blood pressure (BP). However, sodium is recommended to treat orthostatic hypotension
      (OH), a risk factor of falls. The long-term effects of low sodium intake on physical function
      are largely unknown in older adults.

      The objective of this proposed pilot study is to determine the feasibility of an
      individual-level, randomized feeding study that examines the impact of sodium reduction on BP
      regulation among 40 semi-independent, older adults aged 60 and above.

      Primary Aim 1: To determine the effects of a low sodium (<0.9 mg per kcal of energy intake),
      2-week meal plan compared with a usual meal plan (average sodium ~2 mg per kcal of energy
      intake) on seated BP among independently living older adults.

      Hypothesis Aim 1: Compared with the usual meal plan, a reduced sodium meal plan will lower
      seated BP in older adults after 2 weeks.

      Feasibility Aim 1: To evaluate the recruitment experience, meal cost, meal delivery
      logistics, and compliance with and tolerability of the meal plan (urine sodium and
      palatability questionnaires).

      Feasibility Aim 2: To determine effect size (variance) of secondary outcomes: standing BP, OH
      (standing minus seated BP), orthostatic symptoms, and a timed up and go test (TUG).

      Eligible participants will be randomized to low versus usual sodium meal plans for two weeks.
      Assessments will be made at the in-person baseline visit, one week telephonic interview and 2
      week in person follow-up visit.

      The primary outcome is seated BP and secondary outcomes include orthostatic hypertension and
      Timed Up and Go (TUG) tests. Both primary and secondary outcomes will be measured twice: (1)
      before the study begins (baseline), and (2) after 2 week period. Patient-reported outcomes,
      dietary compliance, and urine electrolytes will be assessed as well.

      Intent-to-treat analysis will be conducted for all endpoints.
    
  