
    
      The investigators will study fibroblasts derived from sporadic ALS patients.

      Clinical parameters will be collected such as sex, age, age of onset, clinical presentation,
      electrophysiological an respiratory parameters, treatments.

      Patients and controls derived fibroblasts will be amplified and cultivated from skin
      biopsies.

      Primary fibroblast cell cultures will be derived from skin biopsies obtained from control
      subjects and from the patients after obtaining written consent. Amplifications will be
      performed, from passage 1 to 6, allowing the time for cell cryopreservation of 10 samples per
      cell line. All experiments will be conducted on cells with similar passage numbers, ranging
      from 6 to 25, to avoid artefacts due to senescence.

      Cell growth of each line will be monitored with the IncuCyte ZOOM® system (Essen
      Biosciences), a microscope gantry that resides in a cell incubator, and a networked external
      controller hard drive that gathers and processes image data. Cell growth will be
      automatically calculated at each time point using the relative cell density (ratio of the
      occupied area to the total area of the acquired regions).

      The respiratory parameters of the fibroblasts will be monitored precisely with an high
      resolution oxygraph (OROBOROS). Enzymatic activity of each complex of the mitochondrial
      respiratory chain will be measured by spectrometry, and the mitochondrial membrane potential
      will be studied with fluorescence microscopy (TMRM probe). The investigators will also study
      mitochondrial dynamics and the architecture of mitochondrial network with fluorescence
      microscopy and super-resolution microscopy (SRM, Roper). The production of free radicals will
      be estimated with probes sensitive to oxidative stress. Finally, a metabolomic study (mass
      spectrometry QTRAP LC/MS/MS 5500 ABSciex) will be performed to characterise precisely the
      metabolites in the cells and to assess their metabolic profile.

      The investigators will search for protein inclusions (intermediate filaments, TDP43, FUS,
      ubiquitin) with immuno-fluorescence technics. Western Blots will be performed to study the
      protein metabolism. The architecture of the cytoskeleton will be analysed in SRM and
      fluorescence microscopy, and the investigators will try to transfect fibroblasts in order to
      express Neurofilaments and study the consequences on the cytoskeleton and protein metabolism.

      The investigators will study the response of the cells to the stress (hypoxia SCI-tive Dual,
      starvation), and to senescence (high passage numbers).
    
  