
    
      This is a multi-center, open label Phase II study of patients with metastatic castration
      resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) who will be treated with abemaciclib and atezolizumab alone
      or in combination.

      The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved abemaciclib or atezolizumab
      alone or in combination for use in prostate cancer. Abemaciclib is an orally administered
      molecularly targeted chemotherapy drug called a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, which acts
      to block the ability of cancer cells to divide and thus prevents tumors from growing. In the
      laboratory setting, this drug is effective in prostate cancer models that have become
      resistant to standard hormonal treatments, and this drug is currently being studied for its
      effectiveness in prostate cancer in other clinical trials. Atezolizumab is an intravenously
      administered drug called an immune checkpoint inhibitor, which acts to activate the immune
      system to kill cancer cells. Atezolizumab is ineffective on its own in most patients with
      prostate cancer, but is being tested in combination with other drugs for prostate cancer in
      other clinical trials. Multiple research groups have demonstrated in laboratory model systems
      that abemaciclib can may make immune checkpoint inhibitors more effective.

      The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including
      evaluations and follow up visits.

      The study design divides study participants into two separate cohorts. The first cohort is a
      set of subjects whose tumors are not known to have mutations in the CDK12 gene (the
      "biomarker unselected cohort") - either because tumor tissue never underwent genetic
      profiling, or because genetic profiling was performed but did not demonstrate a mutation in
      the CDK12 gene. In this "biomarker unselected cohort," this study will be testing whether
      abemaciclib alone or in combination with atezolizumab is an effective treatment strategy.

      The second cohort of participants is a set of subjects whose tumors are known to have
      mutations in the CDK12 gene based on genetic profiling of the tumor that occurred prior to
      enrollment on this study. Prior studies suggest that cancers with mutations in the CDK12 gene
      can shrink in response to immune checkpoint inhibitors. This study will be testing in study
      participants whose tumors are known to have mutations in CDK12 whether atezolizumab alone or
      in combination with abemaciclib is an effective treatment strategy.

      In addition, the trial is testing the safety of the combination of the two drugs in both
      cohorts.

      Participants will receive study treatment for as long as they do not have serious side
      effects and their disease does not get worse. Participants will be followed after completion
      of study treatment for up to 24 months

      It is expected that about 75 people will take part in this research study.

      Eli Lilly and Company is supporting this research study by providing funding for research and
      the study drug abemaciclib. Genentech, Inc. is supporting the study by providing the study
      drug atezolizumab.
    
  