
    
      There is increasing evidence that non-specialist or minimally trained mental health providers
      can effectively provide support and deliver psychosocial support and low-intensity
      psychological interventions for common mental disorders and substance use disorders in low
      resource settings. Psychological treatments delivered by non-specialists in low-resource
      settings have effectiveness comparable to high-income country studies of specialist
      interventions.

      Low intensity interventions refer to interventions that do not rely on specialists and are
      modified, brief evidence-based therapies including guide self-help and e-mental health. The
      World Health Organization identifies such interventions as being: brief, basic,
      non-specialist-delivered versions of existing evidence-based psychological treatments (e.g.,
      basic versions of cognitive-behavioral therapy, interpersonal therapy); and may include
      self-help materials (e.g., self-help books, audiovisual materials, and online or app-based
      self-help interventions); individual or group programs, and designed to be age-appropriate
      (i.e., delivered differently for children and adults). Moreover, low intensity interventions
      are particularly well suited to communities affected by adversity, as they use fewer
      resources which make them more scalable.

      Psychosocial refers to interventions that are designed to address the psychological effects
      of conflict [or adversity], including the effects on behavior, emotion, thoughts, memory and
      functioning, and social effects, including changes in relationships, social support and
      economic status. The term psychosocial emphasizes, the close connection between psychological
      aspects of experience and wider social aspects of experience, inclusive of human capacity,
      social ecology, and culture and values. For the purpose of this study, low intensity
      psychological and psychosocial interventions were selected using the criteria above, and
      ensuring the interventions are freely accessible to the public.

      To assure success of such interventions outside the context of resource-intensive research
      trials, it is crucial to develop training and supervision programs that produce competent
      providers of psychological and psychosocial support interventions. A necessary element to
      achieve this goal is development of standardized tools and procedures to assess the
      competency of those trained to deliver them; while ensuring competency assessment results are
      easily understandable to trainers and supervisors so that they can remediate areas of low
      competency.

      In the context of psychological and psychosocial interventions, competency refers the extent
      to which a therapist [including non-specialists] has the knowledge and skill required to
      deliver a treatment to the standard needed for it to achieve its expected effects. Competency
      is typically assessed through structured role-plays in which trained standardized [mock]
      clients elicit trainee's ability to perform the key skills of an intervention. Role-plays
      such as this are commonly used in health professional training and evaluation in the form of
      observed structured clinical evaluations with simulated patients. The Ensuring Quality in
      Psychological Support initiative was developed out of need to have easily implementable
      competency evaluation tools and remediation training materials that can be used with
      specialists and non-specialists in diverse global settings. To supplement the platform,
      Ensuring Quality in Psychological Support will also include various implementation, trainer
      and training resources and guidance.

      The need for these competency assessment tools and training materials was identified in May
      2018, during a Theory of Change Workshop conducted by the World Health Organization Ensuring
      Quality in Psychological Support team with frontline psychological service practitioners,
      clinicians, non-governmental organization training and supervision staff, and researchers.
      The four key elements of the platform will be (a) competency tools for evaluation of
      non-specific (core competencies or common factors) and specific practice elements (or
      treatment specific factors); (b) role-play vignettes for conducting competency evaluations;
      (c) instructional materials on how to conduct competency evaluations (training standardized
      clients, establishing inter-rater reliability when conducting competency evaluations, using
      rating tools, interpreting results); and (d) instructional materials on how to integrate
      competency evaluations into trainings and supervision (giving feedback to participants,
      modifying training programs, feedback to trainers and supervisors) including core competency
      training and remediation materials.

      Study Goals and Objectives:

      The goal of the study is to inform development of the Ensuring Quality in Psychological
      Support platform and its tools, ensuring feasibility, acceptability, utility, reliability,
      and validity to support the provision of quality psychological support.

      Study Objectives

        1. Determine the feasibility, acceptability, and perceived utility, of the Ensuring Quality
           in Psychological Support platform to facilitate assessment of competency and employ
           competency assessment results and remediation training materials to support training and
           supervision of non-specialists on low-intensity psychological interventions.

        2. Evaluate the reliability, validity, and sensitivity to change of Ensuring Quality in
           Psychological Support competency assessment tools based on inter-rater reliability of
           the tools within and between sites, ability to detect changes in competency over the
           course of training and supervision, and association with trainer ratings, as well as
           service delivery metrics and client outcomes across different psychological
           interventions and implementation sites.
    
  