
    
      III. Goals of the Project The purpose of this study is to determine whether pulmonary vein
      isolation with radiofrequency ablation will improve exercise capacity and endothelial
      function in patients with chronic atrial fibrillation. We hypothesize that exercise capacity
      and endothelial function will improve in patients with chronic atrial fibrillation following
      pulmonary vein isolation.

      IV. Background and Significance:

      Easy fatigability is a frequent complaint in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF). Prior
      studies have demonstrated that exercise capacity in patients with "lone atrial fibrillation"
      is less than that in healthy matched controls. Other investigators have also shown the
      adverse effect of AF by comparing peak oxygen uptake VO2 prior to and after cardioversion. At
      present, the majority of studies have focused on patients in whom with AF with either mild
      cardiovascular disease or congestive failure. No study to date has assessed if pulmonary vein
      isolation (PVI) via intracardiac ablation is able to improve exercise capacity in patients
      with chronic LSP-AF.

      This prospective registry will assess exercise capacity in patients with chronic AF (CAF)
      over a minimum period of 3 months; prior to and after PVI. Chronic AF is defined as those
      patients who have an unsuccessful cardioversion and/or an ongoing AF episode (e.g. a year or
      more). The observed results will be used to establish a better understanding of overall
      quality of life and exercise tolerance prior to and after ablation. This registry may be
      further expanded in the future and in a second study to assess exercise tolerance in patients
      with CAF who have been treated with alternative treatment strategies. The findings from this
      study may begin to pave the way for future clinical practice changes to best manage patients
      with CAF.

      Description of the procedures: Patients will be required to fast and refrain from smoking at
      least 4 hours prior to each testing session.

      Arterial Stiffness Arterial stiffness will be measured non-invasively. Two indices of
      arterial stiffness will be calculated including carotid augmentation index and aortic pulse
      wave velocity after the subject has assumed the supine position for at least 10 minutes.
      Blood pressure cuffs will be placed on both arms and legs, and ECG sensors will be placed on
      both wrists. Carotid augmentation index will be calculated as the ratio of the amplitude of
      the pressure wave above its systolic shoulder to the total pulse pressure. Aortic pulse wave
      velocity will be calculated by dividing the distance (carotid to femoral artery) by the
      transit time (time delay between the carotid and femoral "foot" waveforms).

      Endothelial Health The VENDYS 5000 BCTM (Endothelix, Houston, TX) is an FDA approved device
      that will be used to measure vascular responsiveness, which is an index of endothelial
      function. It measures changes in skin temperature of the fingertip in response to changes in
      blood flow in the arm induced by a 5-minute cuff occlusion, and provides information about
      vascular health.

      The subjects will be seated for this test with a cuff fixed around the upper right arm and
      VENDYS probes on the index fingers of both hands. Fingertip temperatures will be measured
      throughout the procedure until 3 minutes after deflation of the cuff. Baseline fingertip
      temperature will be measured for 3 minutes before cuff inflation. Following baseline
      measures, the cuff will rapidly inflate to 200 mmHg or 50 mmHg above resting systolic blood
      pressure and will remain inflated for 5 minutes. During this time, the fingertip temperature
      will fall due to the occlusion of blood flow. After 5 minutes, the cuff will rapidly deflate
      allowing blood flow to return to the arm. Skin temperature will be measured constantly for 3
      minutes.

      Exercise Capacity Subjects will perform a modified version of the Balke2 incremental
      treadmill exercise test. The test begins with a 0% grade at a constant speed of 3.0 mph. The
      grade will be increased by 1% every minute while the speed remains constant. Oxygen
      consumption, heart rate, and ratings and perceived exertion (Borg Scale) will be measured
      throughout the test and total exercise time to exhaustion will be recorded. Oxygen
      consumption will be measured with a metabolic cart while the subjects breathe through a mouth
      piece. Blood pressures and ECG will be monitored continuously.

      Quality of Life Assessment The MOS 36-short form is a multi-purpose, short-form health survey
      with only 36 questions. It yields an 8-scale profile of functional health and well-being
      scores as well as psychometrically-based physical and mental health summary measures and a
      preference-based health utility index. It is a generic measure, as opposed to one that
      targets a specific age, disease, or treatment group. Accordingly, the MOS-36 has proven
      useful in surveys of general and specific populations, comparing the relative burden of
      diseases, and in differentiating the health benefits produced by a wide range of different
      treatments.
    
  