
    
      Total hip replacement (THR) is being considered as one of the most effective medical
      procedures. Since its introduction, there was a worldwide debate over proper implant
      selection in terms of size, bearing type and shape. The diameter of used femoral heads
      components grew throughout the years - from 22 mm in the 1960s to 32 mm in the 2000s, which
      is the most commonly used size nowadays. In recent years there was a visible use of large
      femoral heads (>=36mm) in several registers. In the USA there was a significant grow in use
      of this heads rising from 1% in early 200s to even 58% in 2009. There is a strong evidence
      data and many researchers concerning range of movement, risk of dislocation, functional
      results, pain and prosthesis wear depending of femoral head size.

      In terms of gait characteristics there are several deviations reported concerning both
      patients with hip osteoarthritis and following THR. It is well-proven that those with hip OA
      have reduced stride length and reduced cadence, reduced gait velocity, and reduced joint
      excursion. Patients after THR walk with lower hip-abduction moments, sagittal-plane range of
      motion. It is believed that it might be a consequence of pain-avoidance mechanism developed
      as an adaptation for joint disease, which is still present after the surgery. What is more,
      there are publications, which underline that lower limb biomechanics during gait do not
      return to normal following THR.

      However there is a lack of literature concerning influence of used implants on gait
      parameters and whether this goal of the surgery can be achieved.

      According to authors best knowledge this study is the first to ever describe potential
      differences in gait parameters between THR performed with standard femoral heads (28-32mm)
      and large ones (>=36mm).

      Aim of the study The aim of this study was to assess potential differences of lower limb
      biomechanics during gait in patients following total hip replacement surgery depending on
      femoral head diameter and compare them to the normal gait of healthy volunteers. As a
      secondary outcome authors wanted to inspect correlation between gait parameters and
      patient-reported outcome.
    
  