
    
      Background: APDs are among the most widely prescribed medications for psychotic, mood, and
      anxiety disorders including schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and major depressive disorder.
      Many APDs, currently available in the United States, particularly second generation APDs,
      have been associated to varying degrees with significant dysmetabolic side effects including
      insulin resistance (IR), impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), hypertension, abdominal obesity,
      and dyslipidemia. Indeed, 32% of patients taking olanzapine develop IR in addition to gaining
      at least 15% of their baseline bodyweight. These changes substantially increase the risk of
      developing T2D and cardiovascular disease (CVD). In fact, the prevalence of metabolic
      dysfunction in APD-treated patients is more than twice that of the general population and
      leads to poorer long-term outcomes.

      Perhaps most concerning is that APD-treated individuals with schizophrenia have a 15-20-year
      reduction in life expectancy as compared to the general population, with APD-induced IR being
      a major contributor to this early mortality. Thus, preventing APD-induced metabolic
      dysfunction may have a significant impact on morbidity and mortality. Currently there is no
      consistently effective way to prevent APD-associated metabolic dysfunction and reduce the
      risk of T2D.

      Most studies attempting to elucidate the underlying cause of APD-induced metabolic
      dysfunction have focused on regions of the central nervous system (CNS) associated with
      metabolic control (i.e. hypothalamus) because these drugs are utilized primarily to treat
      neuropsychiatric symptoms in the CNS. Consequently, numerous neurotransmitter and
      neuropeptide systems in the brain, including dopamine and serotonin, have been implicated in
      the development of APD-induced metabolic side effects.

      Rationale: Bromocriptine is a dopamine D2/D3 receptor and serotonin 5-HT2C receptor agonist
      that the study team proposes as a potential treatment for APD-induced IR. It has received FDA
      approval for treatment of T2D, having been shown to significantly lower postprandial plasma
      glucose and hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) without increasing insulin or C-peptide levels. To date,
      there are few studies using bromocriptine in schizophrenia. Although most of the studies have
      been small, the cumulative results have consistently shown safety and benefit in psychiatric
      patients. Bromocriptine, even when used at high doses, has been found to be safe in
      APD-treated patients despite theoretical concerns of exacerbating psychosis due to
      dopaminergic receptor agonism.

      Design: This study is a multicenter open-label, dose-escalation pilot to evaluate the safety
      and tolerability of bromocriptine as an adjunct to preexisting standard-of-care antipsychotic
      drug (APD) regimens in the management of APD-associated impaired glucose tolerance
      (IGT)/insulin resistance (IR). Twenty APD-treated participants aged 18 to 60 years old with
      schizophrenia who have been psychiatrically stable for at least 3 months and show signs of IR
      (obesity [BMI > 30 kg/m2] plus impaired fasting glucose (100-125mg/dL) and/or impaired
      glucose tolerance (A1c 5.7-6.4%) will receive bromocriptine in an open-label, flexible-dose
      design. The initial dose will be 2.5mg which will be increased to the 5mg target dose by week
      one unless limited by side effects. Bromocriptine will be given as adjunctive treatment to a
      participant's current APD regimen. The ultimate aim of the study team is to evaluate the
      efficacy of bromocriptine in treating the metabolic disturbances associated with APDs and the
      overarching hypothesis is that bromocriptine will be a well-tolerated, safe, and inexpensive
      way to ameliorate these metabolic complications and prevent or delay the onset of type 2
      diabetes (T2D) in these at-risk patients. That said, this study will be a small,
      short-duration pilot focusing on safety and tolerability.

      The main purposes of the study are to demonstrate safety/tolerability, demonstrate
      feasibility, provide proof of concept, and provide an open-label assessment of the metabolic
      and psychiatric effects of bromocriptine in patients with schizophrenia treated with APDs.
      Psychiatric symptoms will be measured by the Columbia-Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS),
      Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), the Clinical Global Impression (CGI), the Brief
      Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), and the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI). General side
      effects of bromocriptine will be assessed by the UKU Side Effects Scale. The extrapyramidal
      side effects of APDs will be monitored via the Simpson-Angus Scale and the Abnormal
      Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS).
    
  