
    
      Participants will be randomly allocated to the two treatment arms, vitamin C or placebo, in a
      1:1 ratio Study participants in the verum group receive one capsule of Burgerstein Vitamin C
      retard 500mg b.i.d. with treatment starting in the evening on the day of the operation for a
      total of 50 days.

      The placebo group receives one placebo capsule b.i.d. with treatment starting in the evening
      on the day of the operation for a total of 50 days. Vitamin C will be administered orally.
      Burgerstein Vitamin C Retard Capsules 500 mg (Pharmacode: 6739189) will be used for this
      study. Active substance: Ascorbic acid (Vitamin C, E 300).

      Since a known drug should be tested for a new indication, the exclusion of a bias by a
      placebo effect, the administration of a placebo to the control group is necessary. To exclude
      a detection bias and a performance bias, the study is performed double-blind. A randomization
      protects against a selection bias.

      The determination of the sample size is based on the following considerations. The primary
      endpoint is not expected to be normally distributed. Therefore the sample size determination
      is based on a Mann-Whitney test for the comparison of the two groups (placebo and treatment)
      assuming a logistic distribution. Based on a few data of comparable measurements the
      Investigators think that the standard deviation of the primary endpoint is 10(=SD) in each
      group. The treatment effect is expected to be Delta=10, a medically reasonable effect.

      To achieve a power of at least 80% for the 4 tested comparisons in the final analysis of the
      primary endpoint, a minimal sample size of 42 in each of the 4 patient groups (strata) is
      required. In expectation of a drop-out rate of 20%, the target sample size will be 50
      patients in each stratum and 200 patients in total, with 100 in the placebo group and 100 in
      the treatment group.
    
  