
    
      Baseline procedures:

      Each patient will undergo a careful history and physical examination to rule out major
      cardiac, pulmonary or renal disease. All subjects will undergo:

        1. Baseline biopsy of a secondary tumor or a metastatic tumor at the time of cryoablation.
           Tumor specimens will also be collected during surgery (cytoreductive, partial or total
           nephrectomy).

        2. One or more optional biopsies at day 53, day 106 and day 169 after cryoablation.

        3. Blood samples: will be collected at baseline before or at time of cryoablation, at the
           end of the second cycle of pembrolizumab treatment and during surgery (cytoreductive,
           partial or total nephrectomy) for evaluation of biomarkers and pharmacokinetic analyses.

        4. Complete radiologic assessment in the form of CT scan at baseline and a CT scan after
           the third cycle of pembrolizumab followed by routine imaging every 6 weeks as is
           consistent with the standard of care for mRCC. 5. Routine laboratory analysis: basic
           metabolic panel (BMP), liver function panel (LFTs) and complete blood count (CBC), will
           be collected prior to each cycle of pembrolizumab administration and at the time of
           cryoablation and cytoreductive or partial/total nephrectomy.

      Cryoablation:

      Patients will be asked to have nothing by mouth during at least 8 hours prior to ablation.
      Patients will only be taken for cryoablation if INR is <1.5, PTT is within normal limits and
      platelet count is greater than 50,000/microL. Preoperative imaging, namely contrast enhanced
      CT scan, will be used to assess the tumor proximity to local structures. Number of cryoprobes
      utilized will be determined by the size, geometry, and morphology of the primary tumor. CT
      guidance will be used to place the cryoprobes 1 to 1.5 cm apart.

      Two 10 minute freeze cycles with an intervening 8 minute thawing period will be used in
      accordance with data indicating improved efficacy with the double-freeze thaw cycle. The size
      of the iceball created will be consistent with a tumor-free margin of at least 5-10 mm. CT
      scans at 3-4 minute intervals will be used to assure adequate margins.

      Pembrolizumab:

      Pembrolizumab treatment will begin 1 day following cryoablative treatment and will continue
      until a complete tumor remission, disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, subject
      refusal, or subject death due to any cause.

      Surgery After 3 cycles (9 weeks) of pembrolizumab therapy, patients will undergo partial/
      radical or cytoreductive nephrectomy of the primary renal tumor.

      Duration of follow-up Subjects will be followed for a total of 24 months. Subjects removed
      from treatment due to unacceptable adverse events will be followed until resolution or
      stabilization of adverse event. Follow up will be every 8 weeks (+2 weeks) from study
      registration with imaging studies and physical exam every 8 weeks for the first 8 months,
      then every 12 weeks (+ 2 weeks) until 24 months.
    
  