
    
      Our research group aims to better understand how patients on the SICU are mobilized and the
      impact it has on adverse discharge disposition and functional outcome after hospital
      discharge.

      We have previously developed and validated the Surgical Intensive Care Unit Optimal
      Mobilization Score (SOMS), an algorithm to guide and facilitate early mobilization to advance
      mobility of SICU patients (NCT01363102). In addition, we have established the use of bedside
      ultrasound technology to quantify cross sectional area of the rectus femoris muscle, which
      allows an objective, user-independent quantification of muscle wasting (NCT02270502).

      In this study we measure the dose of mobility, defined as a function of both the mobility
      provided by nursing and physical therapists (e.g., sitting at the edge of the bed,
      ambulating) as well as its duration. We will build on an existing mobility intensity
      quantification tool (NCT01674608) and add a domain that quantifies its duration in order to
      obtain a broad picture of the mobilization of patients on the SICU. The mobility dose is
      expressed by the mobility quantification score that has been developed by our team. We will
      then test the hypotheses that mobilization dose in the ICU predicts discharge disposition,
      defined as discharge to facilities providing long-term care assistance for daily activities,
      including nursing homes and skilled nursing facilities, hospice at the patient's home,
      hospice in a health care facility; or in-hospital mortality. Further we will evaluate the
      association between mobility dose and cross sectional area of the rectus femoris muscle
      measured by bedside ultrasound as a potential reflection of ICU-acquired muscle weakness
      (exploratory outcome).

      Mobilization Quantification score: MQS (Detailed table linked in reference section)

      This score integrates the highest rated activities within each mobility session - from
      physical therapy and nursing. By multiplying the scale it gets greater and allows a better
      interpretation of mobility intensity. It adds value of mobility dose across sessions
      considering the entire spectrum of active participation of the patient over the day.

      Some specifics:

        -  If patient achieves a level in between predefined MQS levels we score the closest lower
           level

        -  We collect mobility data for the night time by interviewing the day nurses and asking
           them about the patients' mobilization also during night time

        -  We round up the duration of each mobility session: Passive range of motion (PRM)
           conducted 4 times during the day counts as: 1*4=4 (corresponding to 4 units/hours)

        -  For each session, we calculate the highest mobility level for the duration of the
           mobility session: e.g. Patient is standing for 5 minutes before s/he walks with 2
           assists for 10 minutes: 3*7=21 (adding up the duration of various activities within a
           session and multiplying it by the highest achieved mobility level). Sitting passively in
           the chair is an exception (see below).

      Sitting:

        -  Sitting in the chair counts as a separate session. Per sitting session a maximum of 2
           hours are counted. For example: if a patient was sitting for a duration of either 2, 4
           or 5 hours, we would always count: 2*4=8

        -  For patients stepping/shuffling/walking to the chair we use level 5 every time the
           patient is doing it. E.g. patient is shuffling to the chair, sitting for 2 hours and
           then walking back: 5*1+2*4+5*1 =28

        -  Distinct sitting sessions are defined by the patient being back in bed in between the
           sessions of sitting in the chair. E.g. the patient gets actively to chair by
           stand-step/shuffle, sits in chair for 6 hours, during sitting session patient gets up
           twice and afterwards gets back to bed by stand-step/shuffle:

      5*1(to chair)+2*4(sitting)+5*1(back to bed)+5*2(standing up 2x in between)=28
    
  