
    
      In 2016, there were an estimated 15.5 million cancer survivors in the US, with a forecasted
      20.3 million by 2026. Three percent of those survivors were treated for Head and neck cancers
      (HNC). This number is expected to rise due to increased long-term survival in patients with
      HPV associated oropharyngeal cancer. Increasing survivorship has generated a surge of
      interest in late effects of HNC therapy. Studies to date have largely focused on chronic
      effects stemming from local tissue damage. Recent data suggests that late systemic effects
      may be equally problematic. Chronic systemic symptoms (CSS) persist far longer than
      previously considered and are the source of significant function loss and detriment to
      quality of life. CSS include fatigue, neurocognitive dysfunction, centralized pain, mood
      disorders, sleep disturbances, and hypothalamic dysfunction manifested as thermal discomfort
      or hyperhidrosis. Systemic symptoms occur in clusters resulting in a heightened clinical
      impact. As with other critical illnesses, the trajectory of recovery from the systemic
      symptoms from cancer treatment is varied. Some patients will recover to baseline quickly post
      treatment while others display CSS that persist or worsen over time resulting in functional
      deficits, frailty, and an early aging phenotype which may impact survival. Survivors
      exhibiting a "slow burn" trajectory as manifested by persistent systemic symptom burden and
      worsening function over time, require extensive on-going long-term management. These patients
      often fail to return to work or previously held family roles. CSS may therefore be associated
      with greater economic cost than the initial treatment.

      Work that spans a wide array of inflammatory disease processes (such as fibromyalgia, chronic
      fatigue syndrome, irritable bowel, etc.) demonstrate the presence of somatic, affective, and
      cognitive symptoms. Neuroinflammation is hypothesized to be the underlying cause of these
      symptoms and their manifestations. More specifically, peripheral injury/trauma/cancer release
      inflammatory mediators that activate glial components of peripheral and central cellular
      circuitry causing inflammation of the CNS. However, the concept that CSS is underlined by
      neuroinflammation is largely theoretical from disparate and indirect evidence. A gap in the
      evidence base suggests direct investigation of neuroinflammation in CSS patients in capturing
      a mechanistic marker is urgently needed in order to (1) present CSS as a diagnostic entity,
      (2) fully understand its neurobiological mechanism, and (3) test/develop appropriate
      treatments.
    
  