
    
      Standard treatment of patients with clinical stage IIA seminoma (isolated retroperitoneal
      lymph nodes up to 2 cm) is radiotherapy (30Gy) and for clinical stage IIB (isolated
      retroperitoneal lymph nodes 2-5 cm) is radiotherapy (36Gy, extended iliac field).
      Alternatively, 3 courses of BEP are equal (1,2,3,4). According to the EAU guidelines 3 cycles
      of BEP can be substituted for 4 x PE in patients with contraindications for bleomycin.
      Radiotherapy as well as chemotherapy has several side effects: multiple studies show
      significant long term toxicity after cisplatin chemotherapy such as cardiotoxicity or
      nephrotoxicity (5,6,7,8, 9). Patients after radiotherapy show a significant increased rate of
      secondary malignancies during long term follow-up (relative risk between 1.3 and 1.4) (13,
      14).

      There are no reliable data on recurrences of patients with seminoma in CS II who have
      undergone surgery only. After the publication of Warszawski et al in 1997 primary RPLND in
      seminoma has not been performed on a routine basis (10). However, seminoma metastasis follows
      the same anatomical principles as non-seminoma and is primarily lymphatic. In clinical stage
      I high risk seminoma patients the overall recurrence rate without adjuvant therapy is ~ 30%,
      in CS IIB patients after radiotherapy at around 18%, respectively (11,12). If seminoma stage
      II patients could achieve a less than 10% recurrence rate after surgery, surveillance as well
      as a single course adjuvant chemotherapy would again be justified. The overall burden of
      standard treatment with 3 or 4 courses of chemotherapy could thereby considerably reduced.
      With a recurrence rate of > 30% (exceeding the upper border of the confidence interval) every
      third patient would require surgery and chemotherapy and the overall treatment burden would
      not justify this approach.

      Thus, the hypothesis of this trial is currently an overtreatment of patients with low volume
      metastasis either initially diagnosed or as recurrence with 3 courses BEP chemotherapy as
      recommended standard treatment in most of these patients. In addition, surgical techniques
      have evolved and laparoscopic robot-assisted RPLND seems possible in unilateral low stage
      disease.

      In order to clarify the role of primary RPLND in this patient cohort, the progression-free
      survival has to be explored in a single arm non-randomized trial. Only if the recurrence rate
      does not exceed the published figures further adjuvant treatment is justified. In a
      subsequent trial patients may then be selected based on prognostic parameters to receive
      surveillance after primary RPLND only or to be treated by 1 course of BEP in cases of higher
      relapse figures. Therefore, this trial may serve as first step to improve the overall
      treatment burden in patients with clinical stage II disease.
    
  