
    
      The consequences of a femoral neck fracture still have a substantial impact on the individual
      patient´s health as well as on society. Approximately 5000 individuals suffer a fracture of
      the femoral neck annually in Norway. The mortality rate approximates 25% during the first
      year after this injury. The hospital costs of treating a single femoral neck fracture, have
      been estimated to 20 000 euros.

      In spite of relatively well-documented treatment protocols, there is still a need for
      prospective randomised controlled trials to determine the optimal treatment of certain
      sub-groups of patients presenting with a femoral neck fracture.

      Several studies with a high level of evidence have elucidated management of displaced femoral
      neck fractures. There is increasing evidence favouring joint replacement surgery over
      internal fixation when treating displaced femoral neck fractures. However, management of
      undisplaced and minimally displaced femoral neck fractures has received less attention.

      According to the Cochrane Library, there are no randomised controlled trials comparing
      internal fixation to hemiarthroplasty in patients with undisplaced femoral neck fractures.
      Previous studies have focused mostly on fracture healing, equating fracture union and
      success. However, recent studies report decreased functional and life quality scores amongst
      patients with undisplaced femoral neck fractures treated with internal fixation. The control
      group in these studies consists of patients with a displaced femoral neck fracture treated
      with hemi - arthroplasty. Zlowodzki et al showed, by means of validated assessment scores,
      that patients with internally fixated undisplaced femoral neck fractures often experience
      shortening of the injured limb. Then again, this is associated with lower functional and life
      quality scores. In Rogmark´s series of patients with undisplaced femoral neck fractures
      treated with internal fixation, 25% patients report daily pain from the affected hip upon
      walking, one and a half year after surgery. Gjertsen et al analysed data for the Norwegian
      hip fracture registry from more than 4000 patients to demonstrate that treatment with
      hemiarthroplasty, due to a displaced femoral neck fracture, is associated with better
      function and less pain than treatment with internal fixation due to an undisplaced femoral
      neck fracture.

      Thus, our research group will conduct a prospective randomised controlled trial to identify
      any differences in clinical outcome after surgical treatment of undisplaced femoral neck
      fractures in patients aged 70 years and older. The two methods that will be compared are
      internal fixation with two screws and modern modular hemiarthroplasty. The primary outcome
      measure is a difference of at least 10 points in Harris Hip Score (95% power, standard
      deviation approximates 15 points from previous Norwegian patient series). The primary
      follow-up length is set to two years, but a long-term follow-up five years after surgery is
      also planned. It is important to include the cognitively impaired patients as they account
      for 20-25% of the study population. Patients who cannot provide informed consent due to
      impaired cognitive function, are included if consent is provided by a family member or
      relative.
    
  