
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common cancer in men and the second in women (1.23
      million cases in 2008, 608700 deaths) 40 to 50% of patients developed hepatic, synchronous or
      metachronous metastases. In 10 to 15% of cases, these metastases are operable initially, and
      a perioperative chemotherapy of the FOLFOX type is then most performed. In about 20% of
      patients discharged metastases resectable after induction chemotherapy. When hepatic invasion
      makes a complete resection impossible, a palliative treatment is initiated, mainly based on
      chemotherapy with or without biotherapies (anti-VEGF or anti-EGFR).

      In recent years, intra-hepatic arterial treatments have been developed, with the aim of
      improving the prognosis of inoperable patients. The particular vascular anatomy of the liver
      makes it possible to perform local work via its main artery or its branches. The hepatic
      artery provides 25% of the blood flow and 50% of the oxygenation of the liver, the portal
      vein ensures 75% of the blood flow and also 50% of the oxygenation. Primary or secondary
      tumors are mainly focused on the artery and the rest of the parenchyma mainly through the
      portal vein, treatment of tumors using the arterial route also allows to administer under
      satisfactory safety conditions the therapeutic agent of Many More selective within the tumor,
      saves healthy hepatic tissue.

      Several approaches to intra-arterial treatments have been developed to date, such as hepatic
      intra-arterial chemotherapy, radioembolization, or micro-bead embolization (DC-Beads®). In
      the latter case, they are DEB Drug Eluting Beads at irinotecan, in the context of a treatment
      called DEBIRI. Thanks to their diameter of 75 to 300 μm, they allow embolization of the
      tumor's arterioles, with a dual objective: to create tumor ischemia and increase the
      intra-tumor concentration in chemotherapy. The advantage of this approach is simplicity.
      Contrary to the two previous techniques (radio and chemo-embolization), it does not require
      the placement of an intra-arterial catheter, nor the administration of a radioactive agent
      imposing heavy use constraints. It could make this intra-arterial technique accessible in
      many centers and thus benefit a greater number of patients.

      Data on the use of this strategy remain limited, and concern patients already treated by
      several lines of chemotherapy. The response rates in these heavily pretreated patients are
      encouraging.

      Several questions arise: firstly, what is the place of this treatment used so far in patients
      treated with the treatises (2 tests currently published). In practice, few patients have
      limited liver disease after 2 or 3 lines of chemotherapy, which reserves this approach for a
      small minority of patients. It should be tried to develop this technique earlier in the cost
      of patients, in order to propose, for example, as a consolidation treatment in patients who
      are not resectable or to try to have a down-sizing in potentially resectable patients.
      Response rate of 65% in pretreated patients.

      Other questions remain unanswered about this therapeutic approach: should systemic treatment
      with 5FU be used to reduce the risk of extrahepatic progression? Is it possible, and can the
      investigators associate, systemic chemotherapy such as oxaliplatin to intensify the response?
      And finally, what is the place of biotherapies in this strategy? None of the questions have
      been discussed with DEBIRI to date.

      In order to extract the profiles of patients receiving DEBIRI treatment at best, the
      investigators propose the establishment of a national prospective cohort to collect
      information on the greatest number of patients treated with DEBIRI. This cohort has allowed a
      better understanding of the effectiveness, tolerance, feasibility and differences of
      practices at national level for this approach. These data will assist in the development of
      clinical trials in situations that appear to be most promising in clinical practice.
    
  