
    
      Institute of Medicine (IOM) guidelines for weight gain in pregnancy are clear, but
      evidence-based treatment approaches are not widely available. This evidence gap is
      particularly pressing for medically vulnerable women - those who are low income and often
      racial/ethnic minorities. These women have the highest rates of obesity, but almost no
      resources to support weight control in pregnancy. Without intervention, most will exceed
      Institute of Medicine recommended gains and incur significant morbidity for themselves and
      their children. There is preliminary data from the investigators supporting the efficacy of
      digital health platforms for delivering antenatal obesity treatment among the medically
      vulnerable. However, the investigators' inexpensive, easily scalable approach has not been
      integrated and tested in real world settings, limiting broad reach and dissemination
      potential. Dissemination considerations are especially pressing for socioeconomically
      disadvantaged and minority populations because of these groups' higher obesity risk, greater
      potential for experiencing obesity-related comorbidities in pregnancy, and limited finances
      to afford alternative treatments. The Women, Infants and Children (WIC) Food and Nutrition
      Program is the leading public health nutrition program for pregnant women and their children
      in the US, and thus, it is in a unique position to meaningfully impact the obesity epidemic
      among the more than 9 million disadvantaged participants it serves annually. Yet no
      demonstrations of effective gestational weight gain interventions exist in WIC. The
      investigators propose a pragmatic trial designed to rigorously test their antenatal obesity
      treatment approach integrated into Philadelphia WIC community clinics. The investigators have
      long-standing relationships with WIC staff and prior experience conducting pragmatic clinical
      trials in under-resourced settings. The investigators will randomize 438 African American and
      Hispanic Philadelphia County WIC participants with obesity in early pregnancy to one of two
      treatment arms: 1) standard WIC care; or 2) an antenatal obesity treatment arm, which
      includes empirically supported behavior change goals, regular self-monitoring text messages
      with automated feedback, tailored skills training materials, and counseling from WIC
      nutritionists. The primary outcome is prevalence of excessive gestational weight gain; the
      investigators will additionally examine changes in diet and physical activity, health-related
      quality of life, and rates of adverse pregnancy outcomes. They will use the RE-AIM (Reach,
      Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation, Maintenance) framework to evaluate the
      intervention's dissemination potential and cost effectiveness in the WIC setting. The
      proposed project will constitute the first systematic translation of a comprehensive
      antenatal obesity treatment program focused on low-income, racial/ethnic minorities, using
      the strengths of mHealth (mobile health) and WIC provider counseling for intervention
      delivery.
    
  