
    
      Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is one of the most frequent microvascular complications of diabetes
      (DM). Current guidelines recommend that patients with DM should receive ophthalmic fundus
      examination annually. DR poses a serious threat to the health of millions patients who have
      DM. Nowadays, DR has become the leading cause of new cases of visual impairment and blindness
      among adults.

      Genetic factors are likely to account for the susceptibility to DR for the differences in DR
      incidence between individuals with diabetes. Familial aggregation studies showed that
      increased risk of severe DR was noted among family members with diabetes with moderate
      heritability of DR risk. Racial and ethnic differences in the prevalence of DR may also
      explain some parts of influence of genetic or environmental/cultural risk factors. There were
      over 30 candidate genes involved in metabolic mechanisms and functional pathways associated
      with DR. However, consistent associations between candidate genes and DR have yet been
      identified. The current study is designed to build up a working platform for future
      large-scale genetic studies of diabetic retinopathy. The investigators also hope to set up
      priority of candidate loci for future researches.

      In the present study, the investigators plan to recruit 200 Chinese patients with DM who have
      received ophthalmic fundus examination (either by an ophthalmoscope or fundus camera) within
      6 months before the study. Each subject will receive anthropometric and blood pressure
      measurements. Then, fasting blood samples will be taken for the measurements of glucose,
      HbA1c, lipid profile, and biochemistry. An additional 10 ml blood sample will be taken for
      DNA extraction from buffy coat. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in candidate genes and
      in targeted chromosome regions will be genotyped by using the ABI TaqMan assays. The
      differences in the distribution of genotypes and alleles between the study groups will be
      analyzed using appropriate statistical methods.
    
  