
    
      Delirium is common after cardiac surgery, occurring in 45-55% of patients, and is
      independently associated with increased postoperative complications, reduced functional
      capacity, cognitive decline, and increased mortality. Although the pathophysiology of
      delirium is unclear, a leading hypothesis is that delirium results from unrecognized cerebral
      ischemia during surgery. In preliminary data from the investigators group, delirium was
      reduced in patients randomized to optimal blood pressure control during cardiopulmonary
      bypass, using novel technology that determines an individual patient's lower limit of
      cerebral autoregulation. Thus, patients undergoing cardiac surgery may suffer from
      unrecognized cerebral ischemia that contributes to delirium, and strategies to attenuate the
      effects of cerebral ischemia may reduce the incidence of delirium.

      Ischemic preconditioning represents a novel strategy to attenuate the effects of cerebral
      ischemia during cardiac surgery. Exposure to a brief period of ischemia, below the threshold
      for tissue injury, has been demonstrated to protect against the harmful effects of a
      subsequent more severe ischemic insult, in both animal and human studies. The protection
      provided by ischemic preconditioning may also be effective when the preconditioning is
      applied to a location remote from the organ of interest (i.e. a limb). Recently, a large
      randomized trial in patients undergoing cardiac surgery demonstrated a survival benefit among
      patients randomized to remote ischemic preconditioning vs. placebo. Remote ischemic
      preconditioning was achieved by simple inflation of a blood pressure cuff to supra-systolic
      pressures for 5 minutes, repeated for 3 cycles. However, neurological outcomes were not
      assessed in this trial, although animal models support potential neurological protection
      following remote ischemic preconditioning.

      In this study the investigator will examine whether remote ischemic preconditioning can
      reduce delirium, functional decline, and biomarkers of cerebral injury after cardiac surgery.
      The investigator will explore the mechanism of preconditioning by examining proteomic
      analyses in a subset of patients. These results will provide data to support an NIH trial to
      examine the protective effects of remote ischemic preconditioning in cardiac surgery,
      identify potential mechanisms of action and potential targets for therapeutic pharmacologic
      interventions.
    
  