
    
      200 children aged 2-18 years that will be referred to the Sleep Disorders Center for
      overnight polysomnography due to suspected sleep disordered breathing or PLMD will be
      recruited to the study during their first visit in the sleep clinic. During that study, an
      informed consent will be completed by the parents. Data on weekdays and weekends sleep
      duration as well as personal and family history of kidney disease will be collected.

      Exclusion criteria:1. Known renal disease; 2. diabetes mellitus; 3. current use of ACE
      inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers; 4. neuromuscular disorders or craniofacial
      abnormalities; 5. syndromic conditions.

      All participants will undergo physical examination. Weight and height will be measured, and
      body mass index (BMI) z-score will be calculated.

      Blood pressure will be measured on the first visit in the sleep clinic by a trained physician
      as specified in recent guidelines. 19

      Overnight polysomnography will be carried out in the Sleep Disorders Laboratory and the
      following signals will be recorded: electroencephalogram (EEG; C3/M2, C2/M1, O1/M2, O2/M1);
      right and left oculogram; submental and tibial electromyogram; body position;
      electrocardiogram; thoracic and abdominal wall motion; oronasal airflow (three-pronged
      thermistor and nasal pressure transducer); and oxygen saturation of hemoglobin (SpO2).
      Arousals, sleep stages and respiratory events will be scored, and polysomnography indices
      will be defined according to the recent American Academy of Sleep Medicine recommendations .
      20

      First void urine samples will be collected in a sterile cup the morning following the
      polysomnography (6:00-7:00 am). For each sample urinalysis, protein/creatinine and
      albumin/creatinine will be measured. Urinary albumin and protein excretion will be the
      primary outcome measure. Proteinuria will be defined as protein/creatinine greater than 0.2
      and albuminuria will be defined as albumin/creatinine above age-adjusted limits Children who
      will be diagnosed with moderate-severe OSA will be referred to an ENT surgeon for
      adenotonsillectomy, the first line of treatment in pediatric OSA. Six to 10 weeks following
      surgery, these children will be requested to undergo additional PSG evaluation. First void
      urine samples will be collected the following morning.

      In addition- 100 children referred to the pediatric nephrology clinic due to asymptomatic
      albuminuria/proteinuria will be recruited. Parents will be required to complete a designated
      sleep questionnaire that includes items on sleep duration, SDB and RLS symptoms. Exclusion
      criteria, as described above for the entire cohort, will also apply to this subpopulation.

      Informed consent will be completed by the parents.
    
  