
    
      Hardening of the arteries (atherosclerosis) is a very common health problem that can lead to
      fatal or disabling heart attacks and strokes. On many levels, it remains an incompletely
      understood illness.

      Until relatively recently, the only way of assessing the severity of, or risk posed by,
      atherosclerosis was to measure the degree to which it narrowed a particular blood vessel.
      This method only tells part of the story; he investigators now know that frequently the
      'culprit area' of atherosclerosis that causes the heart attack or stroke does not necessarily
      result in narrowing of the blood vessel - i.e. if the investigators only measure narrowness
      the investigators will miss lots of 'bad' atherosclerosis. As such, there is a pressing need
      to identify more sophisticated techniques of assessing the disease in order that people who
      are at higher risk of heart attack or stroke can be identified early and offered appropriate
      preventative treatment.

      Techniques that provide this extra information could also significantly shorten the time it
      takes to get new treatments and drugs to market by providing a faster and more cost-effective
      way of assessing these treatments early in their development. Furthermore, in exploring new
      techniques that reflect more accurately what is going on within atherosclerosis in the body,
      deeper insight into the condition will be gained. This will in turn lead to the development
      of new treatments.

      PET/CT scans and USPIO (a kind of tracer) enhanced MRI scans are two such techniques that
      demonstrate particular promise. These scanning methods not only provide more information
      about the composition and architecture of the atherosclerosis but can provide data about the
      processes (at the chemical and cellular level) that underlie the disease.

      Inflammation and calcification (deposits of calcium) are two biological processes that are
      known to be very important in the genesis of atherosclerosis. PET/CT and USPIO enhanced MRI
      can detect these processes.

      Most strokes and mini-strokes are caused by a narrowing in the neck artery. If a patient with
      mini-stroke or stroke has a narrowing (atherosclerosis) in their carotid artery they are
      normally offered an operation to remove the atherosclerosis (endarterectomy), the piece of
      atherosclerosis is then normally discarded. This scenario affords a perfect opportunity to
      explore new scanning techniques.

      The investigators propose to explore the feasibility and value of using PET/CT (using 18F-FDG
      and 18F-NaF - two tracers known to highlight inflammation and calcification) and USPIO
      enhanced MRI to assess atherosclerosis. The investigators will do this by scanning patients
      who have just had a mini-stroke or minor stroke and are due to undergo endarterectomy. The
      investigators will then be able to define what is going on at the level of the genes and the
      cells that causes 'hot spots' on CT/PET and MRI.
    
  