
    
      1. Objectives:

             -  To determine whether the use of a check list for the 6-week hip check can (i)
                reduce the number of clinically insignificant referrals from primary to secondary
                care, and (ii) reduce the number of Developmental dysplasia of the hip (DDH)
                diagnosed beyond the age of 12 weeks.

             -  To determine the cost-effectiveness of this intervention considering a life time
                horizon.

             -  To conduct an integrated qualitative and quantitative process evaluation in order
                to: understand the participants' experience with the intervention; identify how the
                intervention affects general practitioners' capability, opportunity and motivation
                in relation to the 6-week check; study how the intervention is implemented; and
                investigate how contextual factors affect uptake of the intervention.

        2. Type of trial: Phase III, cluster randomised controlled trial

        3. Trial design and methods: This trial incorporates (i) 4-months internal pilot in order
           to confirm realistic recruitment targets; (ii) process evaluation encompassing
           qualitative research on changing physician referral behaviour and on normalising the
           intervention in practice; and (iii) health economic evaluation.

        4. Trial duration per participant: 24 months

        5. Planned trial sites: 152 GP practices in England. Half will be randomised to the
           experimental arm (using the diagnostic aid) and half to the control arm (standard of
           care 6 week hip check)

        6. Total number of participants planned: 152 GP practices will be randomised (in which 110
           infants each year are anticipated to be assessed within the 6-week hip check across the
           practices).

        7. Main inclusion criteria:

             -  Inclusion: GP practices registered in England and who carry out the 6-week hip
                check as part of their routine work - these practices must be using either EMIS,
                VISION or System One clinical computer systems
    
  