
    
      Cardiovascular risk factors and disease burden has been showed to affect more deeply to
      poorer populations. People who live in slums are the most vulnerable subgroup in the
      populations where, paradoxically scarcity of data exists on risk factors and cardiovascular
      disease burden.

      Hypothesis: the prevalence of modifiable cardiovascular risk factors in an urban slum from
      Buenos Aires city is higher than the rest of the country and, consequently requires a
      distinctive management approach.

      Objectives:

        1. To measure the prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors in a representative sample of
           the villa 31 (an urban slum from Buenos Aires city).

        2. To measure the self-perceived health in a representative sample of the villa 31 (urban
           slum from Buenos Aires city).

      Design: observational study. Survey. Procedures: the survey will be conducted by neighbors
      from the slum that received specific training as community health workers and were trained on
      the use of the survey questionnaire and for blood pressure measuring.

      Sampling: representative samples of slum population will be obtained using probabilistic,
      multi-staged sampling methods.

      Blood pressure measures: blood pressure will be measured using automatic blood pressure
      monitoring device with appropriate cuff sizes.

      Statistical analyses: categorical variables will be expressed as numbers and percentages, and
      continuous variable as means and standard deviations or medians and interquartile ranges.
      Between groups comparisons will be conducted using chi2 test for categorical variables and T
      test or Mann-Whitney U's test for continuous variables. To compare the prevalence of risk
      factors with the rest of the country, the database will be jointed with the national risk
      factor survey (publicly available). All analyses will be weighted to account for the sampling
      method.
    
  