
    
      The Study Drugs:

      It is not known which study drug or combination of study drugs is better at reducing side
      effects patients may experience during chemoradiation therapy. For this reason, researchers
      have chosen 3 study drugs that may help to reduce side effects such as fatigue, pain, sleep
      disturbance, difficulty swallowing, and lack of appetite. The study drugs will be tested
      alone and in combination with each other.

        -  Armodafinil is designed to prevent excessive sleepiness.

        -  Bupropion and minocycline each may reduce inflammation, which may help to reduce other
           symptoms. Bupropion is a drug for depression. Minocycline is an antibiotic (a drug to
           treat infection).

      Study Groups:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in the roll of
      dice) to 1 of 8 groups. You may be assigned to receive no study drugs, 1 study drug, a
      combination of 2, or all 3 of the study drugs.

      During this study, you may receive 1 or more placebos. A placebo looks like the study drug(s)
      but has no active ingredients. There is a chance that you will be in a group that does not
      receive any study drugs at all. The study drugs are being tested to learn if they can help
      control symptoms. All participants will be able to receive standard care for head and neck
      cancer outside of the study.

      Neither you nor the study staff will know if you are receiving the study drugs and/or the
      placebo(s). However, if needed for your safety, the study staff will be able to find out
      which study drug(s) you are receiving.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will take the study drugs/placebos 2 times every day for up to 10 weeks. You will take 1
      or more study drug(s) or placebos by mouth each time, as instructed by the study doctor. If
      you have trouble swallowing the study drugs/placebos, they can be crushed just before taking
      them. You will be given information sheets on how to take the study drugs/placebos.

      You will be given a daily diary to write down when you take the study drugs/placebos. You
      should bring your study drugs/placebos to the clinic to every study visit. You should also
      bring your diary to every study visit.

      Symptom Questionnaire:

      Throughout the study, you will be asked to fill out a symptom questionnaire. You will be
      asked about symptoms you may be experiencing and how they may be interfering with your daily
      activities. When you are in the clinic, the questionnaire can be completed by paper and pen
      with the study staff or by entering your answers into a computer. When you are away from the
      clinic, the questionnaire may be completed either through a phone call with the study staff
      or through a phone call from the interactive voice response (IVR) system. The symptom
      questionnaire will take up to 5 minutes each time. The study staff will give you the
      information you need to complete the questionnaire through the IVR system.

      During Weeks 1-10, you will complete the symptom questionnaire 2 times a week. During Weeks
      11-16, you will complete the symptom questionnaire 1 time a week.

      If you would like, you can fill out a paper version of the questionnaire instead of using the
      phone system.

      Study Visits:

      Before you begin chemoradiation:

        -  You will fill out 6 questionnaires about pain and other symptoms, your mood, your
           tobacco and alcohol use, and the quality of your life. This should take about 15
           minutes.

        -  You will have a blood coagulation test, called PT-INR, to make sure your blood clots
           normally.

        -  If you are a woman who is able to become pregnant, you will have a urine pregnancy test.
           The study staff will give you the pregnancy test kit at your scheduled visit, and will
           review and record the results of the test before your study prescriptions are filled by
           the pharmacy. This will also be done at about Weeks 4 and 7, at the first follow-up
           visit after radiation treatment, and 30 days after the study drugs are stopped.

      At about Week 4 of chemoradiation:

        -  You will fill out 1 quality-of-life questionnaire. This should take about 2-3 minutes.

        -  You will be asked three questions about smoking after the start of chemoradiation
           therapy.

        -  You will have a blood coagulation test, called PT-INR, to make sure your blood clots
           normally.

      During the last week of chemoradiation (about Week 7):

      -You will fill out 3 questionnaires about your symptoms, mood, and quality of life. This
      should take about 10 minutes.

      After about Week 7, the study staff will call you 2 times per week to check on you until Week
      10. This phone call should last only a few minutes. If you have experienced several side
      effects from chemoradiation, this phone call may take longer.

      At about Week 10 and at your first follow-up visit after your chemoradiation treatment:

        -  You will fill out 3 questionnaires about your symptoms, mood, and quality of life.

        -  You will fill out 2 questionnaires that ask about your smoking history and changes in
           your tobacco use during the study. This will take a few minutes.

        -  You will be asked to fill out another questionnaire that asks about your satisfaction
           with the study drug(s). For example, you will be asked if you thought the study drugs
           helped to control the symptoms, if you would recommend the study drugs to other
           patients, and if you had problems taking the study drugs. This will take a few minutes.

        -  In addition, at your first follow-up visit after your chemoradiation treatment, you will
           have a blood coagulation test, called PT INR, to make sure your blood clots normally.

      Length of Study:

      You will take the study drug(s)/placebo for up to 10 weeks, if the doctor thinks it is in
      your best interest. You will fill out the symptom questionnaires by phone until 16 weeks. You
      will no longer be able to take the study drug(s)/placebo if you experience intolerable side
      effects.

      This is an investigational study. Armodafinil is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of excessive sleepiness. Bupropion is FDA approved and commercially available
      for the treatment of depression. Minocycline is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of bacterial infection. The different possible combinations of these drugs
      being used in this study are investigational.

      Up to 32 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  