
    
      Diffuse low-grade and intermediate-grade gliomas (which together make up the lower-grade
      gliomas, World Health Organization grades II and III) are infiltrative neoplasms that arise
      most often in the cerebral hemispheres of adults and include astrocytomas,
      oligodendrogliomas, and oligoastrocytomas. The management of lower-grade gliomas is largely
      based on surgery followed by radiotherapy.

      Lower-grade gliomas have highly variable clinical behavior that is not adequately predicted
      on the basis of histologic class. Consequently, clinicians increasingly rely on genetic
      classification to guide clinical decision making. Mutations in IDH1 and IDH2 characterize the
      majority of lower-grade gliomas in adults and define a subtype that is associated with a
      favorable prognosis. Mutations of the telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) promoter, which
      result in enhanced telomerase activity and lengthened telomeres, have been observed in
      several human cancers including glioma. Accumulating evidence suggest that TERT promoter
      mutation is another molecular marker which can stratify lower-grade gliomas into prognostic
      subgroups in combination with IDH mutation. In our previous study, patients(28/377, 7.4%) who
      had lower-grade gliomas with IDH wild-type (IDH-wt) and TERT promoter mutation (TERTp-mut)
      had the poorest clinical outcomes (median OS, 27.7mo; 5-year OS, 29%). These results were
      accordant with the recent studies and suggested that current treatment strategies are not
      adequate for this subtype of lower-grade glioma.

      Radiotherapy plus temozolomide has emerged as a new standard of care for patients with good
      PS non-elderly glioblastoma. There are some data that support temozolomide as adjuvant
      therapy for lower-grade glioma. Given that the IDH-wt/TERTp-mut subgroup of lower-grade
      gliomas has dismal prognosis, a more aggressive therapy such as concurrent chemoradiotherapy
      seems to be reasonable. The present study aims to examine the efficacy and safety of
      concurrent chemoradiotherapy with temozolomide followed by adjuvant temozolomide for
      lower-grade glioma patients with IDH-wt and TERTp-mut. Half the patients will be randomly
      assigned to receive concurrent chemoradiotherapy (surgery + concurrent chemoradiotherapy with
      temozolomide followed by adjuvant temozolomide) and half the patients will be randomly
      assigned to receive conventional therapy (surgery + radiotherapy only).
    
  