
    
      The objective and tasks of the investigation.

      The purpose of this study is to validate the efficacy and operational feasibility of a photic
      countermeasure to improve alertness and performance during night shift work occurring during
      a simulated expedition mission. We propose to address the following specific aims:

      Specific Aim 1. Evaluate the feasibility of monitoring sleep and circadian neuroendocrine
      rhythms in a high fidelity operational simulation of a 105-day expedition mission, in
      preparation for such monitoring in longer duration simulations that include the 24.65-hour
      Martian sol.

      Specific Aim 2. Test the hypothesis that sleep, alertness, performance and mood will be
      impaired during acute circadian misalignment associated with night shift work operations in a
      high fidelity operational simulation of a 105-day expedition mission;

      Specific Aim 3. Test the hypothesis that alertness, performance and mood of crewmembers
      exposed to shorter wavelength light (with a peak wavelength between 485 to 525 nm) during the
      night shift in the console monitoring room will be significantly better than the alertness,
      performance and mood of those same crewmembers when they are exposed to intermediate
      wavelength light (with a peak wavelength of either 545 nm to 555 nm) or longer wavelength
      light (620 nm to 690 nm) during the night shift. We hypothesize that these improvements in
      alertness, performance and mood will be associated with suppression of the pineal hormone
      melatonin. Melatonin levels are expected to be lowest across the night shift during exposure
      to the short 485 nm-525 nm light; low for the first quartile of the night shift during
      exposure to the intermediate wavelength 545 nm-555 nm light; and highest during exposure to
      the longer wavelength 620 nm-690 nm light. This aim will permit us to evaluate the
      feasibility of deploying lighting countermeasures (Light Tower; Sunnex Biotechnologies
      Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada; ww.Sunnexbiotech.com) in the control panel room (inside the
      module EU-150) to assess the effects of this wavelength of light on alertness, performance,
      and subsequent sleep, in preparation for deploying lighting countermeasures in longer
      duration simulations that include the 24.65-hour Martian sol. Subjects will be randomized to
      the three lighting conditions using a balanced Latin square design.

      Specific aim 4. Test the hypothesis that the alertness, performance and mood of the external
      mission controllers will be impaired during the final third of their extended duration,
      24-hour work shifts as compared with the first third of that same work shift. We anticipate
      that the acute total sleep deprivation and circadian misalignment associated with hours 16
      through 24 of their work shift will significantly degrade their alertness, performance and
      mood.

      Specific aim 5. Test the hypothesis that the alertness, performance and mood of external
      mission controllers exposed to shorter wavelength light (with a peak wavelength between 485
      to 525 nm) during the final third of their extended duration work shift will be significantly
      better than the alertness, performance and mood of those same crewmembers when they are
      exposed to intermediate wavelength light (with a peak wavelength of either 545 nm to 555 nm)
      or longer wavelength light (620 nm to 690 nm) during the final third of their extended
      duration work shift.

      The purpose of the proposed studies is to address five specific hypotheses aimed at
      validating methods to collect data to monitor performance, sleep and circadian rhythms in an
      operational environment. We also plan to evaluate the efficacy of a photic countermeasure
      designed to improve alertness, performance, mood during acute circadian misalignment during
      the 105-day mission in which crewmembers will be required to be on duty in the console
      monitoring room during the night shift every sixth night. These five hypotheses are based on
      the results of our preliminary data which indicate that: (a) night shift workers who invert
      their normal sleep/wake schedule experience sleep loss, decreased alertness and performance;
      (b) individual working extended duration, 24-hour shifts experience sleep loss and impaired
      alertness, performance and mood, especially during a critical zone of vulnerability between
      the 16th and 24th hours of such extended duration work shifts; (c) shorter wavelength light
      acutely suppresses melatonin and increases alertness, performance and mood during night work;
      and (d) shorter wavelength visible light is more effective than intermediate or longer
      wavelength light at suppressing melatonin and increasing alertness, performance and mood
      during the night.
    
  