
    
      HIV, the virus that causes AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency syndrome), is one of the world's
      most serious health and development challenges. Approximately 38 million people live with
      HIV, and tens of millions of people have died of AIDS-related causes since the beginning of
      the epidemic.

      However, with increasing access to effective HIV prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and care,
      including opportunistic infections, HIV infection has transformed from an irreversible
      terminal illness to chronic disease. Unfortunately, increased life expectancy has increased
      the risk of other chronic diseases such as cardiovascular diseases (CVD). Actually, CVD has
      become the most common cause of death in HIV-infected individuals. The risk of myocardial
      infarction and coronary atherosclerosis prevalence is nearly twice as high in people living
      with HIV than in the general population. Statins are effective primary prevention for CAD
      events; however, there are no specific statin use guidelines in HIV. Besides, there is not
      enough information about systemic inflammation markers and their correlation with
      atherosclerosis severity.

      Nowadays, using invasive imaging, including quantitative coronary angiography with or without
      further percutaneous coronary intervention, optical coherence tomography/ OCT, intravascular
      ultrasound/ IVUS, VH-IVUS, near-infrared spectroscopy/ NIRS, cardiovascular events can be
      predicted and prevented.

      In a prospective multicenter observational study, 200 HIV-infected patients treated with
      antiretroviral treatment (ART) and who suffered from coronary artery disease (CAD) will be
      enrolled. Blood samples for biological parameters will be collected with all participants:
      lipid profile and markers of systemic inflammation specific for HIV-infection
      (lipopolysaccharide-binding protein; cytokines: IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, TNF -α, INF-γ,
      INF-α; procalcitonin; inflammatory hsCRP).

      All of them will undergo functional testing (Echo, CMR both at rest and stress if necessary)
      and invasive imaging with QCA (Quantitative Coronary Angiography), FFR (Fractional Flow
      Reserve), QFR (Quantitative Flow Reserve), OCT (Optical Coherence Tomography), IVUS
      (Intravascular Ultrasound), VH-IVUS (Virtual Histology - IVUS), NIRS (Near Infrared
      Spectroscopy).

      Patients will be treated according to the current and previous recommendations: The 2019 HIV
      Russian National Guidelines; EACS Guidelines 2020; The AHA scientific statement
      Characteristics, Prevention, and Management of Cardiovascular Disease in People Living With
      HIV A Scientific Statement From the American Heart Association. Circulation 2019; ESC/EACTS
      Guidelines on Myocardial Revascularization 2018; 2019 Guidelines on Chronic Coronary
      Syndromes.

      Both medical treatment and percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) with or
      without stenting will be provided.

      The follow-up period will achieve 12 months prospectively with collected clinical events and
      imaging outcomes which will be determined at the baseline and 12-month follow-up.

      The independent ethics expertise will be provided by the Central Clinical Hospital of the
      Russian Academy of Sciences (Moscow, Russia). The monitoring of the clinical data with
      imaging will be provided by The Ethics Board of Central Clinical Hospital of the Russian
      Academy of Sciences.

      The clinical data of the HIVE trial include information of the complex examination with:

        1. invasive imaging with QCA, FFR, QFR, OCT, IVUS, VH-IVUS, NIRS,

        2. two interviews with the risk factor modification recommendations,

        3. blood tests:

             -  lipid profile (total cholesterol, triglycerides, LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol,
                VLDL cholesterol),

             -  markers of systemic inflammation specific for HIV-infection
                (lipopolysaccharide-binding protein; cytokines: IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, TNF -α,
                INF-γ, INF-α; procalcitonin; inflammatory hsCRP),

             -  biochemical blood test (glucose, asparagine transaminase, alanine transaminase,
                total bilirubin, creatinine, markers of the myocardium damage (myoglobin, troponin
                I, creatine kinase, creatine kinase-MB, brain natriuretic peptide - NT-proBNP),

             -  complete blood count,

        4. ECG,

        5. Echo,

        6. CMR results

      The prospective patients will be tested with HeartAge, SCORE, Duke ACC/ AHA, Duke - DCS,
      Diamond-Forrester - DFM, The Seattle Angina Questionnaire - SAQ, DukeActivity Status Index
      -DASI, and EQ-5D-5L, scores that are specific for HIV: EuroSida AIDS/Death risk score, FENCE
      score, CSRFENCE Score. Patients will be screened for the major risk factors and their
      modification: unhealthy blood cholesterol levels, high blood pressure, smoking, insulin
      resistance, diabetes, overweight or obesity, lack of physical activity, unhealthy diet, older
      age, genetic or lifestyle factors, family history of early heart diseases.

      The PCI and PTCA will be undergone by the 2020 ESC/EACTS Guidelines on Myocardial
      Revascularization. The imaging data from non-invasive (CMR, Echo) and invasive (QCA, FFR,
      QFR, OCT, IVUS, VH-IVUS, NIRS) methods will be handled and analyzed with the expert-level
      post-processing imaging software (Medis Suite Solutions: MR, XA, QFR, CT, Intravascular,
      Ultrasound) from Medis Medical Imaging Systems B.V. (Leiden, The Netherlands).

      Our study aims to evaluate the severity of coronary atherosclerosis in HIV-patients with CAD
      and its correlation with markers of systemic inflammation specific for HIV-infection (LBP;
      cytokines: IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, TNF -α, INF-γ, INF-α; procalcitonin; inflammatory hsCRP)
      and to estimate their value in preventing cardiovascular events.
    
  