
    
      The overall aim of the study is the identification of theragnostic targets for the
      development of novel diagnostic and therapeutic approaches in sepsis. In sepsis, a
      dysregulated host response to infection leads to organ failure. The extent of organ
      dysfunction varies between patients and at different stages of the disease. Advances in
      modern critical care have reduced 28-day mortality over the last years. Nonetheless, a large
      proportion of sepsis survivors reports long-term physical, mental and cognitive impairments
      (post intensive care syndrome) including persistent organ dysfunction (persistent critical
      illness). In addition, mortality rates are considerably increased up to years after sepsis.
      However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear.

      There is evidence that the development of septic cardiomyopathy may influence mortality. The
      relationship between the occurrence of cardiovascular dysfunction and metabolic changes in
      the course of sepsis has not yet been investigated. Therefore, the key aim of this study is
      the investigation of cardiovascular function, oxygen consumption and metabolic changes in
      septic patients. Apart from cardiological routine procedures (echo- and electrocardiography)
      a newly developed method for measuring the mitochondrial oxygen tension and consumption
      (COMET) will be applied. As oedema is involved in the pathogenesis of altered
      microcirculation in sepsis, endothelial dysfunction will be analysed via a set of surrogate
      parameters and body composition (especially extracellular water) measurement via
      bioelectrical impedance analysis. Liver fibrosis will be assessed via transient elastography.
      In blood, stool and urine, routine parameters and the metabolome, lipidome and microbiome
      will be analysed. Septic patients will be assessed in the acute phase (3 and 7 days after
      sepsis diagnosis), the stable phase (at intensive care unit discharge) and after full or
      incomplete recovery (during two outpatient visits at 6 and 12 months sepsis diagnosis).
      Analyses will be complemented by in-depth anamnestic and clinical-epidemiological assessment
      as well as subsequent information on health related quality of life (EQ-5D-3L) and physical
      performance (6-minute walk test).

      The primary endpoint of the study is the difference in mortality rates between septic
      patients with and without septic cardiomyopathy six months after sepsis diagnosis. Further
      research questions include differences in clinical and laboratory parameters between these
      patient groups during the acute phase, and during the mid-, and long-term course.

      The results will be compared with healthy individuals and patients with cardiomyopathy in
      absence of infection.
    
  