
    
      Up to 33% of all elders and 40% of elders over age 70 experience knee osteoarthritis (OA), a
      leading cause of pain and disability. Further, up to 15.3% of elders age 65 have CI, and the
      prevalence of cognitive impairment (CI) doubles every 5 years after age 65. The prevalence of
      OA in elders with CI is comparable to that in elders without CI. Cognitive impairment limits
      elders' ability to perform daily activities, and their functional capacity declines more
      rapidly than in elders without CI. Having knee OA pain in addition to CI further limits
      elders' activities. Without proper treatment of knee OA pain, elders with CI may avoid basic
      daily activities, such as rising, walking, standing, and climbing stairs because these
      aggravate pain. By avoiding these basic activities, they gradually lose muscle strength,
      range of motion, and mobility, which leads to further physical deconditioning and social
      isolation. With aging of the baby boomers and advances in health care, the number of elders
      with both CI and OA will increase fourfold by 2050. Alleviating knee pain in elders with CI
      and knee OA could preserve their functioning, perhaps delay institutionalization, and save
      healthcare dollars. Since pharmacological interventions produce serious side effects and
      inadequately reduce pain, especially in elders with CI, adjuncts such as Tai Chi (TC) are
      needed. A low-impact aerobic exercise, TC involves slowly stretching the limbs and trunk and
      ultimately re-establishes normal mechanics of the knee joints, which reduces knee OA pain.
      The United States Arthritis Foundation and the American Geriatrics Society have endorsed TC
      to reduce knee OA pain; but no study has investigated the effect of TC on knee OA pain in
      elders with CI. The primary aims of this study are:

        1. To test the efficacy of a modified TC program in reducing knee OA pain in
           community-dwelling elders with mild CI.

        2. To test the efficacy of a modified TC program in improving physical function and
           quadriceps strength.

        3. To investigate feasibility and compliance issues in conducting TC.

        4. To estimate the clinical significance of TC for pain reduction in community dwelling
           elders with mild CI.

      The results of this study will help us design a full-scale RCT with a precise estimate of the
      sample size and dosage of TC needed for reducing knee OA pain in community-dwelling elders
      with mild CI.
    
  