
    
      Rationale:

      In women with breast cancer, weight gain, obesity, and lack of physical activity have been
      shown to increase the risk of comorbidities and deleterious long-term outcomes. Despite the
      safety of physical activity and the benefits of physical activity performed concomitant to
      treatment on fatigue, quality of life, and possibly survival, its implementation is not
      systematic in the cancer care pathway.

      Methods:

      The DISCO study is a randomized, controlled, multicenter intervention study that will be
      conducted among 432 women treated for localized breast cancer. Patients will be randomly
      assigned to one of the four arms of the study according to a 1:1:1:1 ratio.

        -  Women allocated to the "connected device" arm will benefit from a 6-month personalized
           exercise program consisting of three weekly sessions of aerobic and strength exercises,
           carried out autonomously with a connected device (wristband, smartphone application,
           website).

        -  Women allocated to the "therapeutic education" arm will follow a 6-month program of
           therapeutic patient education.

        -  Women allocated to the "combined" arm will benefit from both interventions in parallel.

        -  Women allocated to the "control" arm will receive standard care, i.e., international
           recommendations on physical activity.

      Evaluations will be conducted at inclusion (T1, baseline), 6 months (T2, end of
      interventions), and 12 months (T3, 12 months post-inclusion to study maintenance of behavior
      change) on the following parameters: level of physical activity and sedentary behavior (RPAQ
      self-administered questionnaire), physical condition assessed by functional tests (6-min
      walking test, sit-to-stand test, hang-grip test, sit-and-reach flexibility test, single-leg
      balance test), anthropometrics (weight, height, waist circumference, hip circumference,
      calculated body mass index), body composition (fat mass, lean body mass, fat free mass,
      water), biological factors (blood sample at baseline and 6 months), lifestyle factors
      (tobacco status, alcohol intake), psychological factors (quality of life assessed by the
      EORTC QLQ-C30 / BR-23 questionnaire, health-related quality of life assessed by the EQ-5D-5L
      questionnaire, fatigue assessed by the PFS-12 questionnaire), socio-economic parameters
      (social deprivation assessed by the EPICES questionnaire, level of education, family
      situation, professional status assessed through a self-administered questionnaire). Clinical
      data will be obtained from patients' medical records. Acceptability of connected device and
      of therapeutic education program will be assessed within the population. The medico-economic
      impact of the interventions will be evaluated through cost-utility and cost-effectiveness
      analyses. Data will be recorded using an e-CRF. Women will be recruited over 2 years and will
      be followed up for 12 months.

      Hypothesis:

      The research hypothesis is that patients participating in the 6-month intervention with the
      connected device or in the 6-month therapeutic education program will be more likely to
      achieve the international recommendations in terms of physical activity, compared to women
      receiving only physical activity recommendations.

      Expected results are to identify best modalities to implement exercise during and after
      breast cancer treatment. In a public health perspective, the challenge is to reduce
      geographical, social, and organizational inequalities among patients to practice regular
      physical activity and to promote the systematic integration of physical activity in routine
      cancer care.
    
  