
    
      1.0 Introduction

      Breast cancer is the most common cancer in North American women. It is estimated that one in
      8 American women will develop breast cancer during her lifetime. Surgical treatment has
      evolved from radical mastectomy to breast conservation, and systemic treatment has become
      increasingly important. The presence or absence of lymph node metastases is the most
      important prognostic factor used to determine type of systemic treatment necessary. Axillary
      dissection however, carries with it the risk of nerve injury, lymphedema, decreased arm
      motion and seroma formation. Clinical examination, ultrasound, CT scanning and MRI of the
      axilla are not sensitive or specific enough to eliminate the need for axillary dissection.
      Sentinel node biopsy (SNB) can predict the pathologic status of the axilla and theoretically
      could differentiate patients into those with positive node biopsies who require full
      dissection versus those who are negative and do not. Frozen section of the sentinel node is
      inaccurate and therefore SNB positive patients would require two surgical procedures.
      Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scanning of the axilla has been reported to have a high
      sensitivity and specificity and if used prior to surgery may guide the surgeon in determining
      the need for full axillary dissection versus SNB alone. PET scanning has also been reported
      to identify unsuspected distant metastases not found on standard staging examinations. This
      study will investigate the use of PET scanning in conjunction with SNB and results of both
      modalities will be correlated with histologic results of axillary dissection.

      2.0 Objectives

      There are no reports describing results of a similar study. By performing a properly
      constructed clinical trial in T1 - 3 N0 breast cancer patients, the question of whether PET
      scanning will make a difference to patient management can be answered. The hypothesis of this
      study is therefore, that a PET scan prior to surgery will facilitate staging both locally
      (axilla) and distant and will help the surgeon determine whether to do SNB or axillary
      dissection.

      2.1 Primary Objective: To determine whether preoperative PET imaging combined with sentinel
      node biopsy can accurately identify nodal status. This would be most important in patients
      with a negative PET scan and negative sentinel nodes. If the combination of these tests was
      found to have a high negative predictive value for nodal metastases, full axillary dissection
      could be avoided.

      2.2 Secondary Objectives:

        -  Assess pattern of lymph node drainage using lymphoscintigraphy.

        -  Assessment of size limitations of PET scanning in metastatic lymph nodes.

        -  Assessment of primary tumor size and evidence of multifocality as compared to
           preoperative imaging (mammography +/- ultrasound).

        -  The incidence of unsuspected distant metastases and frequency with which treatment was
           changed as a result of the PET scan would also be determined.

      3.0 Materials and Methods

      3.1 Patient Population: Pre and post menopausal women with clinical T1-3 N0 breast cancer are
      eligible. All will have biopsy proven breast carcinoma. Positive core or fine needle
      aspiration biopsies will be obtained in all patients. Core biopsies are preferred. Excisional
      biopsies are not allowed. Patients must not be pregnant or lactating and must not have had
      prior malignancy. Diabetic patients are ineligible. An informal survey of 8 patients from
      Calgary indicates that all 8 would be willing to travel to Edmonton for their PET scan.
      (Personal communication from Dr. Mews).

      3.2 Preoperative Imaging: All patients will have preoperative mammography +/- ultrasound of
      the breast. Patients eligible for and consenting to the study will be referred to the Cross
      Cancer Institute by their surgeons and will have preoperative PET scanning. Imaging will be
      completed within seven days prior to surgery. Once a PET scanner becomes available in
      Calgary, the scans will be done there. Potential sites of distant metastases identified by
      PET scan will be imaged further and if necessary, possible biopsies will be obtained to
      confirm the diagnosis.

      3.3 Surgery: Dr. Kelly Dabbs from Edmonton and Dr. Daphne Mew from Calgary will be the
      surgeons involved. They have proven experience in doing SNB's. At the time of surgery,
      sentinel node biopsy using both blue dye and colloid will be performed followed by level I/II
      axillary dissection. The patients may have either segmental resection or mastectomy.

      3.4 Pathology: The sentinel node will be assessed by H&E as well as immunohistochemistry as
      per standard protocol. Measurements of primary tumor size, size of axillary metastases and
      size of in situ component will be documented. All pathology will be reported by Dr. J.
      Danyluk, Dr. R. Berendt and Dr. F. Alexander.

      3.5 Outcome Analysis: Patients with positive axillary nodes on dissection and positive SNB
      and/or PET will be considered true positive (TP) for that modality. A negative axillary
      dissection and negative PET and/or SNB will identify the true negative (TN) group. A positive
      axillary dissection and negative PET and/or SNB will identify the false negative (FN)
      subgroup. A negative axillary dissection and positive PET and/or SNB will identify the false
      positive (FP) subgroup. Sensitivity (TP/TP + FN) and specificity (TN/TN + FP) will be
      determined. If patients do not have successful sentinel node surgery or PET scanning, they
      will be included in the analysis of the individual modality which was successful.

      3.6 Statistics: In order to have an adequate number of node positive patients to test
      sensitivity an overall total of 240 patients is required. The proportion of patients who are
      node positive is estimated to be 0.35. A sample of 240 is expected to contain 84 node
      positive patients and the probability that at least 72 of the 240 patients are node positive
      is 0.95. The subsample of 72 node positive patients is sufficient to perform a one-sided test
      of equivalence for a target sensitivity of 0.80 and an allowable difference of 0.10 with
      significance level of 10% and power of 80%.The 168 node negative patients from the 240 total
      permit a one-sided test of equivalence for which the target specificity is 0.95 and the
      allowable difference is 0.05 with significance level of 5% and power of 90%.43
    
  