
    
      "Severe acute respiratory syndrome" coronavirus 2 (SARS-Cov-2) is a new coronavirus that
      induces pneumonia called Corona Virus Disease- 19 (COVID-19), an infected 1.5 million people
      worldwide and caused the more than 85,000 patients died. COVID-19 usually comes in the form
      of viral pneumonia but with the peculiarities of a risk frequent worsening towards acute
      respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and a usual duration of oxygen dependence in fragile
      patients by their age or their comorbidities. To date, there is no therapy effective in
      preventing or treating COVID-19. Drug identification is a major concern and a public health
      emergency. Retrospective study (Wu 2020) highlighted improved survival in COVID-19 patients
      with acute ARDS and treated with corticosteroids (CS). So even in the absence of evidence of
      effectiveness, the SCs are used for COVID-19 oxygen-dependent patients or with an ARDS.
      However, their benefit / risk remains debated (Russel 2020). On histological samples of
      COVID-19, diffuse alveolar damage (DAD) has been especially observed (Hanley 2020). DAD is
      described histologically in an exudative phase, an organizational phase and a irreversible
      fibrotic phase (Hughes 2017). SC could have an effect beneficial by limiting the exudative /
      inflammatory phase but also that organization whose histological and CT aspects are sometimes
      indistinguishable from organized pneumonia, a form of pulmonary repair aberrant very
      corticosensitive (Travis 2013). Chest scans performed in the face of the persistence or
      worsening of oxygen dependence beyond the 7th day of COVID-19 symptoms, could help discern
      indirect complications (pulmonary embolism, exacerbation of COPD, bacterial superinfection,
      etc.) of an unfavorable course COVID-19 (by displaying an aspect suggesting DAD in particular
      during the organization phase). We hypothesize that, in the context of COVID-19, the SCs may
      be beneficial in patients with CT scans thoracic images suggestive of DAD either at the
      exudative phase or at the pulmonary organization phase.
    
  