
    
      The treatment of most head and neck cancer patients includes ionizing radiation (IR).
      Salivary glands in the IR field suffer irreversible damage. There is no conventional
      treatment available to correct this condition. Our research group has been developing an
      adeno-associated virus vector based on the hypothesis that this vector is capable of safely
      transferring the human aquaporin-1 (hAQP1) cDNA gene to parotid glands of adult patients with
      IR-induced salivary hypofunction, resulting in an elevated salivary output. Human AQP1, the
      archetypal water channel, is a plasma membrane protein that facilitates water movement across
      lipid bilayers. Minipig studies have shown that the AAV2hAQP1 strategy for restoring salivary
      flow to IR-damaged salivary glands is effective without untoward effects after salivary gland
      delivery. As a proof of concept that AQP1 would restore saliva flow in a human population, we
      recently completed a phase 1 clinical trial (06-D-0206) using an Adenovirus-based vector
      encoding AQP1 to a single previously irradiated parotid gland in eleven patients using an
      open label, single dose, dose-escalation design. All patients tolerated vector delivery and
      study procedures well and positive objective and subjective responses were seen in five
      patients, all at doses <5.8 times10(9) vp/gland. At higher doses the patients possibly
      initiated an immune response to the vector and no improvement in gland function was observed.
      These findings have encouraged us to pursue studies with AAV2 based vectors, which have
      demonstrated lower immunogenicity and more stable expression compared with adenoviral
      vectors. The purpose of this clinical protocol is to test the safety of AAV2hAQP1, with some
      measures of efficacy, in adult patients with established IR-induced parotid gland
      hypofunction. The targeted tissue site for the AAV2hAQP1 vector in the proposed study is a
      single parotid gland. In this Phase 1 dose-escalation study, safety will be evaluated using
      conventional clinical and immunological parameters. The primary outcome measure for
      biological efficacy will be parotid gland salivary output.
    
  