
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab when combined with radiotherapy
      plus carboplatin and paclitaxel in locally advanced gastroesophageal junction (GEJ)/cardia
      adenocarcinoma. (Phase Ib) II. To determine the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab when
      combined with oxaliplatin, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil (mFOLFOX6) (without
      radiation) in locally advanced GEJ/cardia adenocarcinoma. (Phase Ib) (re-initiated) III. To
      evaluate the pathological complete response (pathCR) rate of pembrolizumab when combined with
      radiotherapy plus carboplatin and paclitaxel in locally advanced GEJ/cardia adenocarcinoma.
      (Phase II) IV. To determine the 1-year progression-free survival (PFS) rate of pembrolizumab
      when combined with mFOLFOX6 (without radiation) in locally advanced GEJ/cardia
      adenocarcinoma. (Phase II) (only if Phase Ib is re-initiated)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine progression-free survival (PFS), determine time to relapse (TTR),
      disease-free survival (DFS), complete resection with no tumor within 1 mm of the resection
      margins (R0) rate, and overall survival (OS) of pembrolizumab when combined with radiotherapy
      plus carboplatin and paclitaxel.

      II. To determine the progression-free survival (PFS), pathCR rate, time to relapse (TTR),
      disease-free survival (DFS), R0 rate, and overall survival (OS) of pembrolizumab when
      combined with oxaliplatin, leucovorin, and fluorouracil (FOLFOX) chemotherapy. (only if Phase
      Ib is re-initiated)

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify tissue and/or circulating biomarkers that are associated with pathCR, DFS, and
      other clinical outcomes in patients with locally advanced GEJ/cardia adenocarcinoma treated
      with neoadjuvant pembrolizumab-based therapy.

      II. To determine differences in pre-treatment vs post-treatment tissue expression of immune
      markers, including programmed death ligand (PDL)1 and tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (cluster
      of differentiation [CD]8+, forkhead box P3 [FOXP3]+ regulatory t cells [Tregs], CD45RO,
      granzyme B), in patients treated with neoadjuvant pembrolizumab-based therapy.

      III. To identify immune markers in pretreatment tissues that correlate with pathCR and
      long-term outcome in patients treated with neoadjuvant pembrolizumab-based therapy.

      IV. To explore whether an Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-associated tumor molecular profile is
      associated with pathCR and long-term outcome in patients treated with neoadjuvant
      pembrolizumab-based therapy.

      V. To explore whether a microsatellite-unstable (MSI) tumor molecular profile is associated
      with pathCR and long-term outcome in patients treated with neoadjuvant pembrolizumab-based
      therapy.

      OUTLINE:

      NEOADJUVANT TREATMENT: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on
      days -7, 15, and 36 and carboplatin IV and paclitaxel IV over 1-96 hours on days 1, 8, 15, 22
      and 29. Patients also undergo radiation therapy once daily (QD) 5 days per week for 4 weeks
      and 3 days (23 fractions).

      Patients with progressive disease receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes, paclitaxel IV
      over 1-96 hours, and carboplatin IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2-4 courses
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      NEOADJUVANT TREATMENT (RE-INITIATED): Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on
      days 1 and 22 and oxaliplatin IV over 2-6 hours, leucovorin calcium IV over 15 minutes to 2
      hours, and fluorouracil IV over 46-48 hours on days 1, 15, and 29. Treatment repeats every 21
      days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with progressive disease receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 22,
      oxaliplatin IV over 2-6 hours, leucovorin calcium over 15 minutes to 2 hours, and
      fluorouracil IV over 46-48 hours on days 1, 15, and 29. Treatment repeats every 41 days (6
      weeks) for 1-3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      SURGERY: Within 5-8 weeks after completion of radiation therapy or 3-6 weeks after completion
      of chemotherapy for patients receiving chemotherapy alone, patients undergo curative-intent
      surgery.

      ADJUVANT TREATMENT: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes every 21 days.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months for
      1 year, every 4 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months for 1 year.
    
  