
    
      Estrogen replacement has been associated with improved learning and memory in both animal and
      human studies. However, there is some evidence to suggest that "stress" has a detrimental
      effect on learning for female animals who still have naturally circulating estrogen.
      Interestingly, when the effects of this hormone are blocked in the body, stress no longer
      impairs learning. Several investigators have raised the possibility that the physiological
      response to stress may be exaggerated for women compared to men. Gender differences in
      biological systems that control the release of gonadal and stress hormones may explain why
      estrogen is beneficial for women under nonstressed conditions, but detrimental for them under
      stressed conditions. To date, no study has carefully controlled or manipulated both estrogen
      use and cortisol levels to further explore this issue. In this placebo-controlled, double
      blind, parallel-group design clinical study we will evaluate whether estrogen use exacerbates
      stress-related impairments in cognition for healthy postmenopausal women. Forty subjects will
      receive either 0.10 mg/day of transdermal beta-estradiol or a placebo skin patch for 8 weeks.
      In the last week of treatment, subjects will receive 90 mg/day of oral hydrocortisone or a
      placebo for 4 consecutive days. Scores on tests of memory, attention, and mood, as well as
      blood levels of estrogen and cortisol will be assessed at baseline, and at weeks 4 and 8. We
      predict that the estrogen+cortisol combination will have a deleterious effect on cognition
      and mood relative to the effects of either hormone administered alone. The results of this
      study are likely to provide important information regarding not only the nature of the
      interaction between these hormonal systems that occurs in response to stress, but also the
      conditions under which the beneficial effects of estrogen may be overshadowed.
    
  