
    
      Patients with heart failure display dyspnea on exertion, lower PCO2 and higher ventilatory
      response to exercise (V E -V CO 2slope), which demonstrated dysregulation of breathing in
      this disease category. Some of these patients develop further ventilation dysregulation
      pattern with ventilatory oscillation composed with exercise periodic breathing (EPB) and
      sleep apnea. Previous studies revealed the ventilatory oscillation was associated with cyclic
      changes in arterial oxygen (PO2) and carbon dioxide (PCO2) tensions, and also associated with
      severely impaired exercise tolerance, a steep V E -V CO 2slope, and low peak O 2 consumption,
      both correlated with the worse severity of heart failure and adverse prognosis. The origin of
      ventilatory oscillation might involved instability of the ventilator control system, which
      composed with prolonged circulatory delay, abnormal peripheral ergoreﬂex activation and
      peripheral chemo- and baro-sensitivity, even through abnormal autonomic reﬂexes to an altered
      central command. However, the most studies investigated these responses via sleep apnea under
      resting status especially those about brain. The real-time change response to exercise was
      limited to ventilatory parameters such as oxygen consumption, carbon dioxide production.
      Whether the exercise periodic breathing response to exercise which lead to abnormal cerebral
      hemodynamic responses to exercise in HF remain unclear.

      Impaired cerebral blood flow was demonstrated during apnetic episode and related to
      neuropsychological deficits in sleep apnea patient. To be controlled by the same key feedback
      mechanism, impaired cerebral blood flow during exercise in EPB patients could be speculated.
      Moreover, Cerebral hypo-perfusion responses to exercise may contribute to the impairment of
      functional capacity in patients with HF. Accordingly, we hypothesize that the abnormal
      cerebral hemodynamics by exercise periodic breathing during exercise is associated with the
      decline of functional capacity in patients with HF. Besides, Physical training can have
      beneficial effects which can effectively counteract the progression of deleterious
      compensatory mechanisms of HF. Whether exercise yields the same beneficial effect on
      ventilation oscillation and inefficacy is not clear.

      We will observe the real-time cardiac and hemodynamic change respond to exercise with
      periodic breathing change. We expect that these results obtained from this study can aid in
      determining appropriate exercise intervention to improve aerobic fitness as well as
      simultaneously improve hemodynamic control in patients with HF. A quasi-experimental design
      will be used in this investigation. Sixty HF patients will be recruited from Chang Gung
      Medical Foundation, Keelung Branch after they have provided informed consent. These subjects
      will be divided into PB (n=30) and non-PB groups (n=30) by their expression of CPET. Patients
      from each groups received the same therapy and trace course for 2years including CV clinics,
      CPET and polysomnography. We will measure subjects' physical fitness, oxygen transport and
      utilization of exercising skeletal muscles, cardiovascular functions and hemodynamics, blood
      cell parameters, RBC deformity and aggregation, plasma biomarkers of myocardial damage,
      oxygen stress and quality of life at pre-training stage and following the 6th , 12th, 18th,
      24th months of the tracing program. Experimental results were analyzed by descriptive
      statistics (percentage, mean, and standard deviation), independent t-test, and repeated
      measure ANOVA. We study the above parameter to realize the physiological response to exercise
      of these patients and discover the appropriate exercise intensity for prescription for EPB.

      This study employed simultaneously a noninvasive, bio-reactance device (i.e., noninvasive
      continuous CO monitoring system, NICOM) to assess cardiac hemodynamics, and a near-infrared
      spectroscopy (NIRS) to monitor changes in cerebral and muscular perfusion/oxygenation. We
      further elucidated the real-time adaption between ventilator parameter and hemodynamic ones
      during ventilation oscillation in patients with HF.
    
  