
    
      This study, funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation through its Health e-Technologies
      Initiative (www.hetinitiative.org) is investigating the impact of telehomecare on health
      outcomes of persons with heart failure. The study began on September 1, 2003 and ends on
      February 28, 2006.

      This study targets elderly persons with congestive heart failure (CHF), a major health
      problem affecting more than 4 million Americans. The research hypothesis being tested is that
      the use of an electronic method of monitoring and transmitting health information facilitates
      patient empowerment, with subsequent effects on the patient's ability to manage her/his
      treatment regimen more effectively. The study will explore the linkages between telehomecare
      and acquisition of knowledge, and will show whether changes in knowledge levels translate to
      changes in behaviors and improved health outcomes.

      The effects of two different telehomecare systems (nurse-directed vs. patient-directed) on
      knowledge, self-management, and health status will be compared. A further goal is to
      illuminate the attitudes of physicians regarding the use of telehomecare in the treatment of
      their elderly, community dwelling patients.

      Specific objectives are:

        1. To evaluate the impact of telehomecare on patients' knowledge and self-management of
           heart failure, and cardiovascular health outcomes;

        2. To compare the effect of two different telehomecare systems on patients' knowledge and
           self-management of heart failure, and cardiovascular health outcomes;

        3. To investigate how the personal characteristics of older persons influence
           human-computer interaction and user satisfaction;

        4. To describe and predict the attitudes and intentions of physicians regarding the use of
           telehomecare applications; and,

        5. To analyze relationships among individual characteristics, information use,
           self-management of heart-failure and health status.
    
  