
    
      Alcohol is the leading cause of recurrent acute and chronic pancreatitis, which greatly
      elevates the risk of pancreatic cancer. Reducing alcohol intake in patients with a history of
      alcoholic pancreatitis prevents progression of pancreatitis. Provider-based education on
      alcohol reduction has not translated to sustainable behaviors change, and more effective and
      scalable interventions are needed. Wearable alcohol sensors can empower patient-directed
      behavior change through real-time feedback on alcohol levels in the blood. BACtrack Skyn, the
      winner of NIAAA's Wearable Alcohol Biosensor Challenge, is a validated transdermal alcohol
      sensor that estimates blood alcohol concentration. In this pilot study, the investigators aim
      to (a) determine the feasibility and acceptability of using BACtrack Skyn to monitor changes
      in blood alcohol concentration among patients at risk for pancreatitis, (b) assess
      correlations between alcohol levels measured with BACtrack Skyn, breathalyzer,
      patient-reported alcohol consumption, and urine alcohol metabolite levels, (c) explore
      whether the use of a wearable alcohol sensor results in a decrease in alcohol consumption
      over a two-week period. Sixteen participants with known history of alcoholic pancreatitis
      will be assigned to wearing BACtrack Skyn for 2 weeks with the goal of not exceeding a blood
      alcohol concentration of 0.08%. Patient-reported drinking history, urine will be collected to
      correlate reported drinking levels and alcohol metabolic levels with the blood alcohol
      concentration readings in BACtrack Skyn. Findings from this study will be used as preliminary
      data to support and optimize subsequent grant applications and inform larger, randomized
      trials. The proposed study aligns closely with the mission of Cedars-Sinai and contributes to
      the growing body of research focusing on novel technologies for cancer prevention and
      control, as well as translational studies on alcoholic gastrointestinal diseases.
    
  