
    
      The lifetime risk of undergoing surgical intervention for pelvic organ prolapse (POP) is
      estimated to be 10% and it is projected that from 2010 to 2050, the number of surgeries for
      POP will rise by 47.2%, from 166,000 to 245,970. In 1980, accounting for the rising costs of
      health care, congress approved Medicare to reimburse procedures performed at outpatient and
      ambulatory surgery centers. This led to an increasing number of stress incontinence (SUI)
      procedures being performed in the ambulatory setting from 34,968 in 1996 to 105,656 in 2006.
      However, the number of ambulatory POP surgeries decreased in the same time period. This was
      possibly due to the increase in the mean age of women undergoing ambulatory procedures for
      POP and SUI during that time periods.

      At the investigator's institution has performed outpatient surgeries for POP and SUI for the
      past 3 years. Patients have tolerated same day surgery with minimal complications. In the
      investigator's previous prospective study assessing satisfaction after outpatient surgeries
      for POP and SUI, patients had a decreased quality of recovery at 48 hours compared to
      baseline. The investigators also recognized that nausea and pain control could have been
      better addressed. Unpleasant postoperative nausea and vomiting, pain control, return to
      normal voiding and return of bowel function can influence the quality of recovery (QOR) from
      surgery.

      Postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) and pain management are particularly troubling for
      the patients. This might also delay discharge and prolong convalescence from the surgery.

      Several safe interventions have been assessed in the literature for alleviating PONV, pain
      and recovery from laparoscopic gynecologic surgery.

      Dexamethasone is a potent corticosteroid that has been widely used for chemotherapy induced
      nausea and vomiting. The mechanism of action is not completely understood. It has been
      proposed that a single dose may hamper the production and release of anti-inflammatory
      mediators, thereby decreasing postoperative nausea, emesis, pain perception and Dexamethasone
      also has a central antiemetic effect by inhibition of prostaglandin and/or release of
      endogenous opioids. A recent metanalysis concluded that Dexamethasone administration at
      induction is safe.

      Pauls et al in their recent study randomized patients undergoing vaginal prolapse surgery to
      receive Dexamethasone and noted a decrease in PONV and reduced requirement of a rescue
      antiemetic. Their model involved patients with overnight stay and the results may not be
      applicable to our population. They also noted that women who received Dexamethasone
      preoperatively were more likely to pass the voiding trial.
    
  