
    
      Pertussis, "whooping cough", caused by the gram negative pleomorphic bacillus, Bordetella
      pertussis, is a highly contagious, potentially life-threatening respiratory illness that has
      re-emerged in the United States (US) as a cause of morbidity and mortality in infants less
      than 6 months of age as well as morbidity in adolescents and adults. Tetanus toxoid, reduced
      diphtheria toxoid and acellular pertussis vaccine adsorbed (Tdap) immunization of women in
      the third trimester of pregnancy represents an opportunity to protect the vulnerable very
      young infants through passively acquired maternal pertussis specific antibodies. Tdap vaccine
      is being evaluated for this purpose since there is no monovalent acellular pertussis (aP)
      vaccine available in the U.S. This is a multi-site, randomized, double masked, cross-over
      study in 48 healthy pregnant women, 18-45 years of age who will be randomized (2:1) into two
      groups. One group will receive a single dose of Tdap vaccine at 30-32 weeks of gestation and
      a postpartum dose of saline. The other group will receive saline at 30-32 weeks of gestation
      and a postpartum dose of Tdap vaccine. On May 30, 2008 the Advisory Committee on Immunization
      Practices (ACIP) issued a recommendation for use of Tdap in pregnant and postpartum women:
      "Pregnant women (including women who are breastfeeding) who have not received a dose of Tdap
      previously should receive Tdap after delivery and before discharge from the hospital or
      birthing center if 2 years or more have elapsed since the most recent administration of Td."
      This study design provides a control for the evaluation of the safety of Tdap vaccine
      administered during pregnancy and provides compliance with the ACIP recommendation. Immune
      responses to Tdap vaccine measured in antepartum and postpartum women enrolled in this
      clinical trial will be compared. Also, immune responses of the 32 pregnant women antenatally
      immunized with Tdap will be compared to those in approximately 32 healthy non-pregnant women
      contemporaneously enrolled into 2 age groups (18-39 years and 40-45 years) that are equal to
      the pregnant women. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety of Tdap vaccine in
      pregnant women and their neonates and the effect of maternal immunization on the infant
      immune response to DTaP vaccinations. The safety of and immune response to Tdap vaccine in
      the 32 pregnant women immunized antenatally will be compared to that in approximately 32
      non-pregnant women enrolled contemporaneously. The primary objectives of this phase I study
      are: to evaluate the safety of a single 0.5 mL intramuscular injection of Tdap vaccine in
      healthy pregnant women vaccinated at 30-32 weeks of gestation compared to women immunized
      postpartum and a non-pregnant control group; and to evaluate the safety of maternal Tdap
      immunization in neonates. Secondary objectives are: to assess the immunogenicity of Tdap
      vaccine in healthy pregnant women compared to women immunized postpartum and a non-pregnant
      control group; to determine the efficiency of placental transport of maternal pertussis
      specific antibodies to the neonate; to assess the persistence of the maternal pertussis
      specific antibodies in infants just prior to receiving the first dose of DTaP [Diphtheria and
      Tetanus Toxoids and Acellular Pertussis Adsorbed, Inactivated Poliovirus and Haemophilus b
      Conjugate (Tetanus Toxoid Conjugate] vaccine for infants); and to assess the effects of
      maternal immunization with Tdap vaccine on infant immune responses to DTaP vaccinations.
      Study duration will be approximately 3 years. Subject participation will be approximately 15
      months (for each mother-infant pair) and 7 months for non-pregnan
    
  