
    
      This randomized controlled trial will be conducted and VCU medical center comparing 2 types
      of suture: rapidly absorbing polyglactin 910 (Vicryl Rapide) and poliglecaprone 25 (Monocryl)
      for first and second-degree lacerations requiring suture repair. Patients will be enrolled in
      the study immediately after vaginal delivery if a laceration occurs spontaneously. Patients
      will be randomized to one of the 2 sutures after enrollment.

      Randomization will be obtained via computer generation in consecutively numbered, opaque
      sealed envelopes with the name of one of the suture materials. The envelope will be opened at
      the time of repair of perineal laceration once inclusion criteria have been met by the
      physician or midwife performing the laceration repair. Repair with the chosen suture will be
      performed using the continuous suture technique using a 3-0 suture, which is current standard
      practice. Patients will not be informed of the type of suture used, although the type of
      suture will be recorded in the patient's electronic medical record. Various maternal and
      fetal characteristics will be recorded including maternal age, gravity and parity,
      gestational age at delivery, birth weight, mode of vaginal delivery (spontaneous or
      operative).

      Pain will be evaluated using a numeric pain scale at their 6 week postpartum visit and at 3
      months postpartum via a telephone interview. At 3 months postpartum they will also be asked
      the following questions - Have you resumed sexual intercourse(yes/no)? How long after
      delivery was it before you resumed intercourse? Did you have pain the first time after
      delivery (yes/no)? Do you have continued dyspareunia (1-10)? Do you have residual perineal
      pain unrelated to intercourse? How satisfied are you with your laceration repair (very
      unsatisfied -1, neutral-3, very satisfied- 5). They will also be administered a 6 question
      validated Female Sexual Function Index.
    
  