
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose of pemigatinib (INC054828) following standard of
      care induction chemotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess preliminary efficacy associated with study intervention. II. To assess the
      safety profile of the study intervention. III. To evaluate time-to- marrow recovery between
      cycles of pemigatinib.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess minimal residual disease (MRD) by fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH), reverse
      transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and/or next-generation sequencing of acute
      myeloid leukemia (AML) genetic abnormalities in bone marrow and blood.

      II. Quantify FGF2/FGFR immunohistochemical staining of marrow core biopsies and compare to
      historical controls at various timepoints.

      III. Assess ex vivo sensitivity of patient-derived mononuclear cells to pemigatinib with and
      without FGF2 supplementation.

      IV. Evaluate pemigatinib-induced changes in stromal expression using cultured bone marrow
      samples and compare to historical controls.

      V. Evaluate the impact of pemigatinib on the need for intravenous (IV) phosphate replacement
      after chemotherapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of pemigatinib.

      INDUCTION: Patients receive cytarabine IV on days 1-7, daunorubicin IV on days 1-3, and
      pemigatinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 8-21 in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients with hematologic count recovery (assessed between days 25-42)
      after induction proceed to consolidation therapy.

      CONSOLIDATION: Patients receive high dose cytarabine IV twice daily (BID) on days 1, 3, and
      5, and pemigatinib PO QD on days 8-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 cycles in
      the absence of disease progression of unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 24
      months.
    
  