
    
      Physical activity performed in the postprandial state has the ability to blunt postprandial
      glycemia acutely, even as a result of very light or small amounts of postprandial physical
      activity. Postprandial physical activity decreases postprandial glycemia more effectively
      than activity performed in the post-absorptive state. However, studies comparing postprandial
      and postabsorptive physical activity have measured glycemic outcomes in only short periods of
      time (hours) or have used a very large dose of physical activity.

      Physical activity have the ability to entail an acute increase in markers of systemic
      inflammation.Previous studies has also shown that systemic inflammation is increased during
      glycemic spikes, such as after a high carbohydrate load. Therefore the effect of postprandial
      physical activity is difficult to predict. One one hand it might increase markers of systemic
      inflammation. On the other hand it might decrease systemic inflammation as a result of a
      blunting effect on postprandial glycemia. The effect of physical activity after carbohydrate
      intake might therefore also differ from postabsorptive physical activity.

      Purpose of the study: I) The investigators hypothesized that light physical activity
      performed in the post-prandial sate decrease blood glucose in a day and night cycle compared
      to the same activity performed in the postabsorptive state and a control day. II) To test
      whether postabsorptive and postprandial light physical activity do affect markers of systemic
      inflammation different.

      12 participants diagnosed with hyperglycemia but not on hypoglycemic medication took part in
      a randomized cross-over trial with 3 test days. A control day with no physical activity, and
      two days similar to the control day except that one of them contained a one hour bout of
      treadmill walking prior to breakfast and the other a similar exercise bout after breakfast.
      Continuous glucose monitoring was performed from start of exercise / breakfast until the
      morning next day (at least 22 hours). Venous blood was also sampled at given timepoints
      (before exercise / before breakfast, and 1.5, 2.5, 3.5 and 24 hours after breakfast. Dietary
      intake was individually standardized prior to and during test days.
    
  