
    
      As part of participation, the subjects will attend up to 4 visits. During the visits the
      following testing may occur:

        -  Vital signs (heart rate, blood pressure), height and weight will be measured.

        -  Tests that assess your mobility and questions about physical function. These tests are
           listed below and will not be conducted in a particular order, and will take
           approximately 1.5 hours to complete.

             -  Walking tests,

             -  Tests of physical ability that include:

                  1. Standing up from chairs of different height

                  2. Lying on the floor and rising to a standing position

                  3. Kneeling on the floor and rising to standing position

                  4. Climbing a flight of stairs

                  5. Lift a weighted laundry basket and placing it on a shelf

             -  Muscle strength tests will be performed on the legs and arms.

             -  Questionnaires that address physical function.

             -  Muscle and nerve testing will be done.

             -  During the above testing, sensors will be worn on the forehead that use invisible
                light to indirectly measure blood flow and blood oxygen content of the brain. In
                addition, sensors may be worn the fingers that measure how the skin conducts
                electricity. A chest strap that measures heart beats will also be worn. These
                measures are safe and provide information about the nervous system responds to
                physical and/or mental challenges.

        -  Tests will be done that measure memory, attention, vocabulary, problem solving, and
           planning skills.

        -  A bone density and body composition measured (scanned) by the machine called DEXA. DEXA
           scans, like x-rays, are painless, and involve exposure to very small amounts of
           radiation.

        -  Images of the brain will be taken using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Magnetic
           resonance imaging (MRI) is a procedure that allows doctors to look inside the body by
           using a scanner that sends out a strong magnetic field and radio waves.

      All of these test are done for this study and will not be used to diagnose or treat any
      medical problems.

      The expected length of participation is approximately six hours total, over the course of 4
      separate visits.
    
  