
    
      Obese patients undergoing bariatric surgery, are at high risk for postoperative respiratory
      complications but predictive variables, risk factors and criteria for postoperative ICU
      admission are debated. In these patients, postoperative respiratory complications are related
      to various pathophysiological mechanisms that include: decreased lung volumes, respiratory
      muscle dysfunction and atelectasis. Very recently it has also been demonstrated a possible
      role of molecules that would mediate the fibro-adipogenic remodeling of the diaphragm in the
      obese, thus increasing the respiratory disability.

      Pulmonary atelectasis appears within minutes after anesthesia induction, complicate 85-90% of
      the cases -involving up to 15% of the lungs and inducing a 5 to 10% of cardiac output intra
      pulmonary shunting- and determine an increased incidence of postoperative morbidity (with
      higher incidence of pneumonia). Furthermore, in the perioperative period, obese patients are
      more likely to develop atelectasis that resolves more slowly than in non-obese patients.
      Surgical handling of sub diaphragmatic region, as during sleeve gastrectomy, can impair
      diaphragmatic excursions thus contributing to postoperative pulmonary dysfunction. The same
      upper abdominal surgery represents a risk factor for the development of pulmonary
      complications in the perioperative period and alteration of the respiratory function indices.

      Ultrasounds (US) imaging is a real-time, bedside, non-invasive technique that allows the
      quantitative evaluation of amplitude, force and velocity of diaphragmatic movement,
      including: diaphragmatic inspiratory amplitude (DIA) and diaphragmatic thickening. The US-DIA
      is a qualified quantitative approach to assess diaphragmatic function and has been reported
      to linearly correlate with vital capacity. Recent studies have also correlated diaphragmatic
      dysfunction, which reduces the ability to generate total current volume, with the onset of
      atelectasis, but in a very specialized and dedicated area such as thoracic surgery. The
      originality of the study lies in the fact that the investigators have translated this method
      of evaluation of diaphragmatic function, as a predictive index of pulmonary complications in
      postoperative surgery, into a highly selected and clinically demanding type of patient, such
      as the patient suffering from pathological obesity.

      Several guidelines have been created at European level for the perioperative management of
      the obese patient. One of the most recent is the one created by the Italian Society of
      Anaesthesia Analgesia Rianimazione e Terapia Intensiva (SIAARTI), which commissioned an
      "Obesity Task Force" of the Airway Management Study Group to coordinate a multidisciplinary
      multi-professional consensus project to identify bundles of Good Clinical Practices (GCPs),
      useful to define the risks in adult obese patients in hospital.

      In obese patients undergoing sleeve gastrectomy there are no conclusive criteria for
      discharge and indications to postoperative ICU admission, as recently defined for patients
      with OSAS, the investigators hypothesize that perioperative change in US-DIA predicts
      postoperative atelectasis, thus providing a clinically useful tool to stratify the need for
      higher intensity monitoring including ICU admission.
    
  