
    
      MRI is the preferred imaging modality for both acute and elective evaluation of many
      conditions. For example, for many diseases of the central nervous system, no other imaging
      modality provides the requisite soft tissue resolution to support critical care elements such
      as neurosurgical planning or assessment of intracranial malignancies.

      Historically, MRIs were considered contraindicated for patients with CIEDs including PMs and
      ICDs. However, studies have demonstrated very high utilization of MRIs among patients
      eligible for CIEDs. In many cases, alternative imaging is either insufficient or, as with
      CT-myelography, poses substantial risks or procedural hurdles that may be less favorable than
      the potential risks of an MRI.

      In recent years, a growing literature has suggested that MRIs can be performed safely in the
      setting of CIEDs if certain precautions are taken. Additionally, guidance documents have been
      released by professional societies including the American Heart Association (AHA) and the
      American College of Radiology (ACR) outlining recommended safety measures that can be taken
      to minimize risk and maximize benefit for patients in need of imaging. However, there are
      fewer data on performing MRIs in pacemaker-dependent patients with ICDs, who were excluded
      from the largest published study as well as the MagnaSafe Registry. Thus, demonstrating the
      safety and clinical utility of performing MRIs in this context is of high importance.

      In response to urgent clinical considerations, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center has
      established a clinical protocol to provide safe MRIs in cases of compelling clinical
      indications, with close supervision and oversight from Radiology and Cardiac
      Electrophysiology staff. Thus, the investigators now propose a prospective study to evaluate
      safety and clinical outcomes for patients treated under this clinical protocol.

      Specifically, this study proposes to perform a prospective clinical trial in patients with
      CIEDs that have a clinical need for MRI as outpatients to determine:

        1. Safety according to the incidence rates of acute major and minor adverse events
           according to pre-specified definitions.

        2. Clinical outcomes and scan utility affecting patients' survival and quality of life and
           treatment, including acute and longitudinal changes in device parameters, the need for
           system revision, and proportion of MRI findings influencing clinical management
           including medical or surgical interventions, and diagnostic or prognostic changes.
    
  