
    
      Dr. Nancy Lane and colleagues at the University of California, Davis and University of
      California, San Francisco will be conducting this 2-year study of human parathyroid hormone
      (rhPTH 1-34) alone, and rhPTH (1-34) with risedronate compared to risedronate alone in men
      and women with osteopenia on chronic low dose glucocorticoids (GC). This is an
      investigator-initiated study funded by Aventis Pharmaceuticals.

      The study will be divided into 2 phases. All study subjects will receive supplemental calcium
      citrate and Vitamin D during the 2-year study. In year one subjects will be randomly assigned
      to receive PTH (subcutaneously daily) or placebo and risedronate tablets or placebo. In year
      two, PTH will be stopped and subjects in group 1 will be re-randomized to receive risedronate
      tablets or placebo. Subjects in group 2 and 3 will continue on risedronate tablets.

      In year one of the study, subjects were randomly assigned to one of the following treatment
      groups.

        1. Group 1: rhPTH (1-34) (20ug subcutaneously daily) + riesdronate placebo tablets

        2. Group 2: rhPTh (1-34) (20ug subcutaneously daily) + risedronate tablets (35mg/wk)

        3. Group 3: rhPTh placebo (subcutaneous injections of normal saline) + risedronate tablets
           (35mg/wk)

      In year two of the study, beginning at the 12 month timepoint

        1. Group 1 subjects were re-randomized to either:

           Group 1a: risedronate (35mg/wk) or Group 1b: risedronate placebo

        2. Group 2 subjects continued risedronate (35mg/wk)

        3. Group 3 subjects continued risedronate (35mg/wk)

      Potential study subjects will have dual x-ray absorptiometry measurements (DEXA) of the spine
      and hip at the screening visit. Those study subjects who meet the inclusion criteria will be
      invited back for a baseline visit.

      DEXA scans of the spine, hip, and forearm will be done at Baseline visit, 6-month, 12-month,
      18-month, and 24-month follow-up visits. DEXA scan of the spine, hip, and forearm takes
      approximately 20 minutes to complete. To assess incident vertebral and non-vertebral
      fractures, lateral thoracic and lumbar spine evaluation using Instant Vertebral Assessment
      [IVA] will be done at Baseline, 12-month, and 24-month follow-up visits.

      The specific aims of the study are as follows:

        1. To determine if changes in bone mineral density in the spine and hip caused by 1 year of
           treatment with rhPTH (1-34) alone then followed by risedronate or rhPTH (1-34) with
           risedronate are greater than PTH placebo and risedronate in patients with GIO who are
           taking calcium, MVIs and chronic low doses of glucocorticoids.

        2. To determine if risedronate will preserve the high bone mass state created by 1 year of
           rhPTH (1-34) treatment.

        3. To determine the association of biochemical markers of bone turnover with rhPTH (1-34)
           and risedronate both during and after treatment.

        4. To compare, as possible, the fracture incidence between the rhPTH (1-34) alone followed
           by risedronate, and rhPTH (1-34) with risedronate compared to risedronate + placebo
           groups.
    
  