
    
      The survival benefit provided by implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) for primary
      prevention of sudden cardiac death in heart failure compared to medical treatment alone is
      well established. First limited to the most severe patients, the indications have gradually
      been extended in accordance with the results of more recent studies. This beneficial effect
      in terms of public health is accompanied by an increase in health spending which threatens to
      grow strongly at short and medium term. However, the majority of ICDs implanted will not be
      solicited because of the overall low incidence of severe ventricular arrhythmias in the
      population meeting the implantation criteria. To optimize our resources, it is therefore
      important to better assess the risk of sudden death in those patients candidates for ICD
      implantation.

      The overactivation of NEURO-humoral systems plays an important role in the progression of
      heart failure, and in the occurrence of ventricular arrhythmias. The iodine-123
      meta-iodobenzylguanidine scintigraphy (MIBG), is a functional imaging method that can
      noninvasively evaluate cardiac sympathetic innervation. It has been shown that cardiac
      adrenergic hyperactivation estimated by MIBG scintigraphy was associated with a poor outcome,
      and that its value was independent and superior to other prognostic factors in heart failure.
      More importantly, the risk of occurrence of major cardiac events is minimal when the cardiac
      uptake of MIBG is high. Furthermore, plasma natriuretic peptides (particularly BNP and
      NT-proBNP), which are other indicators of the NEURO-hormonal activation used in the diagnosis
      and assessment of prognosis in heart failure, are predictive of the risk of occurrence of
      sudden death in the same population. In summary, the MIBG scintigraphy and NT-proBNP are two
      prognostic markers in heart failure related to the degree of NEURO-hormonal dysfunction, and
      have a good negative predictive value of mortality. Their combined use could therefore help
      identify patients at low risk of severe arrhythmias.These tests are not currently part of
      heart failure diagnosis in patients who are candidates for ICD implantation.
    
  