
    
      Despite the wide range of contraceptive technologies currently available the rate of
      unintended pregnancies in the U.S. remains high. In particular, adolescents, unmarried, low
      income, and minority women are amongst the highest risk populations for unintended pregnancy
      . Improving contraceptive use is critical for addressing this problem. Many programs have
      been developed and implemented to reduce sexual risk-taking behavior, one of the precursors
      to unintended pregnancies. Unfortunately, most of them have met with mixed results. Gaining
      insight into contraceptive practice and sexual behavior in this population is the first step
      towards improving contraceptive use. Many other disciplines have successfully used the
      internet for purposes of research (ie. asthma management, smoking cessation,etc), but this
      use of the internet has not been explored with adolescent women.

      The study we are proposing is a randomized control trial to evaluate the use of internet
      technology in communicating with adolescent women about contraceptive practice. This study is
      a sub-study within an ongoing 12-month, longitudinal observational study of a cohort of
      "high-risk" women and their contraceptive practices and sexual behavior. Our hypothesis is
      that women who have access to the internet are more likely to complete follow-up surveys
      while enrolled in this longitudinal study, thus enabling us to obtain a greater understanding
      about contraceptive practice within this population via the internet. Furthermore, if
      internet proves to be a more effective means of communicating with adolescents because of the
      potential convenience and privacy of the method we may increase our impact on contraceptive
      use by embracing internet technology in the future.

      Participants with internet access within the larger study will be identified and entered into
      a sub-study and randomized to either in clinic follow-up surveys or remote access completion
      of surveys via email over the internet. All participants will undergo the same screening,
      consent, and entry criteria for the study.
    
  