
    
      Patients entering the study will be evaluated by the investigator for all inclusion and
      exclusion criteria. Once inclusion and exclusion criteria have been determined, all subjects
      will sign an Internal Review Board (IRB)/Independent Ethics Committee (IEC) approved consent
      document, which complies with regulatory requirements, prior to any study activities.
      Subjects will be given adequate time to read and consider the consent document and all study
      information. They will have the opportunity to ask questions of the investigator(s) and the
      study team about the study, as well as risks and benefits, prior to signing the document.

      Baseline Visit

      Baseline assessments will be collected from the clinical care record from the standard of
      care visit(s) done most prior to the subject receiving their first dose of biologic All
      assessments will be done/collected prior to the subject's first does of biologic. The
      baseline visit will consist of the following:

        -  Demographic information: Date of birth, gender, and race will be collected.

        -  Clinical assessment: These assessments will be done by the study team prior to the
           subject receiving the first dose of vedolizumab.

        -  Physical Exam Findings: Physical exam findings will be taken from the patient's clinical
           care record from the standard of care visit most recently preceding the initial dose of
           vedolizumab. If this data is not available from the visit, the information will be
           obtained from the subject during a separate visit to the clinic by the study team, and
           prior to the first dose of vedolizumab.

        -  Blood Tests (C-reactive, Albumin, Hematocrit, SOMAscan panel

        -  Stool Collection: At the time of consent, participants will be provided a stool
           collection kit and asked to collect a small amount of stool when they have a bowel
           movement, prior to their first dose of biologic, for genetic, microbiome, or biomarker
           analysis. If the patient is unable to provide a stool sample, permission may be asked to
           obtain a rectal swab, or a sample collection kit will be mailed to them and asked to
           mail the stool sample back to us in a prepaid envelope. If the patient is in the
           hospital and tests have been ordered on their stool, stool may be collected from what is
           left over after the tests have been completed. The stool will be assigned a unique
           specimen code. The messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) in the stool would be extracted and
           the genetic expression profile of this sample would be determined. All participants
           consent to having details from their medical records (age, ethnicity, medications,
           surgery, tobacco use, family history, disease activity, disease history) at the
           Washington University Medical Center (WUSM), and entered into a database associated with
           a patient code. If the patient's records do not include all relevant information, a
           study team member may obtain this information directly from the patient.

      The specimen(s) will not have the participant name or address on it; it will be labeled with
      a code in order to protect the patient's health information and identity. The specimen(s)
      will be stored in locked freezers in a locked laboratory at WUSM. All coded specimens will be
      linked to study participants on a separate master list, which will be stored in a locked
      cabinet (the study coordinators have the only key) or a password protected file. This
      information will be kept separate from the clinical data.

        -  Endoscopic Assessment: A baseline ileocolonoscopy may be additionally performed as
           standard of care at the discretion of the treating gastroenterologist to confirm active
           SBCD, either before or after the MRE. Subjects will undergo standard bowel preparation
           at the discretion of the treating gastroenterologist prior to ileocolonoscopy. If
           treatment was required after the ileocolonoscopy, treatment will not be initiated until
           after the baseline MRE is completed. Subjects who have had endoscopic assessment with
           biopsies from the ileum confirming small bowel Crohn's disease as a part of their
           standard of care treatment in the six (6) months prior to study enrollment may be used
           for the baseline study assessment, at the investigator's discretion. If a more recent
           endoscopic assessment is done with this reporting, the more recent assessment will be
           used.

        -  Radiological Assessment: Radiological assessment will be performed on all patients as a
           part of their clinical standard of care prior to initiating vedolizumab. Clinical read
           will be evaluated using the assessment tool in Appendix B and guidance from Appendix A.

      Week 6 Visit (+/- 1 week)

      Week 6 Visit assessment will be done 6 weeks (+/- 1 week) after initiating biologic as a part
      of clinical standard of care treatment as described in this protocol. The visit will consist
      of the following:

        -  Clinical assessment:

        -  Blood Tests (C-reactive, Albumin, Hematocrit, SOMAscan panel Week 14 Visit (+/- 2 weeks)

      Week 14 Visit assessment will be done 14 weeks (+/- 2 weeks) after initiating biologic as a
      part of clinical standard of care treatment as described in this protocol. The visit will
      consist of the following:

        -  Clinical assessment:

        -  Physical Exam Findings: Physical exam findings will be taken from the patient's clinical
           care record from the most recent standard of care visit. If this data is not available
           from the visit, the information will be obtained from the subject during a separate
           visit to the clinic by the study team.

        -  Blood Tests (C-reactive, Albumin, Hematocrit, SOMAscan panel

        -  Stool Collection: As above referenced in the Baseline Visit.

        -  Radiological Assessment:

      Phone Visit The Phone Visit assessment will be done at week 26 and 40.

      - Clinical assessment: Week 52 Visit (+/- 4 weeks)

      Week 52 assessments will be done 52 weeks (+/- 4 weeks) after initiating biologic as a part
      of clinical standard of care treatment as described in this protocol. The visit will consist
      of the following:

        -  Clinical assessment:

        -  Physical Exam Findings: Physical exam findings will be taken from the patient's clinical
           care record from the most recent standard of care visit. If this data is not available
           from the visit, the information will be obtained from the subject during a separate
           visit to the clinic by the study team.

        -  Blood Tests:

        -  Radiological Assessment: Radiological assessment will be performed on all patients as a
           part of their clinical standard of care. Clinical read will be evaluated using the
           assessment tool in Appendix B and guidance from Appendix A.

        -  Optional Endoscopic Assessment: Subjects can have additional endoscopic assessment as a
           part of their standard of care treatment, and this report may be used for the study
           assessment.

        -  Disease Progression Assessment: In order to assess the Disease Progression endpoint the
           following will be assessed for the time point between the Week 16 Visit MRE and the Week
           52 Visit MRE:

             -  Any hospitalization for disease flare or complications of the disease

             -  Need for surgery related to CD

             -  Need for rescue corticosteroids The treating gastroenterologists will be blinded to
                the results of radiological TR although they will have access to the clinical read
                in the electronic medical record.
    
  