
    
      Surgical conditions in laparoscopic surgery are largely determined by the degree of
      neuromuscular relaxation during surgery. Especially in procedures which are confined to a
      narrow working field such as renal and prostatic laparoscopic surgery, deep neuromuscular
      relaxation may be beneficial. Until recently however, deep neuromuscular block (1-2 twitches
      post tetanic count) came at the expense of a variety of items that conflicted with its use.
      Occurrence of postoperative residual neuromuscular blockade after deep neuromuscular block
      was a common adverse event. Residual neuromuscular block is a risk factor for developing
      airway obstruction and pulmonary complications such pneumonia and atelectasis. The use of
      acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, like neostigmine, as a traditional neuromuscular blocking
      reversal agent, have a slow onset of action. Side effects due to muscarine receptor
      stimulation are bradycardia, hypersalivation, nausea and vomiting. Coadministration of a
      muscarine agonist like atropine is often necessary to address the heart rate-related side
      effects of neostigmine. Atropine, however, in itself may induce other side effects.

      Rapid, safe and complete reversal of neuromuscular blockade was not possible until the
      discovery of Sugammadex. Sugammadex is a modified y-cyclodextrin. It was developed to
      selectively bind free plasma rocuronium, a non-depolarizing steroidal neuromuscular blocking
      agent. By binding free rocuronium, less rocuronium becomes available at the neuromuscular
      junction to bind to the muscarine receptor. Non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents
      (NMBA's) block the muscarine receptor at the neuromuscular junction, making them unavailable
      to acetylcholine based signal transmission. Sugammadex has proven to rapidly and safely
      reverse rocuronium and vecuronium. Even high dose rocuronium (1.2 mg/kg and continuous
      rocuronium infusion used to achieve deep neuromuscular blockade can safely be reversed by
      Sugammadex.

      Theoretically, the availability of Sugammadex makes it possible to use deep neuromuscular
      block (DNB) during surgery to improve surgical conditions without the occurrence of the
      above-mentioned adverse events. The use of DNB to improve surgical conditions, however, has
      not yet been evaluated. The investigators therefore aim to investigate the use of rocuronium
      induced-DNB in renal and prostatic laparoscopic surgery. Current anesthesiologic practice
      during these procedures in the LUMC consists of an intravenous (propofol) or volatile
      (sevoflurane) anesthetic combined with mivacurium and atracurium to achieve a moderately deep
      neuromuscular block (0-2 twitches TOF). Reversal of NMB is by the neostigmine atropine
      combination. In the current study the investigators will assess the effect of a DNB (1-2
      twitches post tetanic count) using a continuous rocuronium infusion on surgical conditions.
      After surgery Sugammadex 4 mg/kg will be used to safely and rapidly reverse the neuromuscular
      blockade within 5-min.

      The main end-point of the study is the effect of the deep block on the surgical conditions.
      The investigators will study these conditions using two methods. (1) Assessment of the
      surgical condition by the operating surgeon (all surgeries will be performed by one surgeon),
      using a 5-point rating surgical rating scale from 1 (= extremely poor surgical condition) to
      5 = optimal surgical condition. (2) Video images, used by the surgeon to perform the surgery,
      will be rated by a team of surgical and non-surgical experts. Apart from the additional
      scoring data, this approach allows for the validation of the surgical rating scale.

      Minor end-points of the study are (1) measurement of hemodynamics during surgery using a
      non-invasive cardiac output and blood pressure device. Assuming that intra-abdominal pressure
      will affect the venous return and hence cardiac output during surgery, a deep neuromuscular
      block might affect the hemodynamic parameters positively; (2) measurement of respiration,
      pain, and alertness in the recovery room to assess whether reversal with Sugammadex
      influences these parameters positively compared to neostigmine/atropine reversal.
    
  