
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is not an exclusively motor disease; more than half of individuals
      with PD experience cognitive impairment even in the early stages of the disease and many
      develop dementia as the disease progresses. As a result, attention, memory, planning and
      organizational skills can be affected, interfering with everyday functioning (e.g. shopping,
      managing finances, job skills). Thus, interventions to improve cognitive abilities are needed
      to enhance psychosocial function and overall quality of life.

      Some cognitive deficits, such as problems with working memory, are apparent even in the early
      stages of the disease. Working memory (WM) is the ability to actively maintain and manipulate
      information in one's mind and is needed for many complex tasks such as learning,
      communication and problem-solving . Individuals with PD often show deficits in both WM
      maintenance (e.g., holding a phone number in mind to make a call) and manipulation
      (e.g.,mental calculation at the grocery store checkout) skills, depending upon the stage of
      the disease and progression of damage to frontal-subcortical circuits. Attempts to identify
      pharmacological agents that ameliorate cognitive dysfunction have been largely unsuccessful
      or associated with undesirable side effects (e.g. Vale, 2009).

      The investigators propose that specific cognitive training to improve WM could provide direct
      benefit to psychosocial function of PD patients; it could potentially enhance any positive
      benefits or reduce the negative effects of pharmacological treatment without an added risk of
      side effects as well. Promising interventions focused on intensive and direct WM training are
      emerging and have been shown to generalize to other cognitive domains, such as fluid
      intelligence.

      Cognitive training has been successful in patients with traumatic brain injury, who also show
      WM deficits as a result of damage to frontal-subcortical circuits. In addition, successful WM
      training is associated with changes in dopamine receptor density as well as changes in
      patterns of neural activity in task-relevant areas of the brain. To date, a limited number of
      small group studies provide preliminary evidence that some aspects of cognitive function can
      be enhanced by training in PD patients also receiving dopaminergic therapy, although few use
      control groups to account for potential repeated testing practice effects.
    
  