
    
      The two stages of this pilot study consist of the following: single or double-dose platelet
      apheresis collection, pathogen inactivation with INTERCEPT treatment, storage for 7 days,
      collection of fresh platelets, radiolabeling, infusion of fresh and stored INTERCEPT treated
      radiolabeled autologous platelets, and collection of blood samples for assessment of platelet
      recovery and survival (lifespan).

      In Stage A, apheresis platelets will be collected using the Amicus separator and stored for 7
      days in 35% Plasma and 65% InterSol.

      In Stage B, apheresis platelets will be collected using the Trima separator and stored for 7
      days in 100% plasma.

      Procedures for both stages will be as follows: On Day 0, each healthy volunteer subject has
      apheresis platelets collected. INTERCEPT treatment will begin on either the day of donation
      (Day 0) or before the end of the day following donation (Day 1). Platelets will then be
      stored for 7 days after collection (Day 7). Aliquots for in vitro platelet function will be
      taken on Day 0/1 after INTERCEPT treatment and Day 7. An aliquot for bacterial detection will
      be taken on Day 5.

      On Day 7, healthy volunteers will return to the laboratory, and 43 mL of blood will be drawn
      into a syringe containing 9 mL of Anticoagulant Citrate Dextrose Solution, Formula A (ACD-A).
      Fresh platelets will be prepared from this sample. An aliquot (10-20 mL) of the stored
      (INTERCEPT treated) platelets will be aseptically removed from each subject's test container.
      Previously stored (Test) and fresh (Control) platelets will be radiolabeled according to
      randomization assignment with either 51Cr (≤20 μCi) as sodium radiochromate (Na251CrO4), or
      111In (≤15 μCi) as indium oxine, following the labeling and washing procedures outlined by
      the Biomedical Excellence for Safer Transfusion (BEST) Collaborative. The isotope labels will
      be determined by a random number table such that equal numbers of fresh and stored (INTERCEPT
      treated) platelets will be labeled with each isotope. Aliquots of the fresh and stored
      platelets will be radiolabeled in tubes with the standard techniques. After radiolabeling,
      the autologous fresh and stored platelets will be simultaneously infused into the subject
      (approximately 10-30 mL). Negative bacteria detection test and negative pregnancy test for
      females of childbearing potential are required before infusion.

      Blood samples for radioactivity measurements will be drawn at 0 (pre-infusion), 0.5, 1, and 2
      hours post-infusion, and then 6 more samples will be drawn 1, 2, 3, 4 (or 6), 7±1, and 10±1
      days post-infusion. In addition, when logistically feasible, an additional sample will be
      obtained 5 days post-infusion (optional).

      Radioactivity measurements Samples will be obtained from the radiolabeled fresh and stored
      platelets before infusion and used as a radioactive standard. By measuring the volume
      infused, the total dose of radioactivity infused will be calculated. In vitro elution of the
      label from the transfused platelets will be determined by two elution assessment methods, as
      well as the in vivo elution of radioactivity from the serial blood samples obtained
      post-infusion of the labeled platelets.

      The standard as well as the subject's whole-blood samples will be corrected for elution and
      also for the residual activity in the cellular fraction on Day 8. The first four data points
      post-infusion will be used to calculate in vivo recoveries and survivals after all
      radioactive corrections have been made. The radioactivity of the samples will be determined
      by use of a gamma counter. A multiple-hit model, with a computerized program "COST," will be
      used to estimate the recovery and survival of the radioactively labeled platelets.
    
  