
    
      According to the Global cancer observatory database (Globocan) estimates, there are 447,136
      new cases of Colo-Rectal Cancer (CRC) in Europe annually. This makes CRC the 2nd most common
      cancer in Europe, accounting for 13.0% of all cancers in 2012 with an estimate of 214,866
      deaths from CRC in Europe (12.2% of the total number of cancer deaths, 2nd most common cause
      of cancer related deaths). In LIMA, the rectal cancer patient sub-group of CRC will be
      studied, comprising some 80,000 patients annually, as these patients are treated in
      neoadjuvant setting. Moreover, ineffective NeoAdjuvant Treatment (NAT) in rectal cancer
      patients will results in surgery with severe side effect, making stratification of patients
      according to their Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy (NAT) response a real challenge for this
      pathology.

      Cancer is a very heterogeneous disease characterized by high variability of response to
      therapy. In general, it is unknown which cancers will respond to a certain therapy and which
      will not. Overall trend is to come to less invasive and more personalized treatment.
      Personalized medicine for cancer patients aims to tailor the best treatment options for the
      individual at diagnosis and during treatment. This requires accurate patient stratification
      based on molecular profiling of the tumour and its heterogeneity, not only at the first
      diagnosis but during the whole treatment. Treatment of cancer is associated with significant
      comorbidity and reduced quality of life, especially when an organ like the rectum, would need
      to be surgically removed to increase chances of curation of the disease. But also
      side-effects of treatment are important to consider. In the past decade the use of NAT has
      emerged as an effective therapeutic approach to reduce tumour volume and aggressiveness prior
      to surgery, resulting in increased chances at curative resection and saving the organ and to
      test sensitivity of a tumour to a therapy that will be used in adjuvant setting following
      surgery. The development of drugs that target tumour driving signal transduction pathways
      provides a very effective set of new cancer drugs to choose from in the neoadjuvant or
      adjuvant setting. This is based however on the premise that the tumour driving pathway is
      accurately defined in the tumour tissue and the appropriate targeted drug is selected. Using
      these drugs requires a personalized approach with careful matching of patient to drug
      therapy. In the neoadjuvant setting this poses a challenge, since tumours can be heterogenic
      with respect to the tumour driving signalling pathways, especially when high grade and larger
      sized. In such a case, multiple biopsies would need to be taken to enable accurate
      characterization of the whole tumour. Unfortunately this is often not feasible, while recent
      insights suggest that resulting inflammation of the tumour microenvironment may contribute to
      a more aggressive behaviour of the cancer cells. Another challenge in neoadjuvant treatment
      is early assessment of therapy response, to enable timely switching to another, more
      effective therapy in case of a non-response. In addition, in the case of use of targeted
      drugs, emerging resistance can be a problem, which should be detected as soon as possible.
      Aim of this project is to improve monitoring of patients' response at the diagnosis and
      during neoadjuvant treatment, to stratify the good and poor responders to Neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy (NAT), earlier and better than is currently possible.

      The recently developed liquid biopsy technology (to obtain and characterize tumour cells and
      tumour components like Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) or Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) from a simple
      blood draw), in combination with advanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging techniques (MRI), can
      tackle the following problems: 1. Assessment of tumour heterogeneity from liquid biopsies. 2.
      Assessment from advanced MRI feature extraction to indicate poor outcome 3. Faster assessment
      of therapy response in NAT for rectal cancer; 4. Detection of emerging drug/therapy
      resistance. This project overall objective is to develop and validate technologies and tools
      to include liquid biopsies in the clinical workflow, aiming at introducing a more precise and
      dynamic genetic characterization of tumour at the diagnosis and during treatment phases.
    
  