
    
      Aims and objectives:

      The present proposal aims to improve the outcome from central nervous system infections (CNS)
      by improving the understanding of when and why patients develop hearing loss and other
      neurological sequelae. The investigators will elucidate the temporal development and
      restitution of a sensorineural hearing loss and will clarify if any therapeutic window
      exists, where sequelae can be limited.

      Also the investigators will investigate if communication between cochlea and cerebrospinal
      fluid is a window to the intracranial pressure.

      Background:

      CNS infections remain diseases with high mortality and morbidity. Among survivors from
      bacterial meningitis, 30 % suffer hearing loss or deafness arising from injury to the inner
      ear - the cochlea. From previous work it is known that brain inflammation, brain edema and
      subsequent pressure changes can be transduced to the inner ear due to communication between
      the cochlea and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF).

      The viability of cochlear hair cells can evaluated by non-invasive measurement of otoacoustic
      (OAE) emissions which are low-intensity sounds from the cochlea (OAE).

      Methods and materials:

      The investigators will perform repeated measurements of OAE and Wide Band tympanometry (WBT)
      in all patients admitted with suspicion of a CNS infection. OAE and WBT will be compared to
      intracranial pressure (ICP) measured during lumbar puncture as well as clinical-,
      biochemical- and imaging data. An age-matched control group will be included. At discharge
      and at follow-up patients will receive a neurological, vestibulare examination, cognitive
      test and a regular hearing test.

      Expected outcome and perspectives:

      From repeated measures during a course of disease, the investigators will elucidate the
      development of a hearing loss and clarify if any therapeutic window exists, where sequelae
      can be limited. This is also an opportunity to assess OAE as a non-invasive measure of
      intracranial pressure which is believed to be among the clinical complications responsible
      for a poor outcome.
    
  