
    
      Child development consists of several interdependent domains of sensory-motor,
      cognitive-language, and social-emotional function. Children's development is affected by
      psychosocial and biological factors through changes in brain structure and function, and
      behavioral changes. Experiences in the first few years of life are of particular importance
      because vital development occurs in all the domains during this period, and the interaction
      between early environments and genetics influences this development and human behavior. The
      brain growth occurs rapidly through neurogenesis, axonal and dendritic proliferation,
      synaptogenesis, cell death, synaptic pruning, myelination, and gliogenesis. Brain development
      can be modified by the quality of the environment. Independent animal research suggests that
      early under nutrition, iron-deficiency, environmental toxins, stress, and poor stimulation
      and social interaction can affect brain structure and function. In both humans and animals,
      variations in the quality of maternal care, a part of home environment, can yield changes in
      stress reactivity, anxiety, and memory function in the offspring. In later childhood the
      affected children will subsequently have lower levels of cognition and education. It is
      mentionable that remarkable recovery is often possible with early intervention through more
      nurturing environment with adequate stimulation, despite the vulnerability of the brain to
      early insult.

      Stunting, inadequate cognitive stimulation, iodine deficiency, and iron deficiency anemia are
      identified as key risk factors, where the need for intervention is urgent, that prevent
      millions of young children from fulfilling their developmental potential. In low-income and
      middle-income countries, 34% of children younger than 5 years have linear growth retardation
      or stunting resulted from poor nutrition often accelerated by infectious diseases. It is
      reported that patterns of growth retardation are identical across countries. Although the
      vacillation in growth starts in utero or in the first 12-18 months, continue to around 40
      months, but most children having stunting remain stunted through to adulthood. On the other
      hand, poverty and stunting are identified for indicators of poor development because the
      researchers represent different types of biological and psychosocial risks. Poverty is
      related to inadequate food, and poor sanitation and hygiene that increase infections and
      stunting in children. Poverty is also connected to poor maternal education, increased
      maternal stress and depression, and deficient stimulation in the home. All these factors
      deleteriously affect child development which, in turn, produces poor school achievement,
      which is further worsened by poor family support. Risk factors associated with poverty
      frequently happen together, and degree of development becomes lower with the number of risks
      factors. Deficits in child development are often occurred in infancy and increase further
      with age. Several longitudinal studies have found substantial association between
      socioeconomic status and parental wealth at birth, and cognitive attainment. Poverty and
      sociocultural background increase children's exposure to psychosocial risks that influence
      development through behavioral changes.

      Parenting factors like cognitive stimulation or learning opportunities facilitates early
      cognitive development. Several studies examined the effect of stimulation or intervention on
      children from developing countries, including children living in poverty, which strongly
      supports the importance of early cognitive intervention for facilitating better cognitive and
      non-cognitive outcomes. Research revealed three aspects of parenting associated to young
      children's cognitive and social-emotional competence: cognitive stimulation, caregiver
      sensitivity and responsiveness to the child, and caregiver affect (National Research Council
      and Institute of Medicine. Regarding maternal sensitivity and responsivity several researches
      reported that these factors are associated with more secure infant attachment and higher
      cognitive ability respectively. Appropriate caregiver-child interactions facilitate early
      social-emotional development and learning materials promote age-appropriate language and
      problem-solving skills. These factors discussed above are the part of maternal cognitive
      function which implies that there might be a link between factors evolved from maternal
      cognitive state and child development. Showed that maternal cognitive ability works as an
      important factor in progressing children's height, even after controlling for child's age and
      gender, parental age, mother's and father's years of schooling and mother's height.

      It is worth mentioning that substantial improvement in development is unlikely to be made
      without also increasing early learning opportunities, though there has been recent attention
      to the effect of nutrition on development. Non-US intervention studies showed that cognitive
      benefits were better in case of interventions having stimulation and education components
      compared with those involving nutrition or economic assistance only. In Bangladesh, research
      revealed that almost 60% children are exposed to risk of insufficient development caused by
      high prevalence of LBW (22%), stunting (41%), and poverty (43%), and lack of early
      stimulation due to low parental knowledge. Most of the data from developing countries
      including Bangladesh mainly focused on cognitive and motor outcome with less emphasis on
      maternal cognitive ability. This is why, in addition to the existing information, the
      investigators need to assess maternal cognitive ability and neurobehavioral development in
      order to prepare appropriate intervention particularly for disadvantaged children living in
      poverty in Bangladesh.

      It is clear from the previous studies on poor populations that disadvantaged children require
      not only good health, nutrition, and wealth but also supportive and caring environments at
      home and cognitive stimulation in order to achieve their developmental potential as in the
      case of Bangladesh. According to Lancet review, most disadvantaged children get the maximum
      benefit of intervention. Cognitive function of parents, especially mothers, is crucial for
      having the optimum outcome from intervention. However, little is known regarding the
      importance of mother's cognitive functioning influencing different domains of her young
      children's neurobehavioral developmental outcome mediated by parenting, particularly who are
      from disadvantageous community in Bangladesh, residing in poverty. The investigators know of
      no other study, however, that directly emphasizes maternal cognitive function on different
      domains of development of disadvantaged children in Bangladesh.

      The investigators, therefore, plan to examine the association of disadvantaged children's
      neurobehavioral development i.e., communication, motor skills, problem-solving, and
      personal-social skills and mother's cognitive function.

      Hypothesis: Mothers with better cognitive function will have children with better
      neurobehavioral development.

      Objectives: The specific objectives of the study are (a) to measure the maternal cognitive
      function, (b) to assess the neurobehavioral development of children.

      A total of 200 mother-child will participate in the study. Data will be collected by the
      researchers or his representatives. Age range of children will range from 12-42 months
      residing in the slum area located in the city of Dhaka.
    
  