
    
      New mobile Health (mHealth) technology creates an opportunity to approach travel medicine
      research in a different way, revolutionising our understanding of risks to travellers. Using
      mHealth technology, the Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Prevention Institute (EBPI),
      University of Zurich (UZH), developed a TRAVEL app in collaboration with the Eidgnössische
      Technische Hochschule (ETH) Zurich.

      By using this new technology, an extensive collection of data (prospective collection of
      individual travel behaviour and experienced health events, mapping the travel itinerary via
      global positioning system (GPS), linking to publicly available local weather data and data on
      disease endemicity) can be combined and an unprecedented abundance of information on travel
      behaviour and experienced risks can be obtained. These data will allow a much better
      understanding of travel risk profiles using cluster analysis. By simultaneously recording
      health outcomes, the relationship between travel risk profiles and health events can be
      assessed. In this study, the investigators will address several major shortcomings in travel
      health in tropical and subtropical destinations by improving the understanding of poorly
      assessed and potentially underestimated health threats (e.g. risk of accidents and injury,
      mental health disorders), and travel risks specific to elderly travellers and travellers with
      chronic conditions.

      1000 clients traveling to Thailand, China, India, Brazil, Peru or Tanzania will be recruited
      from the Travel Clinics in Zurich and Basel and through advertising at local travel agents
      and the universities of ETH and UZH from September 2017 until February 2019. After completing
      an intake at the clinic, participants will be given the option to use their own Smartphone
      for data collection, or to use a phone owned by the UZH-EBPI during travel. Participants will
      use a data collection app for questionnaire responses during and after travel including: a
      daily questionnaire on travel behaviors, daily symptoms questionnaire, and localization
      tracking, showing the participants' travel path and locations.
    
  