
    
      INTRODUCTION, BACKGROUND INFORMATION AND SCIENTIFIC RATIONALE

      Background Information: This open-label study involves evaluating tolerance and acceptability
      of the test ONS in 18 adult participants who are already taking an ONS. Following a 2-day
      baseline data collection on their current ONS, patients switch to the test ONS, which is
      taken for a further 8 consecutive days. Patients revert to their current ONS at the end of
      the study. Patients act as their own controls and thus all patients are allocated the same
      intervention.

      Rationale: Patient tolerance and acceptability is fundamental to the successful use of an
      ONS. Acceptability and tolerance studies for ONS are required by the Advisory Committee on
      Borderline Substances (ACBS) as part of a submission for a new product to be made available
      at NHS expense in the community.

      Potential Risks and Benefits

      Potential Risks: There are no anticipated risks to participants. Participants will already be
      taking other ONS as this is one of the inclusion criteria. Minimal inconvenience to
      participants is anticipated as they will be asked to complete a questionnaire on the
      product's acceptability. Daily records on the GI tolerance of the product will be recorded by
      participants or nursing staff. Most of the study documentation will be completed by the study
      staff.

      Potential Benefits: Participants may gain weight or maintain their weight during the
      intervention. In the future, if this product becomes available on prescription, a wider
      variety of ONS available to patients may lessen taste fatigue associated with taking the same
      supplements over an extended period.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES

      Primary study objective: The primary objective of the study is to assess gastrointestinal
      (GI) tolerance (bowel frequency and consistency using the Bristol Stool Chart, nausea,
      vomiting, abdominal discomfort, wind, burping, flatulence) to a Test Oral Nutrition
      Supplement (EnergieShake® 1.5 kcal Complete, a nutritional supplement, classified as a Food
      for Special Medical Purposes for the dietary management of disease-related malnutrition) in
      patients requiring ONS.

      Secondary study objective: The secondary objective is to assess acceptability of the product.

      STUDY DESIGN

      This study is an open-label, prospective, controlled intervention in which participants act
      as their own controls. Guidance from ACBS requires that acceptability and tolerance studies
      must normally be carried out on at least 18 patients in the intended target group for a
      period of 1 week. The design of this study has been based on the guidance provided by ACBS.

      STUDY ENROLLMENT AND WITHDRAWAL

      Strategies for Recruitment and Retention: Potentially suitable participants will be
      identified by staff at the site. Participants who may be suitable are those who are currently
      taking ONS and whose requirement for ONS is expected to continue for at least a further 2
      weeks. They will be approached by staff at the site and provided with a Participant
      Information Sheet and letter of invitation from the sponsor (Anaiah Healthcare Ltd). To
      ensure this process is free from undue influence, residents will not be coerced or offered
      inducements to participate.

      Subject Withdrawal

      Reasons for Withdrawal: Participants will have the choice of whether or not to withdraw from
      the study at any stage for any reason. Should the participant experience any adverse event or
      discomfort due to consuming the product, the participant will be advised to stop using the
      product.

      Handling of Subject Withdrawals or Subject Discontinuation of Study Intervention If the
      participant discontinues the study before the intervention is complete, their permission will
      be sought to use the data collected on the use of the product. A replacement of a participant
      who withdraws will be recruited to meet the requirement target that at least 18 patients
      provide data on the test ONS.
    
  