
    
      Cognitive functions and EEG correlates will be thoroughly assessed in schizophrenia patients
      undergoing a tDCS treatment and compared with patients receiving a placebo stimulation. The
      treatment will involve 20 minutes of tDCS application to the left prefrontal and
      temporo-parietal cortex, twice a day for five days, a procedure shown to be effective in
      improving other symptoms of psychosis such as negative symptoms and hallucinations.
      Critically, in addition to standard neuropsychological testing, cognitive assessments will
      involve tasks that tap cognitive control and working memory, impairments in which comprise
      two of the core cognitive disturbances in schizophrenia and which have been linked to brain
      rhythm disturbances measurable by EEG recordings. Investigators will also assess changes in
      functional outcome by tDCS and investigate relationships between improvements in cognition,
      brain rhythms and functional outcome. All these assessments will occur just prior to tDCS
      application, just after completion of the tDCS series, and then again at 2 months follow-up.
      There will be two separate independent groups of patients who will be randomized to active
      versus sham treatments. The first group will have early course schizophrenia (less than 5
      years of antipsychotic treatment; n=40). The second group will be chronic schizophrenia
      (greater than 5 years of antipsychotic treatment; n=40).

      Relevance

      This proposal would be the first integrated study of the effects of tDCS on cognitive
      symptoms, brain function and functional outcome in schizophrenia. A positive outcome would
      represent a marked improvement in clinical therapeutics for cognition in psychosis and
      provide a powerful tool for improving functional outcome in this debilitating disorder.
      Understanding the impact on brain rhythm disturbances could support the study of similar
      stimulation-based therapeutic approaches to other neuropsychiatric disorders that shows
      similar disturbances in cognition and brain rhythms activity, such as bipolar disorder and
      autism.
    
  