
    
      1. Medical background: Pancreatic cysts are quite rare, but are being increasingly
           recognized due to the expanding use of cross-sectional imaging. They are classified into
           three main classes: pseudocysts, serous cysts and mucinous cystic neoplasms. Either
           intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN) or mucinous cyst adenomas / mucinous
           cystadenocarcinoma(MCN) Mucinous cystic neoplasms are considered to be malignant or
           pre-malignant and are considered for surgical resection, whereas pseudocysts and serous
           cysts are considered benign and with a low potential for malignancy. Pseudocysts and
           serous cysts are usually only considered for surgical resection when symptomatic or
           enlarging.

        2. Clinical background:

           2.1. Endoscopic Ultrasound (EUS) is the diagnostic method of choice when a pancreatic
           lesion is found incidentally on cross-sectional imaging. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided
           fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) is a procedure where a target tissue in proximity to
           the GI tract is biopsied using a fine needle guided in real time by an ultrasound probe
           fixed at the tip of an endoscope. It may therefore be applied to pancreatic lesions, or
           lymph nodes examination.

           2.2. The principle of needle-based Confocal Laser Endomicroscopy (nCLE) is to image
           organs within or adjacent to the GI tracts with a miniprobe inserted through an
           endoscopic needle. The fundamental technology as well as the principle of operation of
           nCLE are substantially similar to pCLE.

        3. Clinical evidence: Previous studies enabled to define interpretation criteria on the
           micro-structure of benign pancreatic cysts. Less data is available on malignant
           pancreatic cysts, except for a few images done in a pilot study of identification of
           pancreatic cystic neoplasms.

        4. Objectives:

           4.1 The primary objective of the study is to assess the diagnostic performance of the
           Cellvizio nCLE system in diagnosing pancreatic cysts, when associated with other
           diagnostic information.

           4.2 The secondary objectives are to assess the potential impact of the Cellvizio nCLE
           system on patient management and validate the interpretation classification criteria
           that were created during the previous studies.

        5. Design:

      This study will be conducted in a single center in China.
    
  