
    
      Background: Perinatal mortality in Eastern Uganda 2007/2008 was estimated to 41/1000
      pregnancies. The rate of stillbirth was 19/1000. In the whole of Uganda in 2008, neonatal
      deaths constituted 21% of an estimated 190,000 under five deaths, while HIV constituted only
      5%. Implementing a Helping Babies Breathe (HBB) program in one centre in Tanzania resulted in
      almost 40 % reduction of early neonatal mortality. Introducing a neonatal intervention
      package even reduced the rate of stillbirths. Birth asphyxia (BA) accounted for 60% of early
      neonatal deaths in Haydom Lutheran Hospital, Tanzania.

      The need for resuscitation is greater in the neonate than in any other age group. Providing
      effective positive pressure ventilation (PPV) is the single most important component of
      successful neonatal resuscitation (5). Ventilation is frequently initiated with face-mask
      ventilation (FMV) followed by endotracheal intubation (ETT) if depression continues. These
      techniques may be difficult to perform resulting in prolonged resuscitation. The laryngeal
      mask airway (LMA) may achieve initial ventilation and successful resuscitation faster than a
      face-mask device or ETT. Various publications and a Cochrane review has shown LMA to be as
      efficient as ETT. Important air leakage during FMV is an issue. LMA reduces the need for ETT.
      The latest generation of LMA is made of a medical-grade gel-like elastomer designed to
      provide an efficient seal to the larynx without an inflatable cuff. The risk for trauma is
      minimised. Insertion is easy with a low risk of tissue compression or dislodgement. In a
      study to evaluate educational intervention in the Democratic Republic of Congo, both
      physicians and midwifes showed a good level of expertise in LMA insertion on mannequins. Both
      groups almost unanimously manifested a high degree of approval of neonatal resuscitation with
      LMA.

      Objective: To compare the use of uncuffed LMA vs. FMV during neonatal resuscitation in Mulago
      Hospital, Kampala, Uganda.

      Study design, setting and population: A randomized clinical trial will be conducted in Mulago
      hospital among asphyxiated neonates in the delivery unit. Approximately 33000 babies are born
      in this hospital each year.

      Prior to the intervention all staff in the labour ward performing resuscitation will receive
      training according to the HBB curriculum with a special module for training on LMA insertion.

      A total of 50 neonates will be randomized into being resuscitated with FMV or LMA. A trained
      midwife under supervision of a paediatrician/anaesthesiologist will initiate the
      resuscitation. Data from the intervention will be recorded by a research assistant and by
      video. Resuscitation lasting more than 150 seconds will be handed over to the supervising
      physician. Resuscitation will be performed according to international guidelines.

      Utility of study: Findings from this study will determine if uncuffed LMA can improve outcome
      of asphyxiated newborn in a large delivery ward where resuscitation is performed by midwifes.
      Data will also show us whether uncuffed LMA is superior to FMV after a training course
      according to the 2010 Guidelines on Neonatal Resuscitation (AHA, European Resuscitation
      Council [ERC], ILCOR). The Millennium Development Goals 4 (MDG-4) aims for the reduction of
      child mortality by two thirds from 1990 to 2015. It is crucial to explore alternative,
      cost-effective modalities that not only would reduce mortality, but also the burden of
      neurological damage in survivors.
    
  