
    
      VAP is associated with higher mortality than any other nosocomial infection. Several
      non-infective conditions mimic VAP and significant infection is usually confirmed in less
      than 40% of suspected cases. No tests reliably exclude VAP at the point of clinical
      suspicion, and microbiological results typically return 3 days later. Consequently, while
      empirical broad-spectrum antibiotics are routinely administered, most patients with suspected
      VAP do not have pneumonia.

      Using cytometric bead array (CBA) technology, we have demonstrated that IL-1b in
      bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) can be used to exclude VAP in both a single centre
      derivation study and a multi-centre validation study. A combination of IL-1b and IL-8 can
      exclude VAP with a sensitivity of 100%, a specificity of 44.3% and a negative predictive
      value of 1.

      This randomised controlled trial will determine whether a biomarker-based recommendation on
      antibiotics (versus routine use of antibiotics) will improve antibiotic stewardship in
      suspected VAP.

      This study tests the hypothesis that a 'biomarker-guided recommendation on antibiotics' will
      improve antibiotic stewardship in patients with suspected VAP while maintaining equivalent
      patient outcomes.

      Recruitment for RCT will end when BAL has been performed on 210 patients. For regulatory
      purposes, the study will continue until follow up data is collected for the 210th patient.

      Safety measures will be made in relation to bronchoscopy and BAL and will include SaO2, heart
      rate, BP, PaO2:FiO2 before and after procedure. Adverse events considered related to
      antibiotics will also be recorded. SAE, as described below, will be recorded.

      Markers of inflammation will be measured in BALF and will include but not be limited to IL-1b
      and IL-8.

      Healthcare resource use will be estimated from the critical care length of stay (level 3 and
      level 2 care) and from hospital length of stay. Data will be collected from randomisation
      until hospital discharge or death, whichever occurs first, for a maximum of 56 days.

      The sample size is based on changes in the frequency distribution of AFD towards more
      patients having more AFD in the 7 days following BAL. Using models outlined in the Study
      Protocol as exemplars of different effect sizes, we would judge that effect sizes of 0.7 and
      above would represent an important clinical difference under biomarker-guided care. From this
      exploration, our power calculation was judged to balance detectable effect size against
      feasible recruitment, on which basis to detect an effect size of 0.0797, 90 patients are
      required per study arm. Allowing for a 15% drop out (from non-evaluable data in case of
      problems running biomarker assays etc), a total sample size of 210 patients are required.

      Data will be collected on the process of implementing the trial. In the situation that the
      patient has a biomarker result that excludes VAP but the ICU consultant does not follow the
      recommendation, the ICU consultant will be asked to complete a questionnaire to give
      information as to why the recommendation was not followed.

      Randomisation will be performed by a designated researcher trained in the use of the
      biomarker kit. The randomisation will be performed using a web-based randomisation service
      hosted by NCTU. Patients will be randomised to 'biomarker-guided recommendation for
      antibiotics' or 'routine use of antibiotics' in a 1:1 ratio with stratification by site.
      Permuted blocks of variable length will be used and not disclosed to investigators. On
      enrolment the research team will inform the researcher that a BAL is to be performed allowing
      the researcher to randomise the patient. Each patient will be assigned a unique
      identification number that the technician will enter into the randomisation system. The
      patient will then be allocated to either study arm in accordance to the randomisation
      schedule. The online randomisation service will instruct the researcher to either 'ANALYSE
      THE SAMPLE ON ARRIVAL' (ie. the 'biomarker-guided recommendation on antibiotics' group) or
      'DO NOT ANALYSE THE SAMPLE ON ARRIVAL' (ie. 'Routine use of antibiotics' group). The
      randomisation service will automatically confirm randomisation details to the NCTU by email
      and the researcher will also send the BALF biomarker result to the NCTU using the unique
      identifier.

      Since all recruited patients will undergo the same study procedures the clinical team will
      initially be blind to the study arm. The researcher performs the randomisation and either
      processes the sample or does not. For the 6 hours that it takes to process the sample by CBA,
      the clinical team will be blinded to the study arm. Following this period the clinical team
      will be un-blinded by the researcher who will inform the clinical team of the biomarker
      result or that the biomarker test has not been performed.

      A within-trial cost analysis will be undertaken to assess the impact of biomarker-based
      guidance of VAP management on hospital resource use from the point of randomisation until
      hospital discharge or death, whichever occurs first, for a maximum of 56 days. Patient-level
      hospital resource use will be estimated from length of ICU stay and length of hospital stay.
      Mean hospital resource use and associated costs will be estimated for the intervention and
      standard care groups and compared. Multiple regression analyses will be performed to examine
      patient factors which are potentially associated with costs. Robustness of results will be
      evaluated using sensitivity analyses.

      Data received at NCTU will be processed as per the CTU SOPs, including entering the data into
      a secure central database. Responsibility for maintenance of the database will rest with the
      study manager.

      The trial will be managed through the Newcastle Clinical Trials Unit (NCTU). The Principal
      Investigators will be responsible for the day-to-day study conduct at site.

      NCTU will provide day-to-day support, provide trial training and routine monitoring visits.

      Quality control will be maintained through adherence to NCTU SOPs, study protocol, the
      principles of GCP, research governance and clinical trial regulations. An independent data
      monitoring and ethics committee (DMEC) will be convened to undertake independent review. The
      purpose of this committee will be to monitor efficacy and safety endpoints. Only the DMEC
      will have access to unblinded study data. The committee will meet at least 3 times, at the
      start, middle and completion of the study. At the first meeting, the DMEC will discuss and
      advise on the inclusion of an interim analysis and possible adoption of a formal stopping
      rule for efficacy or safety.

      A Trial Steering Committee (TSC) will be established to provide overall supervision of the
      trial. The committee will meet at baseline and at regular intervals during recruitment.

      Monitoring of study conduct and data collected will be performed by a combination of central
      review and site monitoring visits to ensure the study is conducted in accordance with GCP.
      Study site monitoring will be undertaken by NCTU. The main areas of focus will include
      consent, serious adverse events and essential documents in study files.

      All monitoring findings will be reported and followed-up with the appropriate persons in a
      timely manner.

      The study may be subject to inspections and audit by Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS
      Foundation Trust under their remit as sponsor, and other regulatory bodies to ensure
      adherence to GCP. The investigator(s)/institutions will permit trial-related monitoring,
      audits, REC review and regulatory inspection(s), providing direct access to source
      data/documents.
    
  