
    
      This is a three (3)-arm evaluation in 100 patients over 3 facilities with diabetic foot
      ulcers (DFU). Patients will be treated with NuShield or Affinity together with standard
      therapy or with standard care alone. For the purposes of this evaluation, standard therapy
      will consist of extensive debridement of nonviable tissue, saline-moistened non-occlusive
      dressing, off-loading to decrease pressure on extremity, aggressive treatment of infection
      and arterial revascularization if indicated. The patients will receive NuShield or Affinity
      plus standard therapy to determine optimal application method. The evaluation duration is 4
      weeks with 8-week and 12-week follow-up visits. Patients with diabetic neuropathic foot
      ulcers of at least 4 weeks duration and free of clinical signs of infection at the time of
      treatment may be eligible for inclusion. At Week -1, each patient will undergo aggressive,
      surgical debridement. The site should be free of fibrin, necrotic and callous tissue. Digital
      imaging and planimetery of the target ulcer will be performed pre- and post initial
      debridement and at each subsequent visit as per the evaluation schedule. This evaluation is
      designed to investigate the potential of an allogeneic placental-derived amniotic membrane to
      accelerate healing of lower extremity DFU when used in conjunction with standard therapy.
      This potential will be measured as an increase in the rate of healing (daily decrease in
      percent wound area/volume compared to initial debrided ulcer area/volume) of patients treated
      with NuShield or Affinity plus standard wound care compared to patients treated with standard
      good wound care alone. Studies by Margolis and co-workers have demonstrated that the use of
      this surrogate marker, measured at 4 and 8 weeks of care, is predictive (>70%) of wound
      healing in patients with DFU at the 20th week of care. [Kantor 1998; Margolis 2003] The
      secondary endpoint will be patients achieving complete closure (100%) by week 12.
    
  