
    
      Gaucher disease (GD) is an autosomal recessive hereditary lysosomal storage disorder.
      Occurrence of the disease is due to a hereditary deficiency of the Glucocerebrosidase, a
      lysosomal enzyme which divides Glucocerebroside into Glucose and Ceramides. The unmetabolised
      Glucocerebrosides are stored throughout the whole reticulo-endothelial system. Accumulation
      of Glycolipid-enriched macrophages establishes a pathoanatomical phenomenon, the so-called
      Gaucher cells, which can be verified by light microscopy of affected tissues. Activation
      markers of the macrophages, like the enzyme Chitotriosidase or CCL18, are parameters which
      follow the course of GD.

      Gaucher disease is the most frequently inherited Sphingolipidosis in the general population,
      and in Ashkenazi Jews, in who the prevalence is much higher (1:450). The gene which codes the
      Glucocerebrosidase is on the long arm of chromosome 1 and covers 11 exons. So far, more than
      200 different mutations in Gaucher patients have been described, mostly missense mutations.
      In addition, frame-shift- and splice-site-mutations have been detected, as well as insertions
      and deletions. More frequent mutations are N370S, L444P, IVS2+1G>A, c.84insG, R463C and
      R496H.

      The clinical appearance is heterogeneous. The classical phenotype is characterised by
      visceral organ (Hepatosplenomegaly) and skeleton system (Bone marrow infiltrates up to bone
      infarcts and pathological fractures) affection. Moreover, consecutive blood cell count
      changes, Anemia and Thrombocytopenia are reported.

      A serious distinction lies in the appearance of neurological manifestations (myoclonus
      epilepsy, hydrocephalus, ocular movement disturbances). There is discussion on whether the
      classification into the typical three disease types (type1: non-neuronopathic progress form,
      type2: acute neuronopathic progress form, type3: chronic neuronopathic progress form) is
      still up-to-date, since it does not sufficiently reflect the reality of the clinical
      presentation. A clear genotype-phenotype relationship does not exist. The same DNA mutations
      are detected in patients with pronounced differences in disease progression. The exception is
      the mutation N370S, which has so far been detected in connection with only visceral progress
      forms (type1). At least the outcome of the non-neuronopathic disorder cases could be improved
      by the introduction and general availability of enzyme therapy. Under this kind of therapy
      there is a reduction of liver and spleen size as well as a normalization of the haemogram
      parameters.

      New methods, like mass-spectrometry give a good chance to characterize specific metabolic
      alterations in the blood (plasma) of affected patients that allow to diagnose in the future
      the disease earlier, with a higher sensitivity and specificity. In a pilot study
      lyso-glycosylsphingosine has been determined as a sensitive and specific biomarker (see
      attached manuscript). This is a metabolic product likely to be involved in the
      pathophysiology of the disease. Therefore it is the goal of the study to validate this new
      biochemical marker from the blood of the affected patients helping to benefit other patients
      by an early diagnose and there-by with an earlier treatment.
    
  