
    
      Study Description

      Chronic pain is a major public health problem that is compounded by a number of
      health-related disparities. Low health literacy presents a notable access barrier to
      effective treatment as it produces cumulative education and communication deficits. Standard
      care employs biomedical approaches that are expensive, often invasive, and limited in
      accessibility and long-term effectiveness. Psychosocial treatments are efficacious, yet few
      psychosocial interventions have adequately addressed the significant health literacy barriers
      that exclude a substantial portion of disadvantaged individuals from the benefits of
      treatment.

      Research Questions:

        1. In individuals with chronic pain and low socioeconomic standing who are receiving care
           at a federally qualified health center in the Southern US, does participating in a
           health-literacy-adapted psychosocial treatment group improve their self-reported pain
           intensity and interference in physical functioning by the end of treatment when compared
           with a group receiving standard medical care, and are these effects maintained 6 months
           later?

        2. In these same individuals, does participation in the CBT pain management group improve
           depressive symptoms better than a pain education group by the end of treatment, and are
           these effects maintained 6 months later? The proposed study will build on researcher
           experience developing and evaluating psychosocial treatments for chronic pain in
           individuals with low socioeconomic standing (SES) and on strong partnerships with
           community health centers to evaluate two innovative, health-literacy-adapted
           psychosocial interventions for chronic pain. Both interventions integrate patient
           feedback, expert opinion, and qualitative patient data.

      DESIGN

      We propose a three-group, community-based randomized, controlled, comparative effectiveness
      trial. Participants will be patients receiving care from a federally qualified primary care
      clinic. Patients are expected to be mostly ethnic minority females living below the poverty
      line with significant unmet need for chronic pain treatment. Patients will be randomly
      assigned by group to a standard medical treatment control, a pain education group, or a
      cognitive-behavioral therapy group. Primary outcomes are patient-reported pain intensity,
      pain interference in physical functioning, and psychological symptoms, all highly relevant to
      patient-provider decision-making.

      Aims:

        1. Evaluate the feasibility, acceptability, and comparative effectiveness of health
           literacy-adapted psychosocial group treatments to a standard-treatment control.

        2. Evaluate the comparative effectiveness of treatment groups on depressive symptoms, and
           evaluate all outcomes for heterogeneity of treatment effects.

      STUDY IMPACT

        -  Systems: Produces a new, low-cost treatment option for community health clinics.

        -  Providers: Offers options for treatments over and above surgery and medication.

        -  Patients: Provides information to patients on the benefits of psychosocial treatment on
           outcomes that matter.
    
  