
    
      Prematurity is the first cause of perinatal mortality and morbidity worldwide. The threat of
      premature delivery (TPD), the most important complication and the leading cause of
      hospitalization during pregnancy has multiple origins which are seldom precisely identified.

      In Belgium and Europe, the estimated rate of premature births is about 10 %. This rate has
      been stable over the last two decades in spite of the introduction of new tocolytic
      treatments and the use of cervical length measurement by transvaginal ultrasound to assess
      the risk of preterm birth.

      The standard medical examination for the detection of patients with TPD is the endovaginal
      ultrasonographic examination of uterine cervix (echography). Ultrasound examination is more
      accurate and reproducible compared to cervical digital one, and it possesses two essential
      qualities of a diagnostic examination: it is easily accepted by the patients and the learning
      curve is fast.

      This technique is validated with well-known criteria, namely, the shortening of the effective
      length and the opening of the internal orifice of the cervix. The threshold for these two
      criteria depends on the practitioner's choice: at 30 mm effective length, the sensitivity and
      negative predictive values are high, but the specificity is poor, while the opposite is true
      if the threshold is set at 20 mm.

      Ultrasound examination for the identification of the patients at risk of premature delivery
      is a real improvement over cervical digital examination. However, this technique is not
      ideal, due to the lack of objective criteria for the choice of threshold, because of the
      imperfect correlation ("noise") between the measured effective length of uterine cervix and
      the time left before the birth. Moreover, the use of cervical ultrasonography in the strategy
      of premature delivery screening is not well established.Finally, the transvaginal ultrasound
      probes are not available in all perinatal centers that would be yet all concerned in case of
      preterm delivery.

      Gynaecologists focus on the use of a new low-cost diagnostic tool based on optical imaging
      technologies with polarized light. The polarization is the spatio-temporal orientation of a
      wave's electric field. This light property, invisible with the naked eye, is sensitive to the
      morphological transformations of a tissue and the orientation of collagen fibers. Such tool
      would not require an extensive training and should provide an objective quantitative result
      with a sensitivity and specificity greater than conventional ultrasonography. This would be a
      considerable contribution to the health care of TPD, a real societal problem in Belgium,
      Europe and all over the world.

      The POLARMAP project proposes the possibility to observe in vivo and during pregnancy, the
      structural evolution, the density and the orientation changes of collagen fibers.

      During the whole pregnancy and until its very end, the cervix is kept closed by abundant and
      well-organized collagen (the main structural protein in cervical tissue), when the collagen
      is partly destroyed and/or disorganized before the onset of labor. These changes in collagen
      structure, which soften the cervix and allow its opening for child birth, have been seen for
      both premature and full-term births. A relevant scoring of collagen status might thus provide
      an alternative, and potentially objective and accurate quantifier of the time left before
      delivery.
    
  