
    
      Background:

      Policy makers face many challenges, when they plan health care systems to meet the needs of
      the fast growing elderly population. More than 60% of the elderly suffer from multiple
      chronic conditions (multimorbidity - commonly defined as ≥3 chronic diseases) and get
      multiple drugs (polypharmacy - commonly defined as ≥5 regular medications). Multimorbid
      patients are often excluded from randomized controlled trials (RCT) and consequently most
      prescribing guidelines address diseases in isolation. Consequently, there is inappropriate
      prescribing, which results in diminished health states and lower quality of life of the
      patients.

      Older patients usually rely on their general practitioners (GPs) to manage their medications.
      However, GPs often have limited time to adapt polypharmacy. Reviewing medications and
      understanding their interactions based on a list of diagnoses and drugs is complex and time
      consuming. Furthermore, due to the increase of patients with multimorbidity and polypharmacy,
      medication review especially in patients with many drugs is often neglected. Pilot data from
      the Netherlands showed that a software-assisted method, called STRIPA, was effective for
      optimizing pharmacotherapy in primary care. Through the OPTICA trial this tool will now be
      tested in the Swiss primary care context.

      Study design:

      The OPTICA trial is a single-site cluster randomized controlled trial (RCT), which will be
      conducted at the Institute for Primary Health Care of the University of Bern (BIHAM). All
      study-related tasks will be performed centrally at the BIHAM except for patient recruitment
      and use of the STRIPA, as these two tasks will be performed in participating GP offices.

      The GPs in the intervention group use the STRIP assistant, whereas the GPs in the control
      group conduct a sham intervention: usual medication review and shared-decision making with
      patient. STRIPA is designed to optimize drug therapy and to advise on safe and appropriate
      therapy using STOPP/START criteria (STOPP = 'screening tool of older people's prescriptions';
      START = 'screening tool to alert to right treatment'). Patients will be followed for 1 year
      with follow-up phone calls after 6 and 12 months.

      Study objectives:

      The primary objective of this study is to assess the effect of pharmacotherapy optimization
      through STRIPA on the medication appropriateness, which is measured by the medication
      appropriateness index (MAI) for drug overuse and by the assessment of underutilization (AOU)
      for drug underuse.

      The secondary objective of the OPTICA study is to assess the impact of pharmacotherapy
      optimization by STRIPA on the parameters listed below (1- 4) as well as to examine the use of
      the STRIP assistant by GPs (5) and to examine patients' willingness to deprescribe (6):

        1. Degree of polypharmacy

        2. Degree of over- and underprescribing

        3. Number of falls and fractures

        4. Quality of life, including pain/discomfort

        5. Health economic parameters, including direct costs of the intervention and incremental
           cost-effectiveness

        6. Enablers and barriers faced by GPs when using the STRIP assistant

        7. Patients' willingness to deprescribe

      Statistical considerations:

      40 clusters with a cluster size of 8-10 patients will be included. The primary analysis will
      be an intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis, whereby all randomised patients will be included in
      the group they were allocated to.

      There will be two co-primary outcomes, the improvement in the MAI score at 12 months, defined
      as decrease of the score of at least one point, and improvement in the AOU index at 12
      months, defined as a reduction of at least one prescribing omission. Both outcomes will be
      tested separately and success claimed if either test is significant. Adjustment for multiple
      testing will be performed.

      In the primary analysis, the investigators will assess outcomes at the patient level,
      accounting for the correlated nature of data among GPs by using multilevel mixed-effects
      models. For the co-primary outcomes, the investigators will present and compare the
      proportion of patients with improvement of the MAI score and AOU index in the control and
      intervention groups. The relative difference between groups will be assessed using a
      mixed-effects logistic model with a random intercept at the GP level in order to account for
      clustering.

      Secondary binary outcomes will be evaluated like the primary outcomes. Secondary continuous
      outcomes will be analyzed using random-effects linear regression with a random intercept at
      the GP level. Models will additionally be adjusted for the baseline value as a covariate.
      Secondary count outcomes will be analyzed using random-effects Poisson regression with a
      random intercept at the GP level.

      Health economic analyses will comprise the assessment i) of resource use and cost differences
      between the trial arms, ii) the assessment of differences in quality-adjusted lifetime
      between the trial arms (expressed as quality-adjusted life years [QALYs]), and iii) the
      assessment of the cost-effectiveness of the intervention in comparison with the comparator,
      i.e. medication review in accordance with standard care.
    
  