
    
      Hemorrhoidal disease is a common encounter in a gastroenterologist's practice. These are
      often symptomatic, either bleeding or prolapsing. There are no set guidelines in our
      institution (The American University of Beirut Medical Center - AUBMC) for the treatment of
      symptomatic hemorrhoidal disease. Two types of treatment are available at our institution:
      anoscopic rubber band ligation (RBL) or endoscopic sclerotherapy (ESC) with hypertonic (20%)
      saline. Both methods have been shown to be effective in the literature, with above 75%
      complete symptomatic relief from a single application after 8-12 months. Post procedural pain
      of RBL in two randomized studies ranged 40-47%, while different studies showed post
      procedural pain following ESC to be 12-39%. However no study has ever compared these two
      therapeutic methods head-on, neither has any study compared both procedures for tolerability
      and rebleeding rates.

      Research design and methods:

      This study is a randomized, prospective study conducted at the American University of Beirut
      Medical Center which will involve 30 patients suffering from symptomatic hemorrhoidal disease
      requiring therapeutic intervention. Patients meeting inclusion criteria will be randomized
      using a computer generated randomization list to either Rubber Band Ligation (RBL) or
      Hypertonic Saline Sclerotherapy as a therapeutic interventional procedure.

      - Patients will be approached by their Gastroenterologist during clinic visits and informed
      about the study. If participants wish to take part in the study, they will be given
      additional study information, screened for inclusion criteria, and consented by the research
      assistant or clinic nurse. Recruitment and randomization will occur during the same visit
      after patient consent in order to properly schedule patients for their therapeutic
      interventional procedures. All rubber band ligations will be performed by one endoscopist and
      all sclerotherapies will be performed by the other endoscopist.
    
  