
    
      Primary Objectives

        1. Safety cohorts: To evaluate the safety of OTSGC-A24 and nivolumab (+ ipilimumab) in
           patients with refractory gastric cancer.

        2. Arm A: To determine the objective response rate of OTSGC-A24 and nivolumab in advanced
           gastric cancer.

        3. Arm B: To determine the objective response rate of OTSGC-A24 and nivolumab + ipilimumab
           in advanced gastric cancer.

      Secondary Objectives

        1. To compare the difference in objective response rates between Arm A and Arm B

        2. To compare the tumoral immune contexture and PDL-1 expression before treatment, after
           OTSGC-A24, and after nivolumab (+ ipilimumab) in combination with OTSGC-A24.

        3. To determine the serum cytotoxic T-cell response using enzyme-linked immunospot assay
           (ELISPOT) in PBMC.

        4. To determine the progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of Arm A and
           Arm B.

        5. To evaluate the effect of OTSGC-A24 and nivolumab + ipilimumab on clinical and immune PD
           markers.

        6. Evaluate the effects of treatment on peripheral T-cell phenotypic profiles with
           epitope-specificities by coupling mass cytometric analyses with highly-multiplexed
           peptide-MHC tetramer staining technology.

        7. Identify potential biomarkers for treatment response and mechanisms of secondary
           resistance by studying gene expression profiles and phenotypic/functional markers of
           tumour and infiltrating immune cells.

      End Points - Efficacy

      The endpoints for efficacy are:

        -  Induction of specific CTL response after vaccination

        -  Response rate

        -  Progression-free survival

        -  Overall survival End Points - Safety

      The endpoints for safety are:

      • overall adverse events observed, treatment-related adverse events, and category (eg
      percentage of patients with any-grade treatment-related adverse events and grade 3-4
      treatment-related adverse events).
    
  