
    
      Patients admitted to the acute stroke unit at University Hospitals of North Midlands NHS
      Trust and who require nasogastric (NG) feeding will be eligible for recruitment, patients
      will be screened and assessed for eligibility on the stroke unit by a member of the local
      research team, confirmed by a medical practitioner.

      Consent- Informed consent will be sought from patients after full oral and written
      information about the nature and purpose of the study, potential risks and benefits,
      alternative treatments, and the right to refuse and to withdraw at any time. In cases where
      the patient lacks the capacity to give fully informed consent, the patient will be informed
      as much as he/she is able to understand with the option to refuse, and fully informed consent
      will be sought from a consultee. The oral and written information will be provided to the
      consultee including the same information as would be given to the patient. If the patient has
      capacity to consent for themselves, but unable to sign because of impairments; verbal
      consent, witnessed and signed by an independent observer, will be documented. Where the
      patient has capacity to consent for themselves, but only able to make a mark on the paper
      rather than sign as required, the same procedure will be followed. Confirmation of consent
      will be sought in patients who are recruited with consent from a consultee, but regain
      capacity prior to the end of the trial.

      Due to the nature of the study, patients or their consultee will have to decide within a few
      hours of admission to hospital. They will be given the opportunity to discuss the study with
      a relative or friend. Participants or their consultee will be free to withdraw from the trial
      at any time without giving reasons and without prejudicing further treatment.

      An age-matched healthy control group will be recruited from patients' relatives and friends
      to provide a normal baseline for the metabolic response to normal feeding.

      The original signed consent form will be filed in the case report form. One copy will be
      given to the patient or consultee, another copy will be sent to the trial coordinating centre
      and another will be filed in the patients' notes.

      The participant information sheets, and consent forms, will not be available in other
      languages. If needed, the usual hospital interpreter and translator services will be
      available to assist with discussion of the trial.

      If a participant is able to consent for the study but later becomes incapacitated, the
      original consent will endure the loss of capacity as long as the trial has not significantly
      altered since the original consent was given.

      Randomisation- Participants will be randomized into the intervention or control groups using
      a computerized random number generator. The randomization procedure will be conducted by an
      independent statistician at Keele University. Sealed and numbered opaque envelopes containing
      the allocated intervention will be kept in the research office on the acute stroke ward. For
      each randomisation the envelope with the lowest number will be used. The envelopes will be
      selected and opened by the research nurse following consent and baseline assessment. An email
      containing the Participant ID and the number of the envelope will be sent to the Principal
      Investigator. A copy of the original randomisation codes will be kept independently by the
      sponsor in the Trial Master File. Assessments-

        -  A daily log of symptoms and signs of feed intolerance and pneumonia will be taken for 7
           days.

        -  A venous blood sample for a full blood count and C-reactive Protein will be taken on day
           1, 3, and 7.

        -  A Chest x-Ray will be conducted on day 7 to confirm/exclude evidence of pneumonia.

        -  Glucose level measurements will be taken every 10 minutes for each participant for 5
           days following randomisation, using a sensor inserted into the subcutaneous tissue by
           the trained research nurse.

        -  Daily for 5 days following randomisation fasting venous plasma glucose, apart from the
           day that the hormonal profile is collected, samples are to be taken by the research
           nurse and processed by the pathology department.

        -  All participants, including healthy controls, will have a hormonal profile in response
           to feeding will be taken on day 4, post randomisation. The continuous feed, the bolus
           feed or, in the non-stroke control group, a calorific drink that is equivalent calories
           to the Naso-Gastric feed (e.g. Ensure plus) will be given as the first meal in the
           morning after an overnight fast. Venous plasma glucose and insulin levels will be
           checked both fasting, immediately after the meal, and every 30 minutes in response to NG
           feed for 4 hours after the meal (total of 10 sets of samples per subject, each set
           comprising 2ml clotted sample and 1ml fluoride oxalate sample). For patients who are on
           NG feeding, the sample collection will similarly start at -30 and 0 minute before the NG
           feed (either bolus or continuous feed) and then every 30 minutes for 4 hours (total of
           10 samples). The venous plasma glucose sample collected for the hormonal profile will
           also be used for the daily fasting venous plasma glucose sample (see above). We will
           primarily calculate the time averaged mean insulin and glucose responses computed as
           incremental AUCs (above baseline), divided by the time interval (hours). Values at each
           individual time point will be compared directly. The investigators will also collect
           data on total glycaemic exposure (glucose AUC 0-240) and the insulinogenic index
           (ΔI30/ΔG30) as an index of β-cell response.
    
  