
    
      Neonates and infants undergoing heart surgery with cardioplegic arrest experience both
      inflammation and myocardial ischemia-reperfusion [IR] injury. These processes provoke
      myocardial apoptosis and oxygen free radical formation which result in cardiac injury and
      dysfunction. Dexrazoxane is a derivative of EDTA that is approved for prevention of
      anthracycline-related cardiotoxicity. It provides cardioprotection through reduction of toxic
      reactive oxygen species [ROS], and suppression of apoptosis.

      The deleterious effects of cardiopulmonary bypass [CPB] with cardioplegic arrest of the heart
      during congenital heart operations greatly influence postoperative morbidity and mortality.
      Neonates and infants undergoing cardiac surgery experience both a systemic inflammatory
      response, and myocardial IR injury as cardioplegic arrest is reversed. These processes
      provoke elaboration of cytokines and activation of the complement cascade, as well as oxygen
      free radical formation and induction of myocardial apoptosis (1, 2, 3). Frequently,
      myocardial injury and cardiac dysfunction ensue, leading to low cardiac output syndrome and
      multi-system organ failure. The irreversible component of these injuries, in addition to the
      abnormal workloads imposed on the myocardium from the anatomic defects themselves, may have
      consequences for long-term cardiac function, and may in part explain contractile dysfunction
      observed late after congenital heart

      The investigators propose a pilot pharmacokinetic/safety trial of dexrazoxane in children 0-6
      months of age, followed by a randomized, double-blind, clinical trial of dexrazoxane vs
      placebo during congenital heart surgery. The investigators will evaluate postoperative time
      to resolution of organ failure, development of low cardiac output syndrome, length of cardiac
      ICU and hospital stays, and echocardiographic indices of cardiac dysfunction. Results could
      establish the safety and clinical utility of dexrazoxane in ameliorating ischemia-reperfusion
      injury during congenital heart surgery.
    
  