
    
      This is a single center, open-label, Phase 2 clinical trial designed to evaluate the safety,
      tolerability, and pharmacodynamics of lomitapide in the treatment of patients with homozygous
      familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH).

      Patients are required to stop all lipid-lowering therapies, including apheresis, within 4
      weeks prior to the Baseline visit and throughout the study. Patients are placed on a rigorous
      low-fat diet (<10% of energy from total dietary fat) at the Screening assessment; dietary
      counseling by a registered dietitian will be initiated at Screening and will continue at each
      subsequent study visit.

      Patients initially receive 0.03 mg/kg of lomitapide orally every day for 4 weeks.
      Intra-patient dose escalation to 0.1 mg/kg, 0.3 mg/kg/day and 1.0 mg/kg/day occur every 4
      weeks if specific protocol-defined stopping rules related to Grade 3 or 4 toxicities or
      serious adverse events (SAEs) do not apply.

      The study includes 15 study visits over 22 weeks: a Screening visit (Visit 1) conducted
      within 2 weeks prior to dosing, a Baseline visit (Visit 2) conducted on Day 1 prior to the
      first dose, 12 visits conducted during the treatment period (Visits 3 through 14), and a
      Follow-up visit (Visit 15) conducted approximately 4 weeks after the last dose of lomitapide.

      Screening and Baseline procedures include medical and medication history, physical
      examination, vital signs, 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG), pulmonary function tests (PFTs),
      safety laboratory tests, fat soluble vitamin levels and a fatty acid profile. Nuclear
      magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMRS) of the liver will be conducted at Baseline, at the end
      of each dosing period, and at the follow up visit to assess hepatic fat content. Baseline
      efficacy assessment includes a fasting lipid profile (TC, LDL-C [directly measured], VLDL-C,
      high density lipoprotein-cholesterol [HDL-C], triglycerides, and apolipoproteins [apo B, apo
      AI, apo AII, apo CIII, apo E] and Lp(a)).

      Safety and lipid profile assessments are repeated during the treatment period and at the
      Follow-up visit conducted 28 days after the last dose of lomitapide.
    
  