
    
      Purpose: Our primary objective is to examine the feasibility and acceptability of
      implementing Horyzons as a part of care received at first-episode psychosis clinics across
      North Carolina. Our primary aim is to understand how to implement a novel treatment approach
      as part of routine clinical practice with guidance, assistance, and feedback from service
      providers (e.g., clinicians, peer support specialists) embedded within the clinic. Our second
      aim is to assess the extent to which clients engage with the platform (i.e., site usage
      information) and their thoughts and opinions of Horyzons (i.e., feedback and suggestions).
      Our third aim is to assess change in psychological measures across the three month study
      period.

      Participants:

      30 individuals with first episode psychosis (FEP)

      20 clinicians and/or peer support specialists from the FEP clinics

      Procedures (methods): FEP participants will be recruited over a 16-week period at their
      respective first episode clinic. Site usage information as well as feedback about their
      experience will be collected from participants through the Horyzons platform. Site usage
      information (e.g., number of posts/comments made on the site, the number and types of
      'Journeys' or 'Tracks' (therapeutic content) completed by participants, etc.) will be
      collected automatically through the Horyzons platform. This trial will last three months.
      Before being given access to Horyzons, a research assistant, peer support specialist, or
      clinician will provide instructions and guidance for using the site (i.e., Horyzons
      induction). Feedback will be collected from participants at the end of the three-month
      period.

      Service providers (i.e., clinicians and/or peer support specialists) will be asked to provide
      feedback about their perceptions of their clients' responses to engaging in Horyzons for the
      3-month period. Clinicians and peer support specialists will also be asked about their
      experience integrating the psychosocial intervention in the clinic. Items will include
      challenges to clinic-wide implementation as well as their feedback to overcome/reduce the
      impact of these barriers if Horyzons were to be provided as part of routine clinical care in
      the future. Clinicians and peer support specialists will be interviewed in 1-2 focus groups
      (depending on schedule and availability) for which these individuals will be compensated.

      As Horyzons involves therapeutic content and is designed to improve psychological outcomes
      such as loneliness and social support, this service is considered part of the clinical care
      provided to individuals by their respective FEP clinic. As such, participants will not be
      compensated for their involvement in the platform. Site usage information will be collected
      automatically through the Horyzons site. However, clients will be compensated for providing
      feedback about their experience with Horyzons as well as for completing the assessment
      portion of the study onboarding process.

      Finally, Horyzons will be monitored daily (two hours per weekday and one hour per weekend
      day) by trained peer support specialists, master's level clinicians, and/or graduate students
      in the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience at UNC. The principal investigator, David
      Penn, will lead weekly supervision calls to ensure appropriate care and support of clients
      involved in this project, to discuss case conceptualization and suggestions for engaging
      clients in the platform, as well as to monitor any potential safety concerns. All
      clinically-relevant information will be shared with the first episode clinicians involved in
      participants' mental health care.
    
  