
    
      The study follows a group-randomized design. Twenty-four churches will participate based on
      feasibility and logistical considerations demonstrated in previous work. Church leaders will
      agree to host the program, identify a church program coordinator to recruit participants and
      facilitate project implementation, and identify at least two volunteers willing to be trained
      to deliver the child curricula. Each church will be randomly assigned to treatment condition
      (HCHF+) or Money-Smart (active control) after baseline data collection. Churches will
      advertise the Empowering Healthy Families program to church members and to the community at
      large. The church coordinator will determine the most effective venues and strategies for
      advertising the program.

      Each church will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment conditions: 1) lifestyle and
      parenting intervention for parents with a complementary age-appropriate lifestyle curriculum
      for children and strategies to improve the church health environment (HCHF+); or 2) financial
      literacy curricula (Money Smart) for parents and children (active control). Randomization at
      the level of church takes advantage of social networking within churches. Consistent with
      preliminary research, Social Cognitive Theory (SCT), Social-Ecological Model (SEM) and
      principles of Community based participatory research (CBPR) and community engagement will
      guide the intervention research and will be reflected in all formative, process and outcome
      data collection and analyses. Key stakeholders will be involved in all aspects of the
      research.

      Partners include current partners Baptist General Convention of Virginia (BGCVA), Virginia
      Cooperative Extension's (VCE) Family and Consumer Sciences (FCS) Program at Virginia Tech
      (VT) and Virginia State University (VSU, historically black state university), Virginia
      Tech's Center for Public Health Practice and Research (CPHPR) as well as new partners, the
      Family Nutrition Program (FNP) and 4-H Program at VT and VSU. Partner and Community
      Involvement in Project Partners and members of the target communities (state, regional and
      local BGCVA and FNP personnel, church members) will be involved in program planning,
      implementation, evaluation and sustainability as follows: Identifying strategies to address
      local strengths, resources, needs and characteristics; Refining strategies to maximize
      cultural sensitivity for the intervention and research participation, including informed
      consent documents; Refining strategies to recruit churches/church members and maximize
      participant retention; Refining program implementation and evaluation plans to maximize
      program and research fidelity and participation by churches and participants in the education
      program and data collection; Participating in qualitative data collection during formative
      and process evaluation; Identifying effective methods to share project outcomes with local
      and state stakeholders; and Identifying strategies to sustain and expand the program beyond
      the funding period.

      As for data analysis, for qualitative data, a thematic approach will be used to identify
      themes from semi-structured interviews and focus group discussions. Audio files will be
      transcribed and transcripts will be reviewed and coded for emergent themes to be checked
      against field notes. A second researcher will review transcripts, field notes and themes and
      discrepancies will be rectified. For quantitative data, descriptive univariate analyses will
      be conducted on all study variables. Data will be checked for outliers, violations of
      normality and missing data. Predictors of drop-out and non-response will be explored to
      better understand any discernible systematic processes in play, taking advantage of the data
      collected until the last time point and demographic variables. If the missingness is found to
      be random and ignorable, multiple imputations will be used to deal with missing data, else,
      an intent-to-treat approach that make full use of available data in determining treatment
      effects will be used for all analyses. Scale scores will be calculated for all outcomes.
      Because each family (parent-child dyad) is nested within churches, and because there may be
      more than one parent or more than one child from each family in the program, the
      investigators will have the advantage of testing family-level effects as well as parent- or
      child-level effects. A three-level clustered longitudinal model with growth trajectories will
      be assessed. Quantitative and qualitative outcomes will be triangulated in order to identify
      the most significant influences on feasibility and sustainability of the interventions and
      intervention partnerships and on church capacity, readiness, and environment for engaging in
      health related programming.
    
  