
    
      This is a single-center, double blind (patients and sleep analyst) prospective randomized
      controlled trial to be conducted at Faculty of Dentistry, University of Malaya.

      Eligible and consented patients will be randomized into three groups using block
      randomization with allocation concealment. Patients in Group 1 and 2 will receive MAA set at
      25%, 50% of maximum mandibular advancement respectively.

      A general medical history will be recorded. Demographic data will be obtained from patients.
      Baseline measurements will be recorded as T0.

      Alginate impressions of the upper and lower dental arches will be taken. Respective
      mandibular advancement record i.e. at 25% and 50% as assigned by block randomization will be
      registered using George Gauge. Monobloc type of MAA will then be custom-made for each
      patient.

      Upon issue of MAA, patients will be given detailed instructions for the insertion, removal,
      storage, and maintenance of MAA. Patients will be advised to wear the MAA every night during
      sleep. Each patient will be reviewed one week after issue to assess for any problems
      encountered, adjust the MAA for comfort, and reinforce wear for compliance. Subsequent follow
      up will be scheduled at every 4-6 weeks. 6 months later, outcome measurements will be
      recorded as T1.

      Baseline and outcome measurements at T0 and T1:

      Baseline measurements will be performed prior to intervention (T0) and outcome measurements
      will be performed 6 months after issue of MAA (T1). Apnea-hypopnea index, minimum oxygen
      saturation, blood pressure, Epworth Sleepiness Scale(ESS), Calgary Sleep Apnea Quality of
      Life Index(SAQLI) and dental changes will be measured for both baseline and outcome records.
      Compliance to MAA and secondary effects caused by MAA will be assessed at T1.

      Apnea-Hypopnea Index (AHI), minimum oxygen saturation (Min SaO2) and blood pressure:

      AHI and MinSaO2 will be obtained from an overnight polysomnography (PSG) in the sleep
      laboratory, University of Malaya Medical Center (UMMC). Patient will be instructed to wear
      the MAA during PSG at T1.

      Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS):

      Daytime sleepiness is to be assessed using ESS. The Malay, Tamil, Mandarin, or English
      version of the ESS, wherever applicable will be completed by patients.

      Calgary Sleep Apnea Quality of Life (SAQLI):

      Patient will be interviewed for quality of life assessment using Malay or English version of
      SAQLI, wherever appropriate.

      Compliance to MAA:

      Compliance to MAA will be assessed using self-administered diary. Upon issue of MAA, each
      patient will be given a customized diary to record the frequency of MAA wear daily. The diary
      will be collected at every review at 4-6 weeks for analysis by calculating the percentage of
      night per week of wearing the MAA.

      Secondary Changes after wearing MAA:

      Secondary effect will be evaluated in a structured interview at every review at 4-6 weeks.
      Temporomandibular joint will be assessed using Diagnostic Criteria for Temporomandibular
      Disorders (DC/TMD).

      Dental Changes after wearing MAA:

      Dental changes will be measured with digital caliper and analysed using manual model
      analysis. The impressions for study models will be taken at T0 and T1.

      Blinding:

      A single clinician will treat all the patients and one dental technician will make all the
      MAA. The patient will be blinded to the amount of mandibular advancement. Sleep technician
      who carries out PSG will also be blinded. Clinician, however, is unable to be blinded due to
      the need to prescribe the MAA according to the randomization. All the data collected will be
      coded prior to blinded data analysis.

      Proposed Data analysis:

      All analyses are to be conducted using SPSS version 25.0. Shapiro-Wilk normality test will be
      used to evaluate for skewness. Parametric test will be used if the result is assumed normal
      but if not, non-parametric test will be used instead. Proposed parametric test are
      paired-sample t tests to test the null hypothesis of no differences AHI, MinSaO2, blood
      pressure, ESS, SAQLI, compliance and secondary effects, dental changes and demographic
      baselines between two groups. For the effect of different protrusion amounts and the
      difference in baseline body mass index(BMI) for both groups, independent T-test will be used
      instead.
    
  