
    
      A systems perspective can improve surgical decision making both before and after surgery in
      real time. Specifically, we hypothesize that it may provide diagnostic and prognostic
      information of importance that is more accurate than current biochemical approaches. This is
      because it accounts for important environmental influences on surgical outcome such as
      pharmacotherapy and the gut microbiota.

      The secondary hypothesis is that this approach can provide real time molecular feedback to
      the operator during surgery about tissue type and pathology.

      This work will therefore need to study patients having surgery under a range of different
      conditions and states, and by varying types of surgical intervention. It is known that
      patients with cancer for example have quite different metabolic requirements to those
      without. This has significant implications for the development of personalized management
      strategies for patients with cancer undergoing surgery. It is essential that this study
      definitively proves that the technology is able to make a description between patients with
      significantly different disease states and also that it can differentiate this from the type
      and magnitude of the surgical procedure being performed and the timing of the surgery.
      Therefore, this work will involve a heterogeneous patient cohort.

      Study design:

      This study will be subject to research governance structures provided internally within the
      department of Biosurgery and Surgical technology in conjunction with the section of
      Biomolecular medicine for the safe use of samples and machinery. It will also possess a
      clinical steering committee to assess the progress, clinical outcomes, safety and timely
      completion of the work.

      Two separate clinical groups will be recruited for this trial. The first will be those
      patients undergoing elective procedures, the second will be those undergoing emergency
      procedures. Each of these groups will contain subcategories of clinical conditions, upon
      which the study will focus.

      Elective surgery (n=200):

      A. Patients with cancer. This will include patients with malignancy of the gastrointestinal
      and colorectal tract (including those excised by microsurgery) cancer of the breast or solid
      tumors of the kidney.

      B. Patients with benign diseases of the bowel requiring surgery e.g. inflammatory bowel
      disease C. Benign surgical conditions, usually operated on in a day surgery setting. These
      will specifically be of the biliary tree (gall stones) and the anterior abdominal wall (e.g.
      Hernia surgery)

      Patients will be recruited if seen under the 'two week' wait rule with suspected cancer for
      the general surgery, upper GI surgery, Breast and Urology surgery teams at St. Mary's
      hospital in the outpatient setting.

      Patients attending for elective inpatient surgery under the general, upper GI or breast
      surgery teams at St. Mary's hospital, London will be recruited at the pre admission clinic.

      Acute surgery (n=200)

      Patients presenting to Accident and emergency under the care of the general surgery on call
      team will be recruited into this study group. This study group will have the following
      subgroups:

      A. Acute abdominal pain, as per the previous ethical clearance B. Patients with acute sepsis
      thought to be of surgical origin. C. Patients suffering major trauma with an Injury severity
      score of >15, multiple injuries, who require surgery or who have >1 organ system that is
      failed or who are admitted to the intensive care department.

      Exclusion criteria:

      All patients under the age of 18 years All patients who are pregnant Patients receiving
      Advanced Life Support by cardiopulmonary resuscitation on their arrival in hospital.

      Patients with advanced cancer only suitable for palliative care at presentation to the
      clinical team.

      Patients presenting for the first time with other known malignancies for which they are
      receiving treatment e.g. Prostate cancer Patients already recruited into other clinical
      studies.

      This study will be broken down into two separate phases:

      Preclinical work:

      Preclinical work for biofluid analysis in elective and acute surgical admissions has already
      been performed in both animal and human studies in Magic Angle Spinning (MAS)-1H NMR (also
      known as solid state NMR as the tissue does not require preparation), MS, and Matrix Assisted
      Laser Desorption Ionization (MALDI)-MS. Samples from previous studies gained under ethical
      clearance will be analyzed using these techniques for methodological optimization. This will
      entail metabonomic and metagenomic profiling of colorectal cancer samples (Ethics Ref:
      07/H0712/112 and 06/Q0403/16) and from samples taken from patients with acute pancreatitis
      and the acute abdomen (Ethics Ref: 05/Q0403/201).

      Non essential (i.e. Benign or pathologically normal tissue) excised and due for incineration
      taken from consenting patients during routine surgery will be collected for analysis by: Mass
      spectrometry of smoke plumes collected from a range of electrocautery devices. This will
      allow optimization of MS protocols and it will define the chemical parameters for normal
      tissue and for various tissue types.

      b. Malignant tissue excised from breast, colon and upper GI cancers will be tested for its
      capacity to detect normal and malignant disease by the use of the intelligent knife ex vivo.
      This will be performed under the guidance of histopathologists, and it will not interfere
      with pathological staging or treatment of cancers.

      Development of translational software for analytical interpretation of complex biochemical
      metadata by non scientific staff will be developed using these data. This work will use
      current intensive care clinical databases.

      Clinical work:

      The aim is for the technology to be readily applicable to patients having surgery within the
      NHS. Therefore, patients will be recruited from two surgical pathways:

      Acute Care: Patient recruitment

      Patients will be recruited whilst in Accident and Emergency. Only patients admitted via this
      route will be eligible for study inclusion. Patients will be provided with an information
      sheet and the patient will be left for 30 minutes to consider the study. Consent will be
      taken in private, by an adequately qualified and trained individual. When consented, patients
      will be asked to complete a questionnaire to provide medical and surgical history, and
      metabolic information that could influence results.

      It will not be possible to gain consent in some cases as patients may be unconscious or
      unable to consent due to injury. In these cases samples will be taken, and when the patient
      gains consciousness and capacity formal consent will be taken. If at this stage, the patient
      states they do not want to be included in the study their samples will be withdrawn. In the
      event of a patient's death, the samples will be included in the study. This is because the
      capacity of these tests to predict mortality is a primary end point.

      Elective Care: Patient recruitment

      Patients will be recruited in the outpatient setting where ever possible to ensure that they
      have adequate time to take on board the clinical information and to consent. We will sample
      patients on their admission to hospital for treatment after the decision for surgery has been
      made.

      Sample Collection:

      Samples will be collected at set time points during the patient journey in both cases.
      Samples will be obtained at the same time as standard clinical investigations to minimize
      discomfort for the patient, and they will not be taken in excess of standard sample times
      prevent unnecessary investigation for the patient. Sample collection will be coordinated with
      the clinical biochemistry team at St. Mary's hospital where ever possible to prevent
      unnecessary and time consuming sampling.

      Pre operation:

      Plasma and urine collection:

      1. At their arrival in Accident and Emergency. Every 24 hours for the duration of their
      admission or until surgery, discharge or treatment defined as surgical, radiological or
      invasive therapeutic intervention.

      If the patient remains in hospital for prolonged rehabilitation or non surgical therapy,
      samples will be taken weekly until discharge.

      Stool sample

      First bowel motion after arrival in A+E. Preoperative and pre bowel preparation sample before
      surgery. This will be given either in clinic or on the ward.

      Tissue sample collection

      Preoperative biopsy

      In the event that patients are sent for routine endoscopic or biopsy, samples of tissue will
      be taken for metabonomic analysis.

      b. Intra-operative.

      Analysis of smoke plumes by MS will be performed for each case. This will not interfere with
      the standard operation and the operating surgeon will not be asked to make a decision based
      on the data from the experiment. In cases of cancer resections, tissue samples will be
      collected in keeping within the principals of oncological surgery. In the cases of breast
      surgery, sentinel lymph nodes will also be harvested and analyzed by NMR. During colorectal
      surgery, tissue from the mesorectum will be taken for analysis from standard collection
      points and in upper GI cancer resections, similar principals will apply for sampling. In
      acute or emergency situations, tissue will also be taken from areas of tissue thought to be
      at risk of ischemia (e.g. anastomotic sites were bowel is to be joined).

      Stool and small bowel effluent will be harvested at the time of surgery so that the effect of
      surgery on the gut microbial ecosystem can also be accounted for.

      c. Post operative.

      Urine and plasma will be sampled daily post operatively in keeping with current clinical
      practice for the first week. Where ever possible, no extra samples will be collected beyond
      those sampled by the clinical staff.

      Stool samples will also be collected. The first bowel motion will be collected after surgery,
      and then each motion until the first week is completed, and then weekly after this.

      The first motion from stoma / ileostomy: If stoma sited, daily samples will be taken for the
      first week.

      Weekly samples will then be collected until discharge.

      In the event that a patient returns to theatre, the sample collection sequence will re
      commence.

      All clinical data will be recorded for the duration of the patient stay. This will refer to
      pre operative information and assessment where possible, physiological data, radiological
      findings, clinical biochemistry, surgical and clinical outcome and length of stay. This will
      be anonymous and coded.

      On discharge, patients will be bought back to clinic at 8 weeks for clinical assessment as
      per the routine analysis. Samples of urine, blood and stool will be taken at this time.
      Oncological patients will be followed up for five years as per the oncology protocol at St.
      Mary's Hospital Paddington.
    
  