
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is traditionally described as a disorder of compromised dopamine
      (DA) function in the nigro-striatal dopamine (NSD) system. This system extends from the
      midbrain, through the hypothalamus and into the forebrain to critical areas involved in the
      control of motor performance. Restoration of DA content in this system by administering the
      DA precursor L-dopa or DA agonists reinstates motor control, but provides only symptomatic
      relief with waning efficacy as the disease advances. Symptoms of depression and sleep
      disturbances are also commonly seen in PD patients, and the manifestation of these symptoms
      suggests impaired circadian function.

      Although the involvement of the circadian system in PD was intimated in the first formal
      account of the disorder provided by James Parkinson, it was not until recently that circadian
      malfunction has been specifically cited as playing a major role in the development and
      progression of the disease. In addition to scattered reports depicting circadian-like
      features of PD and related syndromes, a large body of evidence describes the benefits of
      light therapy in PD from both the preclinical and clinical perspectives.

      While the development of a formal understanding has been largely omitted as to the basis for
      any therapeutic effect exerted by light, recent studies have shown that the nigro-striatal
      dopamine system is comprised of the same cell type as cells in the retina and the pineal.
      Such cells are driven by visual input whereby dopamine and melatonin sit in functional
      opposition to regulate day night activities including sleep, mood, reproduction,
      anti-oxidation and movement. Hence one may conclude that the circadian system plays a major
      role in many aspects of PD.

      Recent work in PD has also suggested that the efficacy of light therapy is mediated by
      melatonin and dopamine function in the retina. On this basis it would be reasonable to assume
      that intervention into the function of the circadian system with light therapy in PD patients
      might well serve to modify the course and consequences of the disease. The present study
      serves to extend this finding to the point of providing a practical, non-invasive method for
      helping patients.
    
  