
    
      Title of study:

      Compare the results of Antimicrobial with Conventional suture materials in patients receiving
      primary total knee replacement: a prospective double-blinded randomized controlled trial

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective: To investigate whether the surgical site infection rate after total knee
      replacement will be different with two different suture materials.

      Secondary Objective: To investigate the surrogating markers for inflammatory response and
      functional outcomes with two different suture materials.

      Rationale:

      The reported rate of deep infection following contemporary total knee replacement has been
      about two percent. The prevalence of prolonged wound drainage of soft tissue complications is
      between 17 to 50% of patients in whom 1.3% of them eventually developed culture-proved
      prosthetic infection. Total knee infections typically require complete removal of the
      prosthesis and prolonged antibiotic treatment. Re-infection rate following revision surgery
      for infected total knee cases is also significantly higher than those without infection
      complications. Total knee infections are devastating and associated with prolonged hospital
      stays, increased co-morbidity, and utilization of medical resources. Measures to reduce the
      infection rate extensively implemented clinically. However the use of antibacterial suture
      materials to reduce the wound complications has not yet been investigated before. Clinical
      trials including this issue only had been discussed in animal studies for minimal series. The
      effectiveness of the new material should be checked.

      This study is designed to investigate the wound conditions and deep infection incidence
      following total knee replacement performed using either antimicrobial or conventional
      sutures. A prospective, double-blinded, randomized controlled trial with 102 patients evenly
      distributed into two groups is proposed. Each group has 51 patients scheduled for unilateral
      total knee replacement. Randomization is by envelope-drawing to minimize confounding risk
      factors. One hundred and two sets of suture materials (51 sets of Vicryl Plus and 51 sets of
      Vicryl) will be separately put into sealed envelopes. The envelopes are randomly assigned
      with consecutive numbers from 1 to 102. The envelopes are randomly given to the patients for
      wound closure. Finally, one group of patients will receive antibacterial sutures (VICRYL
      Plus, Ethicon, Johnson and Johnson, Taipei, Taiwan) following total knee replacement for the
      wound closure and the other group of patients will receive conventional sutures (VICRYL,
      Ethicon, Johnson and Johnson, Taipei, Taiwan) following total knee replacement for the wound
      closure. Group sample sizes of 51 and 51 achieve 81% power to detect a difference of -4%
      between the null hypothesis that both group means are 9.0 and the alternative hypothesis that
      the mean is 13.0 with estimated group standard deviations of 6.0 and 8.0 and with a
      significance level (alpha) of 0.05 using a two-sided two-sample t-test. The primary outcome
      measure is the incidence of prosthetic infection within three months of surgery. The
      secondary outcome measures include hospital stay, duration of antibiotics use, pain scale
      (VAS), wound conditions (wound drainage, extent of erythema, local heat, temperature), and
      serum parameters during hospitalization and within three months after operation.
    
  