
    
      To evaluate the efficacy and safety of mini-PCNL versus standard-PCNL for the management of
      20-40 mm size kidney stones.Investigators plan to do a multicenter, parallel, open-label
      randomized controlled trial (RCT). There are 20 hospitals included in this study, including
      The First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University, Baoshan No.2 People's
      Hospital, The second Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical University, The First Affiliated
      Hospital of Fujian Medical University, People's Hospital of Nanhai District, Yichang Yiling
      Hospital, Suzhou Municipal Hospital, Jining NO.1 People's Hospital, The First Affiliated
      Hospital of Gannan Medical University, The General Hospital of Shenyang Military, Shanghai
      General Hospital, Qingyuan People's Hospital, The second Affiliated Hospital of Kunming
      Medical University, Beijing Chuiyangliu Hospital, Fujian Medical University Union Hospital,
      ShengJing Hospital of China Medical University, 181st hospital of Chinese People's Liberation
      Army, The First Affiliated Hospital of Guangxi Medical University, China-Japan Union
      Hospital, Jilin University, Jiangmen Hospital of Zhongshan University.

      Each center performs more than 500 PNL procedures per year. Ethics committee approval was
      obtained at each site and informed consent was taken from each patient. The primary endpoint
      was the one-session SFR and the secondary endpoints included intraoperative and postoperative
      parameters.

      This study will be started at January,2016 and ended at November ,2019. The SFR of sPNL and
      mPNL was assumed to be 83% and 89% respectively, based on the earlier data. -10% was
      considered as a non-inferiority margin. the type-1 error (α) was set to 0.05 and the power
      (1-β) to 0.8. Sampling ratio was 1. According to the formulas of 2-sample non-inferiority
      test comparing two proportions, the minimum sample size for each group was 923 using a power
      and sample size calculator (HyLown Consulting, Atlanta). Considering the patients lost to
      follow-up and consent withdrawals, the number was increased to 1000 patients in each group.

      Randomization We used SPSS software to generate 2000 random numbers in a table with a ratio
      of 1:1 ("0" for sPNL and "1" for mPNL). A protocol-blinded coordinator revealed the
      assignment in sequence to the center once the consent was signed and surgery was scheduled.
      The number of included patients was not equally distributed among the centers.

      Quality control A standard operating procedure (SOP) was made and approved by the principal
      investigator of each center. Routine monitoring visits to all centers were carried out every
      month.

      Intravenous urography (IVU) and 2 mm non-contrasted CT were done in all patients. CT value
      was measured with a consistent software in each center. Patients had negative urine culture
      before treatment. Intravenous single dose of 1st/2nd-generation cephalosporin or
      ciprofloxacin was administered 30 mins before and after surgery as antibiotic prophylaxis.

      All the endoscopic procedures were performed by only one designated experienced surgeon (≥100
      procedures per year in both sPNL and mPNL) in each center. All the procedures were performed
      under general anesthesia and in the prone position. A 5 Fr open-ended ureteral catheter was
      placed to the renal pelvis through a guide wire. The use of fluoroscopic or/and ultrasonic
      guidance was determined by the surgeons' preference. An 18-gauge needle was used for
      puncture. As shown in Fig. 1, the access tract was gradually dilated with fascial introducers
      (Reborn Medical®) up to 18F (mPNL) or 24F (sPNL). A peel-away sheath was used (Reborn
      Medical®). The stone was fragmented by pneumatic LithoClast®, or holmium laser with a 550-um
      laser fiber (Lumenis® and an energy setting of 30-50 W) or ultrasonic lithotripsy (EMS®, only
      sPNL group). The stone free status was routinely evaluated by fluoroscopy (radiopaque stone)
      or ultrasound (radio lucent stone). An immediate second-look or another puncture would be
      performed if needed. A 6 Fr double J stent was inserted for 4 weeks. A 16-18F silastic
      nephrostomy tube was placed and removed before discharge. Indication for tubeless/total
      tubeless: absence of major perforation of collecting system, bleeding and/or complete stone
      clearance.

      K.U.B. (kidney-ureter-bladder) plain radiograph and renal ultrasound were used to evaluate
      the residual stones before discharge. If there was a discrepancy between the presence of
      residual stones between the KUB and renal ultrasound, a 2 mm non-contrast CT was ordered to
      better delineate the presence of residual stones and their impact on the clinical management.
      The status of residual stones was according to the reports assessed by two protocol-blinded
      radiologists. If the largest residual stone was larger than 6 mm, SWL, RIRS or URL would be
      recommended before removing double J stent. The one-session SFR (primary outcome) was
      determined at one month after removing double J stent and defined as either the absence of
      any residual stone fragments or the presence of clinically insignificant residual stone
      fragments (CIRFs), without any auxiliary procedures.

      The hematocrit drop was measured at 8 am on postoperative day 1. The indications for
      transfusion was strictly monitored according to the guideline of Chinese Society of Blood
      Transfusion (hemoglobin less than 70g/l or a progressive decrease in hemoglobin after
      surgeries). Consideration of angiography and selective angio-embolization for patients with
      significant macroscopic hematuria in the urine as well as progressive decrease in hemoglobin
      or unstable hemodynamics. Visual analogue scale (VAS) was used as a pain scale for
      quantification of postoperative pain at 24h after surgeries.14 VAS was evaluated by two
      protocol-blinded nurses. Patients with VAS greater than 5 were given nonsteroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs. Stone composition was analyzed using uniform instruments (Fourier
      Transform-Infrared Spectrometry, Thermo®) and method in all participated centers.

      Data collection and definitions of parameters The characteristics of patients and clinical
      outcomes were recorded according to the pre-established case report form (CRF) . Surgical
      outcomes were predicted preoperatively according to the S·T·O·N·E nephrolithometry. The stone
      size was the largest diameter of a single stone or the summation of the largest diameters of
      multiple stones. Operation time was defined as the time from puncture to the placement of the
      nephrostomy tube or removing the access sheath in cases with tubeless or total tubeless.
      Septic shock was identified using the clinical criteria of persisting hypotension requiring
      vasopressor therapy to maintain mean mean artery pressure (MAP) ≥65 mmHg and having a serum
      lactate level ≥ 2 mmol/L (>18mg/dL) despite adequate fluid resuscitation.

      Statistical analysis Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS 20·0. Continuous variables
      were analyzed using Student's t-test to compare the two means. Categorical variables between
      groups were analyzed using the chi-squared or Fisher's exact tests. Primary endpoints and
      some key secondary endpoints were analyzed in both intention-to-treat (ITT) and per-protocol
      (PP) population. Odds ratio (OR) for sPNL compared with mPNL in categorical variables. Mean
      difference for sPNL compared with mPNL in continuous variables. P <0·05 was considered
      statistically significant.
    
  