
    
      Barrett's esophagus is a pre-malignant condition associated with adenocarcinoma of the lower
      esophagus, and is found in 10-15% of patients with Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD). In
      prospective studies of patients undergoing endoscopy for reflux symptoms, the prevalence of
      long segments of Barrett's Esophagus (3cm or greater) is reported to be 3% and that of short
      segment Barrett's Esophagus (less than 3cm), to be approximately 7-8%. Early diagnosis with
      surveillance is considered the optimal approach in patients with Barrett's, given the poor
      survival of advanced adenocarcinoma of the esophagus. However, classic symptoms of GERD may
      be diminished in some patients with Barrett's esophagus, possibly leading to a lower
      incidence of endoscopy with early diagnosis.

      Extraesophageal manifestations of GERD include hoarseness, wheezing, and globus sensation.
      Dyspepsia is defined as pain or discomfort centered in the upper abdomen. Some reports have
      quantified the incidence of dyspepsia as occurring in up to 40% of adults over a six-month
      period. The differential diagnosis of dyspepsia includes gastric or duodenal ulcer,
      gastroesophageal reflux disease, gastric cancer, and non-ulcer dyspepsia. The incidence of
      peptic ulcer disease appears to be decreasing in our population, largely due to the lower
      prevalence of Helicobacter pylori infection among the population. Thus, esophageal lesions
      are responsible for an increasing number of dyspeptic patients.

      Controversies exist as to the proper management of patients presenting with dyspepsia.
      Empiric acid-suppression therapy is often the first step in the management of dyspeptic
      patients. Many physicians have adopted a test-and-treat strategy for Helicobacter pylori
      infection. Finally, upper endoscopy may be performed. This test is considered the gold
      standard for the diagnosis of esophageal and gastroduodenal lesions. The initial evaluation
      of dyspeptic patients may be modified by other factors in their presentation, i.e. age
      greater than 50 or the presence of alarm symptoms (weight loss, dysphagia, evidence of
      gastrointestinal bleeding, anemia, or previous gastric surgery).

      A distinction between the various causes of dyspepsia is important to establish in view of
      the significant differences in treatment strategies. Several previously reported studies have
      established a correlation between dyspepsia, with or without peptic ulcer disease, and
      erosive esophagitis. These studies were limited by a high degree of patient selection and
      narrow patient populations. Although the prevalence of erosive esophagitis and Barrett's
      Esophagus has been reported in patients with typical GERD symptoms, i.e. heartburn and
      regurgitation, the exact prevalence in patients with atypical symptoms of GERD (cough,
      asthma, wheezing, dysphagia), abdominal pain and dyspepsia is not readily known, especially
      in a VA population. Given that these esophageal diseases affect mainly older Caucasian males,
      studying the prevalence of these diseases in a VA population would be of extreme significance
      and importance.
    
  