
    
      Before treatment, Magnetic resonance images of each participant were acquired from scanner of
      the same type (3.0T, Discovery GE750w). As the key role of nucleus accumbens (NACC, -7.5,
      5.5, 9) in anhedonia, the accurate target of left dlPFC was defined as the strongest
      functional connectivity with NACC. Each treatment session was under neuronavigation with a
      Visor neuronavigation system (ANT Neuro, Enschede, Netherlands) for coil positioning.

      All patients underwent a medical evaluation that included physical examination and routine
      laboratory studies before and after repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS)
      treatment. Patients were randomly allocated to real group or sham group by coin toss. A
      threshold of 3 points on the Hamilton Depression scale has been specified by the National
      Institute for Health and Care Excellence to determine a clinically meaningful difference
      between active pharmacotherapy and placebo. We plan to enroll minimum total sample size of 29
      participants in real and sham group respectively according to the Power and Sample Size
      program. The decision to enroll a patient was always made prior to randomization. Patients
      were studied using a double-blind design. The participants, clinical raters, and all
      personnel responsible for the clinical care of the patient remained masked to the allocated
      condition and allocation parameters. Only the rTMS administrators had access to the
      randomization list. They had minimal contact with the patients, and no role in assessing
      depression. Each patient would be treated for continuous 15 days by rTMS.

      Before the rTMS treatment, depression symptom of each participant was assessed by the
      Hamilton Depression Scale and the Beck Depression Self-Rating Scale. The anhedonia severity
      was evaluated by The Temporal Experience of Pleasure Scale, the Self-Report Apathy Evaluation
      Scale, Dimensional Anhedonia Rating Scale, the Motivation and Pleasure Scale. The
      neuroimaging data was collected using functional magnetic resonance imaging scan in
      multimodalities, resting electroencephalography, and event-related potentials during monetary
      incentive delay task, and Iowa-gambling test. The participants had also received a battery
      measure of neuropsychological tests (standardized tests to investigate their cognitive
      problems). After the last treatment, the same scales and neuroimaging scan were used again to
      assess the treatment effect of the rTMS and the underlying brain mechanism. Each participant
      was interviewed in detail about the adverse event of the rTMS intervention during the past 15
      days. A month after the last treatment, each participant received follow-up visit by
      telephone to access the persistent effect of the intervention. Every participant should take
      part in the study in voluntary and sign an informed consent form before the study.
    
  