
    
      Patient Enrollment Patient enrollment will be open enrollment to inpatient/outpatients who
      meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria listed above. This is a double-blinded study with
      randomization to dual shock or standard single shock synchronized cardioversion for patients
      requiring cardioversion for atrial fibrillation. Randomization will be performed using a
      standard computer-based randomization system.

      Cardioversion will be performed with Zoll R series Defibrillator, which was approved by the
      FDA in 2017 for use as a defibrillator, with a 510K approval for use in cardioversion of
      atrial arrhythmias. After obtaining consent, before sedation is administered, all patients
      will have 2 pads placed in the antero-posterior pad position on the left chest (guideline
      recommended position for cardioversion of atrial fibrillation) and an additional 2 pads
      placed in the standard Ventricular Tachycardia/Advanced Cardiac Life Support positions, where
      the anterior pad is centered over the right infraclavicular space and the apical pad is
      placed over the left axilla . All patients will be sedated using propofol administered by
      anesthesiology or a combination of fentanyl and midazolam administered by cardiology staff.

      Patients randomized to single shock will then be treated initially with a 200 Joule shock
      through the antero-posterior pads only. A repeat attempt will be made using the same approach
      if the initial shock fails. If the second attempt fails, the single shock approach will be
      considered to have failed. Patients will be crossed over to dual shock therapy while under
      the same sedation episode. For cross-over patients, two near-simultaneous 200-Joule shocks
      will be delivered through the two sets of pads already in position. If this fails further
      treatment will be determined by the primary team/attending cardiologist.

      Patients randomized to the dual shock group will have two near-simultaneous 200-Joule shocks
      delivered through the two sets of pads (antero-posterior position and right
      infraclavicular-axillary position). The first of these shocks will be synchronized. If the
      first attempt with this approach fails to terminate atrial fibrillation a second attempt will
      be made using the same approach. If the second attempt fails the dual shock approach will be
      considered to have failed and further treatment will be determined by the primary
      team/attending cardiologist.

      Primary Endpoint - Successful termination of atrial fibrillation after initial Direct Current
      Ccardioversion (DCCV). Successful cardioversion = immediate termination of atrial
      fibrillation with electrocardiographic (ECG) evidence of atrial fibrillation (AF)
      termination. The physician deciding whether AF was successfully terminated will be blinded to
      whether the shock was with single or dual shocks. - Partial success will be considered if
      atrial fibrillation is terminated by the second attempt using the same approach. Secondary
      Endpoints - Maintenance of normal sinus rhythm at one hour post cardioversion - Presence of
      symptomatic skin burn (symptoms rated on a scale of 1-10) - Thromboembolic complications -
      Ventricular Arrhythmias requiring additional shock therapy Documentation of Anticoagulation
      All patients need to have established therapeutic anticoagulation. Either 1) Therapeutic
      warfarin (with International normalized ratio (INR) >2) or therapeutic doses of apixaban,
      dabigatran, rivaroxaban or edoxaban for at least 3 consecutive weeks before and with plans to
      continue 4 weeks after cardioversion. 2) Therapeutic anticoagulation with intravenous heparin
      or therapeutic subcutaneous enoxaparin or non-vitamin K oral anticoagulant if atrial
      fibrillation episode is known to be of recent onset (<48 hours), with anticoagulation to
      continue for at least one week post cardioversion. 3) Sub-therapeutic or no anticoagulation
      preceding cardioversion, but transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) confirming absence of
      intra-cardiac thrombus. Therapeutic anticoagulation should be administered just prior to
      cardioversion and planned to continue for at least 4 weeks post cardioversion.
    
  