
    
      Approximately 4 million babies were born in the United States in 2015. Umbilical cord blood
      (UBC) collection is a routine hospital procedure done to evaluate a newborn's health after
      the birth of the fetus. UBC is tested to measure bilirubin levels, blood gases, blood sugar
      levels, blood types, complete blood counts, and platelet counts. UBC is collected by either
      draining the blood into the collection vial, milking the umbilical cord of blood, or
      extracting the blood by injecting a needle with a syringe. The Center for Disease Control
      (CDC) estimates 5.6 million workers in the health care industry are at risk of occupational
      exposure to bloodborne pathogens. Occupational exposure during umbilical cord blood
      collection may occur due to the great deal of blood and amniotic fluid present at the time of
      delivery. This fluid causes the physician to have a slippery grasp on the umbilical cord and
      vials for collection. These methods pose a risk of exposing Labor and Delivery staff to blood
      borne diseases. The drainage and milking method can lead to an increased amount of spilled
      blood while the extraction method may lead to accidental needle sticks. Exposure to
      bloodborne pathogens may be amplified when the umbilical cord is engorged with blood and as
      the needle is inserted in the cord, splatter may occur. The Needlestick Safety and Prevention
      Act was signed into law on November 6, 2000 in which employees were required to implement
      safer medical devices. Many patents have been obtained for umbilical cord blood collection
      devices however, there has not been a standardized method of collecting and transferring
      umbilical cord blood to the laboratory vacuum tubes. The goal of this project is to prove the
      feasibility of using the Q-Cup, a patent pending disposable, two-piece blood collection and
      transfer device for safely and efficiently collecting umbilical cord blood and transferring
      it into laboratory vacuum tubes.

      The overall objective of this project is to prove the feasibility of using a two-piece
      umbilical blood collection and transfer device for safely and effectively collecting
      umbilical cord blood and transferring the blood into a laboratory vacuum tube. Also, the
      investigators will assess provider satisfaction, safety, ease of use, length of procedure
      comparing passive flow into blood tubes and the Q-cup technology. The Q-Cup technology can
      take part in the effort to reduce occupation exposures including percutaneous exposures
      during labor and delivery in general and by studying specifically the heretofore neglected
      category of umbilical cord blood collection and transfer. Efforts in this area will help
      focus attention on this previously ignored domain and help establish a standard of care and
      safety during this frequent procedure.

      The investigators hypothesize the Q-Cup will be a more effective transfer method than current
      practices utilized for umbilical cord blood collection.
    
  