
    
      Autologous skin grafting is a common procedure required in the care of burn and plastic
      surgery patients where the harvesting of autologous skin grafts results in the creation of a
      partial thickness wound known as a donor site. The donor site healing time can affect the
      length of hospitalization and subject survival.

      The literature reports the use of a variety of donor site dressing materials including fine
      mesh gauze, polyurethane film, synthetic fiber and hydrocolloids (Kilinc, Sensoz et al.
      2001). The literature reports what might be considered the optimal donor site dressing
      attributes. These attributes would include: minimizing pain, velocity in healing, minimizing
      bacterial growth and simplicity in use (Rakel, Bermel et al. 1998).

      However, none of the available dressing products are entirely satisfactory. Fine mesh gauze
      (FMG) is the donor site dressing used at many burn centers, as it is inexpensive, can be
      placed on posterior donor sites, does not require a margin of intact skin and allows large
      amounts of exudate to drain away from the donor site.

      However, FMG does not have any inherent anti-infective properties and provides a dry
      environment for wound healing. Xeroform® Petrolatum Dressing resembles FMG physically except
      that it contains 3% xeroform (bismuth tribromophenate) which exerts some antibacterial effect
      (Feldman, Rogers et al. 1991). Xeroform® Petrolatum Dressing is the standard donor site
      dressing in the Firefighters' Burn Treatment Unit (3C2 WMC) and Plastic Surgery Unit (3D3
      WMC) and has been selected as the control treatment (Control Dressing).

      Research evidence demonstrates that partial thickness wounds re-epithelialize more rapidly in
      a moist environment that is free from infection (Alper 1986; Alvarez 1988). In an effort to
      provide an improved method of dressing wounds and donor sites, exSALT SD7™ has been proposed
      as an alternative dressing (Test Dressing). The dressing is intended to reduce pain and
      discomfort and improve the re-epithelialization process by providing a moist environment. The
      model outlined in this protocol provides the basis for a controlled comparison of wound
      healing and re-epithelialization in a clean partial thickness wound that allows us to compare
      the healing rate and quality of the Test Dressing compared to our standard of care to
      determine safety and efficacy.
    
  