
    
      Reducing opioid prescription related use and misuse is a major focus for countering the
      national epidemic of opioid overdose and death. Annually, over 3.5 million predominantly
      young and healthy individuals undergo outpatient third molar ('wisdom tooth') tooth
      extractions and routinely receive postoperative opioid prescription (Moore, Nahouraii et al.
      2006). This procedure is among the most prevalent instances of opioid prescriptions dispensed
      to adolescents and is the subject of a national debate, given the risk for persistent opioid
      use and abuse in a vulnerable population (Volkow, McLellan et al. 2011, Dowell, Haegerich et
      al. 2016, Groenewald, Rabbitts et al. 2016, Moore, Dionne et al. 2016, Harbaugh, Nalliah et
      al. 2018). The investigators believe that this overuse can be minimized by bringing about
      immediate and sustained pain relief following extractions and by proper monitoring to
      regulate post-operative opioid usage.

      Prolonged mouth opening as well as eccentric and isometric contractions, as are typical
      during third molar tooth extraction procedures, can result in acute muscle pain in the
      masticatory or 'chewing' muscles. However, it is common practice to numb only the actual
      tooth extraction site for postoperative pain management, without evaluating for and
      addressing acute post-procedure muscle pain. The investigators' preliminary studies have
      corroborated the efficacy of the Twin block, a local anesthetic, in the diagnosis and
      management of acute and chronic myogenous orofacial pain stemming from the 'chewing muscles'
      (Quek, Young et al. 2014, Kanti, Ananthan et al. 2017). The investigators expect that
      administering the Twin block immediately following third molar extractions, will be an
      innovative and effective modality to alleviate acute post-procedure pain experienced by the
      patient and hence reduce the need for post-operative opioid pain medication. Our hypothesis,
      therefore, is that reduction in opioid prescription and unwarranted use can be achieved by a
      combination of Twin block and an actively monitored pill dispenser. We have selected the
      iPill Dispenser® to monitor and regulate post-operative usage.

      The iPill device includes an App that utilizes biometric user authentication to operate a
      portable tamper-resistant, pre-calibrated device to regulate, deliver, and monitor opioid
      usage for pain, preventing overconsumption and diversion. Coencapsulating the pain pill with
      the IEM will create a virtual 'time-stamp' by triggering a wireless signal from the IEM, when
      contacted by stomach acid content, which is detected by a sensor secured on the skin with an
      adhesive strip.

      Therefore, the Specific Aims are:

      Specific Aim 1. Compare peak postoperative pain after third molar tooth extractions, with and
      without the twin block, in a randomized blind prospective clinical study Patients undergoing
      third molar tooth extractions under 'moderate' (intravenous) sedation, will be randomized to
      receive either the twin block or a sham injection on the side of their extraction/s. The Twin
      block and sham injection groups will be compared for peak postoperative pain measured using
      the numerical pain rating scale (NRS). The investigators predict at least a 50% reduction in
      percentage of patients reporting significant pain (NRS≥5), in the group randomized to receive
      the twin block.

      Specific Aim 2. Compare postoperative opioid consumption during the first 96 hours following
      third molar tooth extractions between patients randomized to the control or twin block groups
      Using the iPill dispenser and app, the investigators will track IEM-co-encapsulated opioid
      consumption for severe pain among patients randomized to either the sham or Twin block arms.
      The investigators predict at least a 30% reduction in opioid consumption for severe pain in
      the group randomized to receive the Twin block. The investigators expect that utilizing the
      iPill dispenser® and app will enforce rigorous, real-time and accurate monitoring of opioid
      usage for pain management, overcoming the traditional reliance on patient-reported usage.

      POSSIBLE OUTCOMES: This research will potentially transform conventional postoperative pain
      management following third molar ('wisdom' tooth) extractions. The investigators expect the
      routine incorporation of the twin block to alleviate post-operative pain, thereby reducing
      the current reliance on opioid prescriptions in a vulnerable population, especially after a
      commonplace procedure.
    
  