
    
      Production and consumption of soy foods within Western countries have increased dramatically
      in the last decade with the postulated health benefits including improvement in bone health,
      relief of menopausal symptoms and reduced risk of certain types of cancers due to the soy
      phytoestrogens. In addition, habitual intake of soy phytoestrogens has also been associated
      with a reduced risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and cardiovascular disease (CVD),
      which is of particular relevance given the increasing global prevalence of diabetes. This is
      a particular problem here in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region, where diabetes
      is considered as a serious and increasing health problem. According to the International
      Diabetes Federation the prevalence of diabetes in the MENA region is over 23.3%; however
      worldwide there is an epidemic increase in type 2 diabetes with the WHO report that
      approximately 415 million people have diabetes worldwide, and that by 2030, diabetes will be
      the 7th leading cause of death.

      Dried dates (Phoenix dactylifera) have the second highest phytoestrogen content of any fruit,
      only secondary to dried apricots with 329ug of phytoestrogens per 100g. The date palm is one
      of oldest planted trees on the earth at around 2,000 years old. Dates are nutritionally rich
      and a good source of fiber and carbohydrates and their potential medicinal and nutritional
      effects have been suggested in a number of studies. Date sugars have also been shown to be
      phenol rich, potent antioxidant, and strong inhibitor of α -glycosidase that may also have
      benefit in diabetes. In addition, dates are rich in micronutrients that may also have benefit
      for diabetes and insulin resistance. Dates have a glycemic index of 50 and studies have shown
      that the consumption of differing varieties of dates do not significantly affect the acute
      glycemia in patients with type 2 diabetes.

      There has not been a medium term study of the effect of date fruit in diabetes; therefore,
      this study will determine if the consumption Khalas dates (3 dates =30g undried dates) twice
      daily (phytoestrogen content 329ug/100g), in accord with that advised in the Holy Qur'an,
      will improve the glycemic control in men with type 2 diabetes, in comparison with the
      equivalent glycemic load of raisins (30g twice daily, phytoestrogen content of 9.6ug/100g).
      Each intervention will be taken as a snack mid-morning and mid-afternoon.
    
  