
    
      The investigators will conduct time series analyses, geospatial mapping and risk-factor
      association studies for both access to and outcomes of surgical treatments of the upper
      limbs. A large cohort of pseudonymised records will be extracted from the NHS Hospital
      Episode Statistics Admitted Patient Care database. Suitable patients will be identified based
      on a match to a specified list of International Classification of Diseases (ICD-10) and
      Office for Population Censuses and Surveys (OPCS-4) codes. Dates and cause of death will be
      linked from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) by NHS Digital.

      Separate analyses will be conducted for different intervention types with detailed outcomes
      reporting for high volume procedures. Adults will be defined as those aged 18 years or older
      at the time of surgery. Children will be defined as those aged less than 18 years at surgery
      and only included in a limited number of analyses where relevant (e.g. trigger digit).

      Key analyses:

        1. Baseline demographics by procedure type

        2. Procedure volume incidence trends

             -  Time series analysis

             -  Adjusted to standard population distributions

             -  Geographical mapping including adjustment for sociodemographic indices including
                indices of deprivation

        3. Revision, reoperation and mortality rates:

             -  Estimation by Kaplan Meier and actuarial life table methods

             -  Life time risk calculated by the cumulative probability method

             -  Cox regression adjusted for comorbidities and demographic, social and geographic
                factors

        4. Complications, length of stay, costs:

             -  Logistic and linear regression models for binary and continuous outcomes
                respectively

             -  Adjusted for comorbidities and demographic, social and geographic factors

      Where appropriate, the impact of replacing missing data will be explored with use of multiple
      imputation. All suitable patients will be entered into analyses to maximise statistical
      efficiency.
    
  