
    
      This research designed as a prospective study between February 2017 and June 2017. An ethical
      committee approval was obtained (document number 2017/01). The patients were selected among
      medically healthy volunteers, who referred to us for extraction only one mandibular molar
      tooth. The informed consents were obtained. Exclusion criteria were smoking, oral
      contraceptive use, any conditions affecting the immune system, usage of antibiotics in last
      two weeks and the teeth needed surgical extractions.

      A total of 82 patients aged between 15 and 79 years (mean 40.52 ± 15.46) met the study
      criteria. When deciding on acute infection phase, percussion sensitivity was accepted as the
      basic criteria. It was defined as severe pain when a dental mirror was dropped about 1 cm
      above the tooth.

      Patients with acutely infected teeth were labeled as "study group" (n = 35) and the
      asymptomatic patients as "control group" (n = 47). The null hypothesis of the study was
      "there is no significant difference between the acutely infected and asymptomatic lower molar
      teeth in terms of the complications that may occur during and after tooth extraction". The
      level of statistical significance was accepted as 0.05 and SigmaPlot 11.0 (Systat Software,
      Inc., San Jose, Calif.) program was used for statistical analyses.

      Surgical Method All the extractions were performed by the same operator. The investigators
      used 4% Articaine and 1:100,000 epinephrine HCL as the anesthetic solution. Inferior alveolar
      nerve (IAN) and buccal nerve (BN) blockages were performed by using 1.5 mL. and 0.5 mL of
      solution, respectively. If the anesthesia had failed, the same procedure was repeated. The
      amount of anesthetic solution used for each patient was recorded.

      Numbness on the half of the lower lip, and feeling no pain when probing the periodontal space
      of the target tooth was accepted a successful IAN blockage. Then the BN blockage was
      performed and the routine extraction was completed. Unless there was a radiographically
      confirmed granulation tissue, the investigators did not curette the extraction sockets. The
      investigators also did not package any medications into the wounds or did not suture. A
      sterile damp gauze was placed tightly on the extraction area and the patients were asked to
      bite it for 20 minutes. Extraction durations were noted for each patient.

      All patients were given postoperative instructions. In the presence of a possible
      complication, they were asked to apply to our clinic and not to use antibiotics on their own.

      Postoperative Evaluation of Systemic Condition The investigators called all the patients on
      first and second post-extraction days for assessing the systemic signs of fever, fatigue, and
      shivering.

      Postoperative Evaluation of The Extraction Wound If the patients applied with severe pain,
      The investigators recorded onset time and characteristic of the pain. In the intraoral
      examination, no granulation tissue as a sign of healing and exposed bare alveolar bone was
      accepted as alveolar osteitis.

      The investigators use SigmaPlot 11.0 (Systat Software, Inc., San Jose, CA) package software
      programme for statistical analysis. To compare the rates of AO, chi-square test with Yates
      correction was employed. Shapiro-Wilk normality test was performed on the data for the amount
      of anesthetic solution used and the duration of extractions. Since the data did not fit the
      normal distribution, nonparametric Mann Whitney U test was used.
    
  