
    
      Design: This is a prospective, non-randomized study. The purpose of the present study is 1)
      to assess whether the changes in sinus node cycle length during VF induction following ICD
      implant correlate with arterial BRG, and 2) to determine whether these changes, and thus
      arterial BRG, predict BP recovery post-defibrillation.

      POSSIBLE BENEFITS: There are no specific potential benefits for subjects participating in
      this study. Results from this study should greatly improve investigator's knowledge of VF and
      BP control.

      POSSIBLE RISKS & DISCOMFORTS: The potential risks or discomforts are associated with the
      assessment of arterial baroreflex gain.

      Nitroprusside (NTP) infusion may result in significant drop in blood pressure, heart attack,
      rhythm disturbances and stroke. The risks associated with phenylephrine (PE) infusion include
      blood pressure elevation, heart attack, rhythm disturbances and stroke. The likelihood of
      this is very small since the medications will be given in small, gradual doses with close
      monitoring by study personnel and physicians. If significant blood pressure changes occur,
      the medication will be stopped immediately. Stopping the medication will quickly reverse any
      blood pressure changes since the drugs have a very short half-life.

      Study procedures: Arterial baroreflex gain measurements will be performed either at the
      patient's bedside or in the electrophysiology laboratory as described below. BP will be
      monitored using a non-invasive arterial tonometer (Colin, San Antonio, TX) if performed at
      bedside, or a preexisting arterial line if performed in the laboratory. Logistical
      considerations, such as timing, would be a reason for performing the assessment at the
      bedside. The majority of the studies will be performed in the laboratory. This procedure will
      take approximately 20 minutes.

      NTP will be injected into a peripheral vein as bolus infusion starting with 50mcg and
      increasing in 50mcg increments. NTP administration will be stopped when a 20-30mmHg drop in
      systolic or diastolic blood pressure is elicited. This will be followed by PE administration
      as a bolus infusion starting with 50mcg and increasing in 50mcg increments. PE administration
      will be stopped when an increase in systolic or diastolic BP of 10-20 mmHg above baseline is
      elicited. If, at any time during drug infusion, systolic blood pressure decreases below
      90mmHg or increases above 160mmHg, or if the subject complains of discomfort that could be
      associated with blood pressure changes, the infusion will stop immediately. Specific
      conditions will result in arterial BRG being assessed using only NTP or PE: 1) allergy to
      NTP, or a systolic blood pressure (SBP) <100 will exclude the use of NTP; 2) hypersensitivity
      to phenylephrine products, narrow angle glaucoma or a SBP >140mmHg will exclude the use of
      PE. Drugs will be infused through existing venous access.

      Arterial BRG will be determined as change in heart rate (HR)/change in diastolic blood
      pressure (DBP) during drug infusion.

      Following assessment of baroreflex gain, (patients will be moved to the laboratory if the
      assessment was performed at bedside) patients will undergo their scheduled procedure. After
      the implantation of their ICD, VF induction is performed for the assessment of the
      defibrillation thresholds.

      During the VF episodes, changes in sinus node CL measured from the stored atrial electrogram
      (EGM) from the implanted device will be recorded. Specifically, investigators will be
      measuring the average CL over the last 5 seconds before defibrillation (VF-SNCL) and will be
      comparing it with the average sinus node CL during the 5 seconds prior to VF induction
      (Baseline-SNCL). In addition, continuous BP monitoring from an existing arterial line during
      and following defibrillation will be stored onto a data recording system. BP recovery will be
      defined as the difference in mean BP during the 5 seconds before defibrillation compared with
      the first 30 seconds after successful defibrillation. Post-shock pacing will always be set at
      40bpm in a VVI mode.

      The changes in sinus node CL and BP recovery measurements will only be derived from the first
      successful VF induction followed by successful VF termination. The induction of non-sustained
      VF or VT will be considered grounds for withdrawal. On the other hand, the failure to induce
      VF will not be considered grounds for withdrawal.

      12 Month Follow-Up: Data will be gathered from scheduled and unscheduled ICD related hospital
      visits for 12 months. All ICD related events will be monitored and recorded. Appropriate ICD
      events will be defined as all events that required anti-tachycardia pacing (ATP) or
      defibrillation, and which were diagnosed by 2 independent electrophysiologists as being
      ventricular in origin.
    
  