
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      The overall goal of this proposal is to provide new insights into long-term motor learning by
      studying patients with focal hand dystonia (FHD) and healthy controls. Long-term motor
      learning has never been studied in FHD patients. Our central hypothesis is that dystonia is
      caused by abnormal long-term motor learning. Specifically, the aims of this study are:

        1. To show that FHD patients have abnormal motor learning, and in particular, have slower
           motor skill acquisition compared to healthy controls.

        2. To show that FHD patients have difficulty in performing newly acquired motor skills
           automatically.

        3. To study brain dynamics (i.e. cortico-cortical connectivity and motor cortex
           excitability) in FHD patients and healthy controls while learning a sequence of finger
           movements over a 3-month period of time.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      We will follow 10 patients with FHD affecting their dominant hand and 10 healthy volunteers.

      DESIGN:

      We have devised this case-control experimental study to evaluate the long-term learning of
      sequential finger movements in FHD patients and healthy controls. We will study FHD patients
      and healthy volunteers for 12 weeks as they learn a 4 finger sequence of eight key presses
      with their left hand using a metronome to mark the rhythm. All subjects will be right-handed
      and age-matched. They will be asked to practice this sequence of 8 key presses daily for 30
      minutes for the first week and then for 15 minutes for the remainder of the study. For the
      first 3 weeks of the study, subjects will come to the Clinical Center (CC) 10 times at
      regular intervals based on their availability. They will practice daily at the CC or at home
      during this period. They will then come to the CC every 2 weeks (plus or minus 3 days) for
      the remainder of the study while practicing daily for 15 minutes. At each visit, learning
      will be assessed by measuring the sequence error rates (SER) and variability in the interval
      between key presses. All subjects will be asked to keep a log of daily practice during the 12
      weeks. At each visit patients will be carefully questioned and evaluated for the development
      of abnormal movement patterns suggestive of early dystonia.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      The primary outcome of this study will be to measure the SER at baseline, week 4 and week 12
      using 20 consecutive trials of the 8 sequences. We will measure multiple secondary outcomes:
      (a) variability in the interval between key presses; (b) automaticity of the movement
      evaluated by a dual task; (c) constrained action evaluated by a thinking task; (d)
      transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and electroencephalography (EEG) studies to explore
      changes in brain physiology.
    
  