
    
      A total of 104 patients with an exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
      selected from the Emergency Department (ED) of the hospital were randomized to home treatment
      from a Geriatric Home Hospitalization Service (GHHS) or to General Medical Ward (GMW).

      The sample size estimation was performed according to the increasing 1-year (June 2002-May
      2003) incidence of COPD exacerbation in hospital at home. On this basis, al least 100
      patients needed to be included in the study to allow to detect a 20% difference in the
      endpoint hospital iatrogenic diseases, with a statistical significance  = 0.05 and a power
      1-  = 0.8 using a two-sided test.

      This study is considered a single-blind study because patients were aware of the treatment
      assignment while physicians and nurses evaluating patients were blinded to the patient's
      allocation.

      In the ED all patients underwent baseline standard clinical evaluation; blood tests (blood
      cell count, routine biochemical tests and arterial blood gas tensions); pulse oximetry;
      12-lead electrocardiography; chest radiographs and hand-held spirometry (SpirHOMEter, COSMED,
      Italy). Further investigations (including pneumologist's assessment) were performed when
      required, according to the clinical judgement of the ED physician. Only patients with a COPD
      exacerbation evaluated in ED for at least 12-24 hours and with stable clinical conditions
      were considered elegible to be included in the study.

      Additional exclusion criteria were: 1) living outside the hospital catchment area; 2) absence
      of family and social support; 3) absence of informed consent; 4) necessity of intensive
      monitoring or mechanical ventilation; 5) history of dementia; 6) severe renal or hepatic
      failure; 7) cancer.

      Patients fullfilling inclusion criteria were informed about the nature of the study and asked
      to give their informed consent. Extensive information was also provided to patients'
      relatives to obtain their collaboration. Patients fullfilling the inclusion criteria and
      having none of the criteria for exclusion were randomised, using a set of computer-generated
      random numbers, in a 1:1 ratio either to the treatment group (home-based hospitalization
      (GHHS)) or to the control group (conventional care (GMW)), using blinded sealed envelopes.
      Intention-to-treat analysis was used.
    
  