
    
      Ten (10) patients with suspected functional popliteal artery entrapment syndrome will be
      recruited for this study. Dr. Michael Fredericson will recruit patients from local sports
      medicine clinics and sports teams. Equal men and women will be recruited, between the age of
      18 and 50 years. This subcategory will reduce the potential of recruiting patients with
      age-related confounding causes for their symptoms.

      After patients have been identified as having clinical features suggestive of PAES,
      confirmation of the diagnosis will involve the following in accordance with standards of
      care: 1) Ankle-brachial index testing with provocative maneuvers (maximal passive
      dorsiflexion and maximal active plantarflexion, treadmill running at a slope), 2) MRI
      angiography with provocative maneuvers (maximal plantar and dorsiflexion).

      All patients will also complete at baseline a visual analog scale (VAS) of their pain, a
      lower extremity functional scale (LEFS), and lower extremity ultrasound for evaluation of
      gastrocnemius muscle size.

      Currently, treatment of functional PAES involves surgical intervention frequently involving
      resection of the gastrocnemius muscle. As part of this study, BTX-A will be administered to
      the gastrocnemius. Patients will be informed about the indications, contraindications, and
      adverse events associated with BTX-A injections, and they will be informed of current
      standard of care options, including surgical intervention. Written consent will be obtained.

      Dr. Michael Fredericson will carefully inject BTX-A (Dysport-Ipsen Inc.) into the proximal
      third of the medial and lateral gastrocnemius muscles of the symptomatic leg(s). Total dose
      per leg will be 400 units, 200 per injection site. Injections will be performed with the aid
      of real-time ultrasound (Sonosite, Bothwell, WA) guidance.

      The premise of the intervention is that hypertrophy of the gastrocnemius muscle leads to
      functional entrapment of the popliteal artery at the level of the popliteal fossa with
      provocation maneuvers or exercise. By temporarily reducing muscle tone and promoting
      localized atrophy through BTX-A-induced chemodenervation, this entrapment can be relieved.

      The primary outcome measures for this study will be VAS scores, LEFS scores, findings of
      improved blood flow on ABI with provocative maneuvers, and gastrocnemius size on ultrasound.

      All patient's recruited to this study will have failed prior conservative treatment, and
      therefore any improvements seen in symptoms from the BTX-A injection will be considered above
      and beyond what was provided by conservative care. As such, each patient in this study design
      acts as their own case control (i.e. there is no appropriate intervention and/or placebo
      control group for these patients).

      At 1 month, 3 months and 6 months post-injection, patients will return for clinical
      examination, visual analog scale (VAS) score, a lower extremity functional scale (LEFS), and
      lower extremity ultrasound for evaluation of gastrocnemius muscle size.
    
  