
    
      Most problem gamblers don't access treatment, often because of stigma, embarrassment or a
      desire to handle their problems on their own. However, research has demonstrated the
      effectiveness of self-help interventions for gambling problems, and this area deserves more
      attention because it addresses a cost-effective means of helping problem gamblers without
      requiring them to come to treatment. One promising self-help intervention for problem
      gamblers is personalized feedback. Such interventions have shown consistently positive
      results with other addictive behaviours, and our pilot test of personalized feedback
      materials for gamblers showed positive results. This randomized controlled study will
      evaluate the sustained efficacy of a personalized feedback intervention for problem gamblers
      in the general population of Ontario. It will also allow testing of the hypothesis that
      change in perception of gambling norms is a mediator in this process.

      Hypothesis 1: Problem gamblers who receive the personalized feedback intervention will reduce
      their gambling more than problem gamblers who do not receive any intervention (waiting list
      control condition) by a six-month follow-up.Hypothesis 2: The effect of the intervention will
      be sustained through the 12-month follow-up.Hypothesis 3 (mediator hypothesis): Respondents
      in the intervention condition who report greater reductions in their estimates about how much
      others gamble between baseline and three-month follow-up will demonstrate more improvement in
      gambling outcomes at six-month follow-up, compared to respondents in the intervention
      condition who report smaller reductions in their perceived gambling norms.

      The design of this study is a randomized (modified) waiting list controlled study. Subjects
      will be recruited via a random digit dialing telephone screener of the Ontario population.
      Respondents who are identified by the screener as problem gamblers and who indicate an
      interest in receiving, at some time in the future, a free computerized summary comparing
      their gambling to that of other Canadians, will be asked if they will take part in a study to
      "help us develop and evaluate self-help materials for gamblers." They will be told that the
      materials and the three-, six- and 12-month follow-up surveys would be mailed to them.
      Compensation is provided for the completion of each survey.

      Provision of name and address will constitute consent. Subjects will be randomly assigned to
      condition - those in the intervention condition will be sent their personalized feedback -
      those in the control condition will be asked to tell us what they think should be included in
      self-help materials for gamblers. (Control subjects will receive the personalized feedback
      after the six-month follow-up.)

      3-month, 6-month, and 12-month follow-up questionnaires will be sent to all subjects.

      On the 12-month follow-up subjects will be asked to provide the name, address and telephone
      number of a collateral.
    
  