
    
      This randomized study will compare a personalized Survivorship Care Plan (SCP) template with
      usual care (no SCP). The investigators hypothesize that the personalized SCP that
      incorporates patient specific treatment exposures and provides a framework for long term
      followup based on those exposures and subsequent risks for late complications will enhance
      patient survivorship confidence in knowledge, increase adherence to recommended healthcare,
      improve health behaviors and reduce hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) - related emotional
      distress.

      The randomized study design will be able to evaluate the efficacy of individualized SCP in
      enhancing transplant survivor knowledge, health behaviors and health care utilization for
      recommended preventive care. Most transplant centers do not use a standardized SCP for their
      HCT recipients, and hence, the control arm would represent prevalent standard of care (e.g.,
      discharge summary, provider-to-provider communication).

      Transplant centers that will participate in this study will represent a spectrum of center
      types (e.g., geographic location, center volume, resources and infrastructure) and patient
      populations (e.g., healthcare disparities, urban/rural population, distance from transplant
      center). Usual care for each center will be documented at the time of determining center
      eligibility. The study principal investigators, in consultation with the protocol team, will
      make the determination about center eligibility after reviewing the centers "usual care"
      procedures. In order to avoid contamination of the study intervention, centers will be asked
      not to change their follow-up practices for the period they are enrolling patients on the
      study.

      The primary objective of the investigators study is to evaluate the impact of an
      individualized SCP on survivor knowledge about past diagnostic and treatment details,
      confidence in knowledge about prevention and treatment of late-effects, access to resources
      and familial risk of cancer. For this objective, the investigators will compare the change in
      score on the Confidence in Survivorship Information instrument from baseline to 6 months
      after the study intervention.

      Secondary objectives will investigate the influence of individualized SCP on standardized
      measures of HCT related distress, knowledge of recommended care, health behaviors,
      self-efficacy, and health care utilization.
    
  