
    
      The Boston type 1 keratoprosthesis (KPro) is an artificial cornea that restores the clarity
      of the visual axis. It is indicated in patients for whom conventional corneal transplantation
      offers a very low probability of success. Several innovations have led to improved outcomes
      following implantation of a KPro. However, retention of the KPro varies between 83 and 100%
      in the most recent series. The extrusion of the KPro is usually caused by the melting of the
      corneal tissue (keratolysis or sterile necrosis) used as a support.

      This corneal melting is mediated by enzymes from the class of the matrix metalloproteinases
      (MMP). Several different types of insults may lead to an excess of these enzymes. Chronic
      inflammation of the ocular surface is undoubtedly the best recognized risk factor. Indeed,
      autoimmune diseases such as Stevens-Johnson syndrome, Lyell syndrome (toxic epidermal
      necrolysis, TENS) and mucous membrane pemphigoid, has the highest rate of corneal melting
      post KPro. Moreover, the development of a retroprosthetic membrane has recently been
      recognized as a risk factor for melting. Furthermore, the dryness of the corneal epithelium,
      due to insufficient tear production or an alteration of the blink reflex of the eye, can also
      lead to an overexpression of MMP. Finally, infectious keratitis can lead to significant
      thinning of the corneal tissue, even once the infectious process is resolved.

      Corneal collagen cross-linking is a technique approved by Health Canada for strengthening the
      biomechanical properties of the cornea. The crosslinked corneas become more resistant to
      collagenase and other MMP. The use of a crosslinked corneal graft as a support for the KPro
      is an interesting approach to the prevention of corneal melting.

      A prospective, randomized, controlled and double-blind study will be conducted with patients
      receiving a Kpro at the Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal. Forty patients will
      be randomized into two groups, half will receive KPro in a crosslinked graft-support, while
      the other half will receive a usual graft-support. Patients will be met by their surgeon to
      discuss the risks, benefits of the KPro type I and alternatives treatments. Patients
      accepting KPro surgery, will be informed of the nature and course of the study and will be
      offered to participate in the study. The Eye bank of Canada will manage the randomization and
      maintain the codes identifying the crosslinked corneas from the untreated corneas, keeping
      both the surgeon and the patient blinded. Randomization will be done through a free
      application (http://www.randomizer.org/form.htm). A series of 10 numbers will be generated.
      Even numbers indicate crosslinked corneas and odd numbers indicate non-crosslinked corneas.
      The order of the digits will increase as for each subject is enrolled in the study. The
      procedure for corneal collagen crosslinking will be performed at the Eye Bank of Canada in a
      similar procedure to the treatment for keratoconus. Under sterile conditions, the
      corneo-scleral button will be inspected to meet the standard of care. If the patient is
      randomized to the crosslinked group, then the cornea will be treated with crosslinking as
      described further. If the patient is randomized the control group, the cornea will not be
      treated with crosslink but will be deepithelialized and soaked with riboflavin drops as
      described further.

      The surgeon will receive the graft and operate according to the standard procedure. The KPro
      surgery and postoperative care will be performed in the standard way and thus will be the
      same for both study groups. Postoperative follow will be held at 1 day, 1 week, 2 weeks, 1
      month and 3 months and will continue subsequently every 2-4 months depending on the judgment
      of the surgeon. These visits will include measurement of visual acuity and intraocular
      pressure and a full slit-lamp examination. In particular, the presence of corneal melting,
      leakage of aqueous humor, corneal infection and extrusion will be noted. Meanwhile, an
      imaging allowing quantification of the thickness of the cornea graft-support (optical
      coherence tomography anterior segment) will be performed at least once during the first three
      months postoperative. This imaging will be repeated at 1, 2 and 5 years.

      The prevalence of various complications (melting, leak, infection, extrusion) will be
      compared between the two groups with the Fischer exact test. Also, the time between surgery
      and the occurrence of complications will be compared using the Student t test. Finally,
      survival analysis of Kaplan-Meier will be performed for 1) the occurrence of corneal melting
      and 2) maintaining a visual acuity greater than 20/200.
    
  