
    
      The E-DYNAMIC trial a pragmatic randomized two-arm parallel trial that will randomize 51
      teamlets at the Hines Veterans Affairs (VA) hospital outpatient and community based
      outpatient clinics to either the E-DYNAMIC CDS vs. standard care. The E-DYNAMIC CDS will be
      activated for PCPs who practice in teamlets allocated to the E-DYNAMIC CDS group and this CDS
      will be kept active for 18 months to maximize the number of patients with potential CKD who
      complete a clinic visit with teamlets enrolled in the trial.The index date represents the
      first visit with the PCP after the date of switching on E-DYNAMIC CDS in intervention and
      standard care groups. E-DYNAMIC will be active for 18 months to maximize the number of index
      visits of CKD patients with their PCP during the trial; patients with early stage 3 CKD may
      not visit their PCP annually.

      Randomization Scheme: The unit of randomization will be at the teamlet level. PCPs within a
      teamlet provide coverage for each other's patients so randomization of teamlets will help
      prevent contamination. We will match the teamlets in pairs based on their potential patients
      volumes, # of PCPs, and location (hospital based clinic vs. community based outpatient
      clinic). A computer generated randomization scheme will then be used by the biostatistician
      to randomize the pairs to either intervention or control. We will analyze the data for all
      three aims at the patient level, clustered by teamlets; therefore, our analyses will account
      for intra-cluster correlation among patients within the randomized cluster (PCPs practicing
      in teamlets).

      After randomization, we will turn on the E-DYNAMIC CDS for the PCPs working within teamlets
      allocated to the E-DYNAMIC CDS. The E-DYNAMIC CDS will be seen by the PCPs at the
      point-of-care for their highly likely chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients identified by
      up-to-date laboratory data. Teamlets assigned to the standard care group will have no change
      to their clinical practice. The trial is not blinded and PCPs will be aware if they receive
      the E-DYNAMIC clinical decision support (CDS). Written individual consent will not be
      obtained from the providers or patients. All PCPs working in eligible teamlets which could be
      randomized to the E-DYNAMIC CDS will be contacted several months before trial initiation to
      inform them of the study and provide them with opportunity to opt-out of the study. All
      providers who do not opt-out will be eligible to be randomized to the E-DYNAMIC CDS or
      standard care groups.

        1. Study cohort: Our PCP cohort includes all PCPs practicing in PACT teamlets. Our analyses
           will include patients ≥ 50 years old with two eGFR < 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 for ≥ 3 months
           apart with no intermittent eGFR> 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 in the electronic health record
           because these patients have confirmed CKD. Patient level data from administrative
           records will be queried to obtain information on PCP prescribing practices and patient
           use of medications and services for 12 months before trial initiation and for 12 months
           after trial initiation. We will ascertain patient demographics; co-morbidities; mention
           of CKD in the problem list or an international classification of disease (ICD 9/10) code
           for CKD, prescription and proportion of days covered (PDC) for statin medications and
           angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ACE/ARB); and
           prescription and use of nurse education services, medical nutrition therapy (MNT) from a
           dietitian, PharmD consult for medication management, nurse visit for blood pressure
           check and smoking cessation by social worker for smokers.

        2. Data sources: Patient level data will be obtained from the following administrative
           national Veterans Health Administration (VHA) datasets including the corporate data
           warehouse (CDW), Veterans Affairs Vital Status File, and Managerial Cost Accounting
           National Data Extracts where information on medication prescriptions are stored. Our
           analyses will exclude patients receiving dialysis or with a kidney transplant. In order
           to identify patients receiving dialysis or with a previous kidney transplant, we will
           link data files with the United States Renal Data System (USRDS) database to further
           identify these patients. Patient demographics, patient co-morbidities, CKD status based
           on laboratory data and CKD diagnoses (in the problem list or ICD 9/10 code) and statin
           and anti-hypertensive medication prescriptions will all be obtained from the CDW, VA
           Vital Status File and Managerial Cost Accounting National Data Extracts. Reason(s) for
           not prescribing statins will be collected with E-DYNAMIC and will be saved in the CDW as
           a health factor for future analysis. Because a small percentage of patients receive
           their medication from non-VA pharmacies, we will also use data from the Center for
           Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Medicare Part D 'Slim' file obtained from the VA
           Information Resource Center to capture statins and anti-hypertensive medications
           including medications dispensed from non- VA pharmacies. The VA Status Files is updated
           quarterly.

        3. Patient surveys: Using data from the CDW, we will identify eligible patients receiving
           care at the Hines VA hospital and community based outpatient clinics who have upcoming
           PCP (in the trial teamlets) appointment in the next 0-6 months. We will stratify the
           patients by teamlet and use random number generator to select equal number of patients
           from each teamlet for a total number of 750 eligible patients to participate in the
           survey (pre-test). These same patients will be followed up for 6 months from the Index
           visit date and contacted again to re-take the survey (post-test). Our sampling strategy
           will account for patients who will not show up for their appointments (20%),
           non-response (20%) and loss to follow-up during post-test (30%). We anticipate that 400
           Veterans will complete the pre and post surveys. We will mail a short, informational
           letter explaining the purpose of the survey, their role and the voluntary nature of
           participation. We will inform the patient that our study coordinator will contact them
           in the next couple of weeks to conduct the survey. Patients will be provided a phone
           number to call to opt-out of the survey. We will use a verbal consent script to obtain
           verbal consent before proceeding with patient surveys. The survey instruments will
           consist of the standardized and validated Patient Activation Measure (PAM). Survey will
           also include questions about statin and/or ACE/ARB use and other hypertension use, and
           why the patient thinks the doctor prescribed them and if they have received CKD
           education from a nurse or attended a group CKD education class.

        4. Provider perception surveys: We will conduct provider (PCP and nurse) perception surveys
           to evaluate E-DYNAMIC only in the intervention arm after one year of trial enrollment.
           The survey will be available via-email, on paper in the clinic or by phone whichever is
           convenient to the provider. The survey instrument will include short battery of
           statements asking providers to indicate on a 5 point scale how strongly they agree or
           disagree with statements regarding experiences about the E-DYNAMIC CDS (PCPs) and the
           trial (PCPs and nurses), followed by limited number of open ended questions asking for
           their feedback and recommendations for improvement. We will use a written consent script
           at the beginning of the provider surveys and assume consent if the provider proceeded to
           take the on-line survey.

      Statistical analysis and hypothesis testing

        1. primary outcomes:The data analysis for the outcomes will be conducted at the patient
           level clustered by teamlets; therefore, our analyses will account for intra-cluster
           correlation among patients within the randomized cluster (PCPs practicing in teamlets).
           All the primary outcomes in this study are binary (1-Yes/ 0-No). We will assess the
           outcome variables for each patient at two time points: during 12 months prior to the
           index date and postintervention 12 months after the index date. The preintervention data
           will be used as a covariate to adjust for differences in baseline values. For all three
           aims, we propose to use the two-level mixed-effect logistic regression model to analyze
           the data with patients at level 1 nested within clustered teamlets (PCPs) as level 2.
           Although some teamlets may have more than 1 PCP, the PCPs will not be treated as a
           different level since PCPs within the same teamlets share the same patients and the same
           clinical nurses. In addition, the associations between teamlets within hospitals are
           assumed to be very minimal and ignorable given that the E-DYNAMIC system is turned on
           specifically and limited to PCPs in the randomized intervention group. We will formulate
           the probability of a positive outcome (1- Yes) for a given patient in a given clustered
           teamlet using the multilevel mixed effect model. The analysis will be adjusted for
           patient level (e.g. age, gender, race, and baseline CKD stage or presence of diabetes,
           hypertension, ASCVD) and teamlet level (e.g. proportion of baseline CKD recognition,
           number of providers in teamlet, average PCP age in teamlet, median years in practice of
           teamlet PCPs) covariates to eliminate potential impact on outcomes.

        2. Patient surveys: In the initial analyses, we will analyze the raw scores (0-100) from
           the PAM survey and answers to the medication awareness and education participation. We
           will use the difference in differences approach to compare change in patient activation
           level from pre to post between intervention and control groups. A mixed-effect
           regression model will be applied to account for the intra-cluster correlations. Our
           analyses will control for patient demographic and medical characteristics.

        3. Provider perception surveys: We will use descriptive statistics to describe results from
           the provider surveys separately for nurses and PCPs and report summary descriptive
           statistics. Established qualitative analytic techniques will be used to examine results
           from the open-ended questions, albeit staff answers may be brief, it will involve
           identifying key themes and concepts emergent from the data to generate meaningful
           categorization.

      Sample size justification

        1. Primary outcomes: An estimated 7,825 patients with CKD in 51 teamlets receive care from
           the Hines VA based clinics and its associated 6 CBOC clinics. We have conducted power
           calculations under various scenarios for changing the effect size (proportion difference
           in the outcome between intervention and standard care groups) and the outcome level in
           the standard care group. To test the primary outcomes in 3 specific aims, the
           significance level of alpha was decreased to 0.0167 accounting for the multiple
           hypothesis testing in each aim. As such, a total sample size of 50 clustered teamlets
           (25 in each group) and 4000 patients in each clustered teamlet is anticipated to have
           82% power to detect at least a 10% difference in the outcome between the two groups,
           with an intra-cluster correlation of 0.05 and 20% of patients with the outcome in the
           control group. Our study will also be powered at 80-90% to detect a 20% difference in
           the outcome between the intervention and control groups with the half available number
           of clusters (20 clusters).

        2. Patient surveys: For the patient surveys, at a significance level of 0.05, and
           accounting for an intra-cluster (teamlet) correlation coefficient (ICC) of 0.01, a
           sample size of 400 patients [10 clusters in each group (intervention and control) and 20
           patients in each cluster] is estimated to achieve enough power (at least 90%) to detect
           a difference of 5 points (with SD =10 ) change in the pre- and post-intervention score
           of PAM-13 survey between the intervention and standard care control groups.
    
  