
    
      Outcomes after weight loss surgery are quite variable with some patients regaining a
      significant amount of weight in the postoperative period. Increasing evidence suggests
      gastric bypass leads to weight loss and improvement in associated metabolic illness through
      mechanisms other than just restriction and malabsorption and may include circulating bile
      acids, gut hormones, genetic/epigenetic variability, changes in gut microbiota as well as
      other mechanisms. Whether modifications to bypassed intestine length may improve outcomes
      after gastric bypass has not been adequately studied with inconsistent results in the
      literature. Whether increasing the amount of bypassed intestine may positively amplify the
      multi-factorial mechanisms involved in successful weight loss has not been studied.

      The primary goal of the research is to determine if increasing the amount of bypassed
      intestine during gastric bypass surgery improves outcomes and effects molecular and metabolic
      changes that may impact outcomes after gastric bypass. The proposed research will evaluate
      not only biologic mechanisms of weight loss and correlation between these mechanisms and
      successful weight loss but also investigate the role intestinal bypass has on molecular and
      metabolic mechanisms involved in effective weight loss therapy. Regardless if weight loss
      outcomes are similar in patients with different lengths of bypassed intestine, the role of
      the gut in gastric bypass will be investigated through evaluation of gut microbiota,
      circulating miRNAs and gut hormones, three mechanisms thought to play a role in the
      effectiveness of the gastric bypass for weight loss surgery.

      Aim 1: Determine if increasing length of bypassed intestine leads to improved clinical
      outcomes after gastric bypass. A randomized-controlled trial design will be used with
      patients randomized to variable lengths of bypassed intestine when undergoing gastric bypass.
      A randomized trial will help avoid procedure selection bias. Surgical and non-surgical
      control groups will consist of patients having sleeve gastrectomy (non-intestinal bypass
      surgical control) and those undergoing best non-surgical, medical therapy. Primary outcomes
      measured will include weight loss and relief of medical comorbidities of obesity specifically
      diabetes and dyslipidemia. Secondary outcomes include complications related to malabsorption.

      Aim 2: Measure gut hormone changes after increased intestinal bypass during gastric bypass.
      We will measure gut hormones after variable amounts of intestinal bypass to determine the
      role of intestinal bypass in improvement of gut hormone production that affects metabolism,
      hunger and possibly weight loss. Blood collected from patient's in Aim 1 will be used to
      measure gut hormone levels which will then be correlated to clinical outcomes.

      Aim 3: miRNA profiling in patients having gastric bypass with variable intestinal bypass
      lengths. We will perform miRNA arrays on plasma from patients from Aim 1 to determine
      possible pathways impacted by weight loss and in particular increased intestinal bypass
      lengths in patients undergoing gastric bypass. The variable expression of miRNA will also be
      correlated to weight loss outcomes and metabolic disease improvement in the surgical
      patients.

      Aim 4: Measure variation in gut microbiome due to increased intestinal bypass during gastric
      bypass. We will examine the impact of weight loss and variable intestinal bypass lengths
      during gastric bypass on the gut microbiome. This will be determined through collection of
      stool samples preoperatively as well as postoperatively in patients having weight loss
      surgery. Samples will be collected from patients in Aim 1 above. Sleeve gastrectomy patients
      will be used to determine the impact of surgical weight loss on gut microbiome and variation
      in intestinal bypass lengths will provide insight into the role of bypassed intestine in the
      effects of gastric bypass on changes in gut microbiota after weight loss surgery. Through
      correlation with clinical outcomes we will be able to determine any association with weight
      loss and relief of metabolic disease when the gut microbiota are modified after weight loss
      surgery.

      Approach

      Protocol Aim 1: Determine if increasing length of bypassed intestine leads to improved
      clinical outcomes after gastric bypass.

      Primary outcomes will include weight loss and relief of medical comorbidities of obesity, in
      particular diabetes and dyslipidemia. Secondary outcomes include determining complications
      that occur such as protein calorie malnutrition, vitamin and micronutrient deficiencies and
      chronic diarrhea.

      1a. Randomization of patients and surgical technique. A total of five groups will be used.
      The surgical control group will consist of patients having a laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy
      as described below under procedure descriptions. The non-surgical control group will include
      patients undergoing best medical therapy through our medical weight loss program. The other
      three groups will be randomized through a sealed-envelope method. The assigned group will be
      in a sealed envelope and the patient will be blinded to the treatment group that they are
      assigned to. Patients will be randomized to variable lengths of intestinal bypass during
      performance of a laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass. See description of procedure below.
      These groups will function to examine the impact of increasing lengths of bypassed small
      intestine through modifications of the BPL length. The following three groups will be
      utilized:

        1. Alimentary limb length 100 cm and biliopancreatic limb length (true bypassed intestinal
           length) of 50 cm

        2. Alimentary limb length 100 cm and biliopancreatic limb length (true bypassed intestinal
           length) of 100 cm

        3. Alimentary limb length 100 cm and biliopancreatic limb length (true bypassed intestinal
           length) of 150 cm Sample size for randomization to the three gastric bypass groups will
           be approximately 75 patients in each group. 75 sleeve gastrectomy patients will also be
           included. Sample size was determined based on previously published literature. The total
           number of these patients will be used only for the clinical portion of the study. Sample
           size for this pilot study for each of the gut hormone assays, gut microbiome analyses
           and miRNA arrays will be 15 subjects in each group. This will include 15 patients
           selected from each of the groups of randomized gastric bypass patients, the sleeve
           gastrectomy group, and the medical control group for a total of 75 patients. Each
           patient will have stool and blood collected at pre-treatment (surgical or non-surgical
           therapy), 6 months post therapy and 12 months post therapy.

      Surgical Procedure A gastric bypass will be performed using our standard technique. In brief,
      all procedures will be performed laparoscopically as is standard practice. Specifically at
      our institution, the gastric pouch will be constructed with a linear stapler approximately 5
      cm long and 3 cm wide. The gastrojejunostomy anastomosis will be constructed either with a 25
      mm circular stapler or a linear stapler. The linear stapler common gastroenterotomy will be
      closed in a running 2 layer manner to narrow to approximately 13-15 mm. The jejunojeunostomy
      will be created with a liner stapler after creation of BPL length of 50 cm, 100 cm or 150 cm
      and an alimentary limb length of 100 cm which will be connected to the gastric pouch via the
      gastrojejunostomy. The remaining small bowel, which will represent the common small bowel
      channel will also be measured. Measurements will be achieved using premeasured markings on a
      laparoscopic grasper used to handle the small intestine.

      Patients undergoing a sleeve gastrectomy will serve as the control group in order to
      determine the effect that intestinal bypass has on the measured outcomes. The sleeve
      gastrectomy is performed laparoscopically to resect and remove approximately 80% by volume of
      the outer portion of the stomach. At our institution, specifically the sleeve gastrectomy is
      performed using multiple firings of a laparoscopic stapler using a bougie as an intraluminal
      template for sizing purposes. The bougie is either 36 or 40 French per our usual practice.

      2a. Sample collection preoperatively and postoperatively for metabolic and molecular studies.

      Sample Collection

      Samples will be collected and processed by the OneHealth Biorepository. The following samples
      will be collected in each patient:

        1. Blood: will be collected at a preoperative time point then at 6 months and 12 months
           postoperatively. The blood will be drawn by MU Health Care laboratories and transported
           by courier per standard protocol to the OneHealth Biorepository. It will be fractionated
           into its components and plasma collected and stored at -80℃ as previously described.

        2. Stool: Stool samples will be collected by patients at home using provided kits and
           mailed to the OneHealth Biorepository and stored, as previously described. Samples will
           be aliquoted and stored at -20℃.

      3a. Prospective collection of clinical data. Weight related data will be collected to
      determine effectiveness of weight loss operations. Weight data collected will include high
      weight when entering the weight loss surgery program, immediate preoperative weight collected
      on day of operation and postoperative weights at 1 week, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months and 12
      month follow-up appointments. Additional outcomes collected will include presence of diabetes
      mellitus with glycated hemoglobin (HgbA1C) levels measured preoperatively and at 6 and 12
      months postoperatively Remission of diabetes will be considered if the patient is off all
      anti-diabetic medications with a normal HgbA1C. Presence of preoperative dyslipidemia will
      also be documented to include abnormalities of LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol and
      triglyceride levels. Remission of dyslipidemia will be considered if preoperative abnormal
      levels of LDL and HDL cholesterol and triglycerides return to normal in the absence of
      lipid-lowering agents.

      Aim 2: Measure gut hormone changes after increased intestinal bypass during gastric bypass
      Millipore Human Metabolic Hormone Magnetic Bead Panel - Metabolism Multiplex Assay will be
      used to investigate a panel of gut hormones including GLP-1, GIP, leptin, PYY, and ghrelin.
      Plasma from 15 patients from each group (as described above) for a total of 75 total patients
      will be examined. Hormone levels in the plasma will be measured. Data will be analyzed both
      for intergroup differences as well as correlation with clinical outcomes will be performed.

      Aim 3: miRNA profiling in patients having gastric bypass with variable intestinal bypass
      lengths 15 patients from each group (as described above) for a total of 75 total patients
      will be examined. Plasma will be used to perform Affymetrix miRNA arrays to measure
      expression of all currently known miRNA. Corresponding pathways that miRNA affect will be
      identified using publicly available databases. Differences in miRNA expression between
      treatment groups will be compared. Differential levels of expression of miRNA will also be
      compared to clinical outcomes.

      Aim 4: Measure variation in gut microbiome due to increased intestinal bypass during gastric
      bypass.

      Stool samples will be collected as described above. They will be stored in the OneHealth
      Biorepository until processing. 15 patients from each group (as described above) for a total
      of 75 total patients will be examined. Composition of microbiota in each group will be
      determined as previously described. Comparison between treatment groups will be performed.
      Correlation to clinical outcome variables will be determined
    
  