
    
      Patients with a clinical suspicion of TIA seen at the Stanford Emergency Department, will be
      admitted to the Clinical Decision Area (CDA). The CDA is a short duration (<24 hrs))
      hospitalization unit, where the patient can receive expedited evaluation and monitoring in a
      more comfortable setting than in the ED. Patients will be evaluated by a neurologist
      (resident with fellow or stroke attending). Clinical information will be collected in a
      dedicated chart.

      Evaluation:

      As recommended by the AHA, in the absence of contraindications, all the patients will undergo
      an MRI of the brain and a neck vessel evaluation as part of standard care. This exam will be
      obtained within 6 hours after patient admission to the emergency department. The diffusion
      sequence of the brain MRI will detect the presence of an acute injury related to a blood clot
      (ischemic injury), and the perfusion sequence will capture abnormal intra-cerebral blood
      flow. The other sequences will exclude the presence of other brain lesions susceptible to
      explain the transient symptoms presented by the patient. The MR angiogram (MRA) of the neck
      and intracranial vessels will detect the presence of a symptomatic stenosis that would
      require emergent treatment. In case of MRI contraindication, the patient will undergo a CT of
      the head and neck combining neck and intracranial vessel evaluation and perfusion imaging.

      As recommended, patients will get an EKG and a cardiovascular examination as part of routine
      care.

      As recommended, patients will get a standard lab evaluation as part of routine care including
      general chemistry, hematology, coagulation, lipid profile, Hb A1C), and if indicated, a
      specific prothrombotic and an inflammatory evaluation.

      In approximately 100 patients - AS PART OF THIS RESEARCH PROTOCOL - the investigators will
      evaluate the level of the lipoprotein A2 L at one time point. This biomarker has been
      associated in one publication with an increased risk of vascular events among TIA patients.
      After informed consent, the investigators will perform a standard venipuncture to draw 10 mL
      of blood per patient. The blood will be collected in serum gel separator tubes. The serum
      will be kept cold, and separated from gel and cells within 2 hours. The specimens will then
      be frozen down at -70C until analyses performed by diaDexus lab who are sponsoring this part
      of the study.

        -  As part of the routine triage pathway, patients with an initial normal clinical,
           radiological and biological evaluation are evaluated within the next 12 hours by an
           attending stroke neurologist who will determine whether the patient could be safely
           discharged from the hospital, and the treatment plan including risk factors management
           and antithrombotic treatment. This treatment is initiated in the hospital before patient
           discharge. In following these guidelines, the majority of patients are hospitalized for
           less than 24 hours.

        -  As part of the routine triage pathway, all patients are seen by a stroke neurologist
           and/or a stroke trained nurse practitioner within the next 2 weeks at the Stanford
           outpatient TIA clinic. All the patients routinely receive a follow up telephone call at
           1 month, 3 months and 1 year to evaluate the occurrence of a stroke a myocardial
           infarction and/or a vascular death. In some instances, one or more of these visits is
           clinically indicated to be an in-person visit. If this is the case, the data from the
           in-person clinic visit will be used as part of this study rather than a telephone visit.

      The clinical characteristics of the TIA, the radiological results, the biological results and
      the follow up information will be collected and used in this research protocol for all the
      consented patients.

      The investigators will include all patients who were evaluated under this new pathway since
      it's inception in January 2010. This patient population will be included as chart reviews.
      The charts will be reviewed and data points extracted from the medical record to be used as
      part of the research.

      An additional arm was added in 2012:

      A biomarker of ischemia may help the physicians to confirm the diagnosis of TIA, and help to
      stratify the risk among patients with negative brain imaging. Researchers at UC Davis, have
      evaluated gene expression profiles after a stroke in circulating leucocytes. They have
      isolated specific gene expression profiles associated with transient brain ischemia. The aim
      of this study is to define whether gene expression and proteomic profiles may help to detect
      ischemic mechanism of transient neurological symptoms and stratify the risk of future stroke
      in patients with a negative MRI.

      We will prospectively collect blood samples at Stanford University and the samples will be
      shipped to UC Davis for processing and interpretation.

      Patients: 80 patients at Stanford evaluated for suspicion of TIA with a discharge diagnosis
      of ischemic event: Transient Ischemic Attack or Brain Infarction with transient or minor
      neurological symptoms (NIHSS≤2).

      Blood Tests:

      Genomic analyses: we will evaluate the whole blood genomic profiles. Blood will be collected
      into 3 PAXgene tubes (total 16cc). The FDA approved tubes contain 7.5 cc preservative to
      stabilize RNA immediately. The tubes will be inverted 20 times sit at room temperature
      overnight then placed into a -70C freezer until processed. Those samples will be sent to be
      processed by Professor Frank Sharp's Lab at UC Davis. The RNA will be processed using
      Affymetrix whole genome arrays. In addition, blood is drawn into a lavender top and tiger top
      tubes, processed and stored at Stanford University for future research studies.

      Proteomic analyses will be performed on standard serum tubes as mentioned above. Proteomics
      analyses will be processed and interpreted in collaboration with Dr. Frank Sharp's group.
    
  