
    
      Background:

        -  Effective standard treatment options are currently not available for exocrine pancreas
           carcinomas. Adenocarcinoma of the pancreas, the most frequent exocrine tumor, is the
           fourth leading cause of cancer related deaths in men or women in this country.

        -  Immunotherapy for melanoma as studied in the Surgery Branch has resulted in striking
           tumor regression in some patients.

        -  Procurement of lymphocytes and tumor from patients with pancreas cancer will facilitate
           the identification of tumor-associated antigens leading to rational extensions of
           adoptive therapy and vaccination directed against this disease.

      Objectives:

        -  Primary Objective: To obtain tissue, both tumor and lymphocytes, which can be used to
           identify tumor antigens specific to the various histologies of pancreas and ampullary
           cancer along with the HLA restricted epitopes of these antigens.

        -  Secondary Objective: To treat patients with resectable pancreas neoplasms using standard
           pancreatic resection and follow for survival.

      Eligibility:

        -  Any patient greater than or equal to16 years of age with radiographic or endoscopic
           evidence of a pancreatic mass, ampullary mass or malignant stricture without evidence of
           distant metastases

        -  Patients must have an ECOG performance score of 0-2.

        -  Patients must have laboratory and physical examination parameters within acceptable
           limits by standard of practice guidelines prior to biopsy or surgery.

      Design:

        -  A tissue acquisition trial in which tissues will be obtained at the time of surgical
           operation for the resection of pancreas exocrine tumors.

        -  Tissue will be processed by the Surgery Branch Cell processing lab in accordance with
           their standard practices.

        -  No investigational therapy will be given.

        -  It is anticipated that 180 patients will be enrolled over 7 years.
    
  