
    
      Although previous research in the area of pulmonary rehabilitation in COPD has documented
      that high intensity exercise induces greater benefits than moderate intensity exercise,
      patients with advanced COPD patients cannot sustain sufficiently high intensities for long
      periods of time due to exertional breathlessness. While patients are limited by
      breathlessness during continuous modes of exercise, intermittent exercise is considered to be
      a good alternative strategy for patients with advanced COPD as it is associated with reduced
      exertional symptoms. Intermittent exercise consists of repeated brief bouts of physical
      activity at a high intensity alternated with short periods of recovery. The rationale for the
      implementation of intermittent exercise in healthy people and athletes has been the capacity
      to impose high loads to peripheral muscles without overloading the cardiorespiratory system.
      Working at high intensities with limited exertional symptoms enables severe COPD patients to
      achieve greater exercise volumes and in extend greater peripheral muscle adaptations, thereby
      improving exercise tolerance. International (ATS/ERS) and national (BTS) position statements
      for pulmonary rehabilitation recommend intermittent exercise for patients with advanced COPD.
      Despite the well-documented benefits of intermittent exercise, very few pulmonary
      rehabilitation centres in the UK employ this modality. The reason is that most of the
      community-based pulmonary rehabilitation programmes lack of infrastructure (stationary cycle
      ergometers, treadmills, rowing machines, etc.) and healthcare professionals to implement
      interval exercise. Hence, it is necessary to develop alternative, easily implemented and
      affordable, in terms of symptoms, exercise particularly for patients with advanced COPD
      across the community- and hospital- based pulmonary rehabilitation setting in the UK.

      In the UK, field-based walking training is prescribed in the PR setting as a convenient, less
      resource-intensive, and highly responsive exercise modality in patients with COPD. However,
      in 2018, the National COPD Audit Report, reported that only 62% of enrolled patients
      completed a PR programme, highlighting significant drop-out rates (38%) between initial
      assessment and programme completion. Intense exertional symptoms during the prescribed
      exercise regimes was the main identified factor responsible for non-completion rates. In
      1999, Revill et al, introduced a standardized, externally-paced (continuous) endurance
      shuttle walk (ESW) protocol as a highly responsive and repeatable assessment tool to measure
      endurance capacity. The ESW protocol sustained at a relatively high intensity (85% peak
      walking speed derived by the Incremental Shuttle Walk Test - ISWT) is commonly employed today
      as a walking training modality in the PR setting across the UK. However, endurance time
      during implementation of ESW protocol is limited to only a few minutes (5-8 minutes)
      secondary to intense exertional symptoms. In particular, both breathlessness and leg
      discomfort are considered to limit endurance time during the ESW protocol, thus suggesting
      that it is a highly physically demanding task for advanced COPD patients.

      It therefore seems sensible to develop an intermittent shuttle walking protocol imposing
      sufficiently intense loads to the cardiorespiratory system and the locomotor muscles without
      inducing intense exertional symptoms. In turn, this would prolong endurance time and walking
      distance compared to the commonly implemented continuous ESW protocol. It is envisaged that
      an intermittent walking protocol for patients with advanced COPD will facilitate
      participation and successful completion of a PR programme.

      Research Aims

        1. To identify whether an intermittent shuttle walking protocol is associated with
           tolerable exertional symptoms, thereby prolonging walking distance compared to the
           widely implemented continuous ESW protocol in the PR settings for patients with advanced
           COPD.

        2. To investigate the reproducibility of the distance walked during the intermittent
           shuttle walking protocol.

        3. To explore both patients' and health care professionals' experiences of undertaking and
           implementing, respectively the intermittent shuttle walking and the perceived factors
           affecting the implementation of this protocol in the PR setting.

      Research Objectives

        1. To compare walking distance, cardiorespiratory and symptom responses (breathlessness and
           leg discomfort) of an intermittent shuttle walking protocol (sustained at 85% of peak
           walking speed) to the commonly applied continuous ESW protocol (also sustained at 85% of
           peak walking speed) in the PR setting.

        2. To evaluate the test-retest reliability of distance walked, cardiorespiratory and
           symptom responses during the intermittent shuttle walking protocols.

        3. To explore patients' preferences of undertaking an intermittent shuttle walking
           protocol, and the health care professionals' perceived barriers and facilitators
           affecting the implementation of this protocol in the pulmonary rehabilitation setting.

      Study Design

        1. A cross sectional observational study to compare distance walked, cardiorespiratory
           responses and symptoms of patients undertaking two shuttle walking protocols, namely the
           continuous endurance shuttle walking (ESW) and the intermittent shuttle walking
           protocol.

        2. A test-retest reliability study to evaluate the validity of the intermittent shuttle
           walking protocol in terms of walking distance, cardiorespiratory responses and symptoms.

        3. A qualitative focus group study to explore patients' preferences of undertaking the
           intermittent or continuous ESW protocols and healthcare professionals' perceived factors
           affecting the implementation of these protocols in the PR setting.

      Study population

      COPD patients will be recruited from those referred to the Pulmonary Rehabilitation programme
      at RVI Hospital in Newcastle upon Tyne. Potentially eligible patients will be identified by
      the physiotherapy team within the Trust, who will provide initial information about the
      study. Delegated investigators will confirm eligibility and discuss full details of the
      trial. Patients will be given time to consider participation in the trial before written
      informed consent is obtained.

      Planned Interventions

      Following confirmation of eligibility, informed consent and baseline lung assessment, all
      patients will be asked initially during the first visit to perform an incremental shuttle
      walk test (ISWT) to the limit of tolerance to establish peak walking speed without prior
      practice. The test will be developed in a 10-m course corridor, and it will be
      externally-paced via a recorded metronome that gives a signal for each stride. The walking
      pace will be increased every minute and the test will be terminated when the individual is no
      longer able to keep up the pace or stops due to intolerable exertional symptoms.

      Subsequently, during the second visit all patients will perform the continuous endurance
      shuttle walk protocol (ESW) to the limit of tolerance at 85% peak walking speed derived by
      the ISWT (visit 1). During the ESW protocol patients will receive standardized instructions
      to walk for as long as possible. No further encouragement will be provided during the
      exercise performance. The test will be terminated when the individual is no longer able to
      keep up the pace or stops due to intolerable exertional symptoms.

      Following completion of the ESW protocol, patients will perform on two different days two
      intermittent shuttle walking protocols to the limit of tolerance (visits 3 & 4) by
      alternating 1-min walking bouts sustained at a walking speed equivalent to 85% peak
      (equivalent to the continuous ESW protocol) with 1-min rest periods. To obtain test re-test
      reliability in terms of distance walked, of cardiorespiratory and symptoms responses this
      intermittent shuttle walking protocol will be repeated in visit 4 (Diagram 4). The test will
      be terminated when the individual is no longer able to keep up the pace or stops due to
      intolerable exertional symptoms.

      Throughout the ISWT, the ESW and the two intermittent protocols, pulmonary gas exchange and
      ventilatory variables will be recorded breath-by-breath (K4b2, Cosmed,). Cardiac output,
      stroke volume and heart rate will be assessed by a portable cardio-impedance cardiography
      system (Physio flow, Manatec). Percentage arterial oxygen saturation (SpO2) will be measured
      by a pulse oximeter. Throughout testing, changes in operational lung volumes will be
      dynamically evaluated by performing inspiratory capacity (IC) manoeuvres. Patients will score
      the intensity of their breathlessness and leg discomfort using the 1-10 Borg's scale every
      minute during the ESW and the intermittent walking protocols.

      3. Qualitative focus group study (semi-structured interviews)

      Study Outcomes:

      The primary outcome is the distance walked (in meters) during the intermittent shuttle
      walking protocol compared to the widely implemented continuous ESW protocol in the PR setting
      for patients with advanced COPD.

      Secondary Outcomes:

        -  Cardiorespiratory responses (ventilatory and circulatory responses)

        -  Exertional Symptoms (breathlessness and leg discomfort)

        -  Acceptability and feasibility (assessed by semi-structured interviews)

      Sample Size Calculation

      The calculation is based on the minimal important difference estimates (MID) of 82 (m) of the
      ESW protocol and the standard deviation (SD) of 113 (m) between the different performances of
      ESW walked distance improvement from the same study. Using an alpha significance level of
      0.05 (2-sided) and 80% power, a minimum sample size of 17 was calculated to be sufficient. To
      compensate for possible drop-outs (i.e. 20%) across the different assessment points over a
      period of 12 months, 20 patients will be recruited to allow the allocation of the different
      protocols with ordered sequence across the group of COPD patients.
    
  