
    
      Patients with Acute Respiratory Failure may sometimes require a bronchial endoscopy for
      broncho-alveolar lavage (BAL).

      During the procedure, hypoxemia may worsen and oxygen may be require to avoid desaturation.

      In the recent years, High-Flow through Nasal Cannula (HFNC) has been introduced in the
      clinical practice. HFNC delivers to the patient heated humidified air-oxygen mixture, with an
      inspiratory fraction of oxygen (FiO2) ranging from 21 to 100% and a flow up to 60 L/min
      through a large bore nasal cannula.

      HFNC has some potential advantages. First of all, HFNC provides heated (37°C) and humidified
      (44 mg/L) air-oxygen admixture to the patient, which avoids injuries to ciliary motion,
      reduces the inflammatory responses associated to dry and cold gases, epithelial cell cilia
      damage, and airway water loss, and keeps unmodified the water content of the bronchial
      secretions. Second, HFNC determines a wash out from carbon dioxide of the pharyngeal dead
      space. Third, HFNC generates small amount (up to 8 cmH2O) of pharyngeal pressure during
      expiration, which drops to zero during inspiration. Fourth, HFNC guarantees a more stable
      FiO2, as compared to conventional oxygen therapy. Whenever the inspiratory peak flow of a
      patient exceeds the flow provided by a Venturi mask, the patient inhaled also part of
      atmospheric air.

      Electrical impedance tomography (EIT) is a noninvasive imaging technique providing
      instantaneous monitoring of variations in overall lung volume and regional distribution of
      ventilation, as determined by variations over time in intrathoracic impedance, which is
      increased by air and reduced by fluids and cells. EIT allows determining changes in
      end-expiratory lung impedance (EELI), a surrogate estimate of end-expiratory lung volume,
      assessing global and regional distribution of Vt, and obtaining indexes of spatial
      distribution of ventilation.

      Diaphragm ultrasound is a bedside, radiation free technique to assess the contractility of
      the diaphragm and the respiratory effort.

      In this study investigators aim to evaluate possible differences existing during bronchoscopy
      between oxygen therapy administered with HFNC and conventional (low-flow) oxygen therapy,
      delivered through nasal cannula in terms of respiratory effort (as assessed through diaphragm
      ultrasound), lung aeration and ventilation distribution (as assessed with EIT) and arterial
      blood gases.
    
  