
    
      Breast cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer death for women in Taiwan. We have
      recently demonstrated that combination of paclitaxel and cisplatin, at conventional doses, is
      highly effective in the treatment of breast cancer. However, the acute and cumulative
      toxicities of paclitaxel have been troublesome to a significant portion of the patients.
      Several lines of evidence suggested that weekly paclitaxel, at a much lower dose range of 40
      to 50 mg/m2 per week, may be as effective as that of the conventional doses of paclitaxel (80
      to 90 mg/m2 per week) for patients with metastatic ovarian and lung cancers. The low-dose
      regimen of paclitaxel may significantly improve the compliance of the patients. This
      open-label phase II trial is designed to test this hypothesis.

      The eligibility criteria include (1) women with metastatic breast cancer; (2) measurable
      disease; (3) acceptable organ function reserves. The ineligibility criteria include (1) brain
      or leptomeningeal metastases; (2) previous chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer. The
      study consists of two stages. All eligible patients will receive stage I (low-dose) regimen:
      paclitaxel, 50 mg/m2 1-hour iv infusion on days 1, 8 and 15, and cisplatin, 40 mg/m2 24-hour
      iv infusion on days 1 and 8. The treatment cycle will be repeated every 4 weeks. The first
      tumor response assessment will be done after 2 cycles of protocol treatment. Patients with
      complete response (CR) will receive at least 2 more cycles of low-dose regimen after
      documentation of CR. Patients with partial response (PR) and patients with stable disease
      (SD) who have minor tumor response or improvement of general condition will continue to
      receive the low-dose regimen. Patients with SD but no evident clinical benefit and patients
      with progressive disease (PD) will be shifted to stage II (conventional-dose) regimen:
      paclitaxel, 80 mg/m2 1-hour intravenous infusion on days 1, 8 and 15, and cisplatin, 40 mg/m2
      24-hour intravenous infusion on days 1 and 8, every 4 weeks. Tumor assessment will then be
      evaluated after every 2 cycles of protocol treatment. For patients who continue low-dose
      regimen, those with CR will receive at least 2 more cycles of protocol treatment. Patients
      with a maximal response of PR or SD may either continue the low-dose regimen until PD or
      prohibitive toxicity develops or change to the conventional-dose regimen, at the discretion
      of the attending physicians. Patients with PD should change to the conventional-dose regimen.
      For patients who have shifted to conventional-dose regimen, those with CR will receive at
      least 2 more cycles of protocol treatment. Patients with PR will continue protocol treatment
      until disease progresses or prohibitive toxicity develops. Patients with SD may continue
      protocol treatment or change to salvage therapy. Patients with PD should stop protocol
      treatment and change to salvage therapy.

      The primary endpoint of this phase II trial is the objective response rate of the stage I
      (low-dose) regimen. The secondary endpoints include treatment-related toxicity, the change in
      quality of life, progression free survival and overall survival. Simon's optimal two-stage
      design will be used to determine the patient number. If 4 or more objective responses (CR+PR)
      are documented in the first 13 patients, the study will go on to the second stage to enroll a
      total of 43 patients. The P0, P1,are 20%, 40%, 0.05, and 0.2, respectively. Assuming a
      dropout rate of 10%, 15 patients will be accrued in the first stage and 33 in the second
      stage. Estimated time for patient accrual is 3 years.
    
  