
    
      This is a prospective CAP, multi-center, single arm study. The study will enroll one hundred
      and seventy subjects (170) to ensure that 153 subjects are treated with the EPi-Sense®-AF
      device, after accounting for post-enrollment subject ineligibility. Patients will be enrolled
      from up to twenty-seven (27) sites that enrolled patients in the CONVERGE study. For
      consistency, the same endpoints defined in the CONVERGE study will be used in the CAP.

      The population for this study will be subjects with Persistent or Long-standing Persistent
      atrial fibrillation defined in accordance with the Heart Rhythm Society (HRS) 2017 AF expert
      consensus statement.

        -  Persistent: Continuous AF which is sustained beyond seven days.

        -  Long-standing Persistent: Continuous AF of greater than 12 months' duration. Subject
           informed consent might be obtained in two phases to allow for additional testing, beyond
           the site's standard of care (SOC) needed to complete the subject's eligibility to
           participate in this trial. If additional tests are needed to determine study
           eligibility, the subjects will sign a Screening ICF. Following a full evaluation, if it
           is determined that the subject is eligible to participate in the CONVERGE CAP study, the
           subject will sign an Enrollment ICF. Sites will continue to monitor subjects implanted
           with a loop recorder who did not qualify to be enrolled in the study. If the ILR
           indicates a change in the subject's AF status from paroxysmal to persistent AF and the
           subject continues to meet study eligibility criteria, the subject could sign an
           Enrollment consent to participate in the study.

      Subjects will be provided the IRB/EC approved ICFs (Screening and Enrollment) and will have
      the opportunity to read, understand, and have their questions answered prior to signing the
      ICFs. If the subject agrees to participate in the study and signs consent, the ICF process
      will be completed. The subject must sign and date the Screening ICF prior to any additional
      assessments needed to determine study eligibility and sign and date the Enrollment ICF prior
      to study-specific procedures being performed. The person reviewing the ICF with the subject
      will also sign and date the ICFs. The subject will be given copies of the signed ICFs to
      keep. The Screening ICF will be required only if non-study evaluations are needed to
      determine the subject's eligibility to participate in the study.

      Upon entering subject enrollment information into Clindex, each subject will be assigned a
      unique identification (ID) number sequentially in ascending order. All subjects who sign the
      ICFs will be documented in a Screening and Enrollment Log. For subjects who sign the
      Screening ICF but are ineligible to participate, minimum baseline characteristics: age,
      gender, race, screening date and screen failure reason (s) will be captured in Clindex.

      Subjects are considered to be enrolled in the study when they have signed the Enrollment ICF.
      Subjects are considered to be treated when any of the study devices are introduced into the
      body.
    
  