
    
      This study is a multicenter, open-label trial to evaluate the safety and pharmacokinetics of
      weekly intravenous (IV) infusions of 60 mg/kg of the investigational drug in participants
      with alpha1-antitrypsin deficiency (AATD). The trial will be conducted at approximately 5
      medical institutions in Japan, aiming to enroll a minimum of 3 adult participants or more.
      The trial will consist of a screening period scheduled within 3 weeks before trial entry, an
      open-label treatment period for 8 weeks, and a pharmacokinetic (PK) evaluation period for 1
      week. At the Week 9 visit when the PK evaluation period is completed, participant will be
      asked whether they would like to participate in an extension trial (GTI1401-OLE). For
      participants not intending to participate in the extension trial, the date of follow-up/study
      completion visit (30 days [4 weeks] after the last dose of the investigational drug) will be
      arranged. Participants will participate in this trial for approximately 14 weeks from the
      start of the screening period through the completion of the trial.

      At the screening visit (scheduled within 3 weeks before trial entry), after providing
      informed consent (agreement based on adequate explanation and understanding of the treatment
      plan), participants will be evaluated for eligibility for participation during the screening
      period. Participants considered eligible will enter the 8-week treatment period to receive a
      total of 8 weekly IV infusions of 60 mg/kg of Alpha-1 MP. The initial IV infusion will be
      given at the Week 1 (baseline) visit. During the treatment period, participants will receive
      weekly IV infusions of Alpha-1 MP at the Weeks 1 (baseline), 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 visits.
      After the last IV infusion of Alpha-1 MP at the Week 8 visit, participants will enter the
      1-week PK evaluation period. During this PK evaluation period, participants will visit the
      study center to undergo blood sampling for PK evaluation at the PK1 visit (the next day of
      the Week 8 visit), the PK2 visit (2 days after the Week 8 visit), the PK5 visit (5 days after
      the Week 8 visit), and at the Week 9 visit. At 30 days after the last dose (Week 8),
      participants will visit the study center for follow-up/study completion (Week 12). All
      participants will undergo blood sampling for the measurement of alpha1-PI trough
      concentrations at the Weeks 1 (baseline), 7, and 8 visits (blood samples will be collected
      before dosing) as well as at the Week 9 visit.

      Blood samples for the evaluation of PK parameters will be collected from Week 8 to Week 9.
      The blood sample collected before the infusion of Alpha-1 MP at the Week 8 visit and the
      blood sample for PK evaluation collected at the Week 9 visit (7 days after the infusion at
      the Week 8 visit) will be also used for the measurement of alpha1-PI trough concentrations
      for Weeks 8 and 9.

      At the Week 9 visit, participants will be asked whether they would like to participate in the
      extension trial (GTI1401-OLE). Participants intending to participate in the extension trial
      will be able to continue the treatment with IV infusions of 60 mg/kg of Alpha-1 MP for at
      least another year (participants will be further asked whether they would like to continue
      the treatment at yearly intervals) for the purpose of evaluation of the safety of long-term
      Alpha-1 MP treatment. Participants not intending to enter the extension trial will visit the
      study center for follow-up/study completion at 30 days (4 weeks) after the last dose of
      Alpha-1 MP (Week 12).
    
  