
    
      Sickle Cell Disease (SCD) includes a group of rare inherited monogenic diseases caused by
      mutations of genes involved in hemoglobin biosynthesis and is characterized by the presence
      of a hemoglobin variant (HbS); transmission occurs according to mendelian recessive mode.

      The term "Sickle Cell Disease" includes several genotypes expressing a similar phenotype,
      characterized by acute events sustained from the pathophysiological point of view by
      vasoocclusive and / or acute hemolytic crisis and by chronic hemolytic anemia, mechanisms
      both conditioning in progressive organ damage time. The most common genotype (70% present in
      the African continent) consists of homozygosity for both alleles S (Drepanocytosis or Sickle
      Cell Anemia, SCA - HbSS), followed by compound heterozygosis of a β-thalassemic mutation and
      an allele S ( Thalasso-sickle cell disease or HbS / βthal), then from βs/ βc (HbS / HbC
      hemoglobinopathy).

      The characteristic clinical manifestations consist of recurrent vaso-occlusive ischemic
      events and consequent micro infarcts, up to the development of acute and chronic multi-organ
      insufficiency; the responsible pathophysiological mechanism resides in the polymerization of
      hemoglobin S.

      The main acute, life-threatening events are acute cerebrovascular events (stroke, 11% of
      patients with SCA within 20 years), acute respiratory failure (Acute Chest Syndrome, ACS)
      associated with pulmonary hypertension and severe painful osteo-articular and splanchnic
      crises.

      The identification and detection of parameters indicating the progressive deterioration of
      neurological and cardio-pulmonary function could be decisive in the prevention of both acute
      events and the progressive worsening of organ damage.

      The physio-pathogenetic mechanisms of ischemic events in patients with SCD are numerous.
      Hypoxia conditions the formation of insoluble desoxy-Hb with consequent polymerization of HBS
      up to the formation of Hb (tactoids) gel. This generates: alteration and loss of elasticity
      of the erythrocyte membrane; formation of sickle and dence cells; alteration of the vascular
      endothelium. These events are the substratum of the pivotal mechanisms underlying the
      sickling crisis: hemolysis and vaso-occulsion.

      Sickle cell disease is the most common hemoglobinopathy in Africa, the Middle East and the
      countries of Southeast Asia; the prevalence of SCD in Italy has significantly increased in
      recent years in relation to migratory flows from countries with high incidence of this
      disease.

      In relation to Caritas data on immigration (1994 and 2000), an influx of about 10 new
      patients / year is expected. The ISTAT register, in 2010 in Lombardy the foreign population
      reached the incidence of 10.7% equal to 1064447, destined to increase over time; in
      particular Lombardy is the Italian region with the highest rate of immigrants (23.3%),
      followed by Lazio, Emilia Romagna and Veneto.

      In 2006 the World Health Organization (WHO) called on governments to "formulate, implement,
      reinforce in a systematic way, fair and effective the national programs, global and
      integrated, for the prevention and treatment of sickle-cell disease in order to reduce
      mortality and morbidity" .

      On 22/08/2008 the United Nations General Assembly established the World Sickle Disease Day.

      In 2010 the WHO and the United Nations (www.afro.who.int) recognized the disease as a "global
      health problem".Based on the WHO recommendations and on the evidence of the increase in the
      number of patients seen in recent decades, also in relation to multiethnic migratory
      phenomena, the Italian Society of Thalassemia and Hemoglobinopathies (SITE), the Society
      Italian Transfusion Medicine and Immunohaematology (SIMTI) and the Italian Association of
      Hematology and Pediatric Oncology (AIEOP) have considered important to promote and propose a
      "Survey" that could allow to acquire information about the treatment, with particular regard
      to the transfusion therapy, offered to patients with sickle cell disease in the different
      Italian realities and at the same time perform a "mapping" of the Transfusion Structures that
      apply erythrocyte exchange programs. The resulting information can also constitute a valid
      and concrete help to the orientation of the patients themselves.

      This is an observational study aimed to better understand the management criticalities of
      these patients (first of all difficulty in obtaining blood for different ethnic groups) and
      consisting in the acquisition of clinical and epidemiological data (age, ethnicity) on a
      national basis, referred to pediatric and adult patients. Patients included in the study will
      be able to refer to the total number of patients belonging to the Center, whether following a
      specific therapeutic program, or requiring no treatment and only in follow-up, in order to
      detect the overall number of patients.

      The "Survey" is present online and accessible through the SITE website (www.SITE-italia.org)
      (initially, also via the sites of SIMTI and AIEOP), where it will be possible to find
      instructions for completing the collection form data, if the indications contained in the
      data sheet are not clear.
    
  