
    
      Subjects will undergo testing in 2 study phases separated by at least 2 weeks: 1) active
      phase: subjects will have post meal glucose levels measured across 5 days of participating in
      their normal exercise routines. Blood vessel health will also be measured via flow mediated
      dilation at the end of the 5 day monitoring period. 2) physically inactive phase: subjects
      will stop participating in exercise for 5 days while post meal glucose levels are measured.
      Blood vessel health will also be assessed on days 1, 3 and 5 of removal of exercise. The
      subject will need to come into the lab on these days of inactivity to have blood vessel
      health measured.

      The study procedures are described below.

      Continuous Glucose Monitoring The investigators would like to gain more information about how
      blood sugar levels change over the course of a day in a free living setting. To do this the
      investigators will use a continuous glucose monitoring system (CGMS). This system is what
      individuals with diabetes frequently use to monitor their glucose levels over the course of
      the day. Subjects will be asked to wear the CGMS for 5 consecutive, full days on 2 different
      occasions. This includes 5 days during their normal regular physical activity, then for 5
      days following during the no exercise protocol. The CGMS is worn on the stomach, and it is a
      tiny glucose sensor which is inserted just under the skin. This device measures and records
      blood glucose values throughout the day. In addition, subjects will be asked to make at least
      four finger stick blood glucose readings taken with a standard glucose meter at different
      times each day and record these numbers on a log sheet. During the continuous glucose
      monitoring, subjects will need to consume the same type and quantity of foods at the same
      time each day (i.e. whatever the subjects consumes on day 1 of baseline testing, they need to
      eat that exact same food, volume of food and at the same time on days 1-5 of the study).
      Meals and snacks consumed are also entered into a paper-based diary.

      Blood Vessel Health Measurement (Flow Mediated Dilation: FMD) Subjects will be asked to
      perform their normal exercise routines 12-16 hours prior to blood vessel health being
      measured in the active phase as well as prior to the first blood vessel health measurement in
      the inactive phase to control for the acute effects of exercise on blood vessel health. Blood
      vessel health will be measured at the end of the active phase in both groups of subjects.
      Further blood vessel health will be measured following 1, 3, and 5 days of being inactive in
      both groups of subjects. Blood flow to the leg will be measured by applying blood pressure
      cuffs around the ankle. Pre flow mediated dilation diameter and velocity are recorded for 3
      minutes prior to a blood pressure cuff being inflated for 5 minutes. Following cuff
      deflation, a 2-minute diameter and velocity recording is collected.
    
  