
    
      Developmental dysplasia of the hip is an increasingly well-recognized problem in adolescents,
      young adults, and middle-age adults. Surgical correction with periacetabular osteotomy (PAO)
      gives good results at moderate-term follow-up, according to recent studies. Increasingly
      recognized also is the presence of intra-articular sources of hip pain in these patients,
      such as cartilage disease and labral pathology. These can manifest as certain clinical and
      radiologic findings pre-operatively. However, the role of operative management of these
      problems, and specifically the role of arthroscopy, remains unclear. Historically,
      intra-articular pathology in patients with dysplasia has been managed with open incision of
      the joint capsule (arthrotomy) toward the end of the PAO procedure. However, recent evidence
      suggests that this open arthrotomy may be missing the detection of subtle intra-articular
      pathology and that arthroscopy immediately prior to PAO, under the same anesthetic, may be a
      safe and highly effective management strategy. The exact clinical implications of these
      subtle findings are not yet clear.

      In this prospective randomized comparative effectiveness study, the investigators aim to
      compare clinical and surgical outcomes measures including rates of reoperation and the
      patient reported outcomes measures (PROMs) non-arthritic hip score (NAHS), Hip Outcome Score
      (HOS), modified Harris Hip Score (mHHS), iHOT-12 score, between two groups of patients (N=22
      per parallel arm) undergoing PAO for dysplasia: those randomized to arthroscopy with PAO
      versus those randomized to PAO alone.

      The investigators aim to elucidate the degree of clinical benefit of improved detection and
      management of intra-articular pathology afforded by arthroscopy versus PAO with arthrotomy
      alone at follow-up of a minimum of one year. Rates of reoperation and PROMs will be assessed
      at one year post-operatively and at the conclusion of the study two years after enrollment of
      the first patient. PROMs will also be assessed at 3 and 6 months post-operatively to allow
      repeated-measures analysis in measuring improvement from pre-operative values.
    
  