
    
      Worldwide, more than 2 billion people are infected with hepatitis B virus (HBV). Of these,
      240 million are chronic carriers of HBV and are at risk of death from acute fulminant liver
      disease, liver cirrhosis or hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The World Health Organization
      (WHO) has stated that the prevalence of hepatitis B is highest in sub-Saharan Africa and East
      Asia and estimates that between 5-10% of the adult population are chronically infected.
      Currently, several drugs have been approved in industrialized countries for treating chronic
      HBV infection and these follow established guidelines from professional medical
      organizations. Antiviral treatment of chronic hepatitis B infection significantly delays the
      progression of cirrhosis, reduces the incidence of HCC and improves long-term survival.
      However, in many resource-constrained settings, including Tanzania, the implementation of
      this treatment has not yet occurred.

      The lack of treatment opportunities in resource-constrained settings means that the
      prevention of HBV infection is crucial. In countries with high HBV prevalence, most HBV
      transmission occurs during childhood.

      In Tanzania, the prevalence of acute or chronic HBV infection (as defined by a positive
      hepatitis B surface antigen, HBsAg, test) among blood donors or adults in Dar es Salaam,
      Tanzania was found to be 8.8% and 6%, respectively. People suffering from chronic HBV have a
      lifelong risk of developing complications like liver cirrhosis, liver failure or
      hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Chronic hepatitis B infection is the main cause for HCC in
      Tanzania and there is no therapy available. There are no national recommendations or
      vaccination program against HBV for HCWs in Tanzania. However, in 2002,Tanzania implemented
      the WHO policy of general HBV vaccination for children as part of the extended program on
      immunization (known as EPI). According to notified data, a vaccination coverage of 84% among
      one year-old children was achieved in 2008 with an immunization schedule of 4, 8, 12 weeks
      after birth . Above 60% of the infections are acquired in the early childhood by transmission
      from mother to newborn. This early transmission leads to a chronic Hepatitis B infection
      among 90% of the infected newborn and, therefore, a vaccination at the earliest 4 weeks after
      birth might be too late to prevent MTCT. As a matter of fact, in Tanzania, we can estimate
      1.4 million chronic Hepatitis B infections through mother-to- child transmission in early
      phase.

      There are two interventions that could prevent MTCT:

        1. Implementation of Hepatitis B Immunoglobulin (HBIg) to the child directly after birth

        2. Active immunization against HBV within 24 hours after birth. The first intervention is
           very expensive (100€/per child) and is therefore not sustainable for the Tanzanian
           health system. The second intervention is cheaper and recommended by the WHO.

      HBV infection is a neglected disease in low income countries and has been rarely studied in
      Tanzania. One of the main ways of infection is MTCT and there are several ideas on how to
      reduce the transmission. Antiviral drugs for infected pregnant women, implementation of HBIg
      directly after birth or active immunization within 24 hours after birth are the most popular
      approaches. Unfortunately, none of these is yet implemented in Tanzania due to several
      reasons. The cost of all the interventions is one argument against their implementation
      despite the fact that prevention of the infection was proven more cost efficient rather than
      facing the long-term costs of people suffering from the disease. Another problem is the
      insufficient knowledge about this topic in the Tanzanian context. More studies with a larger
      population are necessary to show the importance of an early intervention and the problem
      resulting from a vaccination happening too late for the cases of MTCT.

      Each avoided infection is a benefit for the whole population, as there is a reduced
      possibility for other children or family members to get infected. To identify the infants at
      risk a screening program is needed. Therefore, rapid HBsAg tests should be offered for every
      pregnant woman at public health facilities. With better information, the awareness about the
      disease improves and the number of fully vaccinated children rises.

      In our study we would like to determine the prevalence of HBsAg in pregnant women attending
      the antenatal clinic in a tertiary hospital, a regional hospital or a district hospital in
      Tanzania. The study population should be identified with an HBsAg rapid test at the
      department of gynaecology. Blood will be taken from the mothers with positive HBsAg rapid
      test and from the cord blood of their children. Furthermore, we want to assess the risk
      factors that might lead to an increased risk of hepatitis B infection. Therefore, our
      research assistants will inquire among the participants about several risk factors. To give
      some benefit to the patient, we will vaccinate the child of HBsAg positive mothers within 24
      hours after birth with an active immunization which is proven to reduce the possibility of
      MCTC.

      The laboratory examination of the blood will give us more details about the serology,
      genotype and viral load of the HBV infection. This might show us the relation between the
      risk factors and possible intrauterine HBV transmission.

      In Tanzania, there is not enough data on prevalence, risk factors, viral load and genotypes
      of HBV. This study will give additional data on intrauterine infection of the children.

      The general objective of the study is to determine the prevalence of Hepatitis B surface
      antigen (HBsAg) in women attending antenatal clinic in four different study sites in the
      region of Mwanza, Tanzania.

      Specific objectives are:

        1. To determine the viral load and genotype of HBV infection in pregnant woman.

        2. To determine the risk factors associated with HBV infections in pregnant women.

        3. To determine the prevalence of intrauterine infection by positive HBV PCR of cord blood
           of the children of HBsAg positive mothers attending BMC, Seka Toure or Sengerema
           hospital for delivery.

        4. To determine the influence of HBV genotypes, viral load and HBeAg status of the mother
           attending BMC for delivery on the probability of the transmission to the child.

      Methodology

      The study will be conducted in three different study sites:

      In the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology of the Bugando Medical Center (BMC) in
      Mwanza, Tanzania. The department has every year 6000 deliveries, for the second part of the
      study we choose only the HBsAg positive women diagnosed with a rapid test.

      The second sites will be the Mwanza regional hospital Seka Toure and the third will be the
      district hospital in Sengerema. About 500 woman will be tested in BMC and 250 women will be
      tested on each other study site, Altogether 1000 patients

      Collaborating Institutions are the BMC, and the Catholic University of Health and Allied
      Sciences (CUHAS) in Mwanza, Tanzania, the division of Medical Virology, Faculty of Medicine &
      Health Sciences, Stellenbosch University and NHLS Tygerberg, Cape Town, South Africa, the
      Medical Mission Institute and the University of Würzburg/Institute of Virology and
      Immunobiology, Würzburg, Germany.

      Study design:

      The study is a cross-sectional study.

      Study patient groups:

      Pregnant women aged 18 years and above attending the antenatal clinics at Bugando Medical
      Center, regional hospital Seka Toure and district hospital in Sengerema.

      Sample size For a cross-sectional study sample size was calculated with an expected
      prevalence of 3,5 % based on previous studies (17).

      Level of significance = 5%, Power = 80%, Type of test = cross-sectional Formula of
      calculating sample size is (38) n = [Z1-α/2²p(1-p)]/d²

      We are planning a study of 1000 woman. If the true prevalence is 3.5 % we will need to study
      at least 51.9 patients to be able to reject the null hypothesis that the exposure rates for
      case and controls are equal with probability (power) 0.8.

      Sample collection and duration To diagnose the hepatitis B positive mothers, a finger prick
      test will be conducted with pregnant women to assess whether there is HBsAg or not. If the
      test is positive, 12 ml of EDTA-blood will be taken (3 times 4 ml)), centrifuged and plasma
      will be stored at -20°C for further analysis.

      For the second part of the study, cord blood of children born at the BMC 1.5 ml will be
      collected after birth and stored at -20°C for further analysis. After 24 months, another
      blood sample will be taken and stored at -20°C for further analysis. The blood from all HBsAg
      positive mothers will be analysed including serology for Hepatitis B (HBsAg, HBeAg), HBV-DNA
      PCR and liver transaminases for the women from the primary health care clinics. The blood
      from the children will be analysed with HBV-DNA PCR. Taking cord blood and proceeding it
      immediately after birth will be logistical only possible in BMC so that these analyses will
      be done in the children born at the BMC and not of the other study sites.

      The questionnaire and blood samples will be labelled with the study number only.

      Data Collection A questionnaire will used to collect information concerning the risk factors
      information, including HIV status, age, residence, marital status, level of education,
      occupation, parity and gravity, history of life-time sexual partners, age at first sexual
      contact, history of risk factors (blood transfusion, operation, drug use, iv injection), HBV
      vaccination, history of STIs, condom use, genital circumcision, sharing toothbrush or razors
      and history of jaundice in the family or for themselves (Case report form). The patients'
      data will be collected at the time of the enrolment. CRF forms will be supplied. These forms
      must be printed legibly. A copy will remain at the investigator's files. CRF and all original
      data should be readily available for review during scheduled monitoring visits. For patient
      identification, all patients included in the study will have their hospital record number,
      their date of birth and a patient allocation number entered chronologically into the study
      file. Copies of all pertinent information will be retained by the investigator for a period
      of at least 10 years after study completion.

      Laboratory Analyses Analysis of the blood On the day of enrolment, a point-of-care Hepatitis
      B surface antibody tests will be performed. The test (Nal Diagnostics) is CE certified.
      According to data of the manufacturer, sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of the test are
      > 99% with a cut off value of m10 IU anti-HBs.

      Plasma samples will be frozen at -20°C and shipped for further analysis after enrolment is
      completed. In the Division of Medical Virology, University of Stellenbosch, the following
      tests will be carried out for all samples using ELISA-techniques for serological testing and
      PCR for viral load measurements:

        -  Hepatitis B - surface antigen (HBsAg)

        -  Hepatitis B - surface antibody (anti-HBs)

        -  Hepatitis B - core antibodies (anti-HBc)

      This test panel will allow differentiation between naturally-acquired infection, antibodies
      due to vaccination and chronic hepatitis B.

      Cases of chronic hepatitis B will undergo further testing for:

        -  Hepatitis B e- antigen (HBeAg)

        -  Hepatitis B e- antibodies (anti-HBe)

      For HBV DNA PCR, the DNA will be isolated from the plasma by the column extraction method and
      PCR amplification will be carried out. A positive PCR reaction will be sequenced with the
      ABI-Prism-310-Genetic-Analyzer-System. Sequences will be submitted to GenBank. With these
      methods.

        -  Hepatitis B viral load

        -  Hepatitis B genotyping

      will be determined. To detect the amount of liver transaminases in the plasma, it will be
      analysed with spectrophotometric measurements for

        -  Aspartate aminotransferase (AST/GOT)

        -  Alanine aminotransferase (ALT/GPT) Statistical Analysis The entries of the Questionnaire
           will be transferred to an EXCEL Sheet by double entry. The second entry will be
           completed timely independently from the first entry and will be compared with the first
           entry. P < 0.05 will be considered as statistically different. The 95% confidence
           intervals (CI) will be calculated using SPSS and GraphPad Prism Software.

      Ethical considerations Ethical committee/institutional review board The final approved
      protocol including the informed consent form will be submitted for Ethical Clearance to the
      joint Bugando Medical Centre/Catholic University of Health and Allied Sciences (BMC/CUHAS)
      Ethics and Review Committee. The investigator will agree to make required progress reports to
      the Ethics and Review committee, as well as report any serious adverse events,
      life-threatening problems or deaths. The Ethics Committee/ must be informed by the
      investigator of the termination of the study. Permission will be sought from the relevant
      authorities of the study sites clinics.

      Patient informed consent Prior to inclusion into the study, the patient will be informed of
      the nature of the study and will be given pertinent information as to the intended purpose,
      possible benefits, and possible adverse experiences. The procedure and possible hazards to
      which the patient is exposed will be explained. An informed consent statement will then be
      read and signed by the patient, a witness, and the investigator.

      Possible benefits for the patients Directly after birth, vaccination is one of the most
      effective methods to reduce the Hepatitis B transmission from the infected mother to her
      child. Our study will give all the pregnant women the opportunity to do a rapid test free of
      any costs. If it is positive, the mother can protect the new-born child from HBV infection
      via active immunization (in case she will give birth at the study site. and the devastating
      consequences with a free of cost follow-up screening at the BMC.

      Even though the women themselves cannot get any treatment for their disease, the diagnosis
      may increase their awareness of this infection and possibly contribute to the reduction of
      transmission.

      The child born at the study site gets the benefit of an extra protection with the vaccination
      directly after birth.
    
  