
    
      Objectives: to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of a minimally invasive
      ultrasound-guided looped thread technique of carpal tunnel release

      Background: Carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) is the most common peripheral entrapment neuropathy,
      having a prevalence of 3.7%. CTS is the 2nd leading worktime loss condition. Open surgical
      decompression of the carpal tunnel is an evidence-based and commonly performed treatment for
      moderate to severe cases, predictably providing long-term symptom relief. This surgical
      technique involves placing a 2-5 cm long longitudinal incision at the palm, incising the
      skin, subcutaneous tissue, palmar fascia, palmaris longus tendon (if present) and transverse
      carpal ligament under direct visualization. After 3-8 weeks of recovery, most patients
      experience excellent relief of symptoms and improvement in hand function. On occasion, the
      procedure is complicated by nerve damage, scar or pillar pain. A variety of strategies have
      been devised to minimize the invasive nature of carpal tunnel release in hopes to reduce post
      procedure pain, weakness and recovery time. In the late 1980s, an endoscopic release
      technique was devised. A recent meta-analysis of existing randomized control trials comparing
      open to endoscopic release found endoscopic release to provide better early recovery of grip
      and pinch strength, less scar tenderness and earlier returned to work (~9 days). There was a
      similar risk of pillar pain and reoperation, and a higher risk of nerve injury (mostly
      transient neurapraxia). The development of high-resolution ultrasound scanning allows
      detailed visualization of the carpal tunnel and its contents. Hydrodissection, the injection
      of fluid during ultrasound visualization, adds to image clarity of both the contents of the
      carpal tunnel as well as the location of operative instruments. A few minimally invasive
      ultrasound-guided percutaneous carpal tunnel release techniques have been described. The
      cutting instruments have included needle tip, knife, saws blades, and thread. Initial results
      of these techniques suggest that they are feasible, safe, effective and are associated with
      short recovery times. The most recently described minimally invasive technique involves
      percutaneously looping a cutting thread around the transverse carpal ligament using a needle
      under ultrasound guidance. By reciprocally sliding the 2 ends of the thread back and forth
      like a Gigli saw, the transverse carpal ligament is transected. Only 2 needle puncture site
      are required. The looped thread carpal tunnel release (TCTR) procedure was initially
      performed on a single cadaveric hand and dissection demonstrated complete transection of the
      transverse carpal ligament and no injury to other structures. The authors then performed the
      same procedure on 34 hands of 20 patients. The primary outcome measure was the Levine-Katz
      questionnaire completed 3 months postprocedure. The questionnaire scores were compared to
      those reported in the literature for open and endoscopic release techniques and were found to
      be similar. No post TCTR complications were reported. Our research group has recently
      completed a cadaveric evaluation of this technique and found that ultrasound accurately
      defines the critical boundries and contents of the carpal tunnel in all cases, complete or
      near-complete transection of the transverse carpal ligament was achieved and no trauma was
      sustained by any structure within the carpal tunnel other than the transverse carpal
      ligament.

      Procedure/Methods: subjects with clinical and electrophysiologically confirmed CTS from the
      practice of the principal investigator will be invited to participate. The 1st phase of this
      study will involve TCTR of 5 carpal tunnels. Within a month prior to and at 3 and 6 months
      post procedure the following outcome measures will be collected: subjective measure of
      symptom and functional limitation severity (Boston Carpal Tunnel Questionnaire); monofilament
      hand sensibility testing, grip and pinch strength; median nerve cross-sectional area
      measurement at the carpal tunnel inlet using ultrasound; and electrophysiologic function of
      the median nerve across the carpal tunnel (motor and sensory conduction velocities and
      amplitudes). At weekly intervals for the 1st month, each subject will also be contacted to
      report on their recovery (return to everyday activities including work) and any adverse
      effects/complications. The Boston Carpal Tunnel Questionnaire will also be completed at 1
      month post TCTR. Assuming no serious complications are encountered from the initial 5
      procedures, and upon approval from the supervising Data and Safety Monitoring Board, 15
      additional carpal tunnels will undergo TCTR and the same outcome measures will be recorded.
      The outcome data will be analyzed using a repeated measures Analysis of Variance (Boston
      Carpal Tunnel Questionnaire; monofilament hand sensibility;grip and pinch strength; median
      nerve cross-sectional area; median nerve motor and sensory conduction velocities and
      amplitudes) and descriptive statistics (recovery duration and adverse effects/complications).
    
  