
    
      The following study is an exploratory investigation of continuous glucose monitoring based on
      data from a completed Novo Nordisk A/S clinical trial. Please refer to ClinicalTrials.gov
      Identifier: NCT02825251.

      Continuous Glucose Monitoring (CGM) provides an interstitial glucose reading every 5 minutes
      and is thus a powerful and important tool to identify glycaemic variability in people with
      diabetes. CGM is valuable for people with diabetes to understand their glucose metabolism and
      it has the potential to be used for detection and prediction of glycaemic excursions, such
      as, the potentially fatal and inevitable events of hypoglycaemia, or even as a component in
      the holy grail of diabetes technology; the artificial pancreas.

      However, CGM has been criticised for being inaccurate and unreliable, amongst others, due to
      the physiological and a device-related delay between plasma glucose (PG) and interstitial
      glucose (IG). Nevertheless, CGM keeps on being popular and in February 2017 an international
      consensus was established at the Advanced Technologies & Treatments for Diabetes (ATTD)
      congress that even considers CGM data as a valuable and meaningful end point to be used in
      clinical trials of new drugs and devices for diabetes treatment where accuracy is of high
      importance.

      The above mentioned use cases entail that the CGM data are accurate. Therefore, the first
      part of this research proposal is to investigate whether the newest state-of-the-art CGM
      devices used in Novo Nordisk trials are in fact accurate. Based on these results, it is
      investigated to which degree glycaemic variability can be revealed.

      To investigate the accuracy of CGM, mean absolute relative difference (MARD) will be
      calculated and presented and the impact of the delay assessed by time shifting CGM
      measurements. Furthermore, correlation analyses, between for example, PG and first derivative
      of IG, will be performed to try to understand when CGM devices tend to measure inaccurate.
      Lastly, machine learning and/or deep learning approaches will be utilised to reveal glycaemic
      patterns and to detect/predict outcomes, such as, hypoglycaemia.

      Different glycaemic variability investigations will be undertaken:

        -  Test of PG vs IG and effect on clinical research. [analysis of differences]

        -  Correlation between PG values at bedtime and nocturnal hypoglycaemic events [correlation
           analyses]

        -  Effect of main evening meal and meal-time dose on nocturnal hypoglycaemic events
           [correlation analyses]

        -  Prediction of PG-confirmed hypoglycaemic events with CGM, dose and meal data as input
           [machine learning]

        -  The optimal dose and meal distribution and least CGM variability / eHbA1c [machine
           learning]

        -  Algorithm to suggest optimal dosing in relation to glycaemic variability [machine
           learning]

      Requested data are demographic, CGM, meal, dose and hypoglycaemia data from the following
      trial. The analyses are independent of treatment and therefore the treatment arm can be
      blinded.
    
  