
    
      The study is a pragmatic clinical trial, to test if additional counseling provided by a
      dietician results in a reduction in dietary sodium intake as compared to usual care.

      The hypothesis is that additional individualized and focused counseling provided by a
      dietician will result in true change in dietary habits which will result in reduction of
      dietary salt intake at 4 weeks. Usual care has been shown in the past to be ineffective in
      actual reduction in dietary salt intake.

      In the current model of treatment of hypertension, no funding is available for this
      additional counseling. Also, usual care has been shown to be ineffective in reducing salt
      intake. If positive, this study will help make the case for provision of dietary counseling,
      which can be made to funding bodies.

      This will be a prospective, open-label with blinded endpoints, randomized controlled trial.

      The intervention: One focused dietary counseling session, one hour long, with a registered
      dietician. In addition, this will be followed by four, once-weekly phone calls to provide
      reinforcement, and provide advice and support. This will be additional to usual care.

      The control group will receive usual care, which is advice provided during their clinic visit
      by the hypertension specialists clinic registered nurses and hypertension specialist
      physicians.

      Both groups will have additional measurements as follows:

        -  Baseline, 4 week and 12 month measurement of 24 hour urinary sodium and potassium

        -  Baseline, 4 week and 12 month measurement of 24 hour ambulatory blood pressure
           monitoring

      The randomization process will consist of a computer generated random listing of the
      treatment allocations in variable permuted blocks of 4 and 6 with concealment of allocation.
      Though blinding of the patients is not possible for a behavioral intervention such as this,
      the assessment of the outcome, which is an objective measurement, will be done in a blinded
      fashion. All the study personnel collating and analyzing this data will be blinded to the
      treatment assignment. In addition, the lab personnel who will be measuring the urinary sodium
      (which is the primary outcome) will be blinded to treatment assignment.
    
  