
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a common arrhythmia associated with increased cardiovascular
      morbidity and mortality. An integral element of management of patients with AF is
      anticoagulation to prevent thromboembolic events. Non-vitamin K oral anticoagulants and
      vitamin K antagonists are two main drugs groups used in treatment.

      Primary objective of the study is to assess the treatment of AF patients with OACs (the
      frequency of prescription of VKAs vs NOACs), compare the clinical characteristics of the
      real-life AF patients with populations included in the randomized clinical trials (ROCKET-AF,
      RE-LY and ARISTOTLE) and population gathered from the university department and the district
      hospital. Secondary objective of the study is to assess the long-term outcomes of patients
      with AF treated with OACs.

      The CRAFT (MultiCenter expeRience in AFib patients Treated with OAC) is a multicenter
      retrospective analysis of hospital records of patients with AF managed in the First
      Department of Cardiology of Medical University of Warsaw and in John Paul II Western Hospital
      in Grodzisk Mazowiecki. Gathered data will include demographics, type of AF (valvular and
      non-valvular, as well as paroxysmal, persistent and permanent), medical history, baseline
      characteristics (i.e. blood pressure), laboratory investigations (blood tests, including
      renal and hepatic function), echocardiographic parameters and concomitant medications. Data
      will be collected from the moment of patient's discharge.

      Each patient will be evaluated regarding to common and new scales assessing risk of
      thromboembolic (CHA2DS2-VASc ) and bleeding (HAS-BLED, HEMORR2HAGES, modifiable and
      non-modifiable risk factors for bleeding in anticoagulated patients basing on the current
      guidelines for AF treatment) events, as well as SAMeTT2R2 score to predict the quality of
      treatment on OACs.
    
  