
    
      Insertion and maintenance of central venous catheter (CVC) lines are common hospital
      procedures in patients, including those being treated for cancer. CVCs allow clinicians an
      access point for infusion of fluids, blood sampling, and measurements, decreasing the need
      for repeated needle sticks to the patient. However, bloodstream infections associated with
      CVCs (CLABSIs) are a serious complication, leading to significantly longer hospital stays,
      morbidity, and mortality. Keeping catheter ports disinfected reduces the risk of bloodstream
      infection; however, consistent and adequate maintenance and disinfection of the line can be
      difficult.

      The purpose of this study is to demonstrate that passive disinfecting caps can provide a
      patient safety practice that is easy for clinicians to follow, as well as providing easily
      auditable compliance, which may lead to lower CLABSI rates.

      Compliance is defined as following the protocol for disinfection of the catheter port. In the
      pre-intervention period, the disinfection protocol will utilize existing institution
      scrub-the-hub method. Compliance in the pre-intervention period will be determined by survey.

      After the pre-intervention period is complete, passive disinfecting devices (caps) will be
      implemented hospital-wide for any adult patient using CVC ports.

      In the intervention period, the disinfection protocol consists of using the disinfecting
      barrier cap on every needless connector (catheter port) used for accessing CVC IV lines per
      protocol. Compliance will be measured using observations, according to a schedule to ensure
      the absence of a shift bias. Observations will contain the number of needless connectors on
      CVCs with, and the number of needleless connectors without, disinfecting barrier caps
      attached.

      The compliance rate for needleless connector disinfection will be evaluated after
      implementation of the passive disinfecting cap, and compared to the pre-intervention rate.
      The CLABSI rates before and after cap implementation will also be compared.

      Incidence of CLABSI will be noted from existing aggregate hospital surveillance system data.
      The incidence, in terms of catheter days, will be recorded for each assigned intervention
      ward and for intervention ward overall by month, in the six months before the intervention
      and in the six-month intervention recording period.
    
  