
    
      If you are willing to participate in this study you will be asked to undergo some screening
      tests and procedures to confirm that you are eligible. Many of these tests and procedures are
      likely to be part of regular cancer care and may be done even if it turns out that you do not
      take part in the research study. If you have had some of these tests or procedures recently,
      they may or may not have to be repeated. These tests and procedures include: a medical
      history, physical examination, CT or MRI, blood tests, serum chromogranin A, urine tests,
      24-hour urine collection, pregnancy test and an electrocardiogram. If these tests show that
      you are eligible to participate in the research study, you will begin the study treatment. If
      you do not meet the eligibility criteria, you will not be able to participate in this
      research study.

      If you meet the requirements for this study and you agree to continue your participation, you
      will receive Ziv-aflibercept every two weeks. Each dose of Ziv-aflibercept consists of an
      approximately 60 minutes infusion (through a needle into a vein). You will also receive an
      injection of Octreotide LAR (long acting release) monthly as part of your treatment for
      carcinoid tumor. This injection will be given to you by a nurse in your buttock. You may
      already be on Octreotide LAR. In that case, you will continue taking it at the same dose and
      schedule.

      You will need to come to the clinic every two weeks while participating in this study. Each
      cycle is 28 days.

      The following tests and procedures will be performed on Days 1 and 15 of each cycle:
      questions about your health, physical exam (Day 1 of each cycle only), vital signs, blood
      tests, pregnancy test (Day 1 of each cycle only).

      Urine tests will be performed every other cycle.

      The following tests and procedures will be done at the end of every third cycle: CT scan or
      MRI, Serum Chromogranin A, 24-hour urine collection.

      After the final dose of the study drug the following tests and procedures will be performed:
      questions about your general health, physical exam, vital signs, blood tests, pregnancy test,
      EKG, Serum Chromogranin A, 24-hour urine collection.
    
  