
    
      Rational:

        -  The use of high-energy photons (6 MeV) creates a characteristic skin-sparing effect,
           which can generate a region of low-dose subcutaneous tissue.

        -  The subcutaneous tissue is a possible area of clinical failure in the chest wall after
           mastectomy for breast cancer.

        -  To optimize treatment, it is used a bio-equivalent material to increase the surface
           dose.

        -  This dose increase may be accompanied by greater skin reaction, making it necessary to
           temporarily discontinue treatment to recover radiodermatitis.

        -  The total treatment time is a determinant of tumor control in the treatment of cancer
           with radiation.

      Description:

        -  This study aims to evaluate whether different intensities of application of the bolus
           correlate with greater likelihood of treatment discontinuation.

        -  This will be a single blind randomised controlled trial. The target population comprises
           patients with indication of post mastectomy radiation (PMRT).

        -  The patients will be divided into two groups: one with high risk of recurrence in
           subcutaneous, which will be randomized to use 0.5cm bolus every other day or on
           consecutive days, and one low-risk group, which will be randomized to use bolus 0.5cm on
           alternate days or do not use bolus. The group with high risk is defined as patients with
           clinical or pathological tumor invasion of skin. The others will be considered low risk.

        -  Randomization will be made so that each group has the same proportion of patients with
           high body mass index (> / = 30 kg/m2), as this may be a factor in worsening
           radiodermatitis.

        -  The patients will be followed during treatment and will be evaluated weekly for the
           radiodermatitis, interruption time of treatment for recovery from the acute effects and
           expenditures for local care. The evaluation will be done blindly (without knowledge of
           the utilization of bolus) by trained nurses in the management of radiodermatitis.
    
  