
    
      Design and Outcomes

      This study is a two-arm, single-blind, randomized, controlled, phase II, multi-center pilot
      trial of the efficacy of pBrO2 monitoring, and is designed to obtain data required for a
      definitive phase III study, such as efficacy of physiologic maneuvers aimed at normalizing
      pBrO2. 182 patients with severe TBI who require ICP monitoring will be recruited into this
      study at 4 clinical sites in the US (Univ. of Texas Southwestern/Parkland Memorial Hospital,
      Univ. of Washington/Harborview Medical Center, Univ. of Miami/Jackson Memorial Hospital, and
      Univ. of Pennsylvania/Hospital of the Univ. of Pennsylvania). All patients will have both ICP
      monitors and pBrO2 monitors inserted through the same burr hole. Half of the patients will be
      randomized to a treatment protocol based on both ICP and pBrO2 readings, while the control
      group will be randomized to a treatment protocol based only on ICP readings. The
      pBrO2monitors of the control arm will be masked, so that the treating physicians will be
      unaware of the pBrO2 information. Patients will have telephone follow-up interview to assess
      their level of recovery 6 months post injury, using the Glasgow Outcome Scale-Extended.

      Interventions and Duration

      Patients randomized to the control group will have pBrO2 implanted in a similar fashion as
      patients in the treatment group, but after calibration of the device, the display will be
      covered with opaque tape. Patients in the control will be treated with a protocol based on
      ICP measures only. Patients in the treatment group (both ICP and pBrO2 measures are visible)
      will be treated according to a protocol that incorporates both ICP and pBrO2 measures. The
      treatment protocols are based on current standards of care, but are described in detail to
      insure uniformity in treatments across the 4 study sites.

      The probe will remain in place for a maximum or 5 days, until all values are normal for 48
      hours, or sooner if a complication arises. If the patient has normal values, monitors will be
      removed after 48 hours.

      Objectives

      Primary Objective: The prescribed treatment protocol, based on pBrO2 monitoring, results in
      reduction of the fraction of time that brain oxygen levels are below the critical threshold
      of 20 mm Hg in patients with severe traumatic brain injury.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  Safety hypotheses: Adverse events associated with pBrO2 monitoring are rare.

        -  Feasibility hypotheses: Episodes of decreased pBrO2 can be identified and treatment
           protocol instituted comparably across 4 clinical sites, and protocol violations will be
           low (<10%) and uniform across different clinical sites.

        -  Non-futility hypothesis: A relative risk of good outcome measured by the Glasgow Outcome
           Scale-Extended 6 months after injury of 2.0 is consistent with the results of this phase
           II study.
    
  