
    
      Protocol:

      Objectives: Two stages are proposed for this study. In Stage I, the objective is to
      demonstrate the safety of the Aspen System™ and Aspen Rehabilitation Technique in the
      treatment of Baker Grade III capsular contracture of the breast following subglandular or
      submuscular placement of saline or silicone implants for cosmetic breast augmentation. The
      endpoint will be the determination of safety as defined by no adverse events, including
      implant rupture. Following review of interim data and approval by the FDA, Stage II will
      commence. In Stage II, the objective will be to demonstrate safety and efficacy of the Aspen
      System™ and Aspen Rehabilitation Technique in the treatment of Baker Grade III capsular
      contracture of the breast following subglandular or submuscular placement of saline or
      silicone implants for cosmetic breast augmentation. The endpoint will be the documentation of
      efficacy as demonstrated by the reduction of at least one Baker Grade following treatment
      with the Aspen™ System and Aspen Rehabilitation Technique.

      Description: This is a prospective, non-randomized trial.

      Conduct: The trial will be conducted as follows:

      Study Subjects: Patients will be recruited from the investigator's private practice and the
      local community. In stage I, 10 women aged 22 years or older who have received saline or
      silicone breast implants for subglandular or submuscular breast augmentation, and who
      subsequently developed Baker Grade III capsular contracture, will be invited to participate.
      Upon completion of the first stage of this study, the data will be submitted to the FDA for
      review. The second stage of the study will not commence until approval has been obtained by
      the FDA. At this time, for the second stage of the study, the study group will be expanded to
      include an additional 50 patients who have received saline or silicone gel implants, placed
      in either the subglandular or submuscular position, with Grade III capsular contracture of
      the breast.
    
  