
    
      This is a randomized, double-blinded, placebo- controlled, and cross-over clinical trial. 147
      subjects will be enrolled at two clinical sites, with projected 9-10% dropout and anticipated
      134 completed subjects. To maintain blinding of the investigators, the study randomization
      table will be kept in Pharmacy Service. The sponsor will ship the study drug directly to the
      Pharmacy Service. The pharmacy service will also be responsible for dispersing the study
      drug.

      There are 4 study visits (2 visits in each study period) in this study. Subjects will be in
      this study for about 6 weeks from Week 0 - baseline visit to Week 6 - exit visit. Besides the
      procedure of study medication mentioned above, other study procedures include informed
      consent, physical exam, questionnaires, EKG for safety assessment, blood collection for
      laboratory testing, cardiac MRI, and follow-up events. In sum, participants will be asked to
      undergo 2 cardiac MRI's and fill out questionnaires 4 times. They will be asked to
      participate for 6 weeks with two 2-week courses (with a treatment window period of 5 days),
      one with ranolazine and the other with placebo (without knowing which they are taking). There
      is a 2-week washout period between treatments. The participants will otherwise remain on all
      their usual medications. The physicians will also be blinded to which medication the subject
      is receiving.

      Participation in this study will be approximately 6 weeks, which consists of two 2-week study
      periods and in between a 2-week washout period:

        1. During the first 2-week period: Subjects will be randomized to first receive either the
           ranolazine or a placebo pill (sugar pill with no active medicine). Subjects will take
           the extended-release ranolazine or a placebo pill for a total of 2 weeks. Subjects will
           take 500 mg twice daily for the first 1 week and then 1000 mg twice daily for an
           additional 1 week. Subjects who are unable to take the higher dose due to side effects
           will remain on 500 mg twice daily for the entire study period. After the 2 weeks, the
           participant will have a Cardiac MRI and complete study questionnaires. These tools will
           allow us to evaluate if the participant is doing better on the medication.

        2. 2-week washout period: Subject will then be asked to go 2 weeks without any study
           medication (ranolazine or placebo).

        3. During the second 2-week period: Subject will then be given either extended release
           ranolazine or placebo depending on which was received the first time for a total of 2
           weeks. Subjects will take 500 mg twice daily for the first 1 week and then 1000 mg twice
           daily for an additional 1 week. Subjects who are unable to take the higher dose due to
           side effects will remain on 500 mg twice daily for entire study period. This 2-week
           period will again be followed by a final Cardiac MRI and questionnaire completion.
    
  