
    
      Bronchiectasis is a chronic multiple etiologies pulmonary disease characterized by permanent
      and abnormal dilatation of the caliber of a territory of the bronchial tree with an
      alteration of mucociliary clearance. Patients with bronchiectasis have chronic cough and
      sputum production. Bacterial infections develop in them, leading to loss of lung function.
      Bronchiectasis affects patients of all ages and sexes, but the prevalence is higher in older
      women. It is often a complication of a previous lung infection or injury or is due to
      underlying systemic diseases. The treatment of bronchiectasis is multimodal and non-specific,
      including anti-inflammatory agents, bronchodilation, and depending on the clinical picture,
      bronchodilators, and inhaled antibiotics.

      Respiratory physiotherapy is one of the cornerstones to facilitate bronchial drainage. In
      patients with abundant bronchial secretions, it is recommended that bronchial drainage
      sessions be performed daily or several times a day. These bronchial drainage sessions,
      whether performed with a physiotherapist or independently, represent a very significant
      burden of care with limited compliance. Moreover, access to respiratory physiotherapy care is
      not always easy for patients due to geographical, time or professional availability
      limitations. Telehealth is recommended to improve the access to care and the quality of care.
      The Article 53 of French Law No. 2019-774 of July 24, 2019, relating to the organization and
      transformation of the healthcare system, provides for telecare. In the context of respiratory
      physiotherapy, this is a session carried out remotely by the physiotherapist, by
      videotransmission. In the context of the COVID-19 health crisis, this telecare was regulated
      by the decree of May 11, 2020. The rehabilitation of respiratory diseases (excluding
      emergencies) was envisaged in this decree. Practical experiences of telecare in respiratory
      physiotherapy have emerged during this health crisis and have created an opportunity to
      facilitate access to care for patients.

      The general principle expected from bronchial clearance techniques is to modify the
      viscoelastic properties of secretions and facilitate their elimination; these techniques can
      be applied simply with the spontaneous breathing of the patient by modifying the respiratory
      flow and/or the amplitude of ventilation or they can be applied with instrumental aids.
      SIMEOX速 (Physio-Assist, Aix en Provence, France) is an innovative medical device (CE medical
      mark) for drainage of the bronchial tree: by means of a mouthpiece connected to SIMEOX速 a
      succession of very short air negative pressure are generated in a non-invasive way that
      disseminate in the bronchial tree a pneumatic vibratory signal that modifies the rheological
      properties of the mucus, facilitates the mobilization of secretions and assists their
      transport to the upper airways. The SIMEOX速 device was tested in patients with bronchiectasis
      during respiratory exacerbation during a 7-day hospital stay; patients reported good
      tolerance of the device; respiratory function and exercise tolerance parameters were improve.
      However, the patient's autonomous use of this device requires specific training of a few
      sessions (3 to 5 sessions).

      RESEARCH HYPOTHESES Tele-physiotherapy could allow remote training of patients in the use of
      SIMEOX速. Once trained in its use, patients who have difficulty accessing standard respiratory
      physiotherapy sessions could be provided with a practical and effective bronchial clearance
      technique that can be used independently at home.
    
  