
    
      Background

      Mutations in the Dedicator of Cytokinesis-8 (DOCK8) gene are responsible for an
      immunodeficiency disease characterized by: severe cutaneous and sinopulmonary infections with
      bacterial organisms; extensive cutaneous viral infections with Herpes simplex, Herpes zoster,
      Molluscum contagiosum, and Human Papilloma Virus; a marked elevation in serum IgE levels and
      eosinophilia; homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in the dedicator of cytokinesis 8
      (DOCK8) gene. Patients with DOCK8 deficiency die from severe infections, squamous cell
      carcinomas, or hematological malignancies. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation
      (HSCT) represents a potentially life-saving treatment for immunodeficiency diseases such as
      DOCK8 deficiency. In this study we will evaluate the efficacy and safety of allogeneic HSCT
      for DOCK8 deficiency. We are particularly interested in determining whether allogeneic HSCT
      using different donor sources and conditioning regimens reverses the lethal disease phenotype
      in DOCK8 deficiency by reconstituting normal host defense. The development of lethal squamous
      cell carcinomas and lymphomas arising from the immunodeficiency in DOCK8 deficiency supports
      therapeutic intervention before overt malignancy arises.

      Objectives

      -To determine whether allogeneic HSCT reconstitutes T-lymphocyte and B-lymphocyte cells and
      myeloid cells with normal donor cells at one year post-transplant and reverses the clinical
      phenotype of severe recurrent infections in patients with DOCK8 deficiency.

      Eligibility

      Patients 5-35 years old with DOCK8 deficiency who have suffered one or more life-threatening
      infections, or who have developed lymphoma or squamous cell carcinoma, and have a 10/10
      matched related donor, a 10/10 matched unrelated donor, a 9/10 matched related donor, a 9/10
      matched unrelated donor, or a haploidentical related donor.

      Design

        -  DOCK8 deficiency patients with 10/10 matched related donors and unrelated donors will
           receive a pre-transplant conditioning regimen consisting of fludarabine 40 mg/m2/day on
           days -6, -5, -4, and -3, and busulfan IV (dose based on pharmacokinetic levels) every
           day for 4 days on days -6, -5, -4, and -3. The busulfan dosing will be adjusted based
           upon a test dose of busulfan given prior to the start of the conditioning regimen. Donor
           hematopoietic stem cells will be infused on day 0.

        -  Post-transplant immunosuppression for graft-versus-host-disease (GVHD) prophylaxis for
           recipients of 10/10 matched related and unrelated donors will consist of
           cyclophosphamide 50 mg/kg IV once daily for 2 days on days +3 and +4, along with
           mycophenolate mofetil from day +5 to day +35 and tacrolimus from day +5 to approximately
           day 180. If there is no evidence of graft-versus-host disease, tacrolimus will be
           stopped at approximately day +180.

        -  DOCK8 deficiency patients with 9/10 matched related or 9/10 matched unrelated donors
           will receive a pre-transplant conditioning regimen consisting of cyclophosphamide 14.5
           mg/kg on days -6 and -5, fludarabine 30 mg/m2/day on days -6, -5, -4, -3 and -2,
           busulfan IV (dose based on pharmacokinetic levels) once daily for three days on-4, -3
           and -2, and 200 cGy TBI on day -1. The busulfan dosing will be adjusted based upon a
           test dose of busulfan given prior to the start of the conditioning regimen. Donor
           hematopoietic stem cells will be infused on day 0. Post-transplant immunosuppression for
           graft-versus-host-disease (GVHD) prophylaxis for recipients of 9/10 matched related or
           unrelated donors will consist of cyclophosphamide 50 mg/kg IV once daily for two days on
           day s +3 and +4, along with mycophenolate mofetil from day +5 to day +35 and tacrolimus
           from day +5 to day 180. If there is no evidence of graft-versus-host disease, tacrolimus
           will be stopped at approximately day+180.

      DOCK8 deficiency patients with a haploidentical related donor will receive a pre-transplant
      conditioning regimen consisting of cyclophosphamide 14.5 mg/kg on days -6 and -5, busulfan IV
      (dose based on pharmacokinetic levels) once daily for 3 days on days -4, -3,and -2,
      fludarabine 30 mg/m2 on days -6, -5, -4, -3, and -2, and 200 cGy TBI on day -1. The busulfan
      dosing will be adjusted based upon a test dose of busulfan given prior to the start of the
      conditioning regimen. Donor hematopoietic stem cells will be infused on day 0.
      Post-transplant immunosuppression for GVHD prophylaxis will consist of cyclophosphamide 50
      mg/kg IV once daily for two days on day s +3 and +4, along with mycophenolate mofetil from
      day +5 to day +35 and tacrolimus from day +5 to day 180. If there is no evidence of
      graft-versus-host disease, tacrolimus will be stopped at approximately day+180.
    
  