
    
      Survivors of sepsis and acute respiratory failure suffer from long-term impairment in the
      domains of physical, cognitive, and psychological functioning collectively known as post
      intensive care syndrome (PICS) associated with increased re-hospitalization rates, higher
      health care costs and impaired quality of life. Pioneering work in the field of early
      physical rehabilitation of intensive care unit (ICU) patients and in identification of
      strategies for delirium reduction demonstrated improvement in physical and cognitive
      outcomes. Prevention of psychological complications, however, has not been adequately
      addressed. Anxiety, depression and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) affect over a third
      of all critical illness survivors post discharge, which is more than double of what has been
      reported in combat veterans. Despite the staggering rates of mental health morbidity,
      research on targeting preventive measures to be employed in the ICU before development of
      psychological symptoms has earned sparse attention. Memories of frightening and delusional
      experiences appear to be the strongest potentially modifiable risk factor, with higher rates
      of PTSD reported in those who had delusional memories without recall of factual events.
      Indeed, psychiatric symptoms such as anxiety, depression, and PTSD can be conceptualized as
      disorders of memory content, whereby the neural representation of the emotional component of
      the memory of a traumatic experience persists beyond any adaptive purpose. This causes
      dysregulation in the fear memory system, resulting in pathology associated with impaired
      cognitive, affective, and volitional functions. Research on the formation of fear memories
      demonstrates that one can interfere with the initial process of fear conditioning during the
      temporal windows when memory consolidation and reconsolidation occur.

      Therefore, a potential approach to treatment may be to introduce mitigating/factual
      information during the time period when the consolidation of the initial memory occurs and
      also following its initial recall, because at this time memories are labile and susceptible
      to alteration; however, the longer a memory has been stored in the brain, the more difficult
      it is to destabilize and alter it, explaining the lack of effectiveness of outpatient
      interventions. For the critically ill this would mean introducing some form of communication
      as soon as feasible following admission and providing communication in parallel with medical
      care in the ICU. Even though semantic processing continues in an altered states of
      consciousness, very little verbal communication systematically takes place with sedated
      and/or cognitively altered patients during the time window when the negative memories are
      being formed. How can such communication be introduced?

      A lot of patients receive ICU diaries following hospital discharge. The original design that
      has remained unchanged on over 30 years has care team and family members write entries of the
      patient's daily events, written in a non-medical language. Despite decades of research, ICU
      diaries failed to demonstrate consistent benefit for mental health outcomes. What if the
      reason is simply due to the timing of the information provided? What is reading the entries
      in real time, as the events unfold, can provide that protective factual information to
      mitigate formation of traumatic memories?

      The investigators hypothesize that reading ICU diary entries aloud in real time (in addition
      to providing them to patients following hospital discharge as has been the standard
      previously) is feasible and may translate into improved mental health outcomes including
      symptoms of anxiety, depression, and PTSD as well as more delirium free days. Doing so
      systematically may mitigate formation of false negative memories, provide reorientation and
      factual information, and thus help patients understand what is happening to them in real
      time.

      This will be accomplished via the following aim:

      Specific Aim #1: To conduct a feasibility trial of reading ICU diaries aloud daily and to
      refine the intervention based on stakeholder feedback Objective 1: ICU diaries will be read
      aloud in real time daily to 30 enrolled patients by ICU nurses/therapists. The approach will
      subsequently be refined based on semi-structured interviews of all involved stakeholders
      (patients, families, nurses, therapists). Patients will also complete anxiety, depression,
      acute stress/PTSD and cognitive function evaluation as measured by validated instruments.
    
  