
    
      Bone marrow consists of a complex hematopoietic cellular component that continuously goes
      through self-replication and/or differentiation processes. When the blood progenitor cells
      differentiate to mature cells, they will exit unassisted to peripheral blood. On the other
      hand, the immature cells trapped by marrow-blood barrier. However, malignant transformation
      of the hematopoietic progenitor cells in AML and CML results in a blockade of their ability
      to terminally differentiate, causing a rapid accumulation of immature cells.Chemokines have
      been shown to direct the movement of cells between intravascular and extravascular
      compartments.The CXC chemokine CXCL12, the ligand of CXCR4, activates distinct signaling
      pathways that may mediate cell migration. Recent reports demonstrated that the migration of
      HPC after transplantation from PB to BM via concentration gradients created by CXCL12,
      produced by marrow stromal cells, has been proposed as integral to the homing process. The
      mirror image of homing is mobilization of HPC from the BM to PB, which in a clinical setting
      is induced by administration of various stimuli including hematopoietic growth factors. The
      CXCR4-CXCL12 axis is reported to be very important in retaining the immature cells in the
      appropriate bone marrow compartment. In the preliminary research, we analyze the CXCR4
      expression and the chemotactic response of CXCL12 and peripheral plasma in six leukemia cell
      lines (HL-60, HL-CZ, K562, U937, Raji and Jurkat) by flow cytometry and two-chamber migration
      assay, respectively. Three categories among them could be suggested: one is CXCR4 (-) and
      CXCL12 response (-), such as HL-CZ and K562 cells; the other is CXCR4 (+) and CXCL12 response
      (-), such as HL-60 and Raji cells; the rest is CXCR4 (+) and CXCL12 response (+), such as
      Jurkat and U937 cells. These results make us wonder that the leukemic cells could egress to
      PB from BM is due to destruction of homing process or the activation of mobilization process
      through CXCR4-CXCL12 axis dysfunction. Therefore,we will focus on evaluating the mechanism of
      CXCR4-CXCL12 axis dysfunction in the various leukemic cell lines and primary leukemic cells
      from several aspects: 1). Evaluate the CXCR4 expression and the CXCL12 response of leukemic
      cells from patients with acute leukemia;2). Study on the molecular mechanism for the blockade
      of CXCR4-CXCL12 signaling in CXCR4 (+) and SDF response (-) cells;3). Evaluate the marrow
      plasma and peripheral plasma to find out plasma factors that interfering the migration
      behavior of leukemic CXCR4 (+) but CXCL12 response (-) cells
    
  