
    
      According to the American Cancer Society, there were more than 250,000 new breast cancer
      cases in 2017. Incidence of breast cancer increases with age, with more than 75% of patients
      being postmenopausal at the time of diagnosis. In addition, hormone receptors (HR) are over
      expressed in the majority of breast cancer tumors in postmenopausal women.

      Two classes of anti-endocrine therapies are used for treatment of HR-positive breast cancer:
      tamoxifen and the AIs, which can only be used to treat postmenopausal women because they are
      ineffective in women with functional ovaries. Joint pain is a significant AI-associated
      toxicity, affecting as many as 50% of patients. No factors associated with breast cancer
      treatment (such as chemotherapy) or co-morbid conditions (such as diabetes or body mass
      index) have been clearly shown to be predictive of the development of joint pain. The cause
      of AI-associated musculoskeletal symptoms remains elusive but some think it is associated
      with the direct effects of estrogen deprivation on bone, neurohormonal changes which result
      in change in pain sensitivity, and immune system changes that alter the circulating or local
      inflammatory cytokine concentrations.

      Some studies report more than 20% of patients are no longer taking their AI chemotherapy
      regimen because of AI-associated joint pain. As many as 40,000 women are affected by this
      toxicity in the United States annually and up to 20,000 women discontinue AI therapy because
      of intolerable joint pain and muscle aches. The current treatment for AI associated
      musculoskeletal symptoms is limited to oral pain medications and exercise, but, neither
      intervention has optimal effects, and the long term use of oral pain medication is
      problematic. Improvement in the treatment of AI associated musculoskeletal symptoms is needed
      to improve compliance with therapy, and thereby lead to improved breast cancer outcomes and
      survivorship.

      The study team conducted a pilot study (Campbell et al. Breast J, 2018) which suggested that
      vitamin B12 reduces pain and improves quality of life for participants taking aromatase
      inhibitors (AIs) who experienced AI-related musculoskeletal symptoms. This study aims to
      confirm these results in a phase III randomized prospective trial. If confirmed, Vitamin B12
      would become a safe and cost-effective option for the treatment of AI-related musculoskeletal
      symptoms, leading to improved cancer outcomes and survivorship.
    
  