
    
      PROSPER is a pilot project that will assess the ability to integrate genomic results into
      patient care and research.

      All patients will be consented to be involved. Involvement will be completely voluntary.
      Patients with gynaecological cancers or patients potentially eligible for a phase I trial who
      are receiving cancer care under medical oncology at Auckland City Hospital will be approached
      to consider participation in this study. All patients who are over 18 and potentially
      eligible for further therapy (standard of care or as part of a clinical trial) will be
      considered.

      Patients who agree to participate in PROSPER will provide archived tumour specimens (primary
      tumour and/or metastasis; tumour block or 15-20 unstained paraffin-embedded slides [minimum
      of 15 unstained slides if block not available], plus one H&E stained slide). Molecular
      profiling will be performed at the University of Auckland taking advantage of local
      expertise. A hybridisation capture DNA sequencing approach obtaining 500x-1000x coverage of a
      panel of 578 cancer genes will be used. This approach has recently been used to successfully
      analyse over 40 paired tumour and normal FFPE tissues by Prof. Cristin Print's University of
      Auckland laboratory (NimbleGen comprehensive cancer panel). Tumour tissue that remains after
      molecular profiling will be banked (with patients' consent) and may be subject to additional
      genomic sequencing analysis (e.g. whole genome sequencing), RNA expression analysis
      (Affymetrix Primeview), protein expression analysis (e.g. Western blot, IHC), and/or DNA copy
      number analysis (e.g. array CGH, quantitative PCR, FISH) based on resources available. Only
      validated results of these analyses will be conveyed to treating physicians and made
      available in patients' records.

      Patients must agree to provide whole blood for biobanking. This will provide a source of
      normal DNA for differentiation of constitutional versus somatic (tumour) molecular changes.
      Blood samples will also be used to detect circulating tumour DNA to assess this as an
      alternative to fresh biopsies.

      On documentation of relapse patients will be asked (where feasible) to provide a tumour
      biopsy and blood sample for further profiling. As biopsies become an increasingly common
      requirement in clinical trials, willingness of patients, procedural safety and useful tissue
      acquisition are critical elements of success. In patients with high grade serous ovarian
      cancer research biopsies have been shown to be safe, and feasible. In this project,
      investigators will collect ctDNA (circulating tumour DNA) alongside tumour biopsies to allow
      correlation and validation of the role of ctDNA as a non-invasive alternative to biopsies.
      Relating baseline expression profiles to treatment outcomes for each patient will help
      optimise drug therapy by improving patient selection and monitoring. This project will build
      upon plasma genomic initiatives already underway in breast, colorectal, and neuroendocrine
      cancers.

      All decision making about the advisability of biopsy and site to be sampled will be at the
      discretion of the clinician(s) who have primary care responsibility for the participants. The
      possible risks and benefits of obtaining additional fresh tumour samples at the time of
      relapse or emergence of drug resistance, will be fully explained to the patient. Consent to
      undergo a biopsy to obtain fresh tumour will be entirely voluntary and will not affect the
      patient's eligibility to participate in PROSPER or to participate in a related clinical
      trial. Participants will be allowed to decline biopsies at any stage, even if they have
      consented previously. Biopsies at relapse may be taken surgically or radiologically depending
      on feasibility and what other interventions are being undertaken as part of standard of care.
      A small proportion of these patients with isolated relapse may undergo surgery and in this
      scenario samples will be collected at this time. If biopsies are to be done radiologically,
      at least three 14-16 gauge core tumour biopsies will be collected.

      PROSPER will assess the clinical significance and feasibility of a profiling programme.
      Measures of benefit will include the percentage of patients treated as part of a clinical
      trial; number of patients receiving targeted therapy based on molecular aberrations; and
      integration of molecular information in practice. The study aims to profile 50-100 patients
      in the first year. In Auckland Hospital, 150 new patients with ovarian, cervical or
      endometrial cancer are treated annually. Additionally, 100-150 patients with relapsed disease
      are treated each year. This creates a large population that will be eligible for this
      project.

      A secure PROSPER database to register patients' clinical details will be established.
      Throughout the study's duration, data management processes will be followed in accordance
      with local SOPs, in an effort to maximise data quality and security.

      The registry will be password protected and accessible to registered users only. Doctors
      referring patients for enrolment in PROSPER will be able to view each of their patient's
      results in an identifiable format for use in clinical decision making. Other registered
      doctors will be able to see all other patient details in a de-identified manner allowing them
      to view clinical details and assay results of like patients. If patients' information is sent
      overseas as part of the study, only de-identified data will be sent.

      Appropriate steps will be taken to protect health information against loss, unauthorised
      access, use, modification, or disclosure or other misuse. For collection of tissue, patient
      information will be de-identified and a new unique alpha-numeric identifier will be assigned
      to each participant for all tissue specimens. Identification of individuals will be possible
      only by reference to a master index, which will be kept on hard copy in a locked file in a
      secure area, and on a password-protected encrypted database. If tissue or isolated molecular
      products are sent overseas for specialised scientific studies, only the anonymised study ID
      would be provided.

      Clinical data will be collected by the principal investigator, project manager, local
      clinical lead or other health professional under the approval of the local clinical lead,
      from patients' medical records into a password protected central database housed on a secure
      server under responsibility of the University of Auckland. All data will be de-identified at
      the point of extraction from the database prior to any analysis.

      No directly identifiable information will be included in publications arising from this
      study, nor will NHI numbers, dates of birth, or names of donors be shared with collaborators,
      with the exception of collaborators involved in the care of the patient.

      Clinicians involved with patient care will have access to the profiling results if patients
      have provided consent for this.
    
  