
    
      Low-dose Oral Imatinib in the Treatment of Scleroderma Pulmonary Involvement: a Phase II
      pilot study.

      Background and rationale

      Systemic sclerosis (SSc; scleroderma) is a rare, multisystem connective tissue disease
      characterised by widespread microvascular lesions and by the increased deposition of matrix
      components in the skin and internal organs, with varying degrees of severity.

      The incidence of scleroderma appears to have increased from 0.6 new cases annually per
      million in 1947 to 19 new cases annually in 1991 .

      The median survival have been calculated to be approximately 60% at 5 years and 50% at 10
      years. The U.S. collaborative study reported a 12 years survival of 30% .

      Moreover, patients with scleroderma have double standardized incidence ratio (SIR) of
      developing cancer compared to the general population .

      The burden for the National Health System is relevant, with a cost of Euro 2.900 for a
      five-days hospitalization per patient and an annual indirect cost of Euro 2.066 per patient .

      Unfortunately, despite advances in the therapy of single clinical manifestation of
      scleroderma, no proven disease-modifying interventions exist for patients at this time.
      Therapy is symptomatic consisting on vasodilators, steroids, anti-secretive agents is not
      very effective and immunosuppressive therapy consisting mainly in high-dose cyclophosphamide
      is associated with serious side effects.

      Our purpose is to treat scleroderma skin and pulmonary fibrosis using a therapeutic strategy
      based on pathogenetic mechanisms.

      The etiology of the disease is unknown, but abnormal oxidative stress has been implicated in
      the pathogenesis of scleroderma and linked to fibroblast activation. Platelet-derived growth
      factor (PDGF) seems to be a stimulator of the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS)
      which are key cell transducers of fibroblast proliferation and collagen gene expression . In
      more details, it has been observed that ROS generation is strictly related to Ha-Ras, and
      growth-factor activated extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1/2 (Ha-Ras, ERK1/2), with the
      Ha-Ras- ERK1/2-ROS circuitry amplified in scleroderma fibroblasts . In fact, over-expression
      of Ha-Ras or ERK 1/2 or high ROS levels induce collagen gene transcription and senescence in
      normal fibroblasts 6. Since platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) can induce ROS and
      Ras-ERK1/2 signaling and since IgG derived from scleroderma patients (SSc IgG) react with
      human fibroblasts , Svegliati and co-workers sought Ha-Ras-ERK1/2 and ROS stimulatory
      molecules in the serum of scleroderma patients and provided evidence that serum of
      scleroderma patients contains stimulatory IgG autoantibodies directed to the PDGF receptor
      (PDGFR) 5. These autoantibodies trigger the PDGFR, which induces ROS via Ha-Ras and ERK 1/2
      signaling and is ultimately responsible for fibroblast activation, a distinctive feature of
      scleroderma 5.

      Pulmonary involvement is present in a considerable part of the patients and is characterized
      by typical interstitial lung disease. Most of the patients present bilateral basal alveolitis
      evolving to diffuse fibrosis and restrictive respiratory failure. Lung fibrosis or pulmonary
      hypertension is the main cause of death in systemic sclerosis.

      Imatinib mesylate (STI571 or Gleevec) is a specific inhibitor of the fusion protein Bcr-Abl,
      the causal agent in chronic myelogenous leukaemia. Other targets ATP-binding site of tyrosine
      kinases are for PDGF, PDGF-receptor, c-Kit, and SCF.

      Daniels and coll. investigated the role of TGF-beta-induced fibrosis mediated by activation
      of the Abelson (Abl) tyrosine kinase, and using a mouse model of bleomycin-induced pulmonary
      fibrosis, found a significant inhibition of lung fibrosis by imatinib .

      Since imatinib mesylate exerts selective, dual inhibition of the transforming growth factor
      beta (TGFbeta) and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) pathways a recent study was
      undertaken to test the potential use of imatinib mesylate as an antifibrotic drug also for
      the treatment of dermal fibrosis in systemic sclerosis (SSc). The authors found that imatinib
      at biologically relevant concentrations has potent antifibrotic effects in vitro and in vivo,
      without toxic side effects. They conclude that its favorable pharmacokinetics and clinical
      experience with its use in other diseases, imatinib mesylate is a promising candidate for the
      treatment of fibrotic diseases such as SSc.

      Moreover Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) is a potent smooth muscle cell mitogen that
      may contribute to smooth muscle hyperplasia during the development of chronic pulmonary
      hypertension and selective PDGF inhibition may provide a novel therapeutic strategy for the
      treatment of chronic PH. Pulmonary arterial hypertension, a disorder limited to the pulmonary
      circulation, is characterized by pulmonary vascular obstruction and variable pulmonary
      vasoconstriction leading to increased pulmonary vascular resistance and death. Pulmonary
      hypertension is a frequent complication of lung fibrosis in systemic sclerosis, but can also
      occur without overt fibrotic pulmonary involvement in particular in the limited form of
      scleroderma. The PDGF receptor antagonist STI571 (imatinib) reversed advanced pulmonary
      vascular disease in 2 animal models of pulmonary hypertension regardless of the initiating
      stimulus and it has been used successfully in single patients resistant to conventional
      therapy .

      Actually, is approved for the treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia 7 and progressed
      malignant gastrointestinal stromal tumors; since altered PDGF signaling play an important
      role in the skin and pulmonary fibrosis, Imatinib can have therapeutic potential in the
      treatment of disorders accompanied by overexpression of this growth factor. Since fibrotic
      complication are disfiguring and responsible for great suffering and mortality, we expect
      that this drug can confer substantial benefit in patient with scleroderma.

      Objectives of the study

      The specific objective of this study is to verify effect and tolerability of a new therapy on
      pulmonary and skin fibrosis in patients affected by systemic sclerosis. This therapy is based
      upon recent data regarding the pathogenesis of scleroderma and is intended to interfere with
      PDGF receptor tyrosine kinase activity which plays a central role in type I collagen gene
      expression. The proposed action has the following other objectives: 1. strengthening of a
      national network composed of centres trained in the use of experimental drugs for this
      disease, with a special focus on the development of uniform criteria for outcome evaluation,
      enforcement of communication channels, creation of strategic synergies for the future,
      through ideas, projects and data exchange; 2. training of young investigators; 3. sharing of
      advanced experimental techniques and 'rare' biological samples to improve knowledge about
      pathogenesis of scleroderma, avoiding as well costly overlap.

      Type of Study

      To evaluate the effect of the Imatinib treatment the study will follow a 'Simon's optimal
      two-stage design'. This is a typical Phase II design, whose aim is to limit the number of
      subjects who will undergo an ineffective therapy. This design consists in two subsequent
      enrolment phases.

      Ten patients (variable: n1) are entered into the study in the first stage of the trial. Their
      outcome will be evaluated after six months of experimental therapy. If there will be fewer
      than 10% of good responses (variable: P0), then accrual will terminate and the drug will be
      rejected as being of little interest. Otherwise, accrual will continue to a total of 30
      patients (variable: n). All patients will undergo the same experimental treatment and outcome
      evaluation. At the end of the study the drug will be rejected if the observed response rate
      will be less than 30% (variable: P1) of evaluable patients.

      Variables n1, n, P0, P1 have been calculated to provide a design with a probability of 0.05
      or less of accepting a drug worse than P0 after the first stage and a probability of 0.2 or
      less of rejecting a drug better than P1 at the end of the study.

      A comparison with historical controls (SSc with lung disease who underwent immunosuppressive
      treatment) will be also performed.

      Seventy-five historical controls are needed to have a probability 80% or higher to reveal a
      true difference > 20% (favour experimental drug), hypothesizing a good response rate 0.1 or
      less in the control population (one-sided, alpha=0,05)3.
    
  