
    
      Older African Americans suffer from disproportionately high rates of cardiovascular disease
      (CVD) morbidity and mortality. In response to the health disparity between older African
      Americans and whites, national mandates have called for new research on innovative approaches
      to CVD prevention in this high risk population. Oxidative stress has recently been implicated
      in the pathogenesis of atherosclerotic CVD. Available evidence from epidemiological studies,
      clinical trials, and laboratory mechanistic studies indicate that antioxidant interventions
      may be useful in the prevention and treatment of atherosclerotic CVD in high risk older
      populations. Furthermore, it has been hypothesized that dietary or food sources of
      antioxidant nutrients may be more clinically effective than conventional nonfood-derived
      vitamin supplementation. Surveys indicate relatively high rates of complementary and
      alternative medicine (CAM) use, including herbal medicines, in older African Americans. Yet,
      with the exception of the previous clinical trials of the present Center team, there have
      been few controlled studies on CAM therapies in older African Americans and no previous
      controlled studies on efficacy and mechanisms of herbal antioxidants for the prevention of
      CVD in this high risk population. Preliminary studies have found that a CAM herbal
      preparation (MAK) derived from traditional Vedic medicine demonstrates potent antioxidant and
      anti-atherogenic effects in laboratory and pilot human studies. This study will evaluate the
      effects of this traditional CAM herbal preparation in older African Americans.

      This will be a controlled clinical trial at field site, Howard University Medical Center in
      Washington, DC, involving 138 older African American men and women (55 years of age and
      older) with documented atherosclerotic CVD who will be randomized to supplementation with
      either the traditional CAM herbal preparation (MAK 4+5), conventional vitamin cocktail (E+C)
      or placebo for 12 months. Clinical and mechanistic outcomes include carotid artery
      atherosclerosis (IMT), endothelial dysfunction (brachial artery reactivity), oxidized LDL,
      traditional CVD risk factors (BP, lipids, diet, exercise, smoking, weight) and quality of
      life. Participants will continue usual care. The results of this clinical study will provide
      much needed understanding of the basic and clinical effects of a traditional herbal
      antioxidant preparation on pathophysiological mechanisms of atherosclerotic CVD in this high
      risk group. This will facilitate translation of research findings on CAM into clinical
      practice for prevention of disease in this underserved and understudied population of high
      risk older African Americans.
    
  