
    
      Background: In the Philippines, close to 11 million people in 65 provinces are at risk for
      acquiring malaria infections. It is still one of the ten leading causes of morbidity
      nationwide. Each day, roughly 150-200 people fall ill with malaria. In the past 40 years, the
      mortality rate stabilized at around 2/100,000 population. Of those people who have malaria,
      approximately 1% die per year. Malaria remains one of the major causes of death in provinces
      such as Palawan, Isabela, Tawi-tawi, Sulu and Butuan City. Approximately 70% of all malaria
      in the Philippines is Plasmodium falciparum with the remaining species being P. vivax.

      Recently the Department of Health (DOH) instituted a change in the national antimalarial drug
      guidelines changing from using chloroquine (CQ) and sulfadoxine pyrimethamine (SP)
      monotherapy as first and second line drugs, respectively, to a combined chloroquine plus
      sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine as first-line treatment, and artemether-lumefantrine (Coartem) as
      second line treatment. This change was made due to increasing levels of drug resistance to
      the previous first and second-line therapies. In order to have an improved understanding of
      the trends of antimalarial drug resistance in the Philippines, the DOH is initiating a
      sentinel surveillance system for monitoring of antimalarial drug resistance. Three sites have
      been selected to be representative of the country.

      Objective: To establish a sentinel surveillance system to assess the efficacy of chloroquine
      plus sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine versus artemether + lumefantrine for the treatment of
      uncomplicated P. falciparum infections in three areas of the Republic of the Philippines.

      Methods: An in vivo antimalarial drug efficacy trial will be conducted in three areas of the
      Philippines. Subjects > 6 months of age with parasitologically confirmed, uncomplicated P.
      falciparum infections will be recruited. Patients will be treated with single dose SP (25
      mg/kg of the sulfadoxine component in a single dose) plus CQ (25 mg/kg over three days) or
      artemether + lumefantrine (twice daily) over 3 days. Patients will be randomly assigned one
      of the two drugs regimens. Clinical and parasitological parameters will be monitored over a
      28-day follow-up period to evaluate drug efficacy. Results from this study will be used to
      assist the DOH in assessing their national malaria treatment policy for P. falciparum
      malaria.
    
  