
    
      At first, a meeting will be held with the patients under study where they will be informed
      and any doubts that may arise in relation to the investigation will be resolved. In addition,
      the correct adaptation of these to the inclusion and exclusion criteria of our study will be
      verified. Subsequently, they will be given individually the informed consent prepared
      expressly for the present study, the doubts arising with respect to this one will be resolved
      and their signature will proceed. At this time, and individually again, we will proceed to
      the development of the Clinical History of Physiotherapy where only the information necessary
      for our study will be collected.

      To emphasize in this point that the participants will grant their consent for the treatment
      of the data obtained for scientific purposes, according to the legal norms.

      Next, the patients will be randomly assigned to two groups: control group and experimental
      group. The randomization of the sample was done through the EPIDAR software in version 3.1
      between the Experimental Group and the Control Group Subsequently, the evaluations and
      measurements of the study variables will be carried out by the research team.

      CONTROL GROUP: You will be provided exclusively therapeutic exercises protocol to develop
      supervised by Physical Therapist that you must perform following a daily activity for three
      weeks. They will be evaluated at the end of that period and six moths later in order to have
      at least three timepoints to evaluate.

      EXPERIMENTAL GROUP: After the initial evaluation, the first 10 treatment sessions will be
      developed at the rate of five daily sessions in the first week, three sessions on alternate
      days in the second week and two sessions on alternate days in the third week (3 weeks in
      total), applying the monopolar capacitive diathermy with radiofrequency in the anterior
      aspect of the knee, in dynamic application in one of the members: affect or randomized (uni
      or bilateral pathology, respectively). This diathermy will be combined with a therapeutic
      exercise program supervised by a Physiotherapist.

      The treatment is administered with a Diathermy equipment and inductive electrodes of 100 W
      peak power, with a frequency of application of twice daily with a dose submitis (grade I),
      for 10 min, with a frequency of repetition of the impulses of 46 Hz and a pulse duration of
      0.2 ms

      After the tenth treatment session all the measurements will be repeated following the same
      environmental conditions as at the beginning and by the evaluators themselves to the
      components of both groups.Those measurements will be evaluated at the end of that three weeks
      period and six moths later in order to have at least three timepoints to evaluate.
    
  