
    
      Avastin® is a humanized monoclonal antibody that binds to vascular endothelial growth factor
      (VEGF). VEGF plays an important role in the growth of both normal and abnormal blood vessels.
      Avastin® is designed to prevent or slow down the growth of cancer cells by blocking the
      effects of VEGF.

      Docetaxel and carboplatin are standard chemotherapy drugs that have been approved by the FDA
      for the treatment of NSCLC. Docetaxel and carboplatin are designed to work by stopping the
      division of cancer cells.

      If you are found to be eligible, you will begin receiving Avastin®, docetaxel, and
      carboplatin. Avastin®, carboplatin, and docetaxel will be given by vein once every 3 weeks.
      The first dose of Avastin® will be given over 90 minutes. The second dose of Avastin® will be
      given over 60 minutes. All other doses of Avastin® will be given over 30 minutes. Carboplatin
      and docetaxel will always be given over 30 minutes. They will be given on the same day every
      3 weeks (1 cycle). You may receive up to 6 cycles of treatment. You will receive standard
      premedication with dexamethasone to help decrease the risk of side effects. Dexamethasone
      will be taken before you receive your docetaxel infusion.

      During the study, you will have blood tests (about 2 teaspoons) every 3 weeks to look at your
      blood counts. These samples will be used only for routine lab tests. You will be seen by a
      physician every 3 weeks and given a physical exam. Your blood pressure will be monitored, and
      you will be asked about any side effects you are experiencing. A performance status
      evaluation will also be done. In addition, you will have a urine test every 2 cycles of
      treatment.

      After 2 cycles of treatment (6 weeks), you will have a chest x-ray and computerized
      tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan to evaluate the status of the
      disease. These will be repeated every 2 cycles. Your continued participation in this study
      depends on how your cancer responds to the study drugs. Your doctor may decide to take you
      off this study if you experience significant side effects or your medical condition worsens.
      You may continue receiving bevacizumab for as long as your cancer responds to study
      treatment.

      You will be followed-up on by phone or at routine clinic visits for at least 12 months to
      monitor your condition and disease status.

      This is an investigational study. Avastin® has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of
      colorectal cancer. Docetaxel and carboplatin are FDA approved and commercially available. The
      use of these drugs together in this study is experimental. A total of 50 patients will take
      part in this study. All participants will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  