
    
      After approval by the Research Ethics Board, this randomized double-blinded clinical trial
      was carried out in the prehospital medical department of a Tunisian teaching hospital over a
      3 years period (April 30, 2015 to April 29, 2018). All patients with isolated diaphysial
      femoral fracture were enrolled. Inclusion criteria were age over 18 years, informed and
      writing consent.

      Based on the results of a previous study and targeting a decrease of 1 cm in pain intensity
      assessed by the visual analogue score (VAS), the sample size was assessed to be at least 22
      patients in each study group, considering a threshold of 0.05 and a study power of 90%.
      Sample size was increased in each group to 25 patients to allow possible dropouts.

      Included patients randomly received, in a double-blind manner (using computer-generated
      allocation numbers sealed in brown envelopes), one of two local anesthetic solutions.

      The control group (Group Placebo) had a FNB with 15 ml of lidocaine with epinephrine 0,005
      mg/ml (300 mg) and 3 ml of normal saline.

      The intervention group (Group Magnesium) had a FNB with 15 ml of lidocaine with epinephrine
      0,005 mg/ml (300 mg) and 3 ml of Mg S 15% (450 mg).

      FNB was performed according to WINNIE technique after rigorous asepsis. Its efficiency was
      evaluated 15 minutes after by pinprick test. Pain was assessed by visual analog scale (VAS)
      every 10 minutes for the first hour, then every 60 minutes until the 6th hour after the
      block. Patients with a VAS > 3 received morphine titration.

      Primary endpoints were morphine consumption and pain intensity during the first 6 hours.

      Secondary end-points were the duration of the sensitive block, time to the first analgesic
      request, the occurrence of side effects (erythematic, sedation, decrease in average blood
      pressure, or heart rate of more than 15% of the initial basic value).
    
  