
    
      Importance: Aging is characterized by numerous molecular, physiological, functional, motor
      and psychological changes, such as loss of postural balance and reduced muscle mass/strength.
      Such modifications often lead to reduced physical-functional capacity in the elderly and
      increased risk of falls. Currently, physical exercise is widely used to improve physical
      performance and reduce, at least in part, postural instabilities and the risk of falls. In
      this context, the Pilates method may be a good strategy to improve body balance, muscle
      strength and, potentially, the perception of quality of life in this population, depending
      how the exercises are performed.

      Objective: To evaluate whether practicing Pilates exercises in orthostatic position results
      in differential effects on walking mobility and postural balance in healthy elderly women
      when compared to the standard sequence in the Pilates method, which involves less time
      performing exercise in the orthostatic position.

      Design, Methods and Participants: Clinical, single blind controlled and randomized trial. 36
      previously sedentary elderly women will be included in the study and sign a Free and Informed
      Consent Term (TCLE). The Pilates protocols will be administered over 12 weeks on a bi-weekly
      scheme, and each session will last approximately 50 minutes. The subjects who agree to
      participate will be evaluated at baseline and immediately post-intervention.

      Intervention: Subjects will be randomized to participate in the experimental group (Pilates
      exercises with emphasis on orthostatic posture) or control group (Pilates exercises practiced
      following traditional sequence of postures).

      Main Outcomes and Measurements: The main outcome of the study will be walking mobility and
      postural balance, assessed using the Timed Up and Go test (single "motor" and dual task
      "cognitive-motor" tests), BERG Balance Scale, Functional Reach Test, and ABC Balance
      Confidence Scale).

      Expected results: The experimental group is expected to perform better in terms of walking
      mobility and body balance, since hypothetically, a higher relative volume of orthostatic
      exercises would be more adequate for training anticipatory postural adjustments when compared
      to the traditional Pilates postural sequence.
    
  