
    
      The study will have 11 visits occur over 8 weeks with study visits scheduled weekly or
      biweekly.

      Detailed Description:

      The study visit occurrences are as follows:

        1. Week 0- Screening Visit

        2. Week 1- Baseline Visit

        3. Week 2- one phone visit and one clinic visit in one week

        4. Week 3- one phone visit and one clinic visit in one week

        5. Week 4- one visit in one week

        6. Week 5- one visit in one week

        7. Week 6- one visit in one week

        8. Week 7- one visit in one week

        9. Week 8- one visit in one week

      WBT description Four licensed therapists, who have been trained and certified in WBT, will
      provide weekly sessions of 30 to 50 minutes in duration. Therapists will follow the
      procedures outlined in the WBT manual. The initial sessions (weeks 0-2) will be focused on
      identifying and contextualizing episodes of well-being. The intermediate sessions (weeks 3-5)
      will be focused on modifying cognitions and behaviors, which lead to premature interruption
      of well-being, and optimizing cognitions and behaviors, which have been idiographically
      linked to enhanced well-being. Final sessions (weeks 6-8) will apply the Psychological
      Well-Being scales (PWB) to refine treatment according to Ryff's dimensions of well-being.
      Additional principles and techniques of WBT include reappraisal, mood-charting, scheduling of
      activities, shaping, problem-solving, and assertiveness training.

      Medication Schedule Participants will receive treatment with the stimulant,
      amphetamine/d-amphetamine, or matched placebo.

      Participants will start at 1 pill (placebo or 5 mg amphetamine/d-amphetamine) in the morning
      and 1 pill (placebo or 5 mg amphetamine/d-amphetamine) at noon. The treatment will then be
      flexibly adjusted up or down by a study clinician based on participant's response. Dose
      ranges will be 1-3 pills (placebo or 5 mg amphetamine) in the morning and 1-3 pills (placebo
      or 5 mg amphetamine) at noon.
    
  