
    
      Treatment of patients with heart failure (HF) is a great challenge for contemporary medicine.
      HF frequency in European population is assessed for 0.4-2%. This disease is characterized by
      high morbidity and mortality rate, poor quality of life and frequent hospitalizations. Along
      with the medicine progress, in particular in the scope of acute coronary syndromes treatment,
      the number of HF patients is constantly growing. The essential problem connected with HF is
      its progress course and an increasing rate of subsequent hospitalizations (approximately 30%
      of hospitalizations are the repeated ones). It is estimated that the costs of hospital stays
      constitute nearly 2/3 of healthcare costs provided for HF patients.

      It has been estimated that the prevalence of HF will increase by 25% and its direct costs by
      215% in the next 20 years. The prognosis in HF is closely connected with the progression of
      the disease defined in accordance with the NYHA (New York Heart Association) functional
      classification. The yearly mortality rate among each NYHA class is: class 1 - up to 10%,
      class 2 - 10-20%, class 3 - 20-40%, class 4 - mortality 40-60%. Over a half of the patients
      with symptomatic HF die within 4 years of observation.

      In the AMULET study we we will merging the interventions that so far turned out to be
      effective (specialist counselling, phone counselling programmes and telemonitoring).
      Therefore, we created of ambulatory care points for HF patients, which would be equipped with
      diagnostic devices (impedance cardiography and body composition analyser (bioimpedance
      scale)), assessing the most important clinical parameters. Ambulatory care point will be
      operated by a trained nurse, under a telemetry supervision of a specialist.

      The following parameters were identified as the indicators of treatment effects: heart rate
      (HR), systolic and diastolic blood pressure (SBP and DBP), thoracic fluid content (TFC) and
      its change (delta TFC), change of body mass and total body water (delta TBW).

      The telemedicine solutions will strongly support the proposed system. The clinical data will
      be automatically entered into an interactive system (database), which will send information
      to a supervising cardiologist, in accordance with the previously implemented recommendation
      support module (RSM). Regarding RSM indications remote specialist recommendation will be
      generated (e.g. maintenance or modification of treatment, referral to hospital).

      The proposed approach will satisfy ESC recommendations on long-term management: plan
      follow-up strategy (including plan to up-titrate/optimize dose of disease-modifying drugs);
      improvement in symptoms, quality of life and survival; prevention of readmissions; management
      programme; education and appropriate lifestyle adjustments.
    
  