
    
      War-associated injuries often result in soft tissue and bone being contaminated with foreign
      material, leading to infection (Fares et al. 2013; Covey, Lurate, and Hatton 2000). Wound
      infections remain the greatest risk to life and restoration of function in war-wounded that
      survive the first few hours (Tong 1972; Murray 2008).

      The Syrian armed conflict broke out in 2011 and quickly deteriorated. Médecins Sans
      Frontières/Doctors Without Borders (MSF) runs an emergency trauma project in the Ministry of
      Health hospital in Ar Ramtha, Jordan, less than five kilometers from the Syrian border. At
      this facility patients from the Syrian armed conflict receive treatment for blast- and
      gunshot-injuries. Wounds are treated according to the International Committee of the Red
      Cross war surgery protocol (Giannou and Baldan 2010). Wound management and healing has been
      difficult and time consuming, often complicated by infections and antibiotic resistance.

      Recommendations for treatment of war-associated infections are generally not supported by
      cohort studies (Murray et al. 2008). High rates of war wound infections caused by
      antimicrobial drug resistant organisms have been shown in the Middle East but reports
      generally only include combatants. Due to the use of body armor and forward medical therapy
      this data may not be applicable to a civilian setting. Furthermore, available studies are
      either performed on old wounds (Teicher et al. 2014) or on all available culture samples,
      disregarding infection signs (Sutter et al. 2011; Dau, Tloba, and Daw 2013). Without clinical
      signs of infection, routine collection of peri-debridement culture samples is inappropriate
      in war-associated injuries (Murray et al. 2008). The differentiation between contamination
      and infecting organisms is crucial in order to avoid unnecessary medication, especially limit
      the use of broad-spectrum antibiotics as overuse may lead to development of multi-drug
      resistant organisms (Eardley et al. 2011). Cultures collected from acute wounds with clinical
      signs of infection will be analyzed.
    
  