
    
      Autologous mitochondria will be delivered to the ischemic heart muscle in one of two ways,
      during clinically indicated surgical procedure or during clinically indicated cardiac
      catheterization.

      For surgical re-operation subjects:

      After the subject's chest is open, 1-2 6mm biopsies will be collected from the exposed
      skeletal muscle of the chest wall. The tissue will be processed at bedside to extract the
      autologous mitochondria. Surgery will proceed as clinically indicated. Prior to closure of
      the chest, autologous mitochondria will be injected via 5-10 injections of approximately 0.1
      mL each to the damaged area (if damaged muscle is local) or via injection into the proximal
      aorta while cross-clamped for clinically indicated surgery for global distribution of
      mitochondria via the coronary arteries if there is no evident area of damage. Following
      completion of surgical maneuvers the mitochondria will be injected into the aorta and the
      cross-clamp will be removed. If there is global injury but a cross-clamp is not clinically
      indicated, direct injection into the myocardium will occur throughout the ventricle as
      previously described. Chest closure will then occur as and if clinically indicated for both
      techniques.

      For catheterization subjects:

      Once in the catheterization lab, the temporary chest closure will be removed and 1-2 6 mm
      biopsies will be collected from the exposed skeletal muscle of the chest wall by the cardiac
      surgery team. The tissue will be processed at bedside to extract the autologous mitochondria.
      The catheterization will proceed as clinically indicated. Prior to completion of the
      procedure (interventional to restore blood flow or hemodynamics), mitochondria will be
      infused in 5 mL of buffer as conducted in large animal studies (5) via intracoronary infusion
      followed by a 5 mL flush with normal saline. Total dose of mitochondria will be equal to
      direct injection subjects, with a larger dilution to allow to infusion via cardiac catheter.

      If there is no marked improvement in ventricular function following the injection/infusion of
      autologous mitochondria and the subject has a clinically indicated procedure in the days
      following the initial delivery, a second injection/infusion will be completed. At this time
      the follow up schedule will be reset to Day 0.
    
  