
    
      Hypothesis: Fermented aronia extract (FAE) improves glycaemia and lipidaemia in T2D more
      efficiently than both non-fermented aronia extract (NFAE) and placebo.

      Research questions:

      Does FAE/NFAE when administered to T2D subjects:

        -  Improve glucose responses to an oral glucose tolerance test and HbA1C?

        -  Improve fasting LDL-, HDL- and total cholesterol?

        -  Reduce insulin resistance and increase total antioxidative/anti-inflammatory capacity?

        -  Increase circulating GLP-1 and GIP levels with lower DPP4 activity?

        -  Alleviate hypertension and obesity?

      Methods A total of 48 T2D patients is needed for the double blind, randomized triple
      cross-over trial. The patients will consume FAE, NFAE or placebo daily divided into two doses
      which is expected to provide a sufficient dose of bioactive phenolic compounds. The patients
      will be recruited through "forsoegsperson.dk", "sundhed.dk", and flyers placed at Aarhus
      university hospital (AUH). T2D patients with fasting blood glucose ≤ 12 mM and HbA1c > 6.1%
      and < 10%, without severe comorbidities, will be included. Before enrolment, the patients
      receive all necessary study information (written and oral) including potential adverse
      effects (e.g. aronia allergy), and they will have to provide their informed consent (visit
      1). There will be an assessment of whether the patients fulfill the criteria as well.

      The randomized double-blinded triple cross-over study consists of three eight weeks
      intervention periods (placebo, FAE and NFAE), where the participants are randomly assigned to
      the order of treatments (six different possibilities of order). The intervention periods are
      separated by minimum three weeks wash-out periods (see figure 1 for details). Before and
      after each intervention period, i.e. six times, oral glucose tolerance tests (OGTT) will be
      performed. The Central Denmark Region Committees on Health Research Ethics has approved the
      trial.

      Analyses OGTT: Prior to the OGTT, the participants have fasted for 8 hours where after they
      will consume 75 g glucose dissolved in 300 ml water within 5 minutes. Blood will be sampled
      at time points -10, 0, 30, 60, 90, 120, and 240 minutes.

      Blood Analyses: After the blood sampling, plasma will be stored at -80° C until further
      analysis. Obviously, the investigators aim to determine if FAE and NFAE consumption is
      capable of lowering the fasting and postprandial blood sugar and thus, the levels of glucose,
      fructosamin and HbA1c will be measured. The concentration of advanced glycosylation end
      products will be assessed in fasted blood samples. Also, lipidaemia will be examined, e.g.
      total cholesterol, triglyceride, high-density lipoprotein and low-density lipoprotein
      concentrations. The inflammatory state will be assessed by measuring the level of pro- and
      anti-inflammatory cytokines as well as the concentration of C-reactive protein in fasting
      blood samples. To determine whether aronia acts through incretin mediated regulation, the
      concentrations of GIP and GLP-1 and the activity of DDP4 will be measured. The concentrations
      of glucagon, insulin, and adiponectin will be assessed as well.

      Insulin resistance: β-cell dysfunction and insulin resistance will be estimated from blood
      glucose and insulin concentrations using Homeostasis Model Assessment (3) and Matsuda Index
      (4) which are based on concentrations measured at fasting states and during the OGTT,
      respectively.

      Diurnal blood pressure: 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring will be carried out. The
      necessary equipment is available at AUH. The participants will have their 24-hour blood
      pressure measured before and after each intervention period.

      Body mass index (BMI): At the first visit the participants height and weight are measured,
      and the weight will subsequently be monitored.

      Metabolomics and microbiomics assays: The results from the previous tests (effects on main
      outcomes) will determine the extent of the subsequent metabolomics and microbiomics analyses.
      Fecal samples for microbiomics, as well as blood and urine samples for metabolomics will be
      stored at -80° C until use.

      Data analysis: The power calculation is based on our primary effect parameter glucose
      incremental area under the curve (iAUC). The number of participants needed to obtain a
      statistical power of 80% at a level of P<0.05 (α=0.05; 1-β=0.8) was calculated as 48. The
      investigators wanted to detect a minimal relevant difference for the area of (mean ± s.d.)
      65±50 mmol/l x 120 min, which gives us an estimated effect size of 1.30. The anticipated
      dropout is 20%. ANOVA will be conducted for each variable to determine if the variables
      change upon administration of FAE, NFAE, or placebo as well as to assess intergroup
      variability at baseline and endpoint. Significance will be set to p < 0.05.
    
  