
    
      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE:

      Due to the subjectivity of clinical symptoms and the indirect nature of established ischemia
      tests, effective initial triage of patients in the ED with acute new onset chest pain is
      difficult and leads to a high number of patients that are admitted to the hospital despite
      not having obstructive coronary disease. In the subsequent work up, these patients require
      extensive testing with significant resource consumption and sometimes delayed treatment. The
      ability to obtain information on the presence of coronary artery stenoses and plaque early in
      a noninvasive fashion could substantially enhance initial triage in the ED for these
      patients.

      A combined approach as proposed here using CT coronary angiography to assess the coronary
      morphology together with CT myocardial perfusion assessment would address morphology and
      function and help to more correctly characterize coronary lesions for decision making of a
      potential coronary intervention.

      Coronary CTA Analysis:

      MDCT data sets are assessed qualitatively for the presence of coronary disease within all
      coronary segments, including side branches. The assessment is performed on original axial
      source images; thin slice (5mm) MIP's and MPR reconstructions orthogonal and perpendicular to
      the vessel centerline, and short axis cross-sectional reconstructions (0.625-mm-thickness).
      The analysis is performed per segment and per patient.

      CT Myocardial Perfusion Analysis:

      The initial evaluation of perfusion is performed by reconstruction of short axis images
      viewed in thick multiplanar reformation (MPR) with slice thickness between 5mm and 10mm.
      Increasing slice thickness increases the voxel size and thus decrease image noise and
      improves low contrast resolution. For scans with increased image noise, a smoother
      reconstruction algorithm is also useful. A true perfusion defect will persist throughout
      multiple different phases and will be visualized in both systole and diastole. On the other
      hand, a potential defect that is only present in one phase (i.e. only in systole) and then
      disappears is likely to represent an artifact due to motion (e.g. false positive). In order
      to identify regions of myocardium that have minor discrepancies in tissue density, narrow
      window width is preferred, as higher contrast will be achieved. Measuring the attenuation
      value on first pass computed tomography (CT) perfusion images is helpful in identifying
      perfusion defects (HU ~ 50) vs. normal (remote) myocardium (Hounsfield Units (HU) ~ 100). A
      17-segment model as defined by the American College of Cardiology (ACC) / American Heart
      Association (AHA) is used to determine perfusion defect in a particular myocardial segment
      and coronary artery distribution. A score on a scale from 0-4 is graded for each myocardial
      segment depending on the extent or area of perfusion defect within the segment. The sum of
      all the segment scores is used to determine if the patient has a disease (e.g., if the
      maximum score attainable is 68, so any sum score > 3 correlates to a 5% volume ischemia in
      the myocardium and is designated as disease at the patient level.)

        -  Decision to do CT myocardial Perfusion will be made by the cardiac radiologist after the
           acquisition of the calcium score or after identifying a moderate stenosis or
           non-evaluable segment as described in the protocol.

        -  The results of the coronary CT angiography and the CT myocardial Perfusion will be used
           together to make the decision of whether to send the patient home or to cath. Patients
           will be admitted for further cardiac investigation if: stenosis > 70% by Coronary CT
           angiography or intermediate stenosis (50-70%)/non-diagnostic resting coronary CT
           angiography with CT myocardial perfusion defect. Patients will be considered negative
           and excluded from acute coronary syndrome if stenosis by coronary CT angiography is <
           50% or an intermediate/non-diagnostic lesion is seen and no myocardial ischemia is
           present by CT myocardial Perfusion.

      Study Objective The main purpose of this study is to have a definite ED chest pain admission
      triage, which will help to reduce the length of stay and direct patient cost. This approach
      will reduce the economic burden in intermediate risk group patients as well.

      Study Hypotheses

      The proposed study seeks to evaluate the following hypotheses:

      I- The combined evaluation of CT angiography with CT myocardial perfusion is more efficient
      in correctly diagnosing the obstructive disease. This will reduce the length of hospital stay
      (LOS), in the assessment of intermediate risk patients at detecting or excluding acute
      coronary syndrome, in patients presenting with chest pain to ED as compared to a strategy
      with SPECT alone.

      II- To reduce the direct patient care costs in the same patient population. This study is
      proposing a new chest pain algorithm in arm-B at West Kendall Baptist hospital (combined
      approach of CT angiography and CT myocardial perfusion) that will reduce the length of stay
      as well as the consumed resources in comparison with the current approach. The additional
      value of CT myocardial perfusion is to avoid false positive results by CT angiography alone.
      CT myocardial perfusion will also provide incremental diagnostic value over and above CT
      angiography.

      STUDY DESIGN

      This is a prospective open label two-arm clinical trial. Arm-A patients will receive the
      standard of care diagnostic test at Baptist Hospital, which includes SPECT imaging, while
      Arm-B patients will be randomized sequentially into two groups; Group-1 will receive CT
      Angiography and CT myocardial perfusion with new Revolution CT scanner (General Electric
      Healthcare) while the Group-2 will receive SPECT imaging test; both groups of ARM-B at West
      Kendall Baptist Hospital. The study population will include a total of 250 patients
      presenting at the ED with an episode of new onset chest pain. Both study arms will use the
      5-Level Miami Baptist Chest Pain Protocol for triage in the ED. This chest pain protocol will
      be used as previously published at Baptist Hospital and patients triaged there will serve as
      a reference population (n=50), while patients (n=100) presenting at the West Kendall Baptist
      Hospital will be triaged using a modified chest pain protocol which includes coronary CT
      angiography and CT myocardial perfusion assessment at protocol Level 3 (and selected level 4)
      instead of SPECT (Group-1) and patients (n=100) at West Kendall Baptist Hospital will receive
      SPECT imaging test (Group-2). The same group of doctors will provide the interpretation for
      both arms for SPECT images. All the CT scan data (including SPECT imaging, CT Angiography,
      and CT myocardial perfusion) are transferred to PACS, which is a system of storing the data
      electronically and can be accessed by the Radiologist. The Radiologist will be blinded to the
      research patient data.

      The study coordinator will collect the study data including; patient length of stay, direct
      cost and CT scan data related to chest pain episode. Those patients who are discharged from
      the ED will be contacted by a telephone call after 30 days for a follow-up of MACE event. In
      case the patient is not available and there is no source of contact information, their
      medical records will be checked or their primary care doctor will be contacted.

      STUDY PROCEDURES

      Patient screening will occur at the time when a patient presents at the ED of either hospital
      and is assigned a categorizing level based on the 5-Level Miami Baptist Chest Pain Protocol.
      Patients with an assigned "Level 3 and Level 4", who will meet all the inclusion and none of
      the exclusion criteria, will be invited to participate in the study.

      Informed Consent

      Once the Investigator or study coordinator has determined the patient's eligibility for the
      study, the background of the proposed study, the benefits and risks of the procedures will be
      explained to the patient. All potential patients must agree and sign informed consent
      documents prior to performing any study-specific procedures including any pre-medications.
      Patients enrolled at Baptist Hospital will be treated according to the current standard of
      care practice. They are being asked to consent simply according to privacy law to allow the
      use of their data for further scientific evaluation. Patients enrolled at West Kendall
      Baptist Hospital will consent to be treated according to a modified 5-Level Miami Baptist
      Chest Pain Protocol, in which a SPECT nuclear perfusion scan is replaced by a coronary CT
      angiography and a CT myocardial perfusion study for Level 3 patients, and a CT myocardial
      perfusion study is added for Level 4 patients, with intermediate stenoses (40-70%), Agatston
      Calcium Score >400, or non-evaluable segments in CT angiography due to calcifications, motion
      artifacts, or technical reasons. Patient in ARM-B will be randomized sequentially and divided
      into two groups; group-1 will receive the CT Angiography and CT myocardial perfusion while
      group-2 will receive the SPECT imaging test. Patients at West Kendall Baptist Hospital will
      provide consent to share their de-identified data with General Electric Healthcare for
      scientific evaluation, product development, and potential marketing use. Only the West
      Kendall Baptist hospital revolution study data will be shared with General Electric
      Healthcare.

      DATA MANAGEMENT AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS:

      All the eligible patients will be assigned a study ID and their personal information will be
      strictly kept confidential. All the data will be collected and analyzed for research
      purposes. The General Electric heath care will have only access to the West Kendall Arm
      Revolution Computed tomography patient de-identified data. For statistical analysis, the
      investigator will do the interim analysis once the enrollment and follow-up call is complete.
      A biostatistician will independently analyze the data of this protocol.

      SAFETY CONSIDERATIONS:

      The experience of undergoing computed tomography is not uncomfortable. Computed tomography
      scanning results in a measurable radiation exposure. Volume coverage of the whole heart with
      axial mode results in an effective radiation dose of approximately 1 to 10 mSv, comparable to
      a standard chest multi-detector computed tomography (MDCT) exam (typically 8 to 10 mSv) or
      nuclear perfusion stress imaging. MDCT requires the injection of iodinated contrast agent.
      This, in general, poses a risk of renal dysfunction and contrast allergy. The dose of
      contrast is lower than in the majority of conventional contrast-enhanced computed tomography
      studies and adequate measures will be taken to identify patients with known contrast allergy
      or renal dysfunction and exclude them from participation in the study. Administration of
      Metoprolol (heart beat lowering medication) might lower blood pressure and cause dizziness as
      well as bronchospasm and allergic reaction. In this case, a physician will provide adequate
      treatment. Patients that have known contraindications and allergy to Metoprolol are not
      enrolled. The most common side effects of Regadenoson are shortness of breath, headache,
      flushing, chest discomfort or chest pain, dizziness, nausea, abdominal discomfort, a metallic
      taste in the mouth, and feeling hot. Most common side effects began soon after receiving
      Regadenoson and went away within 15 minutes except for a headache, which is resolved in most
      patients within 30 minutes
    
  