
    
      Antibiotic therapy is a cornerstone in the management of cystic fibrosis (CF). Nevertheless,
      little research focusses on the actual concentrations reached in the lung secretions of CF
      patients. As the pathogens causing the expedited decline in lung function primarily reside in
      the lung secretions, many physicians are now interested in these data. Therefore, the
      investigators have developed and validated a liquid chromatography tandem mass spectroscopy
      (UPLC-MS/MS) method to quantify the intravenous administered beta-lactam antibiotics
      ceftazidime, piperacillin and meropenem, as well as inhaled aztreonam in the sputum of CF
      patients. Besides having a validated analytical method, the sample collection and sample
      preparation needs to be standardised as the well to ensure an accurate concentration
      measurement.

      In this trial, three factors which may cause a bias in the concentration measurements in
      sputum are studied using sputum from patients receiving therapy with one of the IV
      antibiotics.

      A first factor is aerosol use. As cystic fibrosis patients often use aerosols, such as
      hypertonic saline, Ventolin or Pulmozyme, dilution of the antibiotics in sputum can be
      expected. Likely, the moments at which patients use aerosols will need to be considered when
      collection sputum for antibiotic concentration measurements. To investigate the extent and
      duration of a concentration change induced by aerosol use, a sputum sample is collected
      before aerosol use and right after completion of the aerosol as well as 30 min, 1h and 2h
      after completion of the aerosol, more samples are collected.

      A second factor is the homogeneity of the antibiotics within one sputum sample. Sputum
      samples generally have a heterogeneous appearance. To investigate if the distribution of
      antibiotics is heterogeneous as well, the concentration of multiple aliquots of the same
      sputum sample will be compared. Five aliquots will be tested and the remaining sputum is
      homogenised and analysed as well.

      A third factor is the variability between several sputum samples collected during a
      autogenous drainage session. A drainage session lead by a physiotherapist takes approximately
      30 minutes and aims to loosen and remove the thick lung secretions as much as possible. It
      can be assumed that sputum spontaneously expectorated in a drainage session originates from
      different parts of the lung. To verify if the antibiotics are homogeneously or
      heterogeneously distributed in the lungs, sputum samples are collected in the beginning,
      middle and at the end of the drainage session. The antibiotic concentrations in the 3
      separate sputum samples will be compared.

      The data originating from these 3 tests will allow to standardise the time point of sample
      collection with respect to aerosol therapy and autogenous drainage as well as to evaluate if
      homogenisation of the collected samples is necessary.
    
  