
    
      Methods:

        1. Identification of extended cohort:

           The extended cohort consists of all patients in Sweden tested for any neuronal antibody
           in serum or CSF between 2015 and 2019. Patients will be identified by the only five
           laboratories that perform tests for neuronal antibodies in Sweden. The following
           neuronal antibodies will be included: AMPA 1 (Anti-Glutamate Receptor 1), AMPA 2
           (Anti-Glutamate Receptor 2), Amphiphysin, CARP VIII (Carbonic Anhydrase-Related Protein
           VIII), CASPR2 (Contactin-associated protein-like 2), CV2/CRMP5 (collapsin response
           mediator protein 5), DPPX (dipeptidyl-peptidase-like protein 6), GABA B (γ-Aminobutyric
           acid-B receptor), GAD65 (glutamic acid decarboxylase) (>2000 IU/ml by ELISA in serum, or
           detected in CSF), glycine receptor, Homer 3, Hu (antineuronal nuclear antibody-type 1,
           ANNA-1), IgLON5 (immunoglobulin-like cell adhesion molecule 5 ), ITPR1 (inositol
           1,4,5-trisphophate receptor type 1), LGI-1 (Leucine-rich glioma-inactivated 1), Ma2/Ta,
           NMDAR (anti-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor), PCA-2 (Purkinje cell cytoplasmic antibody
           type 2), Tr (Trotter), Ri, SOX1(SRY-Box Transcription Factor 1), VGCC (Voltage-gated
           calcium channels), Yo, Zic4 (Zinc finger protein).

        2. Identification of geographical region:

           Patients testing positive for any neuronal antibody in serum or CSF will be stratified
           according to which Swedish health care region that requested the test. Patients whose
           tests where requested by health care providers in the Uppsala-Örebro health care region
           (consisting of 7 smaller health care regions with a total population of approximately
           2.1 million) will be selected.

        3. Core cohort:

           Patients with a positive test result that belong to the Uppsala-Örebro health care
           region will be contacted and asked to participate in the study. Written informed consent
           must be signed to be included in the core cohort. If the patient is deceased, consent
           will be presumed.

        4. Case ascertainment:

      Medical records from patients included in the core cohort will be reviewed to obtain
      clinical, laboratory and radiological data. Ascertainment of a case is defined as the patient
      either fulfilling criteria of: 1) "definite PNS" according to Graus et. al 2004 with one of
      the following neurological syndromes; encephalomyelitis, limbic encephalitis, subacute
      cerebellar degeneration, opsoclonus-myoclonus, stiff person syndrome or 2) "definite
      autoimmune limbic encephalitis" according to Graus et al. 2016 or 3) "definite anti-NMDA
      receptor encephalitis" according to Graus et al. 2016.
    
  