
    
      The primary purpose of this study is to determine the feasibility of implementing VR as an
      alternative to general anesthesia in adolescents and young adults with leukemia who undergo
      LPs for maintenance of chemotherapy. The patients in this study will be presented the
      opportunity to use VR instead of undergo GA for a LP. Success will be defined as successful
      performance of the procedure with VR instead of GA.

      Additionally, we plan to administer questionnaires to all patients approached for the trial
      if they are willing, even if they decide not to use VR for their LP. These questionnaires are
      listed below.

      Studies have linked the use of technology with decreased distress, increased cooperation, and
      improved pain management. For example, pediatric patients who had access to a video game to
      engage for distraction during anesthesia induction for surgery were less distressed and more
      cooperative during mask induction. In children and adolescents requiring port access VR
      distraction was significantly better than standard of care in terms of reducing physiological
      arousal (i.e., pulse rate) and pain ratings. VR has been utilized effectively in the
      management of pediatric and adult wound care, burn care, and dressing changes. Patients who
      had dressing changes while immersed in VR used less pain medication, had lower pain scores
      and often requested to use VR for future dressing changes all while having their procedures
      take less time. Simple distraction techniques might not be enough. One study evaluated the
      effectiveness of using augmented reality with children undergoing burn dressing changes. They
      compared augmented reality to standard distraction with an age appropriate video game. The
      study found augmented reality reduced pain scores significantly better than video game
      distraction.

      When not accompanied by appropriate pain control, stressful and invasive medical procedures
      can lead to posttraumatic stress symptoms and negative reactions or noncompliance to
      subsequent medical experiences. Specifically, adults who experienced more medical fear and
      pain as children were more likely to rate their adult medical fear and pain higher and avoid
      medical care. Pharmacological strategies alone are often not enough to effectively manage a
      child's pain. Non-pharmacological pain management uses alternative strategies, such as
      distraction, to replace or augment medication to help reduce a child's pain. VR systems have
      been successfully trialed in a small number of patients, mostly adolescents and adults. VR
      has reliably demonstrated decreased pain, anxiety, suffering, time spent thinking about pain
      and perceived time spent in a medical procedure.

      Typically, VR has to be experienced seated upright or standing with few exceptions because of
      the design of the software. Patients underoing LP are often required to lay laterally, as is
      the case with this study. Therefore, we will be using VR software (Pebbles the Penguin and
      SpacePups, Weightless Studios) that is age appropriate for the study population, engaging
      enough for young adults, and designed to be reoriented to the patient's position.

      The goal of this feasibility study is to determine if VR can be adequately used as an
      alternative to GA for LP. Utilizing distraction will eliminate the risk associated with
      general anesthesia, and the accompanying inconvenience of general anesthetic exposure on
      these patients perioperatively, as well as long term. Additionally, we wish to decrease the
      burden of cost for these procedures as currently practiced. LPs performed under GA require
      the presence of an anesthesiologist, medications, and recovery staff, all of which add
      increased cost to the procedure. With this VR system, there is a one time cost associated
      with the purchase of the system (in our case, the VR system was donated to our hospital by a
      non-profit called The Starlight Foundation), and the system can be used multiple times on
      multiple patients.
    
  