
    
      Cancer is the leading cause of death in women in the United States (US). Chinese Americans
      are the largest ethnic group among Asian Americans. Although the incidence of breast cancer,
      the most common cancer in women, has decreased among other U.S racial groups over the last 15
      years, Chinese American women in California have experienced a significant increase of
      incidence of 1.1% from 1998 to 2013. Studies have found that assimilation stress and obesity
      are associated with increased risk for breast cancer in Chinese American women. There are no
      existing interventions targeted at breast cancer prevention among premenopausal mothers with
      abdominal obesity. Interventions tailored to an individual's cultural, lifestyle and social
      support system are needed to reduce obesity and breast cancer risk. A smartphone-based
      intervention provides a promising platform for obesity and cancer prevention. The overall
      goal of this project is to test the feasibility of an obesity and breast cancer prevention
      intervention among Chinese American women in San Francisco. The investigators will adapt the
      Healthy Mothers Healthy Children: Technology-Based Intervention to Prevent Obesity to reduce
      obesity and breast cancer risk in premenopausal women with abdominal obesity who have
      dependent children in San Francisco. The proposed intervention ("Smartphone-Based Cancer and
      Obesity Prevention Program for Chinese Women: SCOPP-CW) includes 12 weekly educational
      modules and six bi-weekly tailored messages delivered via WeChat, a popular private
      communication app used by Chinese and Chinese Americans. The investigators propose to conduct
      a pilot randomized control study (RCT) to assess the short-term efficacy of SCOPP-CW on
      abdominal obesity, breast cancer knowledge and attitudes, weight-related behaviors (food
      intake and physical activity), and metabolic risk (blood pressure, lipid profile, hemoglobin
      A1c), which are associated with breast cancer. Thus the investigators propose the following
      aims: (1) Aim 1: To estimate the preliminary efficacy of the SCOPP-CW intervention on the
      primary outcomes (i.e. waist circumference and breast cancer knowledge and attitudes) and
      secondary outcomes (i.e. body mass index, self-efficacy, food intake, physical activity at
      baseline, 3 months, and 6 months, and metabolic risk [blood pressure, hemoglobin A1C, and
      lipid panel]) at baseline and 6 months.

      Aim 2: To assess feasibility by understanding participants' acceptance, barriers to adherence
      and recommendations for intervention using focus group interviews. The investigators
      anticipate that this intervention will have a significant impact on breast cancer prevention.
      The investigators plan to use the proposed pilot study's findings to conduct a larger scale
      randomized trial (R01) to test the long-term efficacy of the intervention.
    
  