
    
      Aim 1: To assess whether SBIRT, based upon motivational interviewing and delivered either by
      computer or a trained nurse, leads to decreased use of a subject's primary drug of abuse.

      Hypothesis #1a: Referrals based upon motivational principles and delivered by computer, as
      compared to usual care (health brochure with treatment resources), will lead to greater
      reductions in a woman's primary substance of abuse.

      Hypothesis #1b: Referrals based upon motivational principles and delivered by nurse, as
      compared to usual care (health brochure with treatment resources), will lead to greater
      reductions in a woman's primary substance of abuse.

      Aim 2: To determine whether SBIRT based upon motivational interviewing and delivered either
      by computer or by a nurse will promote substance abuse treatment utilization for the primary
      drug of abuse.

      Hypothesis #2a: Treatment utilization (eg. treatment initiation, attendance, use of quit-line
      or medication) will be higher if a woman receives the computer delivered brief intervention
      than if she receives usual care only.

      Hypothesis #2b: Treatment utilization (eg. treatment initiation, attendance, use of quit-line
      or medication) will be higher if a woman receives the nurse delivered brief intervention than
      if she receives usual care only.

      Secondary Aim 3: To evaluate whether SBI leads to a decrease in HIV/AIDS risk

      Hypothesis #3: Rates of sexually transmitted diseases, injection drug use and risky sexual
      behavior will be lower at follow up for subjects who receive either computer or a nurse
      delivered brief intervention than usual care subjects.

      Secondary Aim 4: To compare the relative cost-effectiveness of the three interventions.

      Hypothesis #4a: Screening and usual care will be the most cost-effective intervention method
      when the value of an additional unit of effect for the given individual's outcome is
      relatively low.

      Hypotheses #4b: Screening, and a brief intervention delivered by computer, will be the most
      cost-effective treatment method when the value of an additional unit of effect is relatively
      high.

      Hypotheses #4c: Screening, and a brief intervention delivered by a nurse, will be less
      cost-effective than a brief intervention delivered by computer.
    
  