
    
      The purpose of this study is to compare the efficacy and tolerance of three atypical
      antipsychotics, which are medications that have been in use for about the last 10 years, in
      the treatment of psychosis in adolescents. Efficacy refers to how well the medications work
      in decreasing symptoms associated with schizophrenia, and tolerance refers to the level of
      side effects and the compliance with taking the medications. All three medications have
      demonstrated efficacy in treating psychosis without causing extra pyramidal side effects
      (uncontrolled muscle movements) that are associated with typical, or older antipsychotic
      medications. Young people may be at a greater risk for side effects from the typical
      antipsychotic medications. There are studies of the efficacy and tolerance among patients
      under 18-years-old taking the three drugs in this study: risperidone, olanzapine, and
      quetiapine. However, at this time there is little data available comparing these three
      medications. This study is an open-label, random assignment, 12-week study to assess the
      efficacy and tolerance of these three atypical antipsychotic medications in the treatment of
      adolescents (ages 12-18) with schizophrenia or psychosis. The participants will be informed
      of which medication she/he is taking, and will be assigned to the medication randomly (based
      on chance rather than choice).

      There are additional theoretical beliefs in regard to this study as well. A secondary
      hypothesis of this study is that quetiapine will have less extra pyramidal side effects (EPS)
      and less prolactin-related side effects than risperidone. A third hypothesis is that
      quetiapine will lead to less weight gain than olanzapine and risperidone. Finally, it is
      hypothesized that because of the fewer side effects, quetiapine will be better tolerated than
      risperidone and olanzapine.
    
  