
    
      Diabetes is a chronic and a progressive metabolic disorder which necessitates active patient
      involvement to effectively manage nutrition, physical activity, and medication for optimal
      outcomes. Self-management is a critical aspect of diabetes care and a variety of studies have
      established the need for people with diabetes to be knowledgeable about their condition and
      be actively involved in its management to effectively reduce the risk of future health
      complications and improve other outcomes. Diabetes self-management education and support
      (DSMES) can help patients effectively engage in and perform their diabetes-related self-care
      activities. However, only a small number of patients with diabetes participate in DSMES. A
      few studies in this area have highlighted both physician and patient-related factors that
      could affect the receipt of DSMES. Patients' involvement in a DSMES program continues to be
      largely prompted by a physician referral and it has been suggested that improving physician
      involvement in the DSMES process could enhance overall patient engagement and adherence to
      such programs.

      As part of the proposed mixed methods study, in Phase 1, in-depth surveys (or interviews)
      will be undertaken with: (a) physicians caring for people with type 2 diabetes, (b) DSMES
      providers (e.g., certified diabetes educators, diabetes nurses, dietitians), and (b) patients
      with type 2 diabetes regarding their perception of diabetes education programs, barriers, and
      facilitators to engagement. Findings from Phase 1 will be shared with the education team at a
      diabetes center in a community hospital in Orange County, California to inform changes to
      their currently existing diabetes education curriculum to make it more patient-centered and
      improve physician engagement and support. As part of Phase 2, the newly developed program
      will be implemented with a diverse cohort of 90 patients with type 2 diabetes. Patient
      participation (attendance) in the DSMES process will be documented as a primary marker of
      patient engagement while their clinical and psycho-social outcomes will serve as secondary
      indicators. Among other outcomes, physician, educator, and patient satisfaction with the
      newly developed referral process will also be assessed as a measure of intervention
      acceptability and success.
    
  