
    
      Iron deficiency anaemia is the most common health issue worldwide, with approximately >1.2
      billion people affected. In the UK, iron deficiency anaemia most commonly affects pre-school
      aged children and women aged 15-49 years. In 2011, an estimated 14% of non-pregnant, and 23%
      of pregnant women in the UK had iron deficiency anaemia, and 2-5% of male and post-menopausal
      women were also affected. Whilst compared to other areas of the world IDA has a mild public
      health significance to the UK, it can be the reason for up-to 13% of referrals to
      gastroenterologists.

      Iron deficiency anaemia isn't always caused by a lack of iron in the diet, or iron
      malabsorption. It can also be caused by loss of blood due to injury, internal bleeding or
      menstruation in pre-menopausal women, or parasitic infections such as malaria and hookworm.
      Iron deficiency has a huge impact on global healthcare, with the World Health Organisation
      stating it as one of the most expensive diseases due to the effects on productivity and the
      number of people affected.

      Treating IDA with oral supplements or IV infusions are both effective at restoring bodily
      iron stores. However, success is often greater in those receiving their iron intravenously,
      due to frequent non-adherence to oral tablets as a result of their side effects.
      Gastrointestinal complaints, most commonly constipation, are reported by up to 60% of people
      that take oral iron supplements. These GI complaints causes up to 50% of patient to not
      follow their treatment plan, meaning their iron deficiency anaemia persists. However,
      patients that receive intravenous iron infusions instead do not report these symptoms. This
      suggests that oral iron has an impact on the GI tract as intravenous iron will bypass the
      gastrointestinal lumen but the mechanism of this remains uncertain.

      To investigate the side effects of oral iron supplements and research a potential mechanism
      for the cause of iron supplement side effects, this study will require healthy volunteers to
      take ferrous sulphate for 4 weeks. Pre and post intervention participants will be required to
      provide a stool sample, complete a breath test and answer questionnaires.
    
  