
    
      Knee osteoarthritis (KO) is the most common musculoskeletal problem worldwide, leading to
      pain and loss of locomotor function. The Framingham Osteoarthritis Study shows that 19% of
      adults have radiographic effects on the knee joint. Individuals with advanced symptomatic KO
      have difficulties in their daily life activities. Among all diseases, KO most affects
      activities such as walking, climbing stairs and housework. A wide range of physiotherapy
      treatment methods are available in KO treatment such as strengthening exercises, aquatic
      exercises, aerobic exercises, proprioception exercise, orthotics, taping methods and the use
      of electrophysiological agents. High-quality evidences suggests that land-based exercise
      therapy maintains its positive effect on pain, quality of life and functionality for 2-6
      months after the treatment. The dosage of exercise therapy can be adjusted by the duration,
      frequency, or resistance of the exercise. However, evidence-based information on exercise
      dosage is limited in KO treatment. While KO is treated in physiotherapy clinics, it is also
      supported by home exercises during and after treatment. However, it is a clinical problem
      that patients show low adherence to home exercise. With this study, it is aimed to compare
      the exercise adherence of patients who are given home exercise with different exercise
      dosages and to show their functional results. Participants with KO aged between 40-85 years
      will be included in the study and randomly divided into two groups. The number of repetitions
      of the high dosage exercise group will be 2 times more than standard exercise group.
      Participants will be asked to apply home exercise programs 4 times a week. Exercise
      adherence, pain, kinesiophobia and functionality will be evaluated. Our study will be the
      first to demonstrate the effect of different home exercise dosages on exercise adherence. The
      information to be obtained with this study is thought to contribute to the preparation of a
      better home exercise program. With the information to be obtained through this study, it can
      contribute to the preparation of a better home exercise program.The planned study has 2 main
      objectives:

        -  To examine the effects of different exercise dosages on exercise dependence

        -  To investigate the effect of different exercise dosages on pain and functional results
    
  