
    
      A majority of humans experience a potentially traumatic event during their lifetime, and many
      experience more than one. These events are of overwhelming emotional nature and have the
      capacity to evoke intensive distress. For many people, the distress dissipates either
      spontaneously or with the help from professional supports over the course of a couple of
      weeks. However, a substantial minority of people go on to develop significant levels of
      posttraumatic stress.

      Chronic posttraumatic stress is often experienced together with clinical levels of other
      forms of psychopathology such as depression or anxiety disorders and the chronic condition
      can become debilitating over many years. There are effective interventions, however, they are
      as of yet difficult to access.

      An uncontrolled pilot study of the Swedish PTSD Coach smartphone app indicated favorable
      outcomes and feasibility of the intervention (Cernvall, Sveen, Johannesson, & Arnberg, 2018).
      The app includes four modules: psychoeducation, rating and monitoring of distress,
      information about help and support, and strategies to cope with distress. The app is designed
      to be used with or without internet connection and uses little space on the smartphone.

      This study will investigate whether the Swedish version of the PTSD Coach self-help
      smartphone application is beneficial for people who experience elevated levels of
      posttraumatic stress after a potentially traumatic event. The study is a randomized
      controlled trial with two conditions. In the intervention condition, participants are allowed
      free use of the PTSD Coach smartphone app. The control group is a waitlist condition. The
      intervention will take place during three months and is powered to detect a between-group
      effect size at the post-intervention assessment of d=0.5.

      This study will also use an intensive longitudinal data collection method within the
      intervention period in order to better understand the interplay between app use and health
      status. Participants in both groups will receive text messages in which they are asked to
      respond to six very brief questions about specific behaviors and current health status for
      three weeks during the intervention period.

      After the intervention period, participants across groups will be compared on a number of
      outcome variables related to posttraumatic stress, other mental health issues, daily
      function, and measures on healthcare consumption. The participants in the waitlist group will
      then be given access to the PTSD Coach app and both groups will be followed for two
      additional assessments after six and nine months.
    
  