
    
      The study will be a single-dose, partially randomized, cross-over design, with 4 consecutive
      treatments. The study includes 4 phases where each volunteer will consume a specific dose of
      one of the products chosen for the study. Each volunteer will consume each product once, for
      a total of 4 different occasions. The products will be a food extract consisting of chicory
      fermentable fiber (inulin) fractions followed by three food extracts rich in a different type
      of flavan-3-ols, consumed at three different occasions and in random order.

      Volunteers will be asked to provide once a fecal sample, taken from the first daily
      defecation, which will be analyzed for fecal microbiota composition. They will also undergo a
      Breath gases day profile in order to evaluate the effect of inulin consumption on colonic
      fermentation and breath-gases production. These two analyses (fecal samples microbial
      composition and breath-gases production) will serve to characterize the volunteers' gut
      microbiota composition and functionality. In detail, during the 48-h before the fecal and
      breath samples collections, volunteers will be asked to avoid a high level of fiber and
      (poly)phenols (to facilitate adherence to the dietary restrictions, a list of permitted and
      forbidden foods will be supplied. To check dietary compliance, a 2- days dietary record of
      the 2 days prior to each sampling day will be used.

      The morning of the first treatment, volunteers will arrive, after an overnight fast, and they
      will deliver the fresh fecal sample. After that, one sample of forced end-expiratory samples
      of alveolar air will be collected. Then, they will be given a standardized test breakfast
      consisting of 12 g of food extract of chicory inulin fractions dissolved into 250 g water and
      a fermentable fiber-free, (poly)phenol-free, nutritionally-balanced solid meal. They will be
      asked to consume the entire breakfast within 15 minutes. At hourly intervals for 11 hours
      after breakfast, forced end-expiratory samples of alveolar air will be collected. During the
      whole test, all subjects will refrain from smoking, sleeping, exercising and eating foods or
      meals other than the ones provided by the staff. Five hours after starting the test,
      volunteers will eat a fermentable fiber-free nutritionally-balanced standardized lunch
      provided by the study staff.

      Subsequently, on three distinct occasions and with one-week wash-out between different
      treatments, each participant will randomly consume a dose of flavan-3-ol rich extracts. Each
      test day, participants, after fasting baseline urine collection, will receive the dose of one
      of the food extract rich in flavan-3-ols (1 mmol of PVL precursors) dissolved into 200 mL of
      water. Then, the same standardized breakfast (pre-packaged (poly)phenol-free snack) will be
      provided to subjects. After breakfast, volunteers will be allowed to leave and to perform the
      successive urine collections on their own. Urine samples will be collected at selected
      intervals of time along the 24 h following the extract ingestion. In addition, urine sampling
      will continue in a subgroup of volunteers for the successive 24 h to evaluate the evolution
      of metabotypes from 24 to 48h. This subgroup will be composed of the first 30 participants
      enrolled in the study.

      Subjects will be asked to follow a (poly)phenol-poor diet 48-h before each test day and while
      sampling (to facilitate adherence to the dietary restrictions, a list of permitted and
      forbidden foods will be supplied; to check dietary compliance, a 3/4-days dietary record of
      the 2 days prior to each sampling day and of the sampling day(s), depending on the subgroup
      the subject belongs to, will be used.

      At the end of all treatments, and on the basis of the results of gas samples analysis, one
      subgroup of methane producer volunteers (number=5) and one of non-methane producers
      (numnber=5) will be asked to provide one further faecal sample, taken from the first daily
      defecation for In Vitro analysis of short-chain fatty acids and gas production after
      incubation with different mixes of Inulin and Polyphenols used during the In Vivo part of the
      study . Volunteers will be asked to follow a diet poor in (poly)phenols and fermentable fiber
      for 2 days before fecal donation.
    
  