
    
      Patients diagnosed with TAAA have a poor medical history and require surgical intervention to
      extend life. Several repair techniques have been developed, but each carry risk. Open repairs
      are durable but have substantial perioperative mortality and postoperative morbidity.
      Endovascular techniques are plagued by high procedural complexity and poor branch vessel
      patency. Parallel techniques may have poor seal and may be prone to endoleak. In contrast,
      the manifold approach has circumferential seal at the proximal end of the system. It has
      relatively simple case planning and it has virtually no ischemic time. Due to these
      advantages, the Investigator believes the novel proposed technique may overcome some of the
      current clinical risks with other approaches.

      Patients who participate in this study may benefit from having a less invasive procedure
      compared to open repair of their thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm. The Investigator expects
      the amount of discomfort, total blood loss, recovery time, and overall hospital stay to be
      less than open repair. Many of the patients presenting with a thoracoabdominal aneurysm are
      not candidates for open repair due to existing comorbidities. With the progressive nature of
      the disease, these patients have limited options for medical intervention and are willing to
      assume a higher amount of risk.

      The Medtronic Valiant Thoracoabdominal Stent Graft System is made up of two main body
      components and makes use of several off-the-shelf FDA-approved stent graft components. The
      two custom main body grafts are the thoracic bifurcation and the visceral manifold. The
      thoracic bifurcation is deployed in the thoracic aorta and provides the proximal seal for the
      device. For a Type I or II thoracoabdominal aneurysm the proximal seal is in zone 3, for Type
      III and V the device seals in zone 4. The two limbs of the thoracic bifurcation allows for
      continued aortic flow while deploying the visceral segment. The visceral manifold is deployed
      within the larger 20 mm limb of the thoracic bifurcation to set the stage for the visceral
      debranching. The branches of the visceral manifold extend to the visceral vessel with the use
      of covered bridging stents and provide distal seal of the manifold. The smaller 16 mm limb of
      the thoracic bifurcation extends to the infrarenal segment to either seal in zone 9 for a
      Type I and V and in zone 10 for Type II and III. All other connections in the device make use
      of sizes that are modular and independent of patient anatomy.

      The Medtronic Valiant Thoracoabdominal Stent Graft works to bifurcate aortic flow upstream of
      the target visceral vessels. This bifurcation has a two-fold benefit. First it allows for
      aortic flow to be compartmentalized into a visceral segment and an infrarenal segment
      providing for uninterrupted flow to the visceral vessels as well as the infrarenal segment
      throughout the procedure. If any of the connections cannot be made or the patient status
      declines during the procedure, then it can be staged and the connections can be made at a
      later date. Second, the upstream bifurcation encourages more favorable flow conditions in the
      bridging stents and target vessels which may prevent target vessel occlusion. This is due to
      the fact that the bifurcations are upstream providing a sweeping transition into the renal
      arteries that is smooth providing for relatively laminar flow conditions. The design
      demonstrates that more central aortic flow is obtained with this design increasing flow rates
      in the visceral vessels to potentially increase target vessel patency.

      The device can be used as an off-the-shelf system, negating the need for lead times
      associated with custom-built devices. The critical sizing will need to be done with the
      proximal end of the thoracic bifurcation, distal landing zone in the aorta or iliac arteries,
      and the bridging stents. The proximal end of the thoracic bifurcation can be sized by
      choosing any of the available sizes of the Medtronic TAAA thoracic bifurcation stent grafts,
      and the sizes of the bridging stents can be manipulated by choosing any of the commercially
      available sizes of the Atrium iCast. The Atrium iCasts are added to the system in-vivo and
      connected with passive fixation which negates the need to size the main body components based
      on the target vessel sizes. All other connections in the device make use of sizes that are
      the same, independent of patient anatomy.

      The deployment of this device is also independent of device alignment. Angular alignment of
      the thoracic bifurcation and the visceral manifold has very little impact on the outcome of
      the case. Longitudinal alignment is more important, but a safety factor has been built-in by
      calling for the distal ends of the visceral manifold to be deployed above their target
      vessels by 1-2 cm. The longitudinal landing should be optimized so that the graft is not
      landed too low that the connection with the visceral vessels is challenging to make.

      Patients included in the study will undergo follow-up at one month, six months, twelve months
      and then annually for five years.
    
  