
    
      The study will be performed from July 2019 to February 2020 at Fayoum University hospital
      after approval of the local institutional ethics committee and local institutional review
      board. The study design will be prospective, randomized, parallel groups, controlled clinical
      trial. A detailed informed consent will be signed by the eligible participants before
      recruitment and randomization.

      Randomization & blinding:

      It will be done by using computer-generated random numbers that will be placed in separate
      opaque envelopes that will be opened by study investigators just before the surgery. Neither
      the participants, the study investigators, the attending clinicians, nor the data collectors
      will be aware of groups' allocation till the study end. The Consolidated Standards of
      Reporting Trials (CONSORT) recommendations for reporting randomized, controlled clinical
      trials will be followed. This is the randomized case-control study. 30 patients will be
      randomly divided into 2 study groups .each group contains 15 patients; Group GA: Total 15
      cases who will receive general anesthesia only, i.e., without peribulbar block.

      Group GB: Total 15 cases who will receive general anesthesia with peribulbar block.

      Anesthetic technique:

      Preoperative preparations:

      History taking, physical examination and investigation will be done according to local
      protocol designed to evaluate the patients which include complete blood count and coagulation
      profile. All cases will have a routine pre-operative check-up, starve for 6 h for solids and
      2 hours for clear fluids and water. Written informed consent will be signed by adult patients
      or parents of pediatric participants.

      Intraoperative technique and management:

      Upon arrival to the operating room standard monitors (Pulse oximeter, Noninvasive blood
      pressure monitoring, and Electrocardiogram) will be applied and continued all over the
      operation and a peripheral intravenous (IV) cannula (20G) will be inserted.

      After adequate pre-oxygenation, Induction will be accomplished with the injection of propofol
      2 mg/kg and Fentanyl 1 µg/kg IV. Endotracheal intubation will be facilitated by the
      intravenous injection of 0.5 mg/kg atracurium. General anesthesia will be maintained by
      mechanical ventilation with oxygen and air (50:50), isoflurane.

      Patients in peribulbar block group will receive lidocaine 2%, bupivacaine 0.5% and
      hyaluronidase with total volume 0.06 ml/kg keeping the ratio 1: 1 between lidocaine combined
      with hyaluronidase and bupivacaine by 24 Gauge needle after induction of general anesthesia
      and before start of surgery.

      Intraoperative OCR with decrease of heart rate more than 20% from baseline. If happened it
      will be managed by asking the operator to stop the surgical traction and giving 0.01 mg/kg of
      atropine. If cardiac arrest was identified, resuscitation will be according to advanced
      cardiac life support (ACLS) protocols.

      Perioperative Nausea and vomiting will be treated by ondansetron 0.15 mg/kg intravenously
      over 15 min.

      Postoperative monitoring, Pain control and follow up:

      At the end of surgery, Participant will be transferred to postoperative anesthesia care unit
      (PACU) with standard monitoring applied. Pain will be evaluated by visual analog score (VAS)
      score from (0_ 100) (where; zero = no pain, 100=worst imaginable pain) assessed at 2 ,4, 6
      ,12 ,24 and after 24 h.
    
  