
    
      This Trial is designed as Phase II, Monocenter, Open label study in the pediatric population.

      The aim is to evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of Deoxycytidine and
      Deoxythymidine in treatment of children with Mitochondrial Depletion Disorders.

      Primary Objectives The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of
      dC/dT100-400 in subjects with mitochondria depletion disorders.

      Secondary Objectives The secondary objectives of this study are to evaluate tolerability and
      safety of dC/dT100-400 in subjects with mitochondria depletion disorders.

      First Outcome

      Efficacy of dC/dT100-400 :

        1. Neurological improvement by electroencephalography (EEG), seizure diary, development and
           quality of life, clinical status observed during the neurological follow-up.

        2. Improved clinical status observed during the genetic follow-up and the Newcastle
           Paediatric Mitochondrial Disease Scale (NPMDS), which are forms used by geneticist to
           allow evaluation of the progression of mitochondrial disease in patients less than 18
           years of age.

        3. Bloodwork for different assessments:

      liver function (aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT),
      gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT), bilirubin and albumin.), kidney function (creatinine, urea,
      electrolytes). Assess for myopathy with serum creatine kinase (CK). Evaluation of
      mitochondrial function with capillary/venous blood gas, serum lactate, plasma amino acids,
      acylcarnitine profile, urine amino acids, urine purines and pyrimidines acids, and growth
      differentiation factor 15 (GDF15; a marker of severity of mitochondria dysfunction).

      Secondary Outcome

      - Safety and tolerability will be tested by recording adverse effects (AE): AE will be
      monitored and collected throughout the study.

        1. Diarrhea: Reported diarrhea frequency during the treatment, will permit to define the
           tolerability of dC/dT100-400.

        2. AE leading to study drug discontinuation, treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs),
           SAEs (Severe Adverse Effect) will be reported from the first day the subjects start
           taking medication until the last dose taken.
    
  