
    
      1. Sample Calculation: Based on the literature, the occurrence rate of fever after
           Percutaneous Nephrolithotripsy (PCNL) was 21% -39.8%, urinary tract infection rate 38%,
           SIRS rate 11.2%, the incidence rate of urinary sepsis 0.3% - 4.7%,and the mortality rate
           with sepsis was 60% -80%. Expected incidence rate of urinary tract infection decreased
           to 23%, and the difference is statistically significant. Provided that the case of the
           two groups is equal, the expected strength of evidence is 0.9, α = 0.05, the lost up to
           20%, the investigators calculated that the minimum sample size required is 150 cases.
           Urology department has 70 ward beds with PCNL surgery or Flexible Ureteroscopy
           Lithotripsy (FURL) about 400 cases per year, and the sample size can meet the study
           requirements. All cases are from outpatient or emergency department.

        2. Grouping and medication: This study uses a computerized random method. According to
           preoperative use of different antimicrobial drug or treatment, all patients are randomly
           divided into five groups, namely levofloxacin 3days group,levofloxacin 7days group,
           nitrofurantoin 3days group,nitrofurantoin 7days group and cefuroxime group.and each
           group of levofloxacin group or nitrofurantoin group has been given prophylactic for 3 or
           7 days. The levofloxacin group receives levofloxacin 0.5g, qd, po, the nitrofurantoin
           group was given oral nitrofurantoin 100mg, tid, po. All patients in cefuroxime group, 30
           minutes before surgery, are given preventive medication cefuroxime 1.5g ivgtt, and
           continue using 1.5g q12h ivgtt until postoperative 48 hours.

        3. Sterilization or bacterial culture: Surgical areas is disinfected with 10%
           povidone-iodine, all surgical instruments are sterilized by high-temperature steam.
           after renal pelvises are punctured, some urine is extracted for bacterial culture.
           Stones removed by surgery are fragmented into small fragments, and stored at 36.5 ℃
           tubes within a day in order to facilitate the proliferation of bacteria, then grown in
           culture medium for bacterial culture.

        4. Preoperative items observed: urinalysis, urine culture, renal function, blood, CRP,
           procalcitonin, bacterial endotoxin test, kidney function, body temperature changes
           prophylactic or preoperative. Imaging tests include urinary tract calculi line
           pyelography and CT.

        5. Postoperative follow-up: urine, urine culture, renal function, blood routine, CRP,
           procalcitonin, bacterial endotoxin test, renal function and urinary tract stones line
           urography and CT examination were made in all patients. Vital signs such as body
           temperature, heart rate and blood pressure once every two hours were monitored in 48
           hours, and were monitored every 4 hours after 48 hours. Blood routine was checked daily
           until 3 days postoperative or 48 hours after abatement of fever. When white blood cell
           count> 12 × 109 / L and / or body temperature> 38 ℃ °, it is considered to be systemic
           inflammatory response (SIRS, modified Sepsis Diagnostic Criteria). Renal fistula was
           retained for 48 hours Postoperative, and pleural effusion fistula was removed if there
           was no fever after it was pinched 24 hours.

        6. Statistical analysis: Statistical Product and Service Solutions (SPSS)19.0 statistical
           software was used for analysis. Count data were analyzed by analysis of variance or t
           Test. Measurement data were analyzed by Chi-square Test. The results were evaluated
           within the safe range of 95%,when P <0.05,it was statistically significant.
    
  