
    
      All patients underwent preoperative investigations and imaging study (CT Urogram/Intravenous
      Pyelography) done prior to the operation as per standard operation preparation.
      Intraoperatively fluoroscopic imaging was done for the patients and the images were
      synchronized to the software. Robotic arm was placed on the site of surgery as for prone PCNL
      and diaphragm of the arm was centred over the site of desire calyx of entry. A needle was
      engaged into the centre of the diaphragm and using the software the need was aligned in the
      line of puncture automatically based on the fluoroscopic images. After the alignment was done
      the needle was advanced manually by the surgeon until the entry was confirmed by efflux of
      urine from the puncture needle. After the entry was confirmed a standard PCNL using 24 F or
      30 F Balloon dilator was performed and stone cleared using Cyberwand/ Shockpulse etc. All the
      intraoperative and perioperative parameters as mentioned in the data collection form was
      measured. Results was analysed with the main focus on time of obtaining the puncture,
      accuracy of puncture, radiation exposure time till calyceal entry which was confirmed by free
      flow of urine and for any complications.

      Patients aged between 21 to 75 years old who were diagnosed with kidney stone diseas and
      planned for prone PCNL with indication for surgery as per standard of care were recruited.
      They understood the purpose of testing and offered their voluntary and informed consent.

      The robotic device i.e. ANT lesses the learning curve of percutaneous access as it reduces
      the need for surgeon's visualization of the calyceal system and the needle alignment. It also
      improved efficiency as there is less dependence on human skills during the procedure. As a
      whole, the FIM trial was a success. The performance of the ANT system during the trial was
      satisfactory. The robot alignment time is less than 30 seconds. Total puncture time was
      around 6 minutes and no AEs were reported.
    
  