
    
      Background: Rebound acid hypersecretion and acid-related symptoms after discontinuation of
      proton-pump inhibitor has been reported in previous studies. In patients with concurrent
      gastro-esophageal reflux disease and Helicobacter pylori infection, whether eradication of H.
      pylori will aggravate acid-related symptoms after discontinuation of proton-pump inhibitor
      remains elusive Objective: This study aims to investigate the incidence and severity of
      acid-related symptoms after discontinuation of proton-pump inhibitor in reflux patients
      receiving H. pylori eradication Patients and methods: Consecutive reflux patients documented
      by validated questionnaires (GerdQ) and upper endoscopy will be enrolled from the outpatient
      clinic. After determination of H. pylori status by urea breath test (UBT), those with
      positive H. pylori infection will be randomized into two groups. Group A (n=100) will be
      given early H. pylori eradication with triple therapy for two weeks; group B (n=100) will be
      given rabeprazole 20 mg qd for 4 weeks, followed by H. pylori eradication with triple therapy
      for two weeks. The investigators will then determine the H. pylori status by urea breath test
      and the incidence and severity of acid-related symptoms with GerdQ at 4 weeks after H. pylori
      eradication. For patients with negative H. pylori infection (n=200), proton-pump inhibitor
      with rabeprazole 20 mg qd will be given for 8 weeks and the incidence and severity of
      acid-related symptoms will be evaluated with GerdQ at 4 weeks after discontinuation of PPI.
      The impact of H. pylori infection and H. pylori eradication and its timing on the incidence
      and severity of acid-related symptoms after discontinuation of proton-pump inhibitor will be
      analyzed.

      Expected result: The investigators will find out the incidence and severity of acid-related
      symptoms after discontinuation of proton-pump inhibitor in reflux patients receiving H.
      pylori eradication
    
  