
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), recommended phase II dose, dose limiting
      toxicity (DLT), and safety of ABT-888 (veliparib) with carboplatin and paclitaxel induction
      chemotherapy in locoregionally advanced head and neck (LAHNC) patients. (Phase I) II. Compare
      magnitude of tumor shrinkage (response) following 2 cycles of induction chemotherapy with and
      without ABT-888 in LAHNC. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare progression-free (PFS), disease-specific (DSS), and overall survival (OS) in
      subjects treated with or without ABT-888. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of veliparib followed by a phase II study.

      PHASE I: Patients receive veliparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-7, paclitaxel
      intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15, and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes
      on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then continue on to concomitant chemoradiotherapy.

      PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive veliparib, paclitaxel, and carboplatin as in Phase I. Treatment
      repeats every 3 weeks for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Within 10 days from completion of course 2, patients begin concomitant
      chemoradiotherapy.

      ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO BID on days 1-7. Patients also receive paclitaxel and
      carboplatin as in Phase I. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 2 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 10 days from completion of course 2,
      patients begin concomitant chemoradiotherapy.

      CONCOMITANT CHEMORADIOTHERAPY: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 regimens of concomitant
      chemoradiotherapy based on the guidelines of the institution where they are being treated.

      OPTION I (CONCOMITANT CHEMORADIATION WITH CISPLATIN): Patients receive cisplatin IV on days 1
      and 22 and undergo radiation therapy 5 days per week for 6 weeks. Treatment repeats every 2
      weeks for 5 courses.

      OPTION II (CONCOMITANT CHEMORADIATION WITH TFHX): Patients receive hydroxyurea PO every 12
      hours on days 1-5 for up to 11 doses, fluorouracil IV over 120 hours on days 1-5, paclitaxel
      IV on day 1, and undergo radiation therapy BID on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks
      for 5 courses.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2 weeks, 1, 3, 6, 12, 18,
      24, 30, 36, 48, and 60 months. Patients who progress will be followed up every 6 months
      through year 5.
    
  