
    
      Background :

      Pre-eclampsia is defined by the association of an arterial hypertension and significant
      proteinuria after 20 weeks of gestation. It complicates 1 to 2% of pregnancies in France. Its
      pathophysiology involves angiogenesis impairment, upregulated maternal systemic inflammatory
      response, activation of oxidative stress and endothelial dysfunction.

      In a recent Danish nation-wide cohort study, pre-eclampsia was associated with a 69%
      increased risk of later developing scleroderma. A case-control study on 103 women with
      systemic sclerosis compared to 103 control women had already found an increased incidence of
      previous vasculoplacental disorders in women with systemic sclerosis. Women developed
      systemic sclerosis on average 27 years after their first pregnancy.

      Primary objective of the study : to determine if a history of pre-eclampsia before systemic
      sclerosis diagnosis is an independent risk factor for vascular phenotype in sclerodermic
      women.

      Secondary objective: to describe all risk factors for vascular phenotype in sclerodermic
      women with a previous pregnancy longer than 6 months before scleroderma diagnosis.

      Conduct of the study:

      It is a prospective observational case-control study. Cases will be defined as women with
      systemic sclerosis, specific vascular complications (digital ulcers, specific cardiac
      involvement of systemic sclerosis including pulmonary arterial hypertension, renal crisis)
      and with a previous pregnancy longer than 6 months before systemic sclerosis diagnosis.

      Controls will be defined as women with systemic sclerosis, no specific vascular complication
      and with a previous pregnancy longer than 6 months before systemic sclerosis diagnosis.

      Conduct of the study:

      A self-administered " pregnancy " questionnaire will be given to each women with systemic
      sclerosis of the cohort group during the annual follow-up consultation. A case report form
      will be completed at the same time by the physician in charge of the patient.

      The " pregnancy " questionnaire will consist of two parts :

        -  A part " pre-eclampsia questionnaire ", derived from the translation in French of a
           questionnaire validated in English.

        -  A second part with additional questions on pregnancies. The duration of participation to
           the study will be of one day. The duration of the inclusion period will be of 24 months.
           Needed number of patients : 378 women, 126 "cases" and 252 "control" .

      Perspectives of the study :

      If this study demonstrates that a previous pre-eclampsia is an independent risk factor for
      vascular phenotype in women with systemic sclerosis, it will be mandatory to look for a
      history of pre-eclampsia in women at the time of systemic sclerosis diagnosis. Besides, the
      women with a history of pre-eclampsia should be monitored more frequently for vascular
      complications related to systemic sclerosis.
    
  