
    
      Problem: There are approximately four million live births in the United States annually.
      Pregnancy induces multisystemic physiologic changes in the mother as her body accommodates
      the growing fetus. Known physiologic alterations include venous distension,
      hypercoagulability, and hormonal changes. Anecdotal data suggests that these particular
      factors precipitate the development of venous insufficiency. As venous insufficiency
      progresses, complications ensue, the most severe of which include superficial
      thrombophlebitis and deep venous thrombosis. Although the fear of deep venous thrombus (DVT)
      has been well publicized, its prevention and actual prevalence in the pregnant population has
      not been adequately studied.

      The precise mechanism of venous insufficiency has yet to be elucidated. However, several
      known risk factors exist. They include female gender and hormonal changes associated with
      elevated progesterone levels such as oral contraceptive use, certain exogenous hormonal
      replacement medications, and pregnancy. Clearly, the pregnant state places the mother at
      additive risk for subsequent development of venous insufficiency.

      Medical management of venous insufficiency consists of compression stocking use, and some
      physicians do recommend their use to pregnant patients. However, this practice is by no means
      standard of care, despite its noninvasive application and safety. The precise mechanism
      through which compression stockings work is largely theoretical; however, it is believed that
      the extrinsic graduated compression works by preventing venous hypertension in the distal
      lower extremity, thereby preventing venous insufficiency and its associated complications.

      Research hypothesis: The investigators hypothesize that compression stocking use will be
      associated with lower incidence of varicose veins and, in those patients who already have
      varicose veins, lower incidence of complications associated with venous insufficiency,
      particularly superficial thrombophlebitis and deep venous thrombosis (DVT). Further, the
      investigators believe that compression stocking use will be associated with a lower incidence
      or lessening of symptoms associated with venous insufficiency, such as edema, fatigue, venous
      stasis dermatitis, and venous neuropathy (burning).

      Importance: While some may feel that varicose veins, edema, fatigue, and other outcomes are
      unimportant, an undetected DVT is commonly a fatal event. Even if detected promptly, DVT is
      associated with long term morbidity, such as post thrombotic syndrome which can occur in up
      to 30% of those patients diagnosed with a DVT. Treatment of a DVT requires anticoagulation
      which, although essential, carries significant risk to both mother and fetus. The prevention
      or reduction in incidence of DVT in this population merely with compression stocking use
      would revolutionize care in the pregnant population. Further, this intervention is safe and
      noninvasive.

      The investigators propose to conduct a randomized, pilot study comparing pregnant women
      without (Group 1) and with (Group 2) varicose veins randomized to wear compression stockings
      (Treatment Subgroup A) to a similar group of participants randomized to no compression
      stocking use (Control Subgroup B).
    
  