
    
      Among the more than 5 million adults who are admitted to the ICU each year in the USA, most
      have pain and thus receive a pain (analgesic) medication called an opioid. Opioid use in
      critically ill adults continues to increase given the greater awareness of untreated pain in
      the ICU and that an opioid-first approach be used to optimize patient safety and comfort and
      improve tolerance with breathing machines (i.e. mechanical ventilation). Similar to
      constipation, paralysis of the lower gastrointestinal (GI) tract is defined as the inability
      to pass stool due to impaired gut movement, and is a common effect of opioid use in the
      critically ill. Lower GI tract paralysis may lead to nausea, vomiting, aspiration, compromise
      the ability to administer tube feeds (enteral nutrition), an increase abdominal pain,
      delirium and delay getting off mechanical ventilation. One recent randomized study found that
      aggressive use of laxatives to prevent lower GI tract paralysis in critically ill adults was
      associated with lower daily organ dysfunction [as measured by the Sequential Organ Failure
      Assessment (SOFA) score]. The lower GI tract paralysis that occurs in the critically ill
      often responds poorly to laxative medication therapy (e.g., senna, bisacodyl, lactulose).
      While stool softener medications like docusate are routinely administered to patients on
      opioids, laxative-based protocols are frequently not initiated in the ICU until signs of
      lower GI tract paralysis start to appear. There is therefore an important and unmet need for
      a safe and efficacious medication to prevent lower GI tract paralysis in critically ill
      adults who are initiated on opioid therapy. Naloxegol (Movantik) is a naloxone-like drug that
      blocks the effect of opioids on the opioid µ receptor in the gut but is not absorbed in the
      brain (and therefore does not block the pain effects of opioids). Naloxegol is currently
      approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of opioid-induced
      constipation (OIC) in non-ICU patients receiving scheduled moderate to high dose opioids for
      the treatment of chronic non-cancer pain. Naloxegol has a mechanism of action, efficacy,
      convenience of administration, and safety profile that make it an ideal candidate for use as
      a preventative medication for lower GI tract paralysis in critically ill adults receiving
      scheduled opioid therapy. The investigators propose a pilot study in which they will test the
      hypothesis that naloxegol (versus placebo) will reduce the time to the first spontaneous
      bowel movement (SBM) that an ICU patient has, that it will prevent lower GI tract paralysis
      in critically ill adults initiated on scheduled IV opioid therapy, and its use will not
      result in side effects that are concerning to doctors or patients. The investigators will
      randomize 36 critically ill ICU patients (18 in each arm) to receive naloxegol [25mg or
      12.5mg (in patients with a creatinine clearance ≤ 60ml/min)] or placebo. This pilot study
      will provide valuable information to help guide future, larger studies evaluating the role of
      naloxegol in critically ill adults.
    
  