
    
      Hip arthroscopy is a growing field in orthopedic medicine that has gained momentum in recent
      years as a treatment for an array of hip pathologies including labral tears, chondral
      injuries, loose bodies, hip instability, femoroacetabular impingement, extraarticular
      lesions, synovial abnormalities, ruptured ligamentum teres, osteonecrosis, and
      mild-to-moderate osteoarthritis. With this increased rate of hip arthroscopy has come an
      interest in adequate postoperative pain management.

      There are a number of strategies to improve post-operative orthopedic pain management. One
      common technique is the femoral block, during which a patient receives an ultrasound-guided
      injection of local analgesia administered in close proximity to the nerve. In the hip
      arthroscopy setting, postoperative femoral nerve blocks have been shown to significantly
      decrease pain, reduce opioid related symptoms like nausea, and have higher pain satisfaction
      scores than patients using only morphine. However, this option can be costly as it is a
      separate procedure billed by the anesthesiologist. Regional nerve blocks also carry the risk
      of residual parasthesia and permanent nerve damage, however rare.

      One way to circumvent these limitations is through local infiltration analgesia (LIA), a
      technique that has been described for post-operative pain management in orthopedic modalities
      like total knee arthroscopy (TKA) and total hip arthroscopy (THA). Injection of analgesic
      directly to the surgical site can easily be incorporated as a brief step in the surgical
      procedure at a minimal cost to the patient. In THA and TKA, LIA has resulted in promising
      decreases in pain and opioid consumption. However, interpretation of these results in the
      context of hip arthroscopy has been confounded by the fundamental differences between THA/TKA
      and hip arthroscopy, the array of different strategies used in LIA (eg. continuous
      infiltration via a catheter vs. a single shot), and a lack of placebo or control group, and
      the specific location of injection.

      In the setting of hip arthroscopy, a previous group tested intra-portal injections with mixed
      results. LIA targeting the highly innervated hip capsule, which is cut to access the joint
      during arthroscopy, may be more efficacious at limiting postoperative pain. LIA injection
      into the hip capsule can occur under direct visualization after capsular repair. To our
      knowledge, no studies have assessed the outcomes of this extracapsular LIA technique in the
      hip arthroscopy setting.

      Documented risks involved with LIA are limited to the continuous infiltration via catheter.
      This approach has the risk of infection at the catheter site as well as cartilage damage. Our
      proposed technique avoids use of catheters and associated infection. The proposed single dose
      of 0.25% 20mL bupivacaine epinephrine a fraction of the dosages used in previous LIA studies
      to avoid chondral damage.
    
  