
    
      Colorectal cancer is one of the most frequent cancers diagnosed in France. The average age of
      diagnosis in 2012 was 70 years old for men and 73 years for women, confirming that colorectal
      cancer is a disease of the elderly population.

      The literature concerning combined treatments of colorectal cancer in the elderly is
      extremely limited. The application of combined treatments in the geriatric population is
      associated with an increase in the therapeutic complications. These post-operative
      complications together with the comorbidities and age are unfavorable prognostic factors for
      survival in patients with cancer of the rectum; this explains why the improved results
      obtained during the last decades are perceptible in younger patients and not in the elderly.

      In the general population, pre-operative radio-chemotherapy has imposed itself as a standard
      treatment for the cancer of the rectum locally advanced. The utilization of fluoropyrimidines
      associated with radiotherapy (RT) delivered in fractions [long course RT (50 Gy in 5 weeks),
      surgery planned 6 to 8 weeks later] increases the complete histological response rate and
      decreases significantly the rate of local relapse.

      The short-course RT [short course RT using the Swedish model (5x5 Gy in 5 days), with the
      surgery programmed the following week] is the standard neoadjuvant protocol in an important
      number of countries and/or academic groups. The studies that have compared the fractioned RT
      scheme to the short-course RT protocols have not shown any evidence of a change in efficacy
      of the short course RT concerning the following criteria: rate of R0 resection, rate of
      sphincter conservation, rate of relapse at 3 years, the disease free survival or the overall
      survival. Similarly, there appears to be no difference in severe toxicities in the long term.
      It should however be noted that short-course RT followed by immediate surgery may be less
      efficient than combined treatment in patients with a distal T3 cancer, even though these
      conclusions published by Ngan have been criticized by certain. On the other hand, the
      fractioned combined treatments results in more tumor and stage reduction and thus more
      sterilization.

      Nevertheless a retrospective analysis, performed in the Stockholm region, in patients
      irradiated with short-course protocol but operated with a delay of at least 4 weeks resulted
      in a sterilization rate of 8%. This result is even more interesting since in this cohort, 46%
      of the patients had a tumor classified T4 and that 38% of the patients had a primitive tumor
      considered inoperable.

      In the elderly population, the neoadjuvant treatment has rarely been studied. An exploratory
      analysis of the PRODIGE 2 study, based on age as the criteria, has shown that pre-operative
      radio-chemotherapy is significantly more toxic in the elderly population, from 70 years of
      age. Globally the lower tolerance for the pre-operative radio-chemotherapy results in more
      frequent early termination of RT and a statistically significant decrease in the number of
      patients operated. Furthermore, if the type of surgery was not significantly different
      between patients <70 years and those ≥70 years, we observe a non-significant increase in the
      rate of prolonged stoma (patients amputated without closure of the stoma). These differences
      in the surgical procedures is also observed in other publications, placing the emphasis on
      the fact that in the absence of any difference in the clinical presentation or the
      characteristic of the tumor, the risk of real or supposed decompensation modifies the
      surgical care. These data, as well as those in the literature, provides evidence that the
      pre-operative radio-chemotherapy strategy followed by surgery, the standard strategy in
      younger patients, is associated with more side effects in the elderly, resulting in the
      benefit-risk balance, in this population, to be more questionable.

      It is therefore necessary to conduct a specific studies in the elderly population, with
      cancer of the rectum with the objective to maintain the carcinological results obtained with
      classical radio-chemotherapy with at the same time better controlling the secondary effects
      of the treatment and the risk of decompensation of the patients: the short course
      radiotherapy associated with a delayed surgery may be a therapeutic scheme well adapted to
      this population.

      The investigators therefore propose a study comparing pre-operative radio-chemotherapy (RT +
      capecitabine) to a short course RT associated with a delayed surgery, with two primary
      objectives: the efficacy evaluation (rate of R0 resection) and the preservation of autonomy
      (score IADL).
    
  