
    
      1. What is the major problem being addressed by this study?

           Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) is a machine used to do the work of the heart
           and lungs when children's hearts or lungs are too sick to perform normally.
           Veno-arterial (VA) ECMO therapy for poor heart function provides support that can lead
           to patient recovery, transplantation if appropriate and eligible, or complications of
           ECMO therapy lead to stopping care. Each day a patient is on ECMO, complications can
           occur that require stopping support, and attempting to get off ECMO as quickly as
           possible is important. There is currently no consistent way of assessing heart function
           while patients are supported by VA-ECMO to help guide when children's hearts have
           improved enough to survive without the help of ECMO.

        2. What specific questions are you asking and how will you attempt to answer them?

      The specific question we are asking is whether newer ultrasound measures of heart function
      can predict which patient may be well enough to be able to come off of ECMO support. We are
      following critically ill patients and performing multiple measurements at specific time
      points to look for changes in those patients whose heart function recovers and in those
      patients who do not recover function. The ultrasound measurements will be performed during
      changes in the amount of support provided by the ECMO machine.

        -  3. What is the long-term biomedical significance of your work, particularly as it
           pertains to the cardiovascular area? What major therapeutic advance(s) do you anticipate
           that it will lead to? For instance, new drug(s), a surgical technique/procedure, a
           diagnostic tool/test, a previously undetected risk factor, etc.

      Our long term goal is to develop non-invasive, quantitative measures of cardiac function for
      patients needing ECMO support to help guide care. Ultimately if deemed successful, these
      measurements could be used by all physicians who care for these patients. This study could
      lead to more efficient prediction of who needs to stay on ECMO and who could be removed. This
      could help to improve survival and decrease complications in some of the sickest children.
      These measurements may also help us to identify, at an early stage, those patients whose
      hearts are too sick to recover and will need a heart transplant evaluation.
    
  