
    
      Objectives of this protocol are to examine fMRI data taken concurrently with speech,
      language, and decision making tasks under conditions of both alertness and sleep deprivation,
      comparing fMRI-defined neural activation across states and behavioral performance, assessing
      changes in brain function with sleep deprivation. An additional objective is to develop an
      fMRI signal based sleep scoring system. Subjects will be 45 normal healthy volunteers, age
      20-40, who meet criteria both for safe participation in an fMRI environment and for
      suitability for research on normal human sleep. To examine speech and language processing and
      also to examine depth of sleep, we will use a within-subjects free behavior design in which
      we search for patterns in the arterial spin labeled (ASL) or the blood oxygen dependent
      (BOLD) signal in fMRI data recorded while subjects say rehearsed word sets, describe or
      listen to novel procedures, or transition from wake to sleep. To gauge subjects' speech and
      language, we will record, concurrently with fMRI, their voice for analysis in conditions of
      both alertness and sleep deprivation. To examine decision making, we will compare the fMRI
      signal during response execution and inhibition across conditions of alertness and sleep
      deprivation. To gauge subjects' depth of sleep during fMRI, we will use both physiological
      (e.g., EEG) and behavioral measures (e.g., latency and quality of rehearsed verbal response
      to external stimuli presented during sleep). For speech, language processing, and depth of
      sleep, key measures will include fundamental frequency, speaking rate, voice onset, word
      production, and linguistic variables (phonological, syntactic, and pragmatic) derived from
      recorded transcripts. For decision making, the key measure will be subjects' errors and
      latencies in responding to cues to make or refrain from making a prescribed action. The fMRI
      data corresponding to these behavioral data are expected to show systematic changes in neural
      activation patterns that parallel behavioral changes with sleep deprivation.
    
  