
    
      Informed written consent will be obtained from study participants or their legally authorized
      representative. This is a randomized controlled double blinded study; patients will be
      enrolled in the study and will be randomized and equally divided into three groups:

      Group A: (TAP block with 20 ml of bupivacaine 0.25% and 50 μ g of fentanyl) Group B: (TAP
      block with 20 ml bupivacaine 0.25% and 50 μ g /kg midazolam) Group C: (TAP block with 20 ml
      bupivacaine 0.25% only). Induction of general anaesthesia will be performed using a regimen
      of IV 1 μ g/kg fentanyl and Propofol IV 2 mg /kg. Tracheal intubation will be facilitated
      using 0.5 mg/kg IV of atracurium.

      Maintenance of Anaesthesia:

      Anaesthesia will be maintained with inhaled sevoflurane with MAC 2% in oxygen enriched air
      (FiO2=0.5) and top up doses of Atracurium (0.1 mg/kg) IV will be administered every 30
      minutes.

      Ringer acetate will be infused to replace their fluid deficit, maintenance and losses, and
      the patients will be mechanically ventilated using the appropriate setting that will keep the
      end-tidal CO2 at 30-35mmHg.

      One reading of mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR) will be taken 1 minute before
      induction of general anaesthesia (a baseline reading), 1 minute before surgical incision and
      at 15-minute intervals intra operatively.

      Lack of inadequate intraoperative analgesia, as defined by an increase in pulse rate,
      sweating, and tearing (PRST) score >2 or an increase of mean arterial blood pressure (MAP)
      >20% of baseline (8) was treated by additional rescue IV fentanyl 1-2 mcg/kg IV bolus.

      Hypotension will be treated with 0.9% normal saline and/or 5mg ephedrine in incremental doses
      to maintain mean blood pressure above 70 mmHg.

      The residual neuromuscular blockade will be reversed using neostigmine (0.05 mg/kg) and
      atropine (0.02 mg/kg), and extubation will be performed after complete recovery of the airway
      reflexes.

      The patient will be transferred to the post-anaesthesia care unit (PACU) where the MAP and HR
      will be recorded immediately upon arrival.

      Side effects such as local anaesthetic toxicity, postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV),
      respiratory depression (respiratory rate <10/minute) will be recorded.
    
  