
    
      This is a randomized trial of patients with an ostial ARAS and refractory hypertension and or
      renal failure. Patients will be randomized to:

      (i) renal artery stent placement with distal embolic protection (ii) renal artery stent
      placement without distal embolic protection To both groups an optimal medical treatment
      consisting of antihypertensive, lipid-lowering and antiplatelet therapy will be added.

      Patients with an ostial ARAS associated with an estimated GFR of <60 mL/min/1.73m2 according
      to the MDRD formula and/or refractory hypertension are enrolled in this trial. Ostial ARAS is
      defined as a luminal reduction of ≥70% of the renal artery within 1 cm of the aortic wall, in
      the presence of atherosclerotic changes of the aorta. Stenosis evaluation can be performed on
      intra-arterial angiography.

      Medical therapy: Irrespective of baseline serum cholesterol values, the patients will be
      treated with lipid-lowering therapy: 10 mg of rosuvastatin. Any lipid-lowering medication
      currently used is discontinued and replaced by rosuvastatin. Hypertension is treated with the
      following drugs: ACE-inhibitors together, loop diuretic, dihydropyridine calcium antagonists.
      The target BP is <140/90 mmHg. Patients will receive anti-platelet therapy, aspirin 75-100
      mg/od plus ticlopidine 250 mg bid for one month. Considering that smoking is a major renal
      risk factor, smokers will be advised to stop.

      Medical therapy is identical in the two treatment arms. In both groups patients will start
      with aspirin 100 mg/od and ticlopidine 250 mg bid at least five days before admission. The
      stent (Palmaz-Corinthian IQ/Palmaz Genesis, Johnson & Johnson Medical, NV/SA) will be placed
      during an in-patient admission according to a standardized protocol. To Patients randomized
      to the embolic protection the device (FILTER WIRE EX; Cordis Endovascular, USA) will be
      placed distal to the arterial stenosis before stent placement.

      Randomization will be done using random numbers tables The only people aware of the assigned
      procedure will be the radiologists' team. Researchers and technicians who will follow the
      patients and analyze the plasma and urinary samples will be blinded to the assigned
      treatment.

      Clinical follow-up is scheduled after 1 and 3 months. Analysis of results: The difference in
      the mean change of cystatin C respect to baseline between both treatment arms will be
      assessed including 95% confidence intervals (95% CI). The effects on renal function of the
      two treatment strategies will be evaluated with multivariate linear regression analysis,
      considering also the eventual role of age, smoking, diabetes, lipids level, proteinuria,
      bilateral or unilateral renal artery stenosis, BP and renal function at baseline
    
  