
    
      1. STUDY PURPOSE AND RATIONALE Intrauterine devices (IUDs) are an effective yet underutilized
      form of contraception in the United States. Only 5.5% of women age 15-44 reported using them
      in 2006-2008(Mosher 2010). Due to historical practices or prescribing recommendations, IUD
      insertion may be delayed if women must wait for results of screening for sexually transmitted
      infections (STIs) or for the beginning of their menstrual cycle. Such barriers are not as
      prevalent for other contraceptive methods. Initiation of oral contraceptive pills (OCPs), the
      vaginal ring, transdermal patches, and depot medroxyprogesterone acetate injection, with
      emergency contraception (EC) as indicated, is safely done on the same day of a woman's visit
      to her provider. This "Quick Start" approach improves access to birth control and has been
      well studied at the Family Planning Clinic at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center and at
      other institutions (Westhoff 2002, Schafer 2006, Murthy 2005, Rickert 2007). The
      investigators providers often extend this practice to IUD insertion, but outcomes have not
      been formally assessed. If the investigators can show that insertion at any time is safe, the
      investigators can improve access.

      There are several concerns surrounding IUD insertion at the time of an initial visit to a
      health care provider. One problem with insertion outside the first week of the menstrual
      cycle may be "window" pregnancies those that occur during the first cycle with the IUD in
      place. For OCPs initiated with the Quick Start protocol, the pregnancy rate is approximately
      2% (Westhoff 2007). No data exist for IUDs that insertion during any other part of the cycle
      differs with regard to number of window pregnancies. Another theoretical drawback to
      immediate IUD initiation is insertion in the setting of an undiagnosed STI. While the risk of
      developing pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is highest in the 20 days postinsertion, the
      incidence of pelvic inflammatory disease among IUD users is rare and estimated at between
      1:100 to 1:1,000 woman-years (Martinez 2009). Evidence does not support routine screening for
      sexually transmitted infections prior to IUD insertion for women at low risk for STIs, and
      testing should be done based on local prevalence data (Walsh 1998; Skjeldestad 1996). For
      women younger than 26 or with multiple sex partners, screening can be done on the same day of
      insertion. However, variation in individual provider practice patterns can be an additional
      barrier that delays IUD insertion and puts women at risk for interval pregnancies while
      awaiting IUD insertion.

      Alterations in cramping, expulsions, and bleeding patterns may or may not be associated with
      cycle day of insertion but nonetheless could contribute to satisfaction with and continuation
      rates of the IUD. In a 60 month study of TCu380A IUDs in Iran, approximately 25% of women
      discontinued the method due to bleeding and pain (Jenabi 2006). Another study done in Kuwait
      found that irregular or heavy bleeding was a common complaint (Alnakash 2008). Published data
      on these issues is sparse. Without evidence that alternatives are safe for the two IUDs that
      are currently available, physicians may be reluctant to individualize.

      An accurate assessment of bleeding patterns after IUD insertion rests on the quality of data
      gathered. In 2005, Mishell issued guidelines for standardization of data collection and
      analysis of bleeding patterns for combined hormone contraceptive trials, and noted the need
      for prospective comparative studies of the accuracy of electronic data collection versus
      paper diaries (Mishell, 2005). There are no published data comparing the quality and quantity
      of information obtained using these two methods, but text messages are increasingly used to
      collect data in clinical trials. This study affords us the opportunity to compare this new
      modality with existing methods.
    
  