
    
      Main and secondary objectives :

      The main objective is to study the pathological role of ML mutations in KS to facilitate the
      identification and characterization of therapeutic strategies to improve the symptoms of
      patients with KS. Due to the lack of treatment in the KS, the aim is to develop a model of
      this disease from fibroblasts from patients and reprogram them into mesenchymal stem cells.
      This approach will generate a KS-specific stem cell bio-bank, allowing the identification of
      common disturbances caused by the loss of function (LoF) of KMT2D. The impact of the KMT2D
      LoF on transcription but also the epigenetic mechanisms activated during MSC differentiation
      will be described. Finally, the therapeutic potential of an epigenome "editing" approach to
      increase the expression of the wild KMT2D allele to restore the functional activity of MLL4
      in treated MSCs will be evaluated.

      The secondary objective is to evaluate the ability to return to normal after CRISPR/Case9
      gene therapy treatment on patients' cells

      Methodology (design study, population, description of groups (if applicable), inclusion
      criteria, non-inclusion, main and secondary judgment criteria, number of subjects to be
      included, statistical analysis...) :

      Starting from primary cells isolated from affected patients, an in vitro model of the disease
      will be developed. An integrative but alternative strategy approach to obtain mesenchymal
      stem cells derived from patients to define normal and abnormal transcription and epigenetic
      circuits during KMT2D LoF will be adopted. By combining the autonomous renewal potential of
      MSCs with CRISPR/Cas9 technology, an approach to "editing" the epigenome for therapeutic
      purposes to restore MLL4 activity will be developed.

      This project will represent a step forward in understanding the molecular mechanisms
      responsible for KS. The in vitro model will provide the scientific community with an
      experimental system to study KS. Finally, the aim is to define the molecular basis of KS and
      develop a therapeutic strategy to improve certain symptoms in patients with KS.

      Process (number of visits, duration of inclusions, duration of follow-up):

      8 people will be included: 4 patients with Kabuki syndrome authenticated by the molecular
      genetics study of the KMT2D gene.

      4 parents of the same sex as the patient

      Feasibility :

      In the clinical genetics department of the Montpellier University Hospital, more than 40
      patients with Kabuki syndrome are followed.

      Impacts / prospects :

      The identification of the consequences of mutations in the KMT2D gene on epigenetic mark
      changes and cellular structural changes as well as the attempt at gene correction by
      CRISPR/Cas9 will provide a better understanding of the disease (and the genes that are
      deregulated by post-KMT2D epigenetic changes) and will also open a promising path for gene
      therapy by CRISPR/Cas9 method.
    
  