
    
      ASR concerns children and adolescents who feel anxiety about going to school. Some are
      totally absent, some just have difficulty remaining in school for the entire day, or go to
      school following behavioral problems such as morning tantrums or psychosomatic complaints.
      Anxiety disorders are the main diagnostic underlying this behavioral problem, with one or
      many anxiety disorders associated (i.e. separation anxiety disorder, panic disorder, social
      anxiety disorder, generalized anxiety disorder or specific phobia). ASR causes much distress
      to the child, the parents, and the school personnel and interferes with social and
      educational development. Children with severe or chronic school refusal appear to have a
      long-term risk of adult mental health issues (e.g. anxiety, depression). Studies about ASR
      are few, and nonexistent in France. ASR occurs in approximately 1% of all school-aged
      children, and 5% of all clinic-referred children, is equally common in both boys and girls
      but more frequent in adolescents. Recommendations for anxiety disorder treatment in youth is
      psychotherapy. CBT, especially exposure-based, is the intervention that is supported by
      numerous, randomized, controlled trials in this area. But concerning ASR, there are few
      studies.

      A specific ambulatory therapeutic CBT program for totally absent from school adolescents is
      established within the children and adolescent psychiatric unit in the University Hospital of
      Montpellier, France. The unit has implemented CBT techniques to gradually reintegrate the
      child back into the school environment. This program will be implemented in 4 other child and
      adolescent psychiatry centers (Perpignan, Marseille, Béziers and Nîmes).

      The main objective of this study is to evaluate the efficiency of a CBT program on the return
      back to school.

      Secondary objectives are:

        1. To evaluate the feasibility in implantation of this program

        2. To describe the characteristics of adolescents

        3. To assess the initial severity of mental disorders and the evolution of these disorders

        4. To describe the evolution of patient anxiety

        5. To describe the evolution of the overall functioning

        6. To evaluate the efficiency on the return back to school at 6 and 12 month after
           intervention.
    
  