
    
      This study includes in total 105 infertile couples treated by assisted reproduction with
      oocyte donation. Seventy couples that have experienced at least two previous failures with
      this approach at our clinic are referred to as recurrent implantation failure (RIF) patients
      throughout this study. Thirty five of these couples are included in the GH-treatment
      protocol, while the remaining 35 couples are treated in a usual way (non-GH group). Other 35
      couples, treated in the same period and undergoing their first oocyte donation attempt, are
      included as a positive control group.

      RIF patients are randomly allocated into two groups (labeled I and II). Then the assignments
      are concealed in sealed opaque envelopes until the time of enrollment: group I (GH patients)
      and group II (non-GH patients). All injections are performed by an independent nurse who is
      informed by the trial coordinator of each woman´s number and the treatment allocation.
      Consequently, both the clinician and the patients are blinded as to the treatment received.
      The positive control (non-RIF) group is created by allocating all consecutive couples
      undergoing their first oocyte donation attempt. This allocation started immediately after the
      allocation of the first RIF couple and will be terminated as soon as 35 cases are enrolled.

      Ovarian stimulation of the oocyte donors is as follows: oocyte donors are stimulated with the
      use of a long GnRH agonist protocol and human recombinant FSH (Puregon or Gonal F). Human
      menopausal gonadotropin (Menopur) is added when blood LH concentration, which is repeatedly
      determined during ovarian stimulation, falls below 1 IU/l. Final oocyte maturation is
      triggered by subcutaneous injection of 250 micrograms recombinant hCG (Ovitrelle), when at
      least 5 follicles measure 18 mm or more. Ovarian puncture for oocyte recovery is performed
      36.5 h after recombinant hCG injection.

      Oocyte recipients are treated with progressively increasing doses of orally administered pure
      estradiol (Provames) or estradiol valerate (Progynova) after previous pituitary
      desensitization with a single injection of the long-acting preparation of GnRH agonist
      triptorelin (Decapeptyl 3,75 mg). The interval between triptorelin injection and the
      beginning of oral estradiol treatment is ranging between 8 and 20 days. This interval is
      determined individually, in each case, in view of the optimal synchronization of the
      recipient's endometrial development and the follicular growth of the corresponding donor.
    
  