
    
      Currently there is no normative data for hip passive ROM in apparently healthy NCAA division
      II collegiate athletes. This study will be the first study to develop preliminary normative
      data of hip passive ROM.

      One hundred (N=100) student athletes (18-45 years) from California State University Dominguez
      Hills (CSUDH) will be recruited for this study via convenience sampling. Data collection will
      take place in the CSUDH sports medicine laboratory. Prior to testing, participants will fill
      out a screening questionnaire with questions that represent the exclusion criteria which will
      be used to determine ineligibility for this study.

      Prior to participant recruitment and enrollment, a pilot study will be done on 10
      participants to establish rater reliability using the methods mentioned below. After
      acceptable reliability is achieved, recruitment and enrollment will continue.

      Participants who meet the inclusion criteria and consent to participate will be enrolled in
      the study. Participants will read and sign a CSUDH approved consent form prior to beginning
      data collection. Following consent, participants will also fill out a questionnaire to
      provide demographic information which includes age, height, weight, and leg dominance.

      Following completion of the paperwork, all participants will undergo testing which will be
      conducted between the hours of 8am and 4pm. Each data collection session will last for
      approximately 20 minutes. Bilateral hip passive ROM data will be collected using the Noraxon
      computerized motion system. Participants will be lying in different positions on an
      examination table while the hip joints and lower extremities are moved into different
      positions and measured by the device which will touch the skin. Data will be collected and
      monitored by the examiner using the computerized system. The data collection protocol for
      both lower extremities are as follows:

        1. Supine measures (passive): hip external rotation, hip internal rotation

        2. Rest: 5-minute delay

        3. Seated measures (passive): hip external rotation, hip internal rotation

        4. Rest: 5-minute delay

        5. Prone measurements (passive): hip external rotation, hip internal rotation

      Collected data will be transferred to SPSS v.22 (IBM SPSS, Chicago, IL). Means,standard
      deviations, 95% confidence intervals (95% CI), and ranges for participant descriptive data
      will be calculated. Passive Hip ROM values will be presented using degrees and percentages.
      Athlete gender and sport differences will be calculated using the ANOVA statistic. The
      p-value will be considered significant at the .05 level using a two-tailed test (α2 =.05).
    
  