
    
      Handwriting is a functional skill underlying almost all academic performance of school-aged
      children, and handwriting impairment is highlighted by the World Health Organization as a
      barrier to school participation. The available evidence mentioned in the literature suggests
      handwriting skills are academically crucial, and handwriting deficits may lead to challenges
      in performing various academic activities both in and outside the classroom.

      Given that children with TD are more likely to have handwriting deficits as suggested in a
      recent study, they are also more likely to have challenges in their academic performance and
      success as evidenced in the literature.

      In the context of education, strong evidence indicated that handwriting has more cognitive
      and neurological benefits than using a keyboard when taking notes in the classroom.
      Therefore, reducing tics and improving handwriting skills rather than an adaptation approach
      using a word processor or computer may be the goal of intervention.

      Results of the investigator's previous study showed that children with Tourette Syndrome (TS)
      or tic disorders (TD) demonstrated handwriting deficits when compared to the general children
      population, and were consistent with a recent study conducted in France showing that children
      with TS exhibited handwriting problems. In addition to illegibility issues in handwriting as
      indicated by the low score on the Test of handwriting skills (THS-R), children with TS or TD
      also demonstrated writing deficits in the areas of speed of writing and correct letter case
      formation.

      Since handwriting deficit is an area of concern among children with TS or TD, one way to
      improve these children's handwriting skills is through handwriting practice. NeuroScript,
      LLC., has developed a software program (MovAlyzeR) that allows children to practice
      handwriting on an electronic device (such as tablet, laptop, etc). Given that the practice is
      completed on an electronic device with immediate feedback, this handwriting program may serve
      as a strong incentive to motivate children practicing handwriting. In order to provide
      evidence for the educators and therapists on the effectiveness of this software program, it
      is important to evaluate its effectiveness on improving handwriting skills among children
      with TS or TD.
    
  