
    
      Among adolescents in the Juvenile Justice System (JJS), an estimated 3% have a psychotic
      illness, and it can be reasonably assumed that many more experience subthreshold
      psychotic-spectrum symptoms that may be indicative of risk. Evidence suggests that as many as
      25% of those with first episode psychosis (FEP) have their first contact with care through
      criminal justice agencies. Duration of untreated psychosis (DUP), a negative prognostic
      factor, has been shown to be longer among those within the criminal justice system. This
      suggests that youth with psychotic symptoms who end up in the JJS may not receive appropriate
      mental health care. This study will first track mental health referrals for JJ youth with
      psychosis-spectrum symptoms in Phase 1, a standard care condition, and then an enhanced
      referral and linkage to care model will be investigated in Phase 2 of the study.

      The current study will be conducted in the Rhode Island Family Court Juvenile Intake
      Department where all youth receive a mental health screen (Massachusetts Youth Screening
      Instrument - 2nd Ed; MAYSI -2). All youth who screen positive on the MAYSI-2 Thought
      Disturbance scale, and a second gate screening with the Prodromal Questionnaire - Brief
      Version (PQ-B), will be given referral information for Coordinated Specialty Care (CSC)
      services by JJS staff. Enrolled families will also participate in the research assessment,
      regardless of whether they pursue the CSC referral, which involves the Structured Interview
      for Psychosis-risk Syndromes [SIPS] and other measures to thoroughly assess history of
      psychotic symptoms, comorbid difficulties, and mental health care engagement. A comparison
      sample of youth who screen negative on the MAYSI-2 Thought Disturbance subscale will also be
      assessed with the SIPS to determine accuracy of the MAYSI-2/PQ-B screen in the identification
      of psychosis-risk. During the first phase of the study, JJS staff will follow standard
      procedures in referring youth to the state CSC. In the second phase of the study, JJS will be
      instructed in an enhanced referral/linkage to care protocol, including a "warm hand-off"
      where referrals will be put in direct and immediate contact with CSC staff. CSC staff will
      also be trained in procedures to increase the likelihood of follow through with the referral
      to the CSC. Three month follow-up qualitative interviews and quantitative assessments
      regarding referral pathways, bottlenecks and gaps in care, youth psychiatric symptoms, and
      JJS contacts will be conducted. This design maps onto the stated goals of PAR 16- 264
      including: 1) Identify baseline rates of DUP within the JJS (and the investigators will also
      look at rates of psychosis-spectrum symptoms and disorders); 2) Map referral pathways to CSC;
      3) Identify implementation and service level factors that create bottlenecks and gaps in
      linkage to the CSC; 4) Investigate the relationship between treatment linkage and psychotic
      symptoms/DUP; and, 5) Pilot test feasible strategies for reducing DUP.
    
  