
    
      IgA nephropathy (IgAN, IgA nephropathy), is currently the most common glomerular disease
      worldwide, which is characterized by High population quantity, wide distribution, strong
      heterogeneity.

      Diagnosis of Urinary protein control level within 1 year is one of the important predictors
      of renal failure in IgAN patients.Previous studies have shown that patients with renal
      insufficiency, hypertension, or urinary protein > 1g at 24h during renal biopsy, and those
      with poor urinary protein control within 1 year of follow-up, have a higher risk of disease
      progression, and more than 30-50% of patients will develop into end-stage renal disease
      (ESRD) within 10 years.

      The recommended treatments for IgAN in the KDIGO guidelines include: RASi, glucocorticoid,
      immunosuppressor, antiplatelet drugs, lipid-lowering drugs, etc. Several trials have
      demonstrated the benefit of RASi in retarding disease progression in IgAN patients with
      proteinuria, but there is currently no specific treatment for IgAN.

      In recent years, it has been found that excessive production of Galactos-deficient IgA1 is
      one of the initiating factors of the pathogenesis of IgAN. Infection by pathogenic
      microorganisms induces lymphocytes in IgAN patients to produce anti-GD-IgA1 autoantibodies
      (second strike), which forms circulating immune complexes to deposit in the kidney and
      activates complement, which is an important pathogenesis of IgAN.However, recent studies have
      suggested that B-cell depletion therapy is effective for many aabs mediated renal diseases
      (e.g., membranous nephropathy, lupus nephritis, etc.). Rituximab, which combined with CD20
      antigen on the B cell surface, can deplete B cells and play a therapeutic role by reducing
      antibody production. Therefore, the treatment of rituximab has potential therapeutic value
      for IgAN patients as well.

      However, there were very few studies which have shown the efficacy and safety of rituximab in
      the treatment of IgA nephropathy, only groups reported abroad, and the results were
      inconsistent. At present, there have been no randomized controlled studies to verify the
      safety and efficacy of rituximab in the treatment of IgA nephropathy, especially in Chinese
      with high incidence of IgAN.

      In this study, treatment of rituximab combining with RASi will be compared with RASi for IgAN
      patients, to explore an effective and safer regimen for IgAN, so as to bring more hope to
      patients.
    
  