
    
      This is a prospective cohort, single centre, single-blinded study looking at a population of
      women post vaginal surgery with vaginal packing that is either coated with estrogen cream or
      0.25% Bupivacaine + epinephrine (local anesthetic). Patients who have booked vaginal surgery
      for prolapse repair will be invited to participate in this study. A document describing the
      study will be provided for reading and will include the consent for the study. At the end of
      surgery, a vaginal pack is placed to decrease potential bleeding post surgery. At this time,
      patients will receive either vaginal packing with estrogen, or, the vaginal packing with
      0.25% bupivacaine + epinephrine, according to physician preference. Patients and the nurses
      caring for them post surgery will be blinded as to which group the patient has been assigned
      to. The nurses in the recovery room and post operative ward will ask patients post surgery
      the day of surgery, (POD#0, two and six hours post OR) and POD#1 to rate the patients'
      surgical pain with a standardized, validated VAS pain score. Secondary outcomes will be
      recorded: the amount of analgesics used in hospital after surgery, intra-operative blood
      loss, post operative hemoglobin, the number of days until the patient is able to void, the
      amount of analgesics used at home after surgery (patients will be asked to keep a record of
      the total number of oral analgesic pain tablets used and on which day post surgery they
      stopped using pain medications) and other post surgical complications. Data will be stored in
      a secure, password protected desktop on site. Each patient will be assigned a unique number
      which can be traced back to a master file which will include patient identifiers (name, MRN,
      DOB). Data will be analyzed with the appropriate statistical tests. There are no additional
      tests or visits for patients. Patient study assignment will be disclosed to them at the 6
      week routine post surgical examination/assessment visit.
    
  