
    
      In many hospitals, the widely-accepted benefits of local anesthesia have moved minor hand
      operations such as carpal tunnel and trigger finger release outside of the main operating
      room. The proven benefits of local anesthesia include increased efficiency, convenience and
      patient comfort, reduced costs, lack of pre-operative tests, and decreased operative time.
      Multiple complex hand operations have been described using lidocaine and epinephrine only,
      with the patient wide awake during surgery. These include K-wire fixation, flexor tendon
      repair, tendon transfers, and tendon grafting. For those unfamiliar with this technique, the
      main concerns are that it is poorly tolerated, does not prevent patient movement, and
      inadequately controls post-operative pain, which all negatively influence a surgeon's comfort
      and adoption of this technique. Thus, despite its many advantages, local anesthesia in
      complex hand surgery is still not widely practiced in North America.

      Alternatively, the brachial plexus block is a common method of regional anesthesia used in
      hand surgery, consisting of anesthetizing the entire upper limb via local anesthesia
      infiltration of the brachial plexus. This reliable sensorimotor blockade is performed under
      ultrasound guidance by an anesthesiologist approximately 30 minutes prior to surgery.
      Although safe and effective to use, its long duration of action, increased need for operating
      room resources, and unpleasant sensation of a flaccid and insensate upper extremity has
      prompted research into alternative ultrasound-guided nerve blocks in hand surgery.

      Despite prior published data on the use of local anesthesia with epinephrine and brachial
      plexus blocks in hand surgery, there is a paucity of randomized-controlled, prospective,
      patient-reported outcome studies comparing these two methods of anesthesia. This study aims
      to capture patient-reported quality of recovery using a validated, psychometrically tested
      questionnaire, the Quality-of-Recovery 15. A recent systematic review of the measurement
      properties of QoR-15 showed good content validity and internal consistency, and concluded
      that it fulfills requirements for outcome measurement instruments in clinical trials.

      Preliminary data was obtained from a pilot study of 11 hand surgery patients who underwent a
      brachial plexus block and were called 24 hours after surgery to answer the QoR-15
      questionnaire. The computed mean QoR score was 118/150 +/- 15, consistent with values
      reported in the literature. This pilot study allowed for the calculation of a projected
      sample size for this study, outlined below.

      This is a prospective single institution randomized controlled study taking place at the
      Montreal General Hospital, in Montreal, Canada. The institution is a level I trauma center
      which performs a minimum of 250 upper extremity surgeries yearly. The study participants are
      trauma or elective hand surgery patients above 18 years undergoing surgery less than 2 hours
      in duration distal to the carpal bones.

      Patients who consent to the study will be randomized to receive local anesthesia with minimal
      sedation (intervention group) or a brachial plexus block (control group) using
      www.random.org, a random number generating website. The local anesthesia in the intervention
      group will be administered by the operating hand surgeon or a senior resident under the
      surgeon's direct supervision as a wrist block and/or digital block. The regional blocks in
      the control group will be performed as an infraclavicular brachial plexus block by a staff
      anesthesiologist with extensive experience in ultrasound-guided regional anesthesia.

      This study is designed as a prospective non-inferiority study using an alpha of 0.05 for
      statistical significance and a power of 80%. Using QoR-15 values derived from the pilot study
      with effect size of 0.54, a power analysis was conducted, yielding a sample size of 44
      patients per group, for a total of 88 patients. All quantitative outcome parameters will be
      evaluated for normal distribution and reported as mean +/- SD or median (IQR). Differences
      between two groups will be evaluated using unpaired Student's T-Test (if parametric) or
      Mann-Whitney-U test (if non-parametric).

      The patients will be called on the first post-operative day, at least 24 hours after the end
      of their surgery, by a research assistant blinded to the randomization. As a primary outcome
      measure, the patient will be asked to answer the questions on the QoR-15 without revealing
      their surgery or method of anesthesia. The dosage of the medications used and the number of
      times an opioid medication was taken will be recorded. The nonsurgical time for the local
      anesthesia and brachial plexus groups will also be directly compared. Nonsurgical time is
      defined as the time elapsed between the completion of surgical closure on one case until the
      surgical incision on the next case.

      The study will be conducted in accord with the Tri-Council Policy Statement: Ethical Conduct
      for Research Involving Humans (2014) as well as in respect of the requirements set out by the
      McGill University Health Centre Research Ethics Board.
    
  