
    
      Paracervical block (PCB) is a widely used, but largely unstandardized technique for pain
      management in gynecological procedures. From hysteroscopy to first trimester abortion
      procedures to dilator placement for dilation and evacuation, providers utilize the
      paracervical block to manage cervical dilation pain. However for such a widely used
      technique, the exact method is often provider or site specific. A 2009 survey of National
      Abortion Federation members illustrates that the volume alone of anesthestic used for PCB in
      first trimester abortion procedures varies tremendously amongst providers. That said,
      research published over the last few years has had enormous impact on global guidelines, such
      as those published by Ipas. New techniques for paracervical block that focus on limiting
      symptoms and resources while also ensuring adequate pain management are needed to improve
      care for women around the world.

      A randomized controlled trial done by Renner et al. in 2012 demonstrated that a 4-site, 18 mL
      1% lidocaine paracervical block, with a 2 mL injection for tenaculum placement, used during
      first-trimester surgical abortions was beneficial in reducing pain due to cervical dilation
      when compared to sham paracervical block. The block technique endorsed by Renner et al. was
      based on findings from a combination of studies about paracervical block that investigated
      variations in needle injection site , type of lidocaine , depth of lidocaine injection ,
      general vs. local anesthesia , and wait time between injection and procedure . Missing from
      consideration, however, was the volume of lidocaine necessary to achieve a reduction in
      dilation pain. The final technique used in Renner et al.'s study was as follows:

        -  Syringe loaded with 18 mL of 1% plain lidocaine buffered with 2 mL 8.4% sodium
           bicarbonate (20 mL total); 20-gauge spinal needle

        -  2 mL injected at the tenaculum site, 12 o'clock superficially into the cervix

        -  The tenaculum is immediately placed at 12 o'clock

        -  The remaining 18 mL are injected slowly over 60 seconds into the cervicovaginal junction
           in four equal aliquots at 2, 4, 8, and 10 o'clock; the injection is continuous from
           superficial to deep (3 cm) to superficial (injecting with insertion and withdrawal)

        -  Dilation begins 3 minutes after application of the block

      A subsequent study done by Renner et al. in 2016 aimed to further refine this technique and
      looked at both the 3-minute wait time and the use of 4-site versus 2-site injection. Results
      of the study were largely inconclusive, suggesting that no wait time is no worse than a
      three-minute wait and that 2-site and 4-site injections may be interchangeable. Despite these
      findings, global guidelines and provider preference continue to follow findings from Renner
      et al.'s 2012 study.

      As the dangers of lidocaine injection are minimal, but not absent, and the administration of
      a paracervical block is painful and time-consuming, this study will compare a technique
      similar to the one put forth by Renner et al. with one that has been used in multiple
      Stanford studies and notably employs a smaller volume of lidocaine and only two injection
      sites. The technique is as follows:

        -  Syringe loaded with 12 mL of 1% lidocaine (120 mg); 22-gauge spinal needle

        -  2 mL injected at the tenaculum site, either 6 or 12 o'clock superficially into the
           cervix

        -  The tenaculum is immediately placed at the previously injected site

        -  The remaining 10 mL are slowly injected into the cervicovaginal junction in two equal
           aliquots at 4 and 8 o'clock; the injection is continuous from superficial to deep (3 cm)
           to superficial (injecting with insertion and withdrawal)

        -  No wait time between injection and dilator insertion

      This will be compared with a technique similar to Renner et al.'s technique from 2016:

        -  Syringe loaded with 20 mL of 1% lidocaine (120 mg); 22-gauge spinal needle

        -  2 mL injected at the tenaculum site, either 6 or 12 o'clock superficially into the
           cervix

        -  The tenaculum is immediately placed at the previously injected site

        -  The remaining 18 mL are slowly injected into the cervicovaginal junction in two equal
           aliquots at 4 and 8 o'clock; the injection is continuous from superficial to deep (3 cm)
           to superficial (injecting with insertion and withdrawal)

        -  No wait time between injection and dilator insertion

      The justification for this proposed technique comparison is as follows:

      With regards to smaller dosage, there is much research to be done. While the lidocaine label
      recommends a maximum dose of 200 mg (20 mL at 1%) of lidocaine per 90-minute period for
      paracervical block, it does not recommend a minimum dose. Renner et al.'s 2012 study provides
      evidence for paracervical block over sham for cervical dilation pain and Chanrachakul's 2001
      study provides evidence that pain relief comes from both lidocaine and distention rather than
      distention alone. These studies point to the benefit of using lidocaine, but to date there is
      little data providing the optimal dose between 0 mL and 20 mL. With this knowledge, this
      study proposes the use of 10 mL of lidocaine in order to maintain the use of lidocaine for
      pain control, but minimize symptoms (such as metallic taste, ringing in the ears, and at
      worst, seizure or cardiac arrest) that are more likely to manifest with 20 mL.

      With regards to 2-site versus 4-site, the aim is to build on the findings from Glantz and
      Shomento's 2001 study and Renner et al.'s 2016 study. Glantz and Shomento's study from 2001
      contained four study arms and looked at both 1% chloroprocaine versus placebo and 4-site
      versus 2-site injection. While the original paper concluded that PCB with chloroprocaine
      provides more pain relief than saline for both 4-site and 2-site injections, subsequent
      reanalysis from 2009 showcased that preference for 4-site or 2-site versus saline depended on
      the time point at which pain was measured. Regardless, more importantly, the findings showed
      that when comparing 4-site 1% chloroprocaine block to 2-site 1% chloroprocaine block, there
      is no statistical difference. Furthermore, Renner et al.'s 2016 study, which compared 20 mL
      of 1% buffered lidocaine at 4-site versus 2-site, showcased that using noninferiority
      analysis, there is no statistical difference between 4-site and 2-site block. Additionally,
      while superiority analysis demonstrated that 4-site is statistically superior to 2-site for
      pain control at cervical dilation, this demonstrated difference is not clinically
      significant. All in all, these data point toward the clinical conclusion that 2-site may be
      utilized in place of 4-site. The proposed technique follows findings from these studies and
      if proven effective, would result in fewer painful injections during paracervical block.

      Concerning depth of injection, the study will utilize the 3 cm depth as used in Renner's
      studies. Wiebe et al.'s 1992 study and Cetin and Cetin's 1997 study suggest utilizing deep
      injection, as dilation pain scores were lower for deep injection in both studies.

      Phair et al.'s 2002 study and Renner et al.'s 2016 study both showcased that there is no
      significant difference in pain with cervical dilation when comparing no-wait between PCB
      injection and cervical dilation to wait. As such, the study will exclude a wait time.

      With regard to plain lidocaine versus buffered lidocaine, while several studies have
      showcased the benefit of utilizing buffered lidocaine instead of plain lidocaine, given the
      high cost and prolonged preparation time associated with creation of a buffered lidocaine
      solution, the study will use 1% plain lidocaine. The hope is that by showcasing pain control
      with a more cost-effective anesthetic, the results will be generalizable to a larger global
      audience.

      Finally, while many studies focus on pain control in first-trimester abortion, including
      Renner et al., in order to isolate cervical dilation pain from uterine pain, this study will
      focus on the cervical preparation procedure needed prior to a second trimester surgical
      abortion rather than the surgical procedure itself. Need for additional research in this
      timeframe was highlighted in Soon et al.'s work, which demonstrated that the paracervical
      block technique utilized by Renner et al. was effective in reducing pain associated with
      osmotic dilator insertion prior to second trimester abortion. Isolating the pain of the
      cervical dilation procedure will allow the findings to be meaningful for any procedure in
      which cervical dilation is necessary.
    
  