
    
      Background:

        -  Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and mucin-1 (MUC-1) are overexpressed in multiple
           adenocarcinomas.

        -  Pox viral vectors can induce a strong immune response to CEA and MUC-1.

        -  The use of agonist epitopes within the tumor associated antigen (TAA) can induce a
           better immune response than native peptides and have been associated with clinical
           responses

        -  Heterologous prime and boost regimens are superior in terms of generalizing immune
           responses; and this may translate into improved clinical responses

        -  The use of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) does not add
           significant toxicity and in pre-clinical models is essential for induction for optimal
           immune responses.

        -  It is possible by using vectors directed against TAA that there may be additive or
           synergistic immune responses and this may be important in overcoming antigenic escape
           variance

        -  Evidence of clinical benefit has been noted in some patients treated with this vaccine

      Objectives:

        -  For colorectal cancer and non-colorectal cancer Cohort: To evaluate the safety and
           tolerability of the vaccine.

        -  For the Ovarian Cancer and Breast Cancer Cohorts: To evaluate clinical response to the
           vaccine.

      Eligibility:

        -  In the first cohort (colorectal and non-colorectal cancer), histologically confirmed
           adenocarcinoma that is CEA or MUC-1 positive described as metastatic disease (measurable
           or evaluable) or metastatic disease documented by biopsy but not evaluable by imaging
           (e.g. small volume peritoneal disease)

        -  For the ovarian and breast cancer cohorts, patients must have evaluable disease

        -  Normal organ function, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) 0-1

      Design:

        -  This is a non-randomized three cohort, pilot trial of pox viral vaccines that contain
           the transgenes for CEA and MUC-1 (both with modified human leukocyte antigen A2 (HLA-A2)
           agonist epitopes) as well as 3 human T-cell costimulatory molecules, B7-1, ICAM-1
           (CD54), and LFA-3 (CD58) [PANVAC(TM)-V (vaccinia) and PANVAC(TM)-F (fowlpox)] in
           patients with metastatic carcinoma that express CEA or MUC-1 antigen.

        -  The first cohort will enroll 10 patients with metastatic colorectal adenocarcinoma and
           10-15 patients with any metastatic non-colorectal carcinoma that expresses either CEA or
           MUC-1. .

        -  The second cohort will enroll 12 patients with metastatic breast carcinoma and 14
           patients with metastatic ovarian carcinoma.

        -  All patients will receive the same vaccines on the same schedule. PANVAC(TM)-V
           (vaccinia) subcutaneously (s.c.) scheduled on day 1, followed by PANVAC(TM)-F (fowlpox)
           s.c. scheduled on days 15, 29, and 43 then every 28 days for up to 12 vaccines followed
           by every 3 months until disease progression or toxicity.

        -  Sargramostim (100 micro g) will be given at the site of the vaccination (PANVAC-V and
           PANVAC-F) on each vaccination day and for three consecutive days thereafter.

        -  Patients who have radiographic evidence of progressive disease, but who are otherwise
           clinically stable may revert back to monthly vaccinations.
    
  