
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death among residents of the United States.
      The effect of dietary cholesterol and fat on risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) and stroke
      has been examined extensively in epidemiologic studies. However, the results from these
      studies are inconsistent. Furthermore, the association between some other key elements of
      diet and risk of CHD and stroke has been insufficiently studied in epidemiologic studies.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study examines prospectively the association between: 1) dietary intake of
      trans-unsaturated fat and the risk of coronary heart disease and 2) dietary intake of total,
      saturated and unsaturated fats and risk of stroke; 3) dietary intake of vegetable and animal
      protein and risk of stroke; 4) dietary intake of total and water-soluble fiber and risk of
      coronary heart disease and stroke; 5) dietary intake of sodium and potassium and risk of
      coronary heart disease and stroke; 6) dietary intake of vitamin C, carotenoids, vitamin E,
      and folic acid and the risk of coronary heart disease and stroke; and 7) specific foods, such
      as fish, beans, fruits, and vegetables and the risk of coronary heart disease and stroke. In
      addition, the association of baseline serum vitamin A, vitamin C, and folate to the risk of
      coronary heart disease and stroke will be investigated.

      Data from the NHANES1 Epidemiologic Follow-Up Study (NHEFS) will be used to test the
      hypotheses. The NHEFS is an on-going prospective cohort study being conducted in 14,407
      United States men and women aged 25 to 74 years by the National Center for Health Statistics
      (NCHS). The baseline data, including a 24-hour dietary recall and food frequency
      questionnaire, as well as important cardiovascular risk factors were collected during
      1971-75. The follow-up data were collected during 1982 to 1984, 1986, 1987, and 1992. The
      follow-up data were obtained by means of an interview, medical records from health care
      facilities, and death certificates for all decedents. In the study, the investigators will
      re-code dietary data and calculate dietary nutrients using the ESHA Nutrient Database. They
      will also analyze the relationship of dietary nutrients and specific foods to risk of CHD and
      stroke.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  