
    
      Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is a genetic disorder, defines as high cholesterol levels,
      particularly very high levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL), in the blood and early
      cardiovascular events and premature death. FH is an autosomal dominant disease with a
      prevalence of 1:500 (new study in Netherlands demonstrated 1:244) in population more frequent
      than Cystic fibrosis, mellitus diabetes or neonatal hypothyroidism. Canadian registry
      demonstrated FH is more common among some specific population such as French Canadian,
      Christian Lebanese, and Afrikaner descent. The Major causes of FH are pathogenic variant in
      the LDL-receptor (LDLR) gene or the Apo lipoprotein B (APOB) gene. The clinical signs of FH
      are high level of Cholesterol (between 350-550 mg/dL in heterozygous), Yellow deposits of
      cholesterol-rich fat in various places on the body such as around the eyelids (known as
      xanthelasma palpebrarum), the outer margin of the iris (known as arcus senilis corneae), and
      in the tendons of the hands, elbows, knees and feet, particularly the Achilles tendon (known
      as a tendon xanthoma).FH is a hidden syndrome which leads to cardiovascular disease.

      Acute coronary syndrome is a term used to describe a range of conditions associated with
      sudden, reduced blood flow to the heart.

      A study in Switzerland has shown that 50% of patients with premature ACS have FH. Thus
      Investigators can screen FH with high probability amongst patients with acute coronary
      syndrome.

      After introducing the statins total mortality have reduced significantly in these patients.
      Thus screening and identification of patients and treatment with the most effective therapies
      will decrease the risk of premature death.

      Also, most of patients require an appropriate lipid-lowering medication. Although the genetic
      problem is the most important factor to expression of FH, other factors like environmental
      and metabolic factor can be effective in CVD and premature death.

      Following scoring of patients, a one-year and 30-day survival model were created in order to
      assess the effect of elevated cholesterol on survival,.
    
  