
    
      Patients included in this study have KS, which is a type of cancer that occurs in nearly 20
      percent of patients with AIDS. AIDS patients with extensive KS require treatment with
      effective cytotoxic (anti-cancer) agents to reduce the tumor size and with antiretroviral
      agents such as AZT to prevent or ameliorate the development of opportunistic infections. Due
      to the significant toxic effect of both cytotoxic and antiviral agents on the bone marrow
      where new blood cells are generated, the combination of these agents is expected to result in
      complications such as granulocytopenia (very low granulocyte counts). Hematopoietic growth
      factors such as GM-CSF may reduce the severity and duration of marrow suppression. This may
      improve survival. Clinical trials of GM-CSF in HIV infected individuals with or without
      granulocytopenia have shown that the progenitor cells (early blood cells) are responsive to
      GM-CSF.

      AMENDED 910222 Due to continued concerns about GM-CSF toxicities seen in the 5 mcg/kg GM-CSF
      with 20 mg/m2 adriamycin/BV/AZT cohort, the GM-CSF dose in this study has been reduced while
      the adriamycin dose escalation will continue.

      AMENDED 900430 Dosages for AZT and GM-CSF changed to reflect ongoing results. Original
      design: Patients receive the combination of AZT, antineoplastic chemotherapy, and GM-CSF in
      groups of three patients each. The first group receives baseline doses, and if the treatment
      is well tolerated, the subsequent groups of patients receive higher doses of the
      chemotherapy, in which the dose of doxorubicin is increased while bleomycin, vincristine, and
      AZT doses remain fixed throughout the study. The dose of all drugs remains fixed for a given
      patient. The anticancer drugs are given intravenously every 2 weeks. AZT is given every 4
      hours by mouth. GM-CSF is self-injected subcutaneously every day from day 2 - day 12 of each
      treatment cycle. Patients repeat the chemotherapy every 2 weeks, for a maximum of seven
      cycles, with AZT being given continuously. When the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of
      chemotherapy combined with GM-CSF is determined, the next phase of the study begins. Again
      the dose of chemotherapy is increased in groups of patients, but the every-day dose of GM-CSF
      is increased. Again, these chemotherapy cycles are repeated every 2 weeks up to a maximum of
      seven cycles. Patients receive physician examination and laboratory tests every week during
      the study and again at 4 weeks after the study. AMENDED: Dosages for AZT and GM-CSF have been
      changed to reflect ongoing results.
    
  