
    
      The study will include a screening period (up to 28 days), a double blind, placebo controlled
      treatment period (14 days), followed by an 8 week safety follow up period after the second
      dose of study drug.

      Subjects with an established diagnosis of Schnitzler Syndrome (SchS) will participate in a
      Screening period of up to 28 days after signing an informed consent form (ICF). Subjects will
      be advised to schedule the Day 0 visit with the study staff as soon as the symptoms of SchS
      flare occur during the Screening period.

      If the subject does not meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria at the site visit during the
      screening period, other screening visits are allowed within this period until the subject
      meets the study criteria.

      A total of 14 subjects will be randomly assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups (in a 1:1 ratio)
      to receive a double blind, single subcutaneous (SC) injection of study drug (80 mg RPH-104 or
      matching placebo) on Day 0. On Day 14, subjects will receive a second dose of randomized
      treatment as well as an additional dose of 80 mg RPH-104 or placebo based on response to
      treatment, such that responders (SDAS = 0) will receive a dose of placebo, and non responders
      defined as no response (no change in SDAS) or partial responders (SDAS ≥ 1, and activity
      reduction by 1 or more points of SDAS compared to baseline) will receive an 80 mg RPH 104
      dose. (Schnitzler Disease Activity Score includes the PGA score and C-reactive protein (CRP)
      result: If the PGA and CRP grades are not of the same severity, the higher severity level of
      either PGA or CRP will be used to determine the SDAS)

      The study will be stopped after Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) review if:

        1. Death is reported in 2 subjects assigned to the RPH 104 treatment arm or after receiving
           RPH 104 on Day 14 (i.e., non responder to the Day 0 study drug dose).

        2. Two subjects assigned to the RPH 104 treatment arm or after receiving RPH 104 on Day 14
           (ie, non responder to the Day 0 study drug dose) report liver function test
           abnormalities which meet Hy's Law criteria (ie, increased ALT and/or AST 3 fold or
           greater from upper limit of normal (ULN) combined with jaundice or weakness or
           hypochondrial pain/severity or increased Total Bilirubin (TBil) level 2 fold or greater
           from ULN, [not explained by any other causative factors like virus]).

      The severity of SchS symptoms will be assessed daily from Day 0 through Day 28 using the PR
      SchS Scale, at clinic visits on Day 0, Day 14, and Day 28 using the Patient Global Impression
      of Severity (PGIS), at clinic visits on Day 14 and Day 28 using the Patient Global Impression
      of Change (PGIC), and at each clinic visit using the PGA, CRP, SAA, and SDAS. Subjects will
      be followed through Day 70 for safety (A Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will
      periodically review and evaluate the accumulated study data for subject safety).
    
  