
    
      BACKGROUND: The risks of neurotoxicity and late cognitive impairment supported the recent US
      Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recommendation on caution in the indication of anesthesia
      in children up to 3 years of age. Among the cognitive alterations related to pediatric
      anesthesia, emergence delirium (ED) is frequent in pre-school children. There is no consensus
      on the risk factors and forms of ED prevention, which occurs more frequently after inhalation
      anesthesia. On the other hand, anesthesia-induced epigenetic changes may be the key to
      understanding various complications and perioperative outcomes. There are no specific
      biomarkers for ED. Such biomarkers would be used to measure the risk of ED and would
      contribute to prevention and treatment. It has been hypothesized that behavioral changes in
      ED may be related to epigenetic modifications, analyzed through the DNA methylation profile.
      OBJECTIVES: The primary aim of the study is to investigate the DNA methylation profile in
      children with ED. The secondary objectives are to evaluate the correlation between the DNA
      methylation profile with the anesthetic technique and the degree of preoperative anxiety.
      METHODS: Children (N=322) from 2 to 12 years old, candidates to digestive endoscopy under
      general anesthesia will be recruited in an outpatient clinic from a tertiary university
      hospital. After informed consent, the child and parents' preoperative anxiety will be
      assessed through the modified Yale Preoperative Anxiety Scale (mYPAS) and VAS-Anx (Anxiety
      Visual Analogic Scale), respectively. The quality of anesthetic induction will be evaluated
      through Pediatric Anesthesia Behavior (PAB) scale and Perioperative Adult Child Behavior
      Interaction Scale (PACBIS). After inhaled induction with sevoflurane, blood sample collection
      will be performed to evaluate DNA methylation, followed by randomization in two groups to
      maintain anesthesia using the venous technique, with propofol or inhaled anesthesia with
      sevoflurane. Upon awakening, the ED will be evaluated through PAED (Pediatric Anesthesia
      Emergence Delirium) scale. Twenty children from each group presenting ED as well as 08
      control cases will have their venous blood samples sent for DNA methylation analysis using
      the array technique. After hospital discharge, the postoperative behavioral changes will be
      observed through the PHBQ (Post Hospitalization Behavior Questionnaire) questionnaire.
    
  