
    
      BACKGROUND:

      One of the most important tasks that cardiovascular clinicians perform is risk
      stratification, as that enables appropriate targeting of aggressive treatments to patients
      that are most likely to benefit from them. Contemporary risk stratification strategies
      include clinical scoring systems along with performance of noninvasive tests. Although these
      approaches are commonly used, clinicians still find themselves needing to incorporate
      multiple pieces of clinical information into a cohesive global risk assessment. The concept
      of utilizing data from large observational data sets to develop complex risk scores and to
      encourage their use in routine practice is therefore gradually evolving and gaining
      acceptance. The Logical Analysis of Data (LAD) is a potentially useful approach for
      systematically analyzing large databases for the purpose of developing and validating
      clinically useful risk prediction schemes. Unlike standard regression techniques, LAD does
      not primarily focus on individual risk factors and two-way interactions between them. Rather,
      LAD is designed to identify complex patterns of findings, or syndromes, that predict
      outcomes. This method has been applied to problems in economics, seismology and oil
      exploration, but not to medicine.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study has three specific aims: 1). to apply LAD to develop and validate risk prediction
      instruments among patients undergoing different types of cardiac surgery. 2. to compare the
      predictive value of LAD predictive instruments with predictive instruments developed using
      standard statistical methods, including multiple time-phase parametric modeling. 3. to
      develop predictive instruments using relative risk forests, a new Monte Carlo method for
      estimating risk values in large survival data settings with large numbers of correlated
      variables. Relative risk forests are an adaptation of random forests introduced by Breiman.
      When possible these methods will be compared to LAD. Internal estimates for the
      generalization error, a measure of how well the method will generalize to other data
      settings, will be computed and will be used in the development of the predictive instrument.
      Relative risk forests will also be compared to several other non-deterministic methods,
      including boosting and spike and slab variable selection. All of these techniques can be used
      to develop complex models while maintaining good prediction error and are ideal for high
      dimensional problems where traditional methods breakdown. Although this project will focus on
      risk assessment among patients undergoing cardiac surgery, it is important to recognize that
      we are primarily interested in the value of LAD as a means of analyzing very large and
      complex data sets within a medical sphere. Hence, the applicability of this work goes beyond
      determination of risk of patients undergoing cardiac surgery.

      Data used for this study will consist of cardiac surgery data from the Cleveland Clinic
      Foundation Cardiovascular Information Registry (CVIR). Four cohorts of data will be
      assembled; Cohort I: 18,914 CABG patients between 1990 and 2000; Cohort II: 6952 patients
      undergoing aortic valve replacement; Cohort III: 2979 patients undergoing mitral valve
      replacement; Cohort IV: 10,482 patients undergoing mitral valve repair. The primary endpoint
      will be long term total mortality; for valve surgery patients it will be active follow-up.
    
  