
    
      The Study Drug:

      Platelets are cells that help the blood clot. Platelet counts are often lower after receiving
      a stem cell transplant. When the number of platelets in your body gets too low, it can cause
      bleeding. Eltrombopag is designed to imitate a protein in your body that helps make
      platelets. This may help your platelet counts stay normal.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups:

        -  If you are in Group 1, you will receive eltrombopag.

        -  If you are in Group 2, you will receive a placebo. A placebo is a substance that looks
           like the study drug but has no active ingredients.

      If you are 1 of the first 20 participants enrolled in this study, you will have an equal
      chance of being assigned to either group. If you join the study after 20 participants have
      been enrolled, you will have a better chance of being assigned to Group 1 if eltrombopag has
      been shown to be more effective.

      Neither you nor the study staff will know if you are receiving the study drug or the placebo.
      However, if needed for your safety, the study staff will be able to find out what you are
      receiving.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will take the study drug/placebo pills by mouth 1 time each day while you are on study.
      The study drug/placebo should be taken on an empty stomach (1 hour before or 2 hours after
      food/drink). You may drink water, coffee, and/or tea with the study drug/placebo. You should
      drink any coffee or tea without milk or cream.

      The dose of study drug/placebo may be adjusted (raised or lowered) throughout the study based
      on your reaction to the study drug/placebo.

      Study Visits:

      Every 2 weeks, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have had.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for PK testing.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn to check your immune system.

      If your blood tests show that you may have fiber deposits (build-up) in the bone marrow, you
      will have a bone marrow biopsy to check the status of the disease

      If you have symptoms of cataracts (clouding of the lens of the eye) anytime during the study,
      you will have an eye exam.

      Length of Study:

      You will take the study drug for up to 8 weeks. You will have study visits for 12 weeks. You
      will be taken off study if you have intolerable side effects.

      End-of-Treatment Visit:

      After completion of study drug, you will have the following tests and procedures performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have had.

        -  Blood (about 3 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn to check your blood's clotting ability.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn to check your immune system.

      Weeks 10 and 12 (+/- 3 days), you will have the following tests and procedures performed:

        -  You will have a telephone interview.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have had.

        -  Blood (about 3 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn to check your blood's clotting ability.

        -  You will either have blood drawn locally or where you live regionally.

      Within the 3 months after your last dose of study drug, you will have a bone marrow biopsy to
      check the status of the disease and an eye exam. The eye exam may be performed sooner if you
      develop symptoms of a cataract, such as blurry vision.

      This is an investigational study. Eltrombopag is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of low platelet counts in patients with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura
      (ITP -- a severe bleeding disease). Its use in patients with low platelet counts after a stem
      cell transplant is investigational.

      Up to 64 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  