
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Hypertension, a complex disease involving the interplay of genetic and environmental factors,
      affects an estimated 50 million Americans and is a major predisposing factor for myocardial
      infarction, vascular disease, stroke, and renal failure. It has been estimated from
      segregation analysis and twin studies that approximately 45 percent of the interindividual
      differences in blood pressure are accounted for by genetic differences. The identification of
      the genes whose variants contribute to high blood pressure will have far-reaching effects on
      our understanding of the pathophysiology of the circulation and may suggest new preventive
      measures and rational therapeutic approaches.

      One of the principal advantages of the genetic approach is that it identifies primary
      molecular defects. As a result, it will be possible to stratify the general hypertensive
      population into subgroups based on genotype and intermediate phenotype and thereby evaluate
      preventive strategies and therapeutic approaches in more homogeneous groups. In addition, the
      identification of hypertensive genes also provides the basis for an understanding of the
      interactions between genes and environmental factors. It is very likely that particular
      environmental variables exert their effects only in the presence of certain genotypes.

      Until recently, the techniques for dissecting the genetic determinants of high blood pressure
      were not available or were not developed to an extent that would make the Family Blood
      Pressure Program initiative feasible. However, several recent advances in technology and
      analytical methods, together with the rapid construction of genetic maps, have substantially
      improved the chances of detecting these genetic factors.

      The concept for the Family Blood Pressure Program was conceived in the Report of the Expert
      Panel on Genetic Strategies for Heart, Lung, and Blood Diseases. The initiative was approved
      by the Arteriosclerosis, Hypertension, and Lipid Metabolism Advisory Committee (AHLMAC) in
      March, 1993. The genetic-epidemiological aspects were approved by the Clinical Applications
      and Prevention Advisory Committee (CAPAC) in February, 1993. The Request for Applications was
      released in March, 1994. Awards were made in September, 1995.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study focused attention on an Asian population in order to reduce heterogeneity of the
      genetic background. In 1995, a genetic network was established in the San Francisco Bay Area,
      Hawaii, and Taiwan, recruiting an estimated 1,700 affected hypertensive sibpairs plus several
      multigenerational hypertensive pedigrees of Asian Pacific Chinese and Japanese. Linkage
      analysis was used to map and identify the genes for hypertension in this ethnic group. A new
      genetic map of the human genome with 2041 ordered polymorphic markers with an average
      interval of less than 3 cM had been reported. Such a dense map of polymorphic markers made it
      plausible to propose linkage analysis of complex traits. A total genomic search was performed
      on 1700 affected sibpairs and family members. In addition, the candidate gene approach was
      also used. To address the possibility of heterogeneity of the hypertensive trait, a number of
      intermediate phenotypes was studied that may help identify more homogeneous subgroups of
      hypertension. For example, Asians and Pacific Islanders had an increased risk for
      hypertension, dyslipidemia, and glucose intolerance (Syndrome X) that were associated with
      hyperinsulinemia. Therefore, hypertension was investigated according to insulin sensitivity
      vs. resistance as well as other intermediate phenotypes related to hypertension
      pathophysiology such as renin, Ang II, and endothelin. The hypothesis was that by focusing on
      possible hypertensive subsets with well defined phenotypes, the possibility was enhanced of
      gene identification for hypertension in these patients. The third approach examined the
      hypothesis that there existed a dominant locus determining hypertension in a subset of
      affected individuals using the analysis of multigenerational pedigrees with 10-13 meiosis
      separating affected members. If such a subset existed, this approach would reduce the
      likelihood of heterogeneity and increase the probability of revealing genetic linkage. Once
      major gene loci were identified, it was important to determine the prevalence of these loci
      in the overall population and the risk associated with their loci for the development of
      hypertension. Therefore, the genetic epidemiology of the loci were studied using
      epidemiological methodologies such as association studies and case control analysis on well
      characterized populations in Hawaii and Taiwan that had been studied prospectively for many
      years.

      The Family Blood Pressure Program, including the SAPPHIRe Network, was renewed in FY 2000.
      The Family Blood Pressure Program as a whole carried out five specific aims in the renewal
      period. These aims were grouped according to two complementary themes: First, the
      investigators created and analyzed a database of blood pressure-related phenotype and
      genotype data from all FBPP participants (Aim 1). Within linked regions, they identified
      allelic variation within positional candidate genes and evaluated the relationship of these
      polymorphisms with blood pressure levels and hypertension status (Aims 2 and 3). Second, they
      used quantitative measures of target organ damage to identify genes that influence
      susceptibility to develop hypertensive heart and kidney diseases (Aims 4 and 5). In addition
      to the Program specific aims, each network, including SAPPHIRe, carried out its own specific
      aims alone, based on unique aspects of their population and interests and expertise of the
      investigators.

      SAPPHIRe investigators refined the hypertensive phenotype in the study population by
      assessing the intermediate phenotype of insulin resistance using the oral glucose tolerance
      test and steady state plasma glucose assay. They also used novel molecular genetic approaches
      to enrich genomic DNA for common genetic variations and develop proteomic approaches to
      identify proteins that were differentially expressed in plasma and urine of the SAPPHIRe
      participants.

      In the next phase of the FBPP which extends through August, 2008, a major emphasis is placed
      on making the Program a shared resource for hypertension researchers in the United States and
      throughout the world. In Aim 1, the investigators will build, maintain and update a publicly
      available knowledge-base to facilitate research by non-FBPP investigators on the genetics of
      hypertension, its risk factors and its complications. In Aim 2, they will use
      state-of-the-art genetic linkage analysis methods to identify additional linkage regions
      using subgroups of pedigrees and physiologically relevant combinations of phenotypes that
      will aid in localizing hypertension genes. In Aim 3, they will use a combination of
      bioinformatics, a dense array of SNPs, and state-of-the-art data analysis to follow-up
      regions of interest and identify the underlying hypertension genes. The regions to be
      followed-up include those identified during the current phase of the FBPP and Aim 2 of this
      renewal phase. In Aim 4, they will evaluate the hypertension genes identified in Aim 3 for
      their association with multiple measures reflecting the cardiovascular and renal
      complications of hypertension, including left ventricular mass and microalbuminuria. It is
      the long-term goal of the FBPP to have the hypertension genetics community develop a
      comprehensive picture of the genetic architecture of human hypertension, including its risk
      factors, complications, and response to treatment.
    
  