
    
      Monitoring and Quality Assurance:

      Training for researchers:

      In order to ensure the best quality of the study, researchers will take part in at least two
      compulsory training sessions. During the training ethical and professional issues will also
      be discussed, such as:

        -  ethical issues (e.g. handling vulnerable groups in interview situations)

        -  data management (protection of privacy of medical and research records)

        -  interview training in order to standardise interview techniques

        -  how to analyse qualitative and quantitative data, and how to synthesize them in this
           research (to the analysing researchers in the partner countries).

      Qualitative data:

      Interviews will be tape recorded and transcribed verbatim, and will be evaluated with content
      analysis using qualitative software package NVivo 10. After two pilot interviews responsible
      researchers from each partner country will discuss a preliminary code book. These codes and
      themes will form the basis of the coding strategy throughout data collection and the data
      analysis. Analysis will be ongoing throughout the fieldwork in order to allow emergent themes
      to be fed back into the data collection. During data collection new relevant codes will be
      included in the code book.

      The interviews will be coded in the national languages of the five countries under
      examination. This will result in five country reports about the experiences of patients with
      advanced cancer, COPD and CHF, their family and professional caregivers within a selection of
      IPC initiatives in the particular country with the care delivery in the last phase of
      disease. These country reports will be translated into English and will be analysed and
      result in one overall report.

      Quantitative data:

      Statistical analysis will be performed using SPSS Statistics 20. The investigators will use
      descriptive statistics such as frequencies, crosstabs, means, standard deviation. The
      quantitative data will be used as a background description of the population. The overall
      analysis will involve a synthesis of the qualitative and quantitative data. During the
      analysis phase the investigators will integrate the quantitative variables, qualitative
      findings and evaluations in order to get complete insight in the topic.

      Treatments for missing data:

      The investigators will use the following approach to missing data: to omit questions with
      missing data and to perform analyses of questions on what remains. Missing data will be
      accounted for in the analysis and the implications will be made clear.

      Handling and storage of data and documents:

      The confidentiality of data collected within the patient study will be secured according to
      national and European regulation. Data from patients will be anonymised and disclosure of
      information from the study to third parties will be limited to those undertaking legitimate
      peer review of the scientific and ethical aspects of the study, co-workers and patients, so
      that consent can be obtained and customary medical care can be provided.

      Patient confidentiality and welfare will always be maintained as the highest priority. All
      data gathered and documents will be stored anonymously. Each patient, family caregiver and
      professional caregiver will be allocated a unique identification number. No identifying
      information linking the person and identification number will be kept on the data base. The
      investigators will analyze data by identification number only. Patient data will be stored in
      a protected database with log function. The master database will be kept at the centre of the
      research coordinator of the Radboud University Medical Centre.

      Assessment of progress and quality:

      Researchers (who will do fieldwork at IPC initiatives involved) will report fieldwork
      progress (patient recruitment and data collection) and the quality of data collected every
      other week to their lead researcher (who is responsible for the research in the particular
      country). Contents of the progress and quality report:

        1. Number of persons (patients and family caregivers) involved

        2. Number of completed questionnaires and interviews

        3. Quality of completed questionnaires and interviews

        4. Attrition (death of patients, early terminated interviews)

        5. Other research-related events (e.g. delays)

      Lead researchers will summarize researches' reports and send a progress and quality report to
      the study principal investigator every month (The study principal investigator is responsible
      for the research in the framework of InSup-C project.)

      The study principal investigator organizes a 3-monthly structure of (tele)conference to
      monitor progress and quality and to report this to the Project Management Office (PMO). The
      PMO works under supervision of the Executive Board of the project. The PMO will provide the
      Executive Board with project process reports at least every six months or more frequently if
      necessary.

      Annual progress report:

      The Principal Investigator will submit a summary of the progress of the study to the
      accredited ethical committee once a year. Information will be provided on the date of
      inclusion of the first subject, numbers of subjects included and numbers of subjects that
      have completed the trial, (serious) adverse events, other problems, and amendments.

      End of study report:

      The Principal Investigator will notify the accredited ethical committee of the end of the
      study within a period of eight weeks. The end of the study is defined as the last study
      participant's last interview. In case the study is ended prematurely, the responsible
      researcher will notify the accredited ethical committee within 15 days, including the reasons
      for the premature termination.

      Within one year after the end of the study, the responsible researcher will submit a final
      study report with the results of the study, including any publications/abstracts of the
      study, to the accredited ethical committee.

      Public disclosure and publication policy:

      Public disclosure and publication policy is regulated by InSup-C. Dissemination Strategy
      (October 2013), available at request. An outline publication timeline with suggested topics,
      lead work package author and scientific target journals is detailed in the Dissemination
      Strategy. An interactive website has been developed. The website will signpost study results
      as these become available.

      Monitoring level related to risk classification:

      As in the previous section it was estimated that this study has a negligible risk, minimal
      monitoring will take place. Table 4 displays the activities the monitor will perform.
      Monitoring will be conducted by a qualified monitor who has knowledge of current legislation
      and regulation and who is independent from this study. Findings will be reported to the
      coordinating investigator of the Radboud umc in a fixed format. If the monitor identifies
      substantial and/or frequent faults, this will be reported to the head of the department
      and/or the company board.
    
  