
    
      It is estimated that between 1.5% and 7.5% of children experience encopresis. In most
      children, encopresis is a complication of long-standing constipation. Encopresis is defined
      as the repeated passage of feces in inappropriate places at least once a month, for three
      months, and not induced through substances or due to a general medical condition. Typically,
      treatment consists of medical management alone, which focuses on diet and/or laxative therapy
      and has a relatively low success rate. A combination of specialized medical and behavioral
      interventions for encopresis (Enhanced Toilet Training) has been found to have high success
      rates. Unfortunately, it is not readily available because of a lack of trained professionals
      to deliver the treatment and the amount of time and costs spent in delivering this treatment.
      Internet interventions, however, may lower some of the barriers associated with traditional
      face-to-face treatments by removing the inconvenience of scheduling appointments, missing
      work/school, and traveling to and from a clinician's office. This study will evaluate whether
      an Internet intervention is more effective than patient education in treating pediatric
      encopresis. This study will also evaluate whether stepped care support is additive to the
      effectiveness of the Internet intervention. Stepped care will involve adding personal e-mail
      and phone support to help families overcome obstacles to using and implementing the
      intervention.

      Participants are randomized to receive a patient education website, the Internet intervention
      alone, or the Internet intervention plus stepped care. The intervention period lasts for 6
      weeks. During the intervention period, subjects assigned to the patient education website
      will be given content addressing treatment of encopresis. Those assigned to use the Internet
      intervention will review interactive tutorials tailored to the user's difficulties. The
      stepped care group will receive the Internet intervention as well as additional support if
      they fail to reach specific intervention milestones. All families will complete assessment
      questionnaires and daily diaries of the children's symptoms and bowel behaviors for one week
      at baseline, following the intervention period, and at 6 and 12 months follow-up.
    
  