
    
      Therapy de-escalation in stage IIA/B seminoma represents an unmet need in clinical practice;
      efficacy of modern standard of care therapies for these patients is high and only a few
      patients show disease recurrence but short- and long-term toxicities are a major concern. The
      magnitude of long-term toxicities is often associated with the intensity of the prescribed
      treatment modality. A higher cumulative dose of chemotherapy agents and radiation dose has
      been linked to a sharp increase in long-term sequelae. Combining treatment modalities and
      diversifying toxicity may thus provide an opportunity to limit long-term treatment sequelae.

      In this trial carboplatin, cisplatin and etoposide are the Investigational Medicine Products
      (IMPs). They are all medications with a marketing authorization for several solid tumor types
      and are standard practice in the treatment of testicular cancer in Switzerland and in the
      European Union (EU).

      Radiotherapy is also a standard therapy in this indication.

      However, the trial investigates a stage-adapted (stage IIA or IIB) de-escalation of these
      standard treatments in the context of a multimodality treatment with chemo- and radiotherapy.
      The goal is to safely de-escalate treatment while maintaining/enhancing efficacy, which is
      not a standard practice yet.

      The SAKK 01/18 trial is designed with the aim to answer these three questions:

        -  Can the dose of involved-node radiotherapy be safely reduced in the context of
           multimodality treatment with chemo- and radiotherapy?

        -  Can a more potent chemotherapy in the form of cisplatin/etoposide reduce the rate of
           distant failure in comparison to carboplatin?

        -  Can a combination of cisplatin/etoposide and involved-node radiotherapy pose a potent
           treatment regime for patients with recurrence after adjuvant carboplatin or radiotherapy
           for stage I seminoma? Furthermore, as active surveillance is becoming standard of care
           in stage I seminoma, it is projected that the amount of patients in need of treatment
           with stage IIA/B disease will rise, due to more patients developing disease progression
           during active surveillance.

      The trial design, trial treatment and trial specifics are a consensus among the Swiss
      Urogenital Tumors Project Group and the Swiss Radio-oncology Section from the Swiss Group for
      Clinical Cancer Research (SAKK) and the German Testicular Cancer Study Group (GTCSG).
    
  