
    
      If you are eligible to take part in this study, you will have pulmonary (lung) function
      testing. This testing will involve your breathing through a mouthpiece and measuring the
      amount of air you breathe. This will provide information on how well your lungs work, and how
      your chest wall moves when you breathe.

      You will then begin the normal treatment planning process. A bean-bag "cast" will be made for
      you to lie in during planning and treatment. This is done to lower day-to-day changes in your
      position. A CT scan will be taken with you breathing quietly, and possibly several X-rays
      will be performed as well. You will be marked with magic marker, and possibly have several
      permanent tattoos placed to help with daily positioning. These procedures normally take 1-2
      hours.

      Small metal markers (up to 5) will then be placed near your tumor. A thin, flexible tube with
      a camera, called a bronchoscope, will be used to place these markers in your lungs. You will
      be given a sedative through one of your veins and a local anesthetic will be sprayed in your
      nose and mouth before introducing the bronchoscope. The bronchoscope is introduced through
      one of your nostrils and then passed into your windpipe and bronchial tubes. This will allow
      the doctor to examine your lungs and place the small metal markers. These markers will be
      used to track the tumor during treatment. In this way the radiation treatment can be given to
      the tumor even if it moves while you breathe.

      You will also have studies to measure how much the tumor moves. This will be done with
      several additional CT scans, typically taken on a weekly basis. Additional pulmonary function
      measurements will be taken during the CT scans. These measurements will allow researchers to
      monitor the movement of your tumor when you breathe. These procedures will normally take
      between 1 and 2 hours.

      You will be on this study for the duration of your radiation treatments. You will be followed
      up an for an additional 4 - 6 weeks to make sure there are no complications from the study.

      THIS IS AN INVESTIGATIONAL STUDY. A total of up to 30 patients will take part in this study.
      All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  