
    
      Firefighters are exposed to extreme metabolic and cardiopulmonary stressors in the
      performance of their vocation that are recognized to exceed the actual physical or
      environmental hazards. The current medical literature regarding firefighting highlights two
      frequently cited statistics: (1) based on body mass index (BMI), upwards of 73-80% of
      firefighters are considered overweight or obese, and (2) >45% of firefighter line-of-duty
      deaths are due to cardiovascular events.

      This finding regarding BMI has been widely reported in the U.S. media after being published
      in a 2014 CDC medical journal. Such a finding is particularly relevant to firefighters given
      that there are recommended cardiorespiratory performance standards for firefighters, commonly
      12 metabolic equivalents (METs) or maximum oxygen consumption during aerobic exercise
      (VO2max) of 42 mL O2/kg of body weight/min. As a consequence, failure to meet such a standard
      may limit a firefighter's ability to perform (or be employed) in full-duty tasks based on
      individual fire station requirements.

      Fire suppression activities account for 1-5% of a firefighter's duty time yet result in 32%
      of firefighter deaths. This is attributable to the extreme physical demands of firefighting
      activities in which anaerobic threshold (typically 85% of maximal heart rate) may be exceeded
      and sustained throughout an engagement. Few professions, other than elite athletes, require
      this level of cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF). As such, CRF is of vital importance to
      firefighters and yet is rarely, if ever, tested in a systematic fashion over the course of an
      individual firefighter's career.

      The vital importance of CRF is well-established in the medical literature, such that many
      advocate for its addition as a clinical vital sign. Epidemiological studies have demonstrated
      an inverse relationship between CRF and coronary heart disease (CHD) and all-cause mortality
      in healthy individuals. There are incremental health benefits to increased levels of fitness
      and reduced morbidity and mortality associated with lower levels of fitness. The fitness
      standard of 12 METs (the equivalent of a VO2max of 42 mL/kg/min) remains the testing metric
      for firefighters in the NFPA 1582 guidelines; it is applied to all candidates, male or
      female, and of any age. While a VO2max of 42 may be "good" to "excellent" for a 50-59 year
      old male, it is only "good" for a 40-49 year old male, and only "fair" for a 30-39 or "poor"
      for a 20-29 year old male. In women, a VO2max of 42 indicates a "good" level of CRF for a
      20-29 year old female and "superior" CRF for a 50-59 year old female. Knowing that CRF
      declines inevitably with age argues that a firefighter whose VO2max is 42 mL/kg/min at age 20
      will decline significantly by age 50 and raises the question of their ability to safely
      participate in fire suppression activities at that age. CRF measures in firefighters would
      benefit from age-adjustment and gender stratification. This research would begin that
      process.

      While elevated BMI is associated with cardiovascular disease morbidity and mortality, BMI has
      been demonstrated to be a non-specific metric of body composition. Specifically, BMI "is
      limited as an index of obesity (body fatness) because it does not account for the composition
      of body weight," and the concurrence of BMI and body fat percentage (BF%) is affected by age,
      gender, ethnicity, and body shape. The misclassification of firefighters as overweight and
      obese based on BMI has been discussed in a several studies. These studies utilized
      bioimpedance testing or skin calipers for BF% measurement, methods known to have significant
      levels of error in terms of false positives and false negatives. Interestingly, a series of
      these studies cite a single article with a sample size of 39 individuals as validation of
      bioimpedance in comparison to dual-energy X-ray absorption (DXA), but also report DXA as the
      gold standard for BF% measurement. This inaccuracy of BF% compared to BMI was addressed
      thoroughly in one study of U.S. firefighters, demonstrating the potential for false positive
      and false negative identification of obesity in this population; specifically, they reported
      rates of 15.4% false positive and 18.2% false negative identification of obesity when
      identified by BMI as opposed to BF%.

      The primary advantages of using BMI in a clinical setting include the long-established
      history of BMI usage and its extremely low cost (simply measuring someone's height and
      weight). However, waist circumference (WC) is easily measured, and has demonstrated
      comparable prediction of cardiovascular risk as compared to and in conjunction with BMI.10
      Although classification of obesity has not been conducted by WC, an elevated cardiovascular
      risk has been identified for men with WC > 102 cm and women with WC > 88 cm.More
      specifically, WC classifications of very low, low, high, and very high have been developed.
      For purposes of this study, WC measurements within the high and very high classifications are
      considered as obese, with this population (WC > 100 cm in males, WC > 90 cm in females)
      representing a similar population to those identified with an increased cardiovascular risk.

      The knowledge gap between BF% and cardiovascular risk as it pertains to clinical use of BMI
      and other body composition metrics has been identified by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood
      Institute (NHLBI), whose 2013 systematic review noted, "studies using BMI and waist
      circumference compared to more valid measures of percent body fat are needed to examine the
      predictive role of various adiposity measures." However, strong correlations between body
      composition metrics and CRF were found in a recent study in Brazilian firefighters, and in
      this case, BMI was considered to be an adequate surrogate for other body composition methods
      evaluating body composition. A limitation of this study was that it used skin caliper testing
      for BF% measurement and a non-respiratory-based exercise test to indirectly estimate VO2max.
      Thus, there is an evident need to clarify which among several potential measures of body
      composition best predicts CRF, with firefighters serving as a relevant population for study.
      To the best of our knowledge, there are no studies that utilize the accepted criterion
      standard of dual X-ray energy absorption (DXA) scanning coupled with measured VO2max testing
      that would allow coupling these two metrics into a reference fitness-leanness measure.

      DXA is a widely-available technology that is relatively inexpensive compared with other
      diagnostic technologies, is safe, and can accurately measure BF%. DXA studies can be
      completed in less than ten minutes and provide data that is valid and reproducible over time.
      The radiation from a DXA scan is less than that received from routine environmental exposure
      in a single day. Americans typically receive approximately 3.0 milliSieverts (mSv) of
      radiation exposure annually from cosmic radiation, household radon, and other environmental
      sources. This does not include elective diagnostic imaging sources. The radiation exposure of
      a DXA scan is ~0.005 mSv, about a tenth of that from a single chest x-ray (CXR). 19 By
      comparison a CT scan of the pelvis, chest or abdomen can expose the patient to 6.0 -10.0 mSv
      in one study (the equivalent of 2-3 years of environmental exposure in a single medical
      study). A CT scan of the head is ~2.0 mSv.20 A lumbar spine X-ray series is ~1.5 mSv and a
      single PA (posterior-anterior) chest X-ray (CXR) is ~0.06 mSv. The precept of As Low As
      Reasonably Achievable (ALARA) in order to minimize radiation exposure is easily honored in
      the case of DXA scanning due to the extremely low mSv exposures. The Biological Effects of
      Ionizing Radiation (BEIR) VII report and executive summary provide definitive recommendations
      regarding radiation exposure and cancer risk.

      DXA has been identified an accurate method of measuring BF%, with the additional benefit of
      also measuring lean body mass percentage (LBM%) and, of course, bone mineral density (BMD),
      as well. This is supported by numerous studies including BF% measured by DXA as the reference
      against their study variable of interest. Obesity has been defined for BF% by age categories,
      with classifications of low, mid, high, and obesity, where the bottom of the low range is the
      minimum of essential body fat. On the other hand, LBM% has not been extensively studied in
      correlation with obesity in adults, though contemporary work has been conducted to estimate
      LBM% in children and adolescents.

      As such, this study aims to address which body composition methods best correlate with CRF in
      firefighters. Investigators hypothesize that BF% will better correlate with CRF metrics than
      traditional (but technologically outdated) body composition methods, such as BMI or waist
      circumference (WC), and furthermore in conjunction with measurement of LBM%. Additionally,
      investigators hypothesize that these data, in conjunction with demographic, employment,
      physical activity, and medical history data, can comprise a simplified metric (a
      cardiorespiratory fitness score) to estimate firefighter CRF. In this context, a cost
      analysis of the evaluated surveillance methods will be generated.

      Cardiovascular risk has been evaluated in the context of CRF previously, but not specifically
      in terms of correlating VO2max and cardiovascular risk measures in firefighters. Most
      recently, Yang et al. reported significantly decreased cardiovascular risk in a firefighter
      population relative to increased number of push-ups performed.24 A well-accepted measure of
      cardiovascular risk in adults is the Framingham Risk Score, which estimates a percentage of
      cardiovascular disease risk over 10 years as a function of age, serum cholesterol measures,
      blood pressure, diabetes history, and smoking status; this tool is often considered the gold
      standard of evaluating 10-year cardiovascular disease risk.25 Studies have demonstrated an
      inverse association between CRF - in terms of VO2max or otherwise - and the Framingham Risk
      Score, in a variety of populations, including men, women, and diabetics.26-30 Notably, Gander
      et al. (2017) specifically discussed the added utility of correlating Framingham Risk with
      estimated cardiorespiratory fitness in an asymptomatic male population, which to some degree
      may mimic much of the firefighter population, wherein most are primarily male and
      asymptomatic.31 This study aims to add to the literature base demonstrating that higher
      cardiorespiratory fitness is correlated with lower cardiovascular risk, but uniquely in the
      context of the firefighter population. As cardiorespiratory fitness is a good measure of
      performance, the concurrent demonstration of decreased cardiovascular risk in a
      cost-effective way can add significant value to evaluation of firefighters, in whom these
      more elevated risks have been identified.

      Results of this analysis will provide pilot data and inform future work to assess whether
      providing more accurate data on body composition can lead to more effective reductions in
      cardiorespiratory risk in this population. This study has the additional benefit of creating
      the availability of DXA three-compartment (fat mass, lean mass, bone mineral content) body
      composition at our institution, where this study is not currently performed despite the
      required technology already being used for bone studies.
    
  