
    
      The overall objective is to develop the clinical utility of a panel of new and existing
      Eustachian Tube Function (ETF) tests with respect to diagnosing ET dysfunction and its cause,
      recommending specific targeted interventions to re-establish normal function and predicting
      the future course of diseases attributable to that dysfunction.

      In this Protocol, the investigators open their research center to the clinical evaluation of
      all physician or self-referred children and adults with suspected ET dysfunction (ETD)and/or
      diseases attributable to that dysfunction, perform a broad panel of ETF tests to diagnose the
      presence/absence and cause of the dysfunction and then collect from patient records
      information on the future disease course in those subjects to begin developing a
      comprehensive database relevant to clinical utility of the various tests. An adult control
      group consisting of healthy volunteers without a history of significant middle-ear disease
      will also be entered.

      ETF will be evaluated in this highly heterogeneous population using a pressure-chamber
      protocol (ET stress test), a panel of other tests as is relevant to the status of the
      tympanic membrane and, in older subjects (10 years and older, or younger if tolerated),
      endoscopic assessments of nasopharyngeal pathologies. The goal of this study is to define the
      least costly panel of test procedures that is sensitive, specific and accurate for the
      diagnosis of ETD, identification of the cause of the dysfunction if observed, prediction of
      the success rates for medical or surgical interventions (e.g. the newer ET surgical
      procedures, adenoidectomy, myringoplasty) and prediction of future disease course
      (probability of spontaneous resolution). These results will be interpreted in terms of
      whether or not ETF testing is of practical value to clinicians in their decision-making
      related to ETD, otitis media with effusion (OME) and chronic OME (COME) and if relatively
      portable, inexpensive test systems with the listed properties can be introduced into a
      typical physician's practice.

      All entered patients/subjects with a history of middle-ear disease will have an initial
      history taken with a focus on predisposing factors for ETD and OME (e.g. atopy, recent or
      frequent colds, gastroesophageal reflux disease, etc.) and on the symptoms and signs
      associated with the initial presentation of the condition. A standard clinical ear, nose and
      throat (ENT) examination with pneumatic otoscopy and tympanometry (if possible) will be done.
      Subjects with extant middle-ear (ME) effusion or otorrhea through a tube or with signs or
      symptoms of a cold or allergic rhinitis will not be tested, but may be studied at a later
      time upon resolution of the condition. Patients with no contraindications to the planned test
      panel will be triaged to one of the two standard ETF test panels used in our laboratory, 1)
      the Maneuver Sequence, sonotubometry, tubomanometry, the Forced-Response test, the
      Inflation-Deflation test and the ET stress test if presenting with a tympanic membrane
      perforation/ventilation tube, or 2) the Maneuver Sequence, sonotubometry, tubomanometry,
      9-step test and the the ET stress test if presenting with an intact tympanic membrane. The
      investigators begin with these tests because they capture a global assessment of ETF with
      respect to: the muscle-assisted ET opening efficiency which is a measure of ME
      pressure-regulation and the patency of the ET which is a measure of the protective function
      of the ET (patulous, semi-patulous, obstructed). For all subjects aged 10 years and older and
      any younger subject who is sufficiently cooperative, the investigators will perform
      nasoendoscopic evaluations of the nasopharynx and ET orifice at rest and during swallowing,
      speech and other maneuvers to determine if there is a detectable extrinsic cause of the ETD.
      A summary diagnosis of the presence/absence and the type and cause of the ETD (if any) will
      be prepared by the study physician, and, if a referred patient, submitted to the referring
      physician or, if self-presenting, to the subject's Primary Care Physician (PCP). Every 6
      months for 2 years, the subjects or their parents (if minors) will be contacted to update
      their medical history, and the subject's medical charts will be requested and reviewed once a
      year for 2 years to update the Center's database with respect to the subject's disease course
      and the outcome of any surgeries or treatments.

      The adult control subjects will undergo similar ET function testing as the affected group and
      nasoendoscopic evaluation. These will be repeated at one other test session at least 1 week
      after the first testing and there will be no further follow-up of these subjects.

      Using the control data from parallel studies, the control subjects in this protocol and the
      subjects' history with respect to ME complaints, the evaluations of ETF, the feedback from
      subjects and the review of medical records, the investigators expect to develop an algorithm
      that prescribes the specific test sequences that optimize the diagnosis of the type and cause
      of ETD and the treatment recommendations for a given patient presenting with a specific
      history and set of ETD signs and/or symptoms. The investigators also expect to establish,
      with reasonable certainty, whether or not the results of these tests are clinically useful to
      otolaryngologists and general practitioners in their decision-making with respect to
      prescribed treatments and/or surgical interventions for affected patients. For each test or
      panel of tests, the investigators will define their sensitivity, specificity and accuracy
      with respect to the various outcomes.
    
  