
    
      The recommended treatment for insomnia is CBTi. Recent research has proven that dark therapy,
      or blocking light in wavelengths <530 nm by the use of for example orange blue-blocking
      glasses (bb-glasses), has shown the ability to maintain melatonin production comparable to
      darkness and to have an additive effect in the treatment of insomnia. The investigators
      therefore also want to test bb-glasses as an additive treatment to CBTi for insomnia.

      The sleep-school at Bjørgvin District Psychiatric Hospital (DPS) is an already established
      treatment since 2017. The insomnia-group gets together every other Monday from noon until 2
      pm. The group is open, which means that participants start at different dates and meet people
      in the group that might be at the end of their CBTi treatment. Participants are patients at
      the general psychiatric outpatient clinic at Bjørgvin DPS. Participant have been referred to
      the sleep-team by their psychologist or doctor. In this RCT the investigators will carry on
      the same structure for the group for participants that are recruited to the RCT.

      All participants have an individual consultation before joining the group where the focus is
      on eligibility to participate in the group-based treatment, diagnostic evaluation, receive a
      standardized education on sleep-regulation and sleep hygiene advice and receive a date to
      start the group-based CBTi treatment. In a randomized manner, they will be allocated to the
      sleep-school group and start the treatment on the next possible date or to a 8 week wait-list
      and receive a date the treatment starts. All eligible participants will be informed that
      there may be a waitlist and receive a start-date without being informed that thay are in a
      waitlist group or not a waitlist group. All participants will be treated as usual (TAU) for
      their psychiatric problems parallel to either sleep-school or waitlist. Participants that
      start sleep-school as soon as possible, are also allocated to a) ordinary group-based CBTi 8
      weeks or b) group-based CBTi 8 weeks and bb-glasses. All participant will be followed up
      after 12 months.
    
  