
    
      Colorectal cancer is the second deadliest malignant tumor worldwide, and liver is the most
      common site of hematogenic metastasis of Colorectal cancer. Surgery is an effective treatment
      for colorectal cancer with liver metastasis, however, only 10%-20% of patients with liver
      metastasis are feasible for radical surgical resection.

      In the early 1990s, radiofrequency ablation (RFA) was first applied in the treatment of liver
      metastases. In the late 1990s and early 2000s, microwave ablation (MWA), irreversible
      electroporation (IRE) and other technologies emerged. Today, with the continuous improvement
      of ablation techniques, many single-center retrospective studies have demonstrated that
      thermal ablation for liver metastases is comparable to surgery. Currently, institutions have
      conducted multi-center randomized controlled trials to compare the outcomes of the two
      treatment approaches. The expert consensus of tumor ablation therapy has confirmed that the
      ablation technique has the advantages of minimally invasive, well tolerated and low
      complications, and has been widely used in the treatment of solid tumors. In the treatment of
      liver metastases, it also has the advantage of not being limited by residual liver volume.

      Postoperative tumor recurrence occurred in about 2/3 of the patients with liver stump, mainly
      due to the residual microscopic cancer foci. Chemotherapy can kill the microscopic cancer
      foci of the liver. EORTC (40983) confirmed that: compared with surgery alone, perioperative
      chemotherapy for resectable liver metastases (<4) could benefit patients with PFS and reduce
      the incidence of tumor progression-related events. EORTC (40004) proved that in the treatment
      of non-resectable liver metastases (1 ~ 10, with a maximum diameter <4cm), ablation combined
      with postoperative chemotherapy was superior to chemotherapy alone. E. Tanis et al compared
      two randomized controlled trials of EORTC for colorectal cancer liver metastasis, namely
      40983 (EPOC) and 40004 (CLOCC), and confirmed the treatment of liver metastasis (<3cm) after
      integration. There was no significant difference in local recurrence rate between the RFA+
      postoperative chemotherapy group and the surgery + perioperative chemotherapy group. At the
      beginning, neoadjuvant chemotherapy was designed to provide surgical resection opportunities
      for patients who could not be resected with metastatic tumor. Later, it was gradually applied
      to resectable liver metastasis. Studies on surgical combination with chemotherapy proved that
      preoperative chemotherapy was no less effective than postoperative chemotherapy for
      resectable liver metastasis. However, for isolated small metastatic tumors (<3cm), complete
      tumor response after neoadjuvant chemotherapy should be avoided, leading to the dilemma of
      inoperable. Studies have reported that ablation combined with preoperative chemotherapy can
      cause hepatic steatosis and tumor shrinkage, which makes tumor visualization difficult to a
      certain extent. If the tumor disappeared on imaging, the pathological specimen confirmed that
      there were still residues, and the tumor could "reappear" during follow-up. Therefore, the
      timing of ablation-related chemotherapeutic administration still needs to be explained, and
      there is still a lack of high-quality evidence-based medical evidence at home and abroad.

      The purpose of this study was to compare the clinical efficacy of thermal ablation or
      combined with perioperative chemotherapy and postoperative chemotherapy in the treatment of
      colon cancer with liver metastasis.
    
  