
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) of elderly patients with metastatic
      colorectal carcinoma who are randomized to receive fluoropyrimidine (fluorouracil)-based
      therapy plus bevacizumab, with or without oxaliplatin.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. In a prospectively planned pooled analysis with a similar trial to be conducted by the
      Japanese Clinical Oncology Group (JCOG), evaluate and compare the overall survival (OS) of
      elderly patients with metastatic colorectal carcinoma who are randomized to receive
      fluoropyrimidine-based therapy plus bevacizumab, with or without oxaliplatin.

      II. To assess and compare response rates and adverse events of elderly patients with
      metastatic colorectal carcinoma randomized to receive fluoropyrimidine-based therapy plus
      bevacizumab, with or without oxaliplatin.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms and assigned to treatment groups
      based on physician decision for fluoropyrimidine.

      ARM A: Patients receive either 5FU/LV or Capecitabine, plus BEV. 5FU/LV + BEV is comprised of
      5FU IV over 46-48 hours, LV calcium IV over 2 hours, and BEV IV over 10-90 minutes on day 1.
      Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Capecitabine + BEV is comprised of capecitabine PO BID on days 1-14 and BEV IV over 30-90
      minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive either mFOLFOX7 plus BEV, or Capecitabine + OXAL (XELOX) plus BEV.
      mFOLFOX7 + BEV is comprised of OXAL IV over 2 hours, LV calcium IV over 2 hours, and 5FU IV
      over 46-48 hours on day 1. Patients also receive BEV IV over 10-90 minutes on day 1. Courses
      repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. XELOX +
      BEV is comprised of OXAL IV over 2 hours on day 1 and capecitabine PO BID on days 1-14.
      Patients also receive BEV IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 5 years.
    
  