
    
      Exercise based computer games can facilitate high volume complex task practice, enhance
      feedback of movement and increase motivation of participants. Those effects are difficult to
      achieve with standard rehabilitation therapy. The Kinect system is a camera-based controller
      which a player can use to directly control a game through body movement without the need for
      handheld controllers. Using Kinect to capture movement is a feasible way to help patients who
      have difficulties to hold controllers to play exergames. Scratch 2.0 is a programming
      language for kids from the MIT Media Laboratory. It is easy to use for game designing.
      Kinect2Scratch allows data from the Microsoft Kinect controller to be sent to Scratch, This
      means that game programs can be designed with motion control. The aims of this study were to
      i) develop exergames by using Scratch and Kinect system for training upper extremity function
      in patient with stroke; and ii) to test the game's feasibility and effects in a group of
      patient with chronic stroke.

      This program will be done within two years. During the first year, investigators will design
      several exergames which are suitable for training upper extremity function in patient with
      stroke. Investigators will have several experts meetings, involved by physiatrists,
      occupational therapists and engineers to design the game. When a prototype game is created,
      investigators will invite two to four patients with stroke to pilot test the game. The game
      design will be completed till patients and therapists satisfy the design.

      During the 2nd year, investigators will test the feasibility and effects of the exergames by
      doing a pilot randomized control trial. Investigators will recruit 60 patients with chronic
      stroke who are admitted to a rehabilitation ward for outpatient rehabilitation, and will
      randomize participants to experiment or control group. All participants will receive PT and
      OT training as routine. The additional intervention either exergames or conventional OT will
      be delivered for 8 weeks with 3 training sessions/week of up to 30 minutes.
    
  