
    
      Objective. Chronic nicotine exposure is thought to lead to alterations in the dopamine (DA)
      system that leaves smokers in a hypo-dopaminergic state during periods of abstinence.
      Varenicline (Chantix), a new efficacious smoking cessation medication, is thought to lead to
      a modest but sustained increase of DA release thereby reducing nicotine craving and
      withdrawal. While numerous studies have shown that varenicline is a safe, well-tolerated, and
      effective pharmacological treatment for nicotine dependence, studies exploring the
      neurophysiological impact of this drug in the human brain have not been conducted. This
      protocol will utilize an array of reward processing and cognitive control tasks to explore
      the effects of subtle DA manipulations (induced by smoking cessation, transdermal nicotine,
      and varenicline) on brain function and behavioral performance. Brain function will be
      assessed using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and electroencephalography (EEG).

      Study Population. There will be two study populations: 1) healthy nicotine-dependent adults
      who smoke 10 or more cigarettes per day; and 2) healthy non-smoking, non-drug dependent
      controls. Participants must be generally healthy, right-handed, male or
      non-pregnant/non-lactating females between the ages of 18-55.

      Design. After being medically cleared and giving informed consent, each participant will
      complete several imaging visits (6 visits, on separate days) before and after taking
      varenicline. Two of these visits will take place before varenicline administration
      (baseline), two visits after a two-week varenicline dosing period (post-varenicline), and
      another two after a two-week placebo-pill period (post-placebo-pill). Each set of two scans
      will involve the randomized, double blind administration of a nicotine transdermal or placebo
      patch. fMRI and EEG data will be collected after patch application and will involve several
      tasks designed to probe brain regions in a corticolimbic circuit that may mediate aspects of
      reward-processing, learning, attention, goal-directed behaviors, and drug abuse.

      Outcome Measures. This study involves assessing neurophysiological and behavior differences
      between cohorts (smokers vs. non-smokers) and conditions (nicotine vs. placebo-patch;
      baseline vs. varenicline vs. placebo-pill). The primary outcome measures used to ascertain
      these differences will be: 1) percentage change in fMRI BOLD signal during performance of
      cognitive control and reward processing tasks; 2) change in ERP component (e.g.,
      error-related negativity) amplitudes; 3) behavioral measures during task performance
      including reaction times and error rates; 4) scores on mood, personality, and smoking
      questionnaires; and 5) variations in genes related to nicotinic receptors and DA functioning.
    
  