
    
      Study proposal aims to look into treatment of hypertension (HT) and its complications of the
      exact high healthcare costs. In 2004, Singapore adult prevalence of hypertension was 20.1%.
      World Health Organization estimates that HT causes 4.5% of global disease burden, and that
      62% of cerebrovascular disease and 49% of ischemic heart disease are attributable to
      suboptimal blood pressure (BP) control.

      Recently, scrutiny has been focused on appropriate BP levels at which to initiate HT
      treatment with the benefit of strict BP targets in otherwise uncomplicated HT is questioned,
      as HT drug treatment is not without risks. This underscores the need to stratify hypertension
      patients according to target organ damage, so that affected HT patients may be selected for
      intensive BP lowering.

      Hypertensive heart disease (HHD) is a heart condition that is caused by chronic exposure to
      high BP. As population ages, both HT and Hypertensive Heart Disease prevalence increase.
      Genetic and hemodynamic factors interact to cause Hypertensive Heart Disease in patients with
      hypertension. In patients with Hypertensive Heart Disease , abnormalities of both myocardial
      relaxation and passive filling may be detected sometimes on echocardiography (echo). These
      diastolic dysfunctions are due to various mechanisms but central to the pathophysiology is an
      increase in myocardial stiffness. Early symptoms of myocardial stiffness caused by left
      ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is a good early indicator for cardiovascular target organ
      damage in patients with HT and Hypertensive Heart Disease . Hypertensive Heart Disease
      patients constitute a group in which intensive BP treatment with drugs to strict targets are
      shown to yield favourable benefit risk ratios. As such, the identification of Hypertensive
      Heart Disease patients becomes paramount.

      An electrocardiogram (ECG) monitors and records the heart's electrical activity. ECG is
      insensitive to detect diastolic dysfunction with sensitivity from 12% to 50%. An echo takes a
      picture of the heart using ultrasound. Echo can be used to diagnose diastolic function,
      however, no one single echo parameter can make the diagnosis. Multiple echo parameters have
      been proposed including mitral inflow velocity pattern, pulmonary vein flow patterns and
      tissue Doppler measurements, but imprecise. Existing ultrasound scans cost in the range of
      US$300-$600 which are reimbursable under Medicaid (the payer). A coronary angiography
      examines the flow of blood through the heart by inserting a catheter into the heart. It is
      too invasive and too costly. Therefore, there is appealing need to have a cheaper
      non-invasive solution that would be able to detect diastolic function. That will have largest
      impact on patients management and on payers.

      A cheap, non-invasive and sensitive solution that permits detection via auscultation of
      abnormal heart sounds, indicating stiff heart muscle associated with Hypertensive Heart
      Disease among HT patients is critically needed. Cardiac auscultation (listening to heart
      sounds) is possible option as heart sounds are associated with myocardial function and
      dysfunction .In a normal heart, two heart sounds (S1 and S2) are audible, corresponding to
      closure of the mitral and aortic heart valves respectively. A third heart sound S3, occurring
      after S2 is present in some heart failure. A fourth heart sound S4, occurring just before S1,
      is due to forceful contraction of the atrium to overcome a stiff or hypertrophic left
      ventricle . Human ears are not well equipped to detect such abnormities consistently with a
      conventional stethoscope. Therefore, investigators propose to develop a low power,
      non-invasive, portable device which is based on Wireless Sensor Node (WSN) technology to
      achieve our goal of portable auscultation.Proposed device will allow a monitoring/recording
      of heart sounds in-situ and perform preliminary assessment of diastolic function that is
      physiologically meaningful, reproducible and validated. Multiple devices can also be placed
      and used concurrently at different sites over the torso to enhance chances of detecting
      abnormal heart sounds.
    
  