
    
      The goal of the study described herein is to determine the safety, tolerability, preliminary
      and long-term effectiveness of the use of the Recell device over a widened STSG mesh. It is
      hypothesized the ReCell cell suspension, in combination with INTEGRA™ MBWM, will improve upon
      the current standard of care. The potential for ReCell's promotion of healing in the
      interstices of the STSG mesh may close gaps that are potential points of failure during
      subsequent rehabilitation and return to physical activity. Within the current study, each
      participant will serve as his/her own control, allowing for comparison of ReCell treated
      (experimental) and non-ReCell treated (control) regions of the grafted wound. In the proposed
      study, each patient will serve as his/her own control. Due to the nature of the study, only
      patients whose wounds have been previously successfully treated with INTEGRA™ MBWM as part of
      their standard of care will qualify for participation.

      Therefore, as part of enrollment eligibility criteria for this study, the identified study
      wound will first be treated with INTEGRA™ MBWM. The wound will then be allowed to heal for
      approximately two to four weeks, at which time a viable granulation layer will have developed
      thus allowing for next stage STSG grafting. The timing of the STSG application will be
      determined by clinician judgment based on the state of the granulation process, which varies
      between patients, but typically takes 2 to 4 weeks.

      Approximately two to four weeks after INTEGRA™ MBWM treatment, the studied wound will be
      divided into a ReCell-treated area (over 1:5 meshed STSG) and a control area treated with
      1:1.5 meshed STSG (no ReCell). In all cases, the ReCell region may be up to 320cm2 in size;
      the upper limit of application area for one ReCell kit, with a similarly sized control
      region. If the wound is larger than the combined ReCell and control regions (over 640cm2),
      the areas outside the study regions will be designated as non-study areas and treated
      according to standard of care. The same primary and secondary dressings will be used on
      ReCell-treated areas, control areas and donor sites. Once the study and control wounds are
      determined to have healed, standard local clinical practice will be followed.

      Within-subject comparisons of the ReCell region and control region, in order to evaluate
      improvements associated with use of ReCell, a battery of measurements and evaluations will be
      made. These measurements are divided into three categories: safety and tolerability,
      preliminary effectiveness (acute healing process) and long-term effectiveness.

      The safety of research participants is foremost. Therefore, efforts will be made to control
      risks to participants throughout the duration of their study participation. Wound healing
      time, donor site morbidity and histology will be assessed during an acute 6 week phase, with
      follow-up visits at Weeks 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 post-treatment.

      Subjects will continue in the study for long-term follow-up with clinic visits at Week 12 and
      24 post-treatment. Healing of treated wound sites (A region and B region) and donor sites
      (STSG 1:5, STSG 1:1.5 and ReCell) will be assessed at each visit. Treated wounds will be
      considered healed when 95% or greater of the study area has re-epithelialized by Week 6
      post-treatment. Donor sites will be considered healed when ≥95% of the donor site has
      re-epithelialized by Week 4 post-treatment. Aesthetic and functional outcomes of the treated
      areas will be assessed and documented. Subject satisfaction will also be assessed and
      documented at these two time points.
    
  