
    
      Background

      Previous research on infectious disease outbreaks found substantial mental health impact
      among cases placed under isolation or quarantine, among those working in the various
      healthcare systems managing the outbreaks, and in the general population. Mental disorders
      expected to rise during and after viral outbreaks include anxiety disorders, especially
      post-traumatic stress disorder, as well as depression, and suicidality.

      Justification

      The magnitude of the ongoing 2019 novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic points to the
      urgent need to quantify mental health impact of the outbreak. Epidemiological research
      enables rapid health needs assessment to benchmark and monitor the ongoing onset and
      persistence of adverse mental health outcomes in the population, and to provide situational
      awareness, i.e., essential information to understand current and midterm mental healthcare
      needs, plan adequate responses, and allocate appropriate resources. The project is part of an
      ongoing international effort to collect cross-nationally comparable data on the mental health
      impact of the COVID-19 pandemic (World Mental Health Surveys).

      Hypotheses:

        1. Adverse mental health outcomes, such as symptoms of depression and anxiety(1),
           post-traumatic stress disorder, and suicide, will increase from the onset of the
           COVID-19 outbreak, compared to the previous mental health status. The most pronounced
           increase will be in vulnerable groups, i.e., among recently isolated or quarantined
           individuals and healthcare workers.

        2. Working as healthcare worker, having been quarantined, having family members dead by
           COVID19 will be some of the substantial risk factors to develop sub-sequent high levels
           of adverse mental health. Also, some preoutbreak individual characteristics will be
           predictors of the mental and psychological health impact, such as the level of formal
           education or having a history of psychiatric illness.

        3. A substantial part of the participants would require mental health services and some
           type of psychological support. Most of the subjects reporting symptoms will not be using
           the already available resources.

      OBJECTIVES

      The primary objectives of the proposed project are to:

        1. assess the mental and psychological health impact of the COVID-19 outbreak among cases
           or close contacts recently isolated or quarantined, healthcare workers and the general
           population

        2. identify risk and protective factors for adverse mental health onset and persistence;

        3. quantify the use of available mental health resources;

        4. quantify and characterize unmet mental healthcare needs. These objectives will be
           achieved both at the short-term (onset and bi-weekly surveys) and the medium term (6
           months).

      The secondary objectives of the proposed project are to:

        1. assess the potential benefits of using available mental health resources;

        2. provide a reference point (benchmark) and evolution over time for future long-term
           research on COVID-19 related mental and psychological health impact in the population.

      Study population and recruitment

      Three separate population groups will be assessed: (1) recently isolated or quarantined
      COVID-19 cases and close contacts; (2) healthcare workers, including medical personnel
      directly and indirectly involved with patients as well as other personnel (e.g.
      administrative workers) and (3) a representative sample of the general adult population
      (including those tele-working and working outside of home).

      Even though the terms quarantine and isolation are often used interchangeably, here we
      differentiate them following Brooks et al. According to this, Quarantine is the separation
      and restriction of movement of people who have potentially been exposed to a contagious
      disease to ascertain if they become unwell, so reducing the risk of them infecting others,
      and Isolation is the separation of people who have been diagnosed with a contagious disease
      from people who are not sick. Finally, we use the term confinement to define the situation of
      the population in Spain who, in order to prevent further spread of the virus, has been
      restricted to stay at home, and is only allowed to get out for specific tasks that need to be
      justified.

      Calculation and justification of the sample size

      General population: a fixed sample size of n= 3,500 ensures a two-sided 95%CI of 0.025 for a
      sample proportion of 0.20. Health professionals: up to 85,000 professionals work in the
      participating institutions (30,000 at primary health care centers, 55,000 at hospitals).
      Assuming a 15% participation rate, we expect a sample size of >10,000. COVID-19 cases: Given
      high numbers of (hospitalized) cases in Barcelona and Community of Madrid (the main
      recruitment areas) and the population coverage of the participating institutions, we expect
      to recruit n=2,000 cases and close contacts. Within each population subgroup, a sample of at
      least 2,000 individuals achieves power > 0.80, with alpha=0.05, to detect an odds ratio of
      1.6 on a binary independent variable (of which 30% are in the group X=1) from a multivariable
      logistic regression (with R2 < 0.3 between X and remaining independent variables). An overall
      sample of 16,000 achieves power > 0.90 to detect an odds ratio of 1.2 under the same
      conditions.

      Study methodology/Procedures

      Adult population groups 1 (cases and close contacts) and 2 (healthcare workers) will be
      assessed at baseline using web-based self-report surveys (with response time ~15 minutes)
      including both common and specific modules (specific for groups 1 & 2). People with
      unavoidable limitations to answer the webbased questionnaire will also be eligible to
      participate in the study. In this case, the interview will be conducted by telephone. The
      telephone interview will be carried out from the same center or may be outsourced, subject to
      the patient's consent to share his/her contact details. Additionally, upon completion of the
      baseline survey, group 1 (cases and close contacts) and group 2 (healthcare workers) will be
      invited to respond very brief bi-weekly surveys (response time 3 - 5 minutes) on a maximum of
      4 occasions to prospectively assess adverse mental health and the use of available resources
      to counter mental health impact. General population participants will be assessed through
      telephone interviews. All baseline participants of the 3 adult population groups will be
      assessed at 6 months follow-up using web-based self-report surveys or telephone interviews
      similar to their baseline assessment. At follow-up, groups 1 and 2 will also receive more
      extensive clinical screeners that allow to accurately assess common psychiatric disorders.

      Analyses

      The data will be pseudo-anonymized through encrypted identifiers, separating the personal
      information from the rest of the study data, to guarantee privacy and ensure the anonymized
      treatment of the data in the analysis.

      Descriptive statistics of mental health status, mental health service use, and use of
      available resources at baseline and 6-month follow-up, and bivariate associations of these
      outcomes with potential risk and protective factors are estimated, stratified by population
      groups.

      Bi-weekly brief survey data will be analyzed using time-lagged multilevel models and network
      analysis to estimate the associations of short-term dynamic risk and protective factors with
      mental health status and use of resources.

      Multivariable generalized linear models will be used to identify baseline risk and protective
      factors for onset and persistence/deterioration of adverse mental health outcomes at
      follow-up. Potential benefits of use of available resources on preventing onset or
      persistence of adverse mental health outcomes will be analyzed using propensity scores
      methods to address the lack of baseline randomization and likely imbalance between treatment
      groups (natural experiment research design). All analyses will adjust for time-of-survey.

      Multiple imputation methods will be used to deal with missing values.

      LIMITATIONS AND RISK AND CONTINGENCY PLANS

      The established network of collaborators we already have in place guarantees adequate
      recruitment of otherwise hard-to-reach groups 1 and 2 (cases and close contacts, healthcare
      workers). The lack of randomized sampling of surveillance agencies and healthcare facilities
      may affect representativeness of findings; this limitation will be countered by statistical
      weighting techniques based on all information available a posteriori in centralized national
      case register and healthcare facility data. Response rates will be maximized by repeated
      invitations and reminders.

      ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS AND CONFIDENTIALITY

      The study is in line with the principles established by national and international
      regulations, including the Declaration of Helsinki (64th WMA General Assembly, Fortaleza,
      Brasil, Oct 2013) and the Code of Ethics. The project will start upon approval by the
      independent PSMAR Clinical Research Ethics Committee (PSMAR-CEIm). Recruitment in
      collaborating institutions will be initiated only after project approval by its corresponding
      ethics committee, whenever additional approval is required.

      All personal data will be handled following Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European
      Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016, and the national Organic Law 3/2018, of
      December 5. All participants will provide explicit informed consent. When participants access
      the link to the online questionnaire platform, the participant's information form specific
      for the subpopulation they belong to will appear in the first screen, which will be written
      in understandable language, and will describe in clear language the aims, methods, and
      implications of the research. At the end of the information about the study, the different
      points of the informed consent will be presented in the form of check options that will have
      to be clicked. Access to the questionnaire will only be allowed if all check options have
      been activated.

      The answers to the different consent questions will be stored in the database, together with
      the other responses, and may be used as evidence that the participant did, indeed, consent.
      Exemption from obtaining a signed informed consent has been requested, given the
      observational, online data collection nature of the study and given the fact that, to be able
      to access the questionnaire, respondents will have to actively check all consent questions

      The Qualtrics survey platform (web-based surveys; qualtrics.com) will be used for data
      collection in subpopulations of cases and close contacts (1) and healthcare center workers
      (2). This platform has three of the most important security certifications: FedRAMP, ISO
      27001 and HITRUST Common Security Framework (CSF), to meet the security requirements of the
      most regulated industries and organizations and those of the RGPD (European General Data
      Protection Regulation). In addition, the platform has additional technology that allows the
      user to also comply with this regulation (GDPR OneTouch Data Deletion). The data collected
      through the platform is stored in servers located in the EU. All data stored in the EU data
      center is encrypted via the AES256 cypher standard. All data transmitted to the Qualtrics
      platform is encrypted via the industry standard protocol TLS 1.2 and higher. The only
      personal information that will be requested to participants in the study are contact details
      with the solely objective to be able to invite participants to the follow up surveys and to
      send reminders within the framework of the project. This personal data will be collected
      within the questionnaire, once the participant has given his or her consent to participate in
      the study. The data will be pseudo-anonymized and neither the study investigators nor the
      persons in charge of the analysis will have access to the personal data. Only the data
      manager designated for the study will be able to relate the personal data of the participants
      to the questionnaire responses. All data will be collected in a research file under the
      responsibility of the institution, will be considered confidential and will only be used by
      researchers for the purposes of the project. A Data Protection Officer involved in all stages
      of data processing has been appointed, DPO: protecciodedades@imim.es).

      With regard to the Adult General Population sample (subpopulation 3), the external company
      IPSOS survey company (web-based surveys; ipsos.com), will be in charge of selecting the
      sample, inviting participants to the study and carrying out the interviews. A verbal informed
      consent to participate will be obtained: at the beginning of the contact call, a presentation
      text with information on the study will be read, and explicit consent will be asked to the
      participant to respond a questionnaire in two different occasions, baseline and after 6
      months. This part of the call where explicit informed consent is requested will be recorded
      and stored. . At the end of the 6-month follow-up interview, participants will be asked again
      for verbal recorded consent asking permission for the company to provide contact details of
      the participant to the study investigators, so that investigators can recontact them for
      eventual subsequent follow up assessments of the study. IPSOS will ensure that personal data
      of the participants will be treated with the maximum confidentiality measures according to
      the current regulations in force (Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of
      the Council of 27 April 2016, and the national Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5), and that
      personal data will be exclusively used within the framework of this study. IPSOS data
      protection policy is detailed in the following link:
      https://www.ipsos.com/sites/default/files/201804/Global_Data_Protection_and_Privacy_Policy.pd
      f.

      A specific survey platform developed by IPSOS will be used in this group. IPSOS complies with
      all relevant regulations for the industry, including the new EU directive: GDPR, but also
      with the ethical, privacy and anti-spam precepts recommended by European Society for Opinion
      and Marketing Research (ESOMAR). The extensive privacy policy is displayed during the
      registration process and must be accepted by all the panelists. To this end, Ipsos applies
      strict data protection and security protocols for both client and respondent data. Physical
      security measures include strict control of access to data centers, firewalls, antivirus
      procedures, data retention/destruction policies, or disaster recovery plans.

      Given the observational approach of the study, without therapeutic intervention, it is
      considered that it will pose minimum risk to the respondents. Participants with psychological
      distress will be provided with a list of effective care resources at the end of the
      questionnaire, including coordinates to nearby emergency care in case of suicidal symptoms.
    
  