
    
      Decades of research have demonstrated that behavioral obesity treatments can produce
      clinically significant weight losses that improve health and disease risk/severity. However,
      these treatments have not been disseminated widely due to high costs and lack of qualified
      providers. The investigators therefore aim to develop and test a fully automated online
      obesity treatment that would produce clinically significant weight losses (i.e., ≥ 5 % of
      initial body weight) when delivered online. In order to maximize the public health impact of
      online obesity treatment, and advance the science of online behavioral intervention in
      general, it is imperative to evaluate innovative behavioral intervention components with the
      potential to optimize weight loss outcomes. Because digital health technology evolves
      rapidly, this research will use the Multiphase Optimization Strategy (MOST) framework to most
      quickly and efficiently determine which, if any, of 5 innovative intervention components,
      alone or in combination, increases the proportion of patients achieving a ≥5% weight loss,
      and mean weight loss, of the online Rx Weight loss (RxWL) program at 12- months. The 5
      intervention components to be tested are: (a) Web-based virtual reality intervention for
      training in basic behavioral weight loss skills; tailored interactive intervention targeting
      (b) structured physical activity and (c) dysregulated eating; (d) a platform for social
      interaction including opportunities for friendly competition, and (e) interactive video
      feedback with content tailored to the unique needs of each participant and a focus on dietary
      skills. A sample of 384 individuals with BMI ≥ 25 will be randomized to receive RxWL and 0-5
      of the experimental intervention components in a full factorial experiment. This design will
      allow the investigators to determine which intervention components maximize weight loss and
      whether there are favorable combinations of components. In addition, by evaluating the
      effects of each component on proximal outcomes (i.e., mediators) it will be possible learn
      not only which components are (or are not) effective but also why or how they exert their
      effects. This project advances the science of behavioral obesity treatment, and will directly
      impact the care of patients receiving RxWL.
    
  