
    
      -  This research study is a Phase I clinical trial, which tests the safety of an
           investigational drug and tries to define the appropriate dose and schedule of the
           investigational drug to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the drug
           is being studied.

        -  There are two parts to this research study:

             -  Part 1 is to determine a safe dose of the study drug, Venetoclax, when given in
                combination with a standard chemotherapy and Part 2 is to determine the safety of
                post-transplant maintenance therapy with the combination of azacytidine and
                venetoclax. Participants enrolled in Part 1 of this study, will receive Venetoclax
                in combination with conditioning chemotherapy (prior to transplantation).

             -  Participants enrolled in Part 2 of the study, will also receive Venetoclax in
                combination with conditioning chemotherapy (prior to transplantation) and will have
                the opportunity to receive maintenance chemotherapy (after transplantation) for
                potentially a year.

        -  Both Part 1 and Part 2 of this research study will have a Dose-Escalation phase. The
           Dose-Escalation phase is the part of the study where treatment dose and schedule are
           being tested.

             -  In Part 1, the Dose-Escalation phase is when venetoclax will be given at different
                doses until the safest maximum dose has been identified. Part 1 also includes a
                second phase of the study which is called the Dose-Expansion phase, during which
                more participants will be treated at this dose level to obtain additional
                information on safety.

             -  In Part 2, the Dose-Escalation phase is where the combination of venetoclax and
                azacitidine will be given after transplantation at different schedules.

             -  For both the Dose-Escalation or Dose-Expansion phase of this study, there will be a
                screening period, a pre-transplant period, a transplant period, and a
                post-transplant follow up period.

        -  In this research study, participants will receive venetoclax plus chemotherapy.
           Participants in Part 1 and Part 2 of this study will receive chemotherapy immediately
           prior to transplantation, which is called the "conditioning regimen." The conditioning
           regimen chemotherapy will suppress the immune system and may help to destroy cancer
           cells. During this process normal bone marrow cells are destroyed as well, thus making
           way for donor stem cells.

             -  Fludarabine and busulfan (FluBu2) are both chemotherapies and a common conditioning
                regimen.

             -  In this study, Venetoclax is added to the conditioning regimen (FluBu2) prior to
                transplantation to eliminate leftover blood cancer cells prior to transplant.

             -  Participants in Part 2 of the study will also have the opportunity to receive
                venetoclax plus azacitidine after transplantation. The combination of these two
                drugs is called "maintenance therapy," which is treatment given after transplant to
                potentially reduce the chance of disease relapse. Relapse is a cause of transplant
                failure and can occur when there are leftover blood cancer cells.

        -  The FDA (U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved Venetoclax in combination with
           cytarabine, azacitidine or decitabine for the treatment of newly diagnosed acute myeloid
           leukemia, but not for use in with conditioning chemotherapy prior to transplantation or
           after transplant with maintenance chemotherapy. Venetoclax is an oral drug that
           selectively inhibits Bcl-2, which is critical for keeping cancer cells alive.
    
  