
    
      The proposed research study focuses on BMSM who have not received HIV testing in over a year,
      or who test irregularly, and implement an innovative, culturally-informed, peer-based, and
      client-centered approach that is designed to increase their awareness of their HIV status and
      their timely entry into prevention, care, and treatment services. On 9/21/2016, the protocol
      was changed to focus on those who have not used PrEP in the prior six months.

      The research design compares the effect of an incentives-only approach to one that uses
      incentives, along with the involvement of peer mentors to support timely entry into
      prevention, testing, care and treatment. This phase of the study is designed to assess
      peer-supported intervention group versus a passport/incentive-only control group over an
      18-month period using a randomized trial approach.

      The Specific Aims of the full intervention phase are:

      2 (Modified). To assess the effectiveness of a peer-supported, incentivized, and
      client-centered approach (PtW) compared to a non-peer supported, incentivized, and
      client-centered approach (Control) for linking at-risk BMSM to biomedical (PEP, STD testing),
      structural or behavioral services that support HIV prevention and care.

      2a. Hypothesis: the peer-supported model (PtW) will lead to more frequent and earlier
      linkages to services than the non-peer supported model (Control).

      2b. Hypothesis: the peer-supported model (PtW) will lead to greater reductions in HIV risk
      behaviors than the non-peer-supported model (Control).

      3 (NEW). To assess the effectiveness of a peer-supported, incentivized, and client-centered
      approach (PtW) compared to a non-peer supported, incentivized, and client-centered approach
      (Control) for linking at-risk BMSM to PrEP services.

      3a. Hypothesis: the peer-supported model (PtW) will lead to more frequent receipt of PrEP
      education and consultations than the non-peer-supported model (Control) 3b. Hypothesis: the
      peer-supported model (PtW) will lead to more frequent uptake of PrEP (defined as taking PrEP
      at six month follow-up) than the non-peer-supported model (Control).
    
  