
    
      On June 30 2017, Minneapolis became the 40th local jurisdiction to set the minimum wage above
      the state level, following a succession of other cities and counties across the U.S that have
      passed similar ordinances since 2012. The city of Minneapolis will incrementally increase the
      minimum wage from $9.50 to $15 by July 1, 2022 for all businesses with greater than 100
      employees; minimum wage in smaller businesses will increase from $7.75 to $13.50 during this
      same time period. The ordinance specifically states that its purpose is to "maintain worker's
      health, efficacy, and general well-being." A report by members of the study team at the
      Humphrey School of Public Affairs at University of Minnesota estimates that the ordinance
      would increase wages by an average of 22% for the 71,000 city workers making minimum wage or
      just above minimum wage; moreover, it would affect 41% of non-Hispanic black workers and 54%
      of Hispanic workers, compared with 17% of white workers. The report also projects a
      post-policy decrease in food insecurity of 3.8 percentage points and an increase in food
      expenditures of $26 per week among affected workers.

      The available evidence suggests that minimum wage laws may be associated with a range of
      health outcomes, including obesity. Obesity affects 36.5% of Americans, and is
      disproportionately high among non-Hispanic blacks and Hispanics. A study by Meltzer and Chen
      (2009) estimated that 10% of the increase in body mass in the U.S. since 1970 can be
      explained through the diminished value of minimum wages by inflation, while Kim & Leigh
      (2010) used instrumental variables to demonstrate that low wages increase the risk of
      obesity. Mechanisms through which increasing the minimum wage could reduce obesity include
      improving food security and reducing cost constraints for purchasing healthier foods.
      However, existing studies linking wages and weight have design weaknesses that limit causal
      inference and the ability to identify causal mechanisms. A prospective study with a strong
      counterfactual condition is needed to test whether and how an increase in minimum wage
      results in improved obesity-related outcomes among low-wage workers.

      Throughout the 4.5-year implementation period of the Minneapolis minimum wage ordinance
      (January 1, 2018-July 1, 2022), the team will follow a cohort of low-wage workers in a
      natural experiment, using a difference-in-difference design to compare a panel of
      obesity-related measures among low-wage workers (those earning ≤$10 an hour at baseline) in
      Minneapolis (n = 400) with low-wage workers in a comparison city with no minimum wage
      increase (Raleigh, North Carolina, n = 400).
    
  