
    
      Amyloidosis is a systemic disease that is usually a result of misfolded proteins in the form
      of amorphous fibrillar material in various tissues and can cause progressive dysfunction of
      the same. The prevalence of amyloidosis varies depending on the population concerned and the
      type of amyloid. While prevalence in the general population is unknown, according to
      estimates by the Mayo Clinic this prevalence is 1 in 90 666% in the U.S. In England this
      disease generated about 0.0084% (1367 / 16232579) of all hospital visits between April 2008
      and April 2009.

      The most common clinical manifestations include cardiac disease, renal and liver function,
      but it may vary widely depending on the type of amyloidosis, the organ infected and extent of
      the deposits. Amyloid infiltration can produce signs and symptoms that may be very similar to
      other rheumatic diseases. This may suggest potential clinical polymorphic underdiagnosis due
      to low clinical suspicion.

      The registries are organized systems of systematic data collection of a large number of
      patients quickly and efficiently on a particular disease at a given time.

      The main difficulty of the registries is the guarantee of the quality of their data.

      The main objectives of the registry are:

        1. Understand risk factors and prognosis.

        2. Evaluate the diagnostic and therapeutic comparison with current standards.

        3. Advance knowledge of the disease to optimize the assessment, treatment and monitoring of
           patients.

        4. Analyze the effectiveness of new therapies.

        5. Studying differences between populations.

        6. Quickly estimate the morbidity, mortality and resource utilization associated with a
           disease entity.

        7. Examine the course of a disease

        8. Formulate novel hypotheses for further prospective studies. Currently, there are
           registries for patients with transthyretin amyloidosis (TAHOS), global registry of
           transplant patients with familial amyloid poly neuropathy. Also, there are indirect
           registries such as the kidney transplant, heart transplant, among others.

      The investigators found no data on the prevalence or incidence, evolution and prognosis of
      amyloidosis in our country. There are no existing records of national Amyloidosis in Latin
      America that could describe the behavior of this disease in our environment. Because it is a
      chronic disease with amyloid infiltration and can produce signs and symptoms that may be very
      similar to other rheumatic diseases, this clinic potentially poliform, may suggest
      underestimation of low clinical suspicion. As there is no cure, some patients may persist
      symptomatic despite adequate therapy, that is why it is important the creation of a
      monitoring system to generate data on the evolution and prognosis. The data registries can be
      used to develop new treatment guidelines and recommendations, also to inform and educate
      physicians on the management of this disease.

      The Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires is a center of high complexity of derivation of this
      type of pathology and due to the fact that the hospital, that has a private health insurance
      system (HIBA's health plan [plan de salud, PS], gives the unique opportunity denominators for
      the generation of a population on their affiliates, therefore the investigators propose to
      make a Institutional Registry of Amyloidosis.
    
  