
    
      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of subcutaneous infiltration
      of tranexamic acid (TXA) in the reduction of peri- and post-operative complications including
      bleeding, infections, flap and graft loss in anticoagulated patients undergoing Mohs
      micrographic surgery. A secondary objective is to evaluate the ability of TXA to increase the
      pH of lidocaine with epinephrine, and whether it causes less pain than the alternative during
      injection of local anesthetic.

      TXA may serve as an effective local antifibrinolytic agent to decrease perioperative and
      postoperative bleeding while also causing less injection pain in patients undergoing Mohs
      surgery.

      Background:

      TXA is a well-established antifibrinolytic agent used in many surgical fields to effectively
      reduce post-operative bleeding. TXA is a synthetic lysine analogue that prevents the lysis of
      polymerized fibrin in blood clots. It has been used intravenously, orally, and subcutaneously
      to reduce bleeding during orthopedic procedures, to manage postpartum bleeding, and in trauma
      patients to control significant hemorrhage. It has also been used intravenously to reduce the
      need for blood transfusions in cardiac and liver transplantation.The safety of TXA has been
      verified in numerous publications across multiple medical specialties. Additionally, the pH
      of TXA ranges from 6-8, indicating that it may serve as an effective buffering agent and
      cause less pain with injection of anesthetic agents.

      Many institutions have begun to use tranexamic acid to reduce postoperative bleeding. The
      medication is now readily available in the Pyxis of the investigators. The use of TXA within
      the wound bed and underlying undermined edges of flaps performed in patients who are
      anticoagulated is becoming the standard of care. Anecdotally, this has been quite successful
      in reducing post operative bruising and post operative bleeding requiring an emergency visit.
      In this protocol, the study arm involving the use of TXA and the study arm without the use of
      TXA are currently standard of care and are currently routinely used intraoperatively in
      clinical practice.

      The investigators are performing this study to examine the efficacy of TXA as a safe, local
      antifibrinolytic agent in dermatologic surgeries and will analyze postoperative bleeding as
      well as other postoperative complications.
    
  