
    
      Baseline Data Collection:

      Demographic data: Patient gestational age at delivery, maternal betamethasone therapy, APGAR
      scores, admission weight, receipt of surfactant administered, age at extubation, time since
      extubation, current post menstrual age, and current weight.

      Baseline vitals and ventilation mode: Heart rate, blood pressure, FiO2, oxygen saturations,
      transcutaneous partial pressure of carbon dioxide (TCO2) and current mode of ventilation will
      be recorded four times in a one minute period and the values average to minimize normal
      variation. Intervention time will be manipulated to begin no later than one hour after the
      previous feeding, as to minimize interruption of feedings to no greater than 30 minutes.

      Safety Safety: TCO2 monitor will be attached to the infant and the device will be calibrated
      according to protocol (reference TCO2 monitor manual). Carbon dioxide diffusion through the
      skin will be monitored continuously during the intervention (Bromley 08) to avoid periods of
      hypo or hypercarbia.

      Edi Catheter placement: Edi catheter size will be selected according to infant's weight and
      length. It will be inserted according to manufacturer's guidelines and adjustments will be
      made to optimize positioning (reference NAVA manual).

      NAVA settings:

      Infants will be maintained on previous level of PEEP or calculated PEEP, rounding up to whole
      numbers. Initial NAVA level will be determined by starting with an initial NAVA level of 0.5
      microvolts/cm of H20. The NAVA level will then be adjusted either by increasing or decreasing
      to generate a PIP that is a minimum of 8 cm of H2O greater than the current PEEP. Apnea alarm
      will be set at 5 seconds, which will initiate the NAVA back up setting if no electrical
      activity is detected by the Edi catheter. Back up NAVA settings will be set with a PIP of 12
      cm of H20 greater than current PEEP, respiratory rate of 60 breaths per minute (RR) and
      inspiratory time of 0.5 seconds. Fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) will be adjusted to keep
      infant's oxygen saturations within previously established clinical parameters.

      Study Intervention Procedure and Data Collection:

      At initiation of intervention, and at time 30, 60, 90, and 120 minutes, heart rate (HR),
      respiratory rate (RR), tidal volume (TV), minute ventilation, FiO2, oxygen saturations, peak
      Edi and PIP will be recorded four times in a one minute period and the values average to
      minimize normal variation. Current NAVA settings, TCO2, and blood pressure (BP) will also be
      recorded. At 60 minutes of intervention if the TCO2 level has not decreased by 5 torr from
      baseline or has risen, the current NAVA level will be increased by 50%. At 90 minutes if the
      TCO2 level has not decreased by 5 torr from baseline or has risen; the NAVA level will be
      increased by 50% from the current level. At the completion of the study (120 minutes or pCO2
      outside of established limits) the HR, RR, BP, TV, minute ventilation, FiO2, oxygen
      saturations, peak Edi and PIP will be recorded four times in a one minute period and the
      values average to minimize normal variation. A capillary blood gas will be obtained according
      to standard unit protocol with a warmed heel.
    
  