
    
      The way a person responds to a drug (this includes both positive and negative reactions) is a
      complex trait that is influenced by many different genes. Without knowing all of the genes
      involved in drug response, scientists have found it difficult to develop genetic tests that
      could predict a person's response to a particular drug. Once scientists discovered that
      people's genes show small variations (or changes) in their nucleotide (DNA base) content, all
      of that changed-genetic testing for predicting drug response is now possible.
      Pharmacogenomics is a science that examines the inherited variations in genes that dictate
      drug response and explores the ways these variations can be used to predict whether a patient
      will have a good response to a drug, a bad response to a drug, or no response at all.

      The Gene super family of Cytochrome P450 is primarily responsible for clearance of the
      different drugs and variations in different genes affect the metabolism of different classes
      of drugs. In our test we have concentrated on the genes and specific variations of those
      genes which have been studied best and already have existing and convincing data by peer
      reviewed journals.

      Since one of the major classes of drugs that are affected by the Cytochrome P450 pathway are
      anti-coagulants, we have also added certain genes that are involved in coagulation variations
      of which might have additive affects on the coagulation status of the patient. Having this
      information can aid the physician in making better decisions when prescribing or dosing
      anti-coagulants.

      Description of the Primex PGX Assay:

      DNA is isolated from subject buccal swabs and is subjected to PCR and Real Time PCR for
      determination of the genetic variations detailed above. After the variations are determined,
      known effects of the variations (i.e. reduced activity or hyperactivity) are reported to a
      pharmacist and these effects in combination with the subjects medication list are used to
      further establish clinical significance or utility. The physician then can make a decision to
      change the medication as recommended. If the physician makes any changes to the subject's
      medication regimen, then in 3 months he/she will assess the changes and reports the findings;
      hence establishment of the clinical utility of our test.

      Analytical Performance Objectives:

      Assess the reproducibility of Primex's PGX assay with samples run in replicates of 3, twice a
      day, for a minimum 5 days.

      Clinical Performance Evaluation Objectives:

      Assess the clinical performance characteristics of Primex's PGX assay for the genotypes
      determined in the different genes of the CYP450 gene super family and genes related to
      coagulation by Life Technology's QuantSudio 12kFlex open array real time PCR system. There
      are no predicate devices therefore the clinical utility will be assessed by predicted
      phenotype and the number of effective changes made by the physicians to the subject's drug
      regimen.

      Acceptance criteria for comparison of the Primex's PGX assay results to clinical changes made
      to the subject's drug regimen:

      The clinical sensitivity and specificity of the Primex's PGX assay results to clinical
      changes made are a minimum of 65% and 90%, respectively. Results of the prior drug regimen
      changes before Primex's PGX testing will be provided and may be used for comparative
      analysis.

      Investigator Feedback:

      At the conclusion of the clinical study, the investigator will assess the clinical
      performance characteristics evaluated and acceptability of the Primex's PGX assay in a
      written report/letter to the sponsor.
    
  