
    
      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Phase I (single site [University of Miami Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center]):
           Patients receive allogeneic B7.1 and human leukocyte antigen-A1 (HLA-A1) transfected
           tumor cell vaccine intradermally (ID) in weeks 1, 3, and 5. Treatment repeats every 6
           weeks for 2 courses. If no more than 1 of 6 patients experience a probable or
           definitively treatment related adverse effect (i.e., grade 2 autoimmune or grade 3-4 of
           any type), patients proceed to the phase II portion of the study. If 2 or more (out of
           6) patients experience treatment related adverse effects the study stops.

        -  Phase II (randomized): Patients are stratified according to study site (University of
           Miami Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center or Memorial Regional Hospital), type of
           prior first-line treatment (platinum and taxane vs platinum and gemcitabine), and
           presence of brain metastasis (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
           arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive allogeneic B7.1 and HLA-A1 transfected tumor cell vaccine
                ID in weeks 1, 3, and 5. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for 2 courses.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive a placebo vaccine as in arm I. Patients undergo blood
                sample collection periodically for correlative studies. Samples are analyzed for
                cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8), cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4), and natural
                killer cell (NK) response and peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) and T helper cell
                1 (TH1)/T helper cell 2 (TH2) bias, including levels of interleukin (IL) IL-1β,
                IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-13, Interferon-gamma (IFN-γ), tumor necrosis
                factor-alpha (TNF-α) via ELISA.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every
      6 months for 4 years, and then once a year thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 66 patients (6 patients for phase I and 60 patients for phase
      II) will be accrued for this study.
    
  