
    
      The response to therapy with a fixed dose combination of isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine
      (FDC I/H) is enhanced in African Americans with heart failure and reduced ejection fraction
      (HFrEF) when compared to similar white cohorts. Despite the clear survival benefits of
      treatment with FDC I/H in the African American Heart Failure Trial (AHeFT), the drug is
      prescribed in only 25% of black subjects who would potentially benefit.

      In terms of the enhanced response evident in the A-HeFT investigation, race is likely a
      marker of differences in genomic background. Genetic variation of the G protein beta sub unit
      GNB3 has been studied extensively for its role in hypertension. A polymorphism exists at
      position 825 (T/C) which is functionally silent but tightly linked to a splicing variant
      resulting in a truncated protein. The GNB3 T haplotype is far more prevalent in blacks and
      associated with low renin hypertension. Evaluation of 350 subjects in the genetic sub-study
      of AHeFT suggests that the GNB3 TT genotype, found in 50% of African Americans but only
      10-15% of whites, was linked to an enhanced therapeutic response to FDC I/H. This
      investigation will evaluate the hypothesis that the GNB3 TT genotype is a marker of enhanced
      therapeutic response to FDC I/H in African Americans with HFrEF.

      The study will enroll a cohort of 500 African Americans with HFrEF, initiate therapy with FDC
      I/H and follow them for up to two years. Subjects will be genotyped at entry for the GNB3
      polymorphism and response to therapy compared by genotype. Therapeutic response will be
      quantified using the composite score, the primary endpoint of AHeFT, which incorporates
      mortality, heart failure hospitalizations, and a change in quality of life (QoL) score at six
      months.

      Aim 2 will do a similar analysis of response to therapy by GNB3 genotype using improvement in
      left ventricular end diastolic diameter (LVEDD) or left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF)
      by echocardiogram after six months on therapy as the outcomes measure. Aim 3 will use
      admixture analysis to determine first how global ancestry (the % African ancestral DNA for an
      individual) impacts on the outcome measures of drug response, and how the global ancestry
      acts as a modifier for the effect of GNB3.
    
  