
    
      Depression is a very prevalent, incapacitating illness. The treatment available
      (psychotherapy and drug therapy) do not always manage to achieve complete remission of the
      symptoms or prevent its relapses or recurrences. For that reason, it is still necessary to
      investigate new adjuvant therapeutic antidepressant alternatives, especially if they can add
      efficacy to the treatment without reducing tolerance and safety. In the last few years, data
      have been growing about the usefulness of having patients who are depressed make specific
      changes in their lifestyles.

      The main objective of the study will be to evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of an
      adjuvant lifestyle-based intervention for treatment-resistant patients with major depressive
      disorder. Patients will be allocated to one of these three groups: 1)Treatment prescribed by
      their mental health team plus written lifestyle change suggestions 2)Treatment prescribed by
      their mental health team plus written lifestyle change suggestions plus 8-week MBCT program
      3) Treatment prescribed by their mental health team plus written lifestyle change suggestions
      plus 8-week lifestyle change promotion program. Two control groups were designed:
      placebo-control (written lifestyle change suggestion) and active-control (MBCT). We selected
      this adjuvant therapy because MBCT has shown positive results as an adjunctive treatment for
      resistant depression in previous studies and it could be administered in a similar format as
      our intervention (8-weeks lifestyle change promotion program). We hypothesize that the
      lifestyle change promotion program at 12 months of follow-up will be more effective because
      patients will have better adherence to this intervention than to MBCT.

      This study will be carried out during the COVID-19 pandemic, therefore the administration of
      the intervention will be administered by teletherapy. Different ways and technologies will be
      used to contact participants remotely: telephone calls, text messages, WhatsApp groups, and
      teleconferences.

      We will collect patient data using the questionnaires administered at baseline, immediately
      after the intervention, and at six and 12-month follow-up. The primary outcome will be
      measured using the Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II). Secondary outcomes will include
      Clinical Global Impressions (CGI) Scale, to quantify and track patient progress and treatment
      response over time and Health-related quality of life measured using the European Quality of
      Life-5 Dimensions Questionnaire (EQ-5D).
    
  