
    
      INTRODUCTION: The objective of the present project is to test the effect of probiotics on
      occupational allergic sensitization, respiratory symptoms and bronchial hyperresponsiveness
      in workers or students exposed to laboratory animals, i.e., small rodents.

      Furthermore, our study aims to determine changes in immunological patterns with the use of
      probiotics in adulthood, which could prevent allergic sensitization and allergic diseases.

      Probiotics have been used as treatment in various allergic diseases, especially as prevention
      of child atopic dermatitis by using them during pregnancy, or for neonates and infants.

      STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: This will be a randomized controlled trial involving laboratory
      animal workers and students exposed to rats, mice, hamsters, guinea pigs or rabbits. Subjects
      will be recruited in the laboratories of the University of S. Paulo and State University of
      Campinas (Unicamp). Exposed subjects will be randomly allocated to two groups: treatment and
      placebo. Both groups will be followed up for two years. Subjects will be evaluated at
      baseline, after one year and after two years.

      Treatment: the intervention group will receive once daily capsules containing 109 CFU of
      Lactobacillus rhamnosus HN001, Lactobacillus paracasei Lpc-37 and Bifidobacterium animalis
      ssp. Lactis HN019 and the control group will receive once daily similar capsules containing
      placebo.

      Procedures: blood sampling for blood cell counts, measurement of total IgE levels, specific
      immunoglobulin E (IgE) for rats, mice, hamsters, guinea pigs and rabbits; stool samples to
      test for parasites and for probiotic bacteria; skin prick test for animal allergens and
      common allergens, i.e. cockroaches, house dust mites, cats, dogs and mixed fungi; spirometry;
      and evaluation of bronchial responsiveness by bronchial challenge tests if the participant
      develop respiratory symptoms.

      At the end of two years, changes in sensitization, bronchial responsiveness or symptoms in
      the treatment group compared to the placebo group will be considered the effect of
      probiotics.

      Data analysis: group results will be compared by the chi-squared test regarding the
      prevalence of sensitization and other categorical variables. For continuous variables such as
      IgE levels, comparisons will be made by Student's t test. These analyses will be performed at
      the 1- and 2-year time points.
    
  