
    
      This study is being done to examine the feasibility and impact of the Infant Achievements
      caregiver coaching treatment on caregiver child-engagement strategies used during play with
      their infant. The investigators will examine effects on infants' social and communication
      behavior. This randomized controlled trial will compare caregivers and infants in the Infant
      Achievements (IA) coaching group to caregivers and infants in the Caregiver Education (CE)
      no-coaching group. A total of 64 eligible participants (16 children plus their caregiver per
      group) will participate in the study. Parents in the IA group will be coached, at home twice
      a week, to implement the intervention by trained research staff. Parents in the CE group will
      be taught about child development and well-being in their home, weekly, with a weekly
      follow-up phone call by trained research staff. In both groups: Videotaped caregiver-child
      interaction data will be gathered in the home. Baseline, post-treatment and follow-up
      measures will also be collected at the investigators' child development research center.

      Families with children between the ages of 8 and 12 months with developmental concerns may be
      eligible to participate. Developmental concerns are defined as infrequent production of
      specific communication or social behaviors, or in immature or qualitatively atypical forms.
      These concerns will be documented via the Autism Observation Scale for Infants, Communication
      and Symbolic Behavior Scale (CSBS) Infant-Toddler Checklist, and/or Mullen Scales of Early
      Learning. Recruitment will occur from the Kennedy Krieger Institute (KKI), community
      agencies, and community events. Recruitment flyers will be distributed within those programs.
      In addition, a social media blurb will be placed on the KKI and other relevant groups'
      Facebook pages, KKI Center for Autism and Related Disorders newsletter, KKI websites, and may
      be sent to relevant local newsletters/magazines for families of young children.
    
  