
    
      Every year 1 in 1000 persons in the United Kingdom are diagnosed with a blood clot in the leg
      veins (deep vein thrombosis). In just under half of those with deep vein thrombosis, leg
      pain, swelling and skin breakdown (ulcers) can occur, a lifelong condition called
      post-thrombotic syndrome. This impacts upon a person's ability to work, their confidence and
      independence. In most patients there is no effective treatment and they lose income from
      unemployment. Ulcers, if they occur, require bandaging that needs to be changed twice weekly.

      Treatment guidelines for deep vein thrombosis do not currently include the use of a
      compression stockings. They can sometimes be difficult to put on for those who cannot bend
      down, the stockings can slip or roll down, or become uncomfortable in hot weather. Stockings
      cost the National Health Service (NHS) approximately £50 every 6 months. The evidence for
      stockings comes from two early trials comparing patients wearing a stocking to those who did
      not.

      There was a large benefit in both these trials for wearing a stocking, with no major side
      effects. In 2014, a Canadian group published a trial comparing wearing a compression stocking
      to wearing a non-compressive stocking. The rates of post-thrombotic syndrome were identical.
      The Canadian trial also suggested that only half of patients actually wear stockings, one
      reason the trial may have shown no difference. The Canadian trial suggested that stockings
      did not prevent future thrombosis or help leg pain. Whilst United Kingdom National Institute
      for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) recommendations are to avoid stockings after deep vein
      thrombosis, European recommendations are to still wear them. The contradictory results of
      these three trials have led us to design the CHAPS trial.

      The aim of CHAPS is to confirm whether there is a real benefit of wearing stockings in
      addition to the standard treatment for deep vein thrombosis, which is blood thinning
      medication.

      Adults with a first deep vein thrombosis can join the trial. They will be randomly allocated
      to receive either blood thinning medication, or blood thinning medication and an additional
      compression stocking. This is a tight, custom fitted stocking that they will be asked to wear
      whilst they are awake as much as possible for between 6-30 months. Patients will be aware of
      which group they are in, but will be asked not to wear the stocking when they come for their
      assessment. This keeps the researchers impartial.
    
  