
    
      Although liver biopsy is the current standard for histological characterization of the liver
      parenchyma, this invasive procedure has a significant risk of - potentially lethal -bleeding.
      Moreover, as liver disease may focally or heterogeneously affect the liver, histological
      findings may be false negative or not be representative. Non-invasive imaging modalities
      (e.g. ultrasound (US), computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), on the
      other hand, provide valuable information with regard to global and regional tissue
      characterization, and may be of help in guiding/targeting liver biopsy. Moreover, in recent
      years new developments have opened the door towards a better, more comprehensive appreciation
      of the status of the liver. One of these is elastography assessing the mechanical,
      viscoelastic properties of the liver, thus providing valuable information with regard to the
      liver stiffness (or elasticity), and be used for accurate staging of liver fibrosis (1,2).
      Another approach is tissue characterization using the relaxation behaviour of liver tissue in
      a high-field magnetic environment ('relaxometry'). As relaxation times are tissue specific,
      focal or diffuse pathology may alter (i.e. shorten or prolong) relaxation times. These
      alterations can be used to depict and to quantify disease severity. In the field of cardiac
      imaging relaxometry has caused a paradigm shift, but for liver imaging this has received
      relatively limited interest so far. Best known is T2* relaxometry allowing to diagnose and
      follow-up patients with haemochromatosis. Recently, a few papers have described the use of T1
      and T1-rho relaxometry to diagnosis liver congestion in Fontan patients, and to depict liver
      fibrosis, respectively (3,4).

      As part of a comprehensive cardiac MRI exam, we started performing routinely T1 and T2
      relaxometry of the heart in 2014. The technique was validated against a standardized,
      commercially-available phantom in an inter-national study (5). Practically, T1 and T2 mapping
      includes measurements in both cardiac short-axis and horizontal long-axis before and after
      the administration of intravenous commercially available gadolinium chelates. As in cardiac
      short-axis direction the liver is partially encompassed, we will use these images to measure
      T1 and T2 relaxation times of the liver. As all data are stored on PACS, it is our aim to
      re-use these T1 and T2 mapping studies to determine the T1 and T2 relaxation of the liver in
      normal conditions.

      Firstly, we will derive from our cardiac MRI database a representative group of studies
      labelled as normal (i.e. normal cardiac MRI findings). In the medical patient file the serum
      biomarkers for liver disease will be checked (see below), as well as findings at
      echocardiography (exclusion of right heart failure, exclusion of severe tricuspid
      insufficiency), abdominal ultrasound / computed tomography (exclusion of liver disease, i.e.
      hemochromatosis, steatosis, hepatic congestion, and liver cirrhosis). Only MRI studies will
      be included if liver disease is excluded. In a next step, a representative region of interest
      will be manually drawn (> 100 pixels) in a region not including the liver vessels. These
      analyses will be performed on the pre- and post-contrast T1 map, and on the T2 map. The goal
      is to determine normal values in at least 100 subjects, allowing to assess the impact of
      aging and gender.

      Secondly, we will measure liver T1 and T2 values in patients with different forms of right
      heart failure, and assess the relation between liver T1 and T2 values and findings at
      echocardiography, serum biomarkers, and right heart catheterization indicative of right heart
      failure. The latter information will be retrieved from the medical patient file. As in right
      heart failure, the filling pressure increases in the caval and hepatic veins, hereby causing
      hepatic congestion. It is the hypothesis that in these circumstances T1 and T2 liver values
      are increased. Also, in latter stages when liver fibrosis initiates and evolves towards
      cardiac cirrhotic liver, we hypothesize increased T1 values. The aim is to evaluate whether
      mean T1 and/or T2 of the liver parenchyma obtained at MRI can be used as imaging biomarker of
      right heart decompensation. As concomitant liver disease (see above) may hamper correct
      interpretation of our findings, pre-existing liver disease needs to be excluded. For this, a
      similar approach as in the normal population will be used. The target patient population is
      three-fold. First, patients with pulmonary hypertension with/without evidence of right heart
      failure, who underwent a right heart catheterization with invasive pressure measurements (if
      not available, pulmonary artery pressure estimations at transthoracic echocardiography will
      be used), and signs of right heart failure at transthoracic echocardiography can be used.
      Second, patients with dilated cardiomyopathy, defined as LV ejection fraction < 35% with and
      without concomitant right ventricular (RV) dysfunction (i.e. RV EF < 35%). Third, patients
      with constrictive pericarditis or inflammatory pericarditis with constrictive physiology
      (i.e. increased respiratory-related ventricular coupling/interdependence). This group will be
      compared to a group of patients with inflammatory pericarditis without constrictive
      physiology (i.e., preserved ventricular coupling).

      Thirdly, to assess the inter- and intra-observed reproducibility of liver T1 / T2 values,
      measurements will be performed by two readers independently performing the measurements. One
      reader will repeat the measurements respecting one week interval between the analyses. This
      group involves 10 randomly selected studies in the normal group and 10 studies in the patient
      group. Analysis include assessment of the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and
      coefficient of variation (CoV).

      Finally, as step towards a more automated approach, we will evaluate/develop texture
      analysis. This mathematical approach looks at patterns between pixels not visible by the
      human eye and results in image 'features' that go beyond the typical mean (or median) and
      deviations. It has shown to be a robust technique in many applications in the field of
      medical imaging, and most likely will be useful for liver imaging as well. The large group of
      derived image features needs to be further analysed using machine learning approaches
      (with/without other clinical readouts). Machine learning of features coupled to a diagnosis
      ('target') has the potential to augment traditional risk scores with novel imaging
      biomarkers. Regularization approaches based on e.g. support vector machines, random forests
      or convolutional neural networks (CNNs) will be implemented.
    
  