
    
      The investigators propose to assess a new drug to treat children with a form of Batten
      Disease called Late Infantile Neuronal Ceroid Lipofuscinosis (LINCL). These children are born
      with genetic changes called mutations in their CLN2 gene that result in the inability of the
      brain to properly recycle proteins. The recycling failure leads to death of the nerve cells
      in the brain and progressive loss of brain function. Children with Batten disease are normal
      at birth but by age 2 to 4 have motor and vision problems which progress rapidly to death at
      age approximately 10 years old. There are no therapies available to treat the disease.

      The experimental gene transfer procedure treatment the investigators propose consists of
      augmenting the abnormal gene by a good copy. A virus is used to deliver the good gene to the
      nerve cells. Since the disease is due to an abnormal CLN2 gene, the aim of this study is to
      add a normal copy of the CLN2 gene to the brain of affected children to try to reverse death
      of cells in the brain. Previously the investigators have used a virus called adeno-associated
      virus 2 (AAV2) as the gene delivery system. That study showed that viral delivery of the gene
      was safe. We now propose to use a slightly different virus called AAVrh.10 as a gene delivery
      system and use 2 different doses of the virus. Children with Batten disease will get the drug
      injected into the brain and will receive extensive neurological assessment at intervals to
      determine if the transfer slows the rate of progress of the disease.

      The primary aims of the study are: (1) to assess the hypothesis that direct administration of
      AAVrh.10CUhCLN2 to the brain of children with LINCL can be achieved safely and with minimal
      toxicity; and (2) to evaluate the hypothesis that direct administration of AAVrh.10CUhCLN2 to
      the brain of children with LINCL will slow down or halt progression of the disease as
      assessed by neurological rating scales and quantitative MRI (primary variables).

      The investigators have recently completed a study in which the normal copy of the gene was
      surgically delivered to 12 locations in the brain in 10 children with LINCL. The children
      were assessed by a number of neurological and imaging parameters prior to and after gene
      transfer. The data demonstrated that the gene transfer was well tolerated and had a small
      impact on the progression of the disease and suggested that higher doses and a better
      delivery system may provide greater benefit. The previous study used the viral gene transfer
      vector adeno-associated virus type 2 (AAV2) at a dose of 2,000,000,000,000 molecules of the
      drug (2 x 10^12 particle units). The investigators now propose a very similar study with
      delivery of the identical payload with a slightly different viral gene delivery system based
      on the virus AAVrh.10.
    
  