
    
      This is a randomized (study drug assigned by chance), double-blind (neither physician nor
      patient knows the name of the assigned drug), placebo-controlled , parallel-group study with
      3 treatment arms, each consisting of 27 obese patients. The study will include 3 phases -
      pretreatment, double-blind and posttreatment . During the pretreatment phase patients undergo
      general screening assessments and if eligible, Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS)
      screening will be performed. During the double-blind treatment phase patients will receive
      dietary counseling, study medication, have urine and blood laboratory tests, a follow up MRS
      examination and have regular clinic visits for symptoms assessment. The double blind
      treatment phase ends with an end-of-treatment or early withdrawal visit. A patient
      withdrawing from the study prior to the end of the 12 week treatment phase will attend an
      early withdrawal visit, which is the same as the end-of-treatment visit. This visit will
      include laboratory tests and a follow up MRS examination. Post-treatment: A follow-up
      evaluation will occur 14 days after the end of treatment. Study visits are scheduled to occur
      nearly every 14 days following the baseline visit in week 1. The total study duration is
      approximately 15 weeks. The study will include the following evaluations of safety and
      tolerability: mean percent change in liver fat content at week 6 and week 12 or at the end of
      the patients participation in the study, in case of early withdrawal. Safety evaluations for
      the study will include the monitoring of adverse events, clinical laboratory tests including
      pregnancy testing, electrocardiograms (ECGs), vital sign measurements (pulse and blood
      pressure), physical examination, and patient reported assessment of GI symptoms. Special
      clinical laboratory safety tests will assess blood clotting or coagulation status, essential
      fatty acid status, lipid-soluble vitamin status: vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin E, vitamin K,
      vitamin A/total cholesterol ratio, vitamin E/total cholesterol ratio and liver function
      tests. 10 mg capsules, 15 mg capsules, or matching placebo capsules taken orally.
    
  