
    
      1.3. Research question Flares of lupus nephritis are related to the behavior of BAFF levels
      before, during, and after induction therapy.

      2. Theoretical framework B-cell activating factor (BAFF), also known as B lymphocyte
      stimulator (BLyS) serves as a vital survival and differentiation factor for normal B-cell
      development. There is an inverse relationship between BAFF circulating levels and the
      percentage and number of circulating B cells. APRIL (a proliferation-inducing ligand) shares
      substantial homology with BAFF and binds to two of the three BAFF receptors (BCMA and TACI)
      but not to BR3. Like BAFF, APRIL has little role in the maintenance of memory B cells but
      does promote plasma cell survival better than does BAFF. Both BAFF and APRIL levels behave
      differently after B cell depletion in SLE and rheumatoid arthritis. BAFF levels have been
      associated with the development of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in murine models and
      with clinical activity of SLE in humans. BAFF plays a pathogenic role in SLE in part through
      T cell-dependent B cell autoantibody production. Treatment strategies involving BAFF blockade
      haven been studied in patients with SLE inducing overall improvement in disease activity,
      mainly in musculoskeletal and mucocutaneous domains leading to the approval of Belimumab for
      the treatment of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus without severe renal or
      neurological involvement.

      Anti-CD20 antibodies (Rituximab), cyclophosphamide (CYC), and mycophenolate (MMF) have all
      been used for the treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus, and both moderate and severe
      activity. Both MMF and CYC show a significant effect on disease activity and circulating B,
      T, Natural Killer cells (NK), and Natural Killer T cells (NKT) cell subsets. Baseline C4
      level, early normalization of complement, and reduction in proteinuria have been shown to
      predict renal response to therapy with MMF or CYC in lupus nephritis. With Rituximab (RTX), B
      cell depletion has been associated with response to treatment and relapses. The elevation of
      serum BAFF levels after B cell depletion with RTX in SLE are associated with
      anti-double-stranded DNA antibody levels and disease flare. The rise of BAFF is probably due
      to the decrease in its receptors leading to a release of BAFF and a delayed regulation of
      BAFF messenger-RNA (mRNA) transcription, both of which could favor the re-emergence of
      autoreactive B cells.

      It has been suggested that the rise in BAFF levels after anti-CD20 therapy might be related
      to flares of the disease and that repeated rituximab infusions can result in a feedback loop
      characterized by ever-rising BAFF levels, surges in autoantibody production and worsening of
      the disease. Additionally, the combination of antiCD20 with anti-BAFF or anti-CD4 antibody
      greatly reduces the number of splenic plasma cells in mouse models and anti-CD20 plus
      anti-BAFF has been proven to have a lasting benefit both in lupus-prone mice and in mice with
      established disease.

      B-cell depletion therapy (BCDT) has been used in patients with refractory disease with
      failure to standard therapy through a combination of RTX and CYC, which showed an improvement
      in clinical and serological disease activity. Serological findings suggest that B cell clones
      committed to producing antinucleosome antibodies and anti-dsDNA have a relatively rapid
      turnover compared with cell clones producing other autoantibodies(30). BAFF levels rose in
      most patients at 3 months post BCDT. Those patients with an expanded autoantibody profile and
      raised BAFF levels at baseline had shorter responses to BCDT. Retreatment with BCDT may
      produce a more sustained clinical response.

      Currently, there is a lack of information regarding MMF or CYC and BAFF levels without the
      use of concomitant RTX (for CYC) and in monotherapy (for MMF). We consider that it is
      fundamental to know the behavior of BAFF in patients with SLE after treatment with MMF or CYC
      bearing in mind the proposal of multiple experts of the possible use of sequential therapy of
      BAFF inhibition after B-cell depletion. Knowledge of the behavior of BAFF will allow to
      better understand its implications in SLE and its therapy.

      3. Hypothesis Elevated BAFF levels after induction therapy with MMF or CYC is associated with
      disease relapse.

      4. Objectives 4.1. Main objective Analyze the relationship between BAFF levels and relapses
      after treatment with CYC and MMF

      4.2. Specific objectives

        -  Describe the clinical and immuno-serological characteristics of patients with lupus
           nephritis at weeks 0, 12, and 24 of induction therapy.

        -  Compare the effects of CYC and MMF on BAFF levels in patients with lupus nephritis in
           induction therapy

        -  Evaluate the association between BAFF levels and remission of lupus nephritis treated
           with CYC and MMF.
    
  