
    
      The investigators wish to investigate the use of our standardized regimen for discharging
      patients directly to the surgical ward, thereby bypassing the PACU. The anaesthesiology dept.
      have a local standard operating procedure for doing this, and the patients will be treated
      according to this.

      This means that Patients will be discharged directly to the surgical ward if the following
      criteria are met:

        -  American Society of Anaesthesiologist-score (ASA-score) < 3

        -  Anaesthesia and surgery without any complications, vital signs normal during the whole
           procedure and not demanding oxygen supplement on the end of the procedure.

        -  Bloodloss < 500 ml.

        -  Postoperative evaluation, Early Warning Score, and postoperative score documented in
           Electronic Patient journal(EPJ).

      The patients will upon arrival at the surgery start a registration containing preoperative
      data(baseline morbidity, sex, height, weight, type of anaesthesia and surgery), perioperative
      data containing surgery and anaesthesia data, and postoperative discharge-score(local
      operating procedure).

      After discharge to either the surgical ward or the PACU, the patient will be observed closely
      the first 2 hours while recording every intervention made by the nurse staff.

      After the initial 2 hours the recording goes on the next 24 hours recording every event and
      intervention which lead to a doctor consult, by telephone or physically examining the
      patient.

      Also, the investigators wish to evaluate the use of the discharge Score(Danish Society of
      Anaesthesia and Intensive care Medicine(DASAIM)-SCORE), which is used as the discharge score
      after surgery in other hospitals in Denmark, and the investigators therefore record this
      after surgery, and every 30 minutes after the surgery for the first 2 hours.
    
  