
    
      COREA-AMI registry was conducted previously (NCT02385682) and enrolled consecutive all
      patient with acute myocardial infarction who were treated with percutaneous coronary
      intervention from Jan 2004 to Dec 2009.

      COREA-AMI II registry extend the enrollment period to Aug 2014 and the follow-up period to
      Jun 2016.

      All consecutive acute myocardial infarction patients had been enrolled prospectively in prior
      registries of each university hospitals. Eight hospitals of the Catholic University of Korea
      already have web-based coronary intervention registry (NCT01239914). And Cheonnam University
      Hospital is one of leading hospitals to design and manage the web-based previous Korean
      nationwide myocardial infarction registry, the Korea Acute Myocardial Infarction Registry
      (KAMIR) (http://www.kamir.or.kr/).

      Using these previous data, the current registry update new clinical and angiographic
      variables and assess long-term clinical follow-up data retrospectively. All data were
      collected on web-based system after eliminating personal information.
      (http://www.ecrf.kr/coreaami/)

      All data are going to be sealed with code by Clinical Research Coordinating Center of the
      Catholic University of Korea and to be managed and analyzed by independent statistics
      perssonels.

      Cardiovascular center with high-volume percutaneous coronary intervention of following
      hospitals were participated.

        -  Seoul St. Mary's Hospital, Seoul, South Korea

        -  Yeoido St. Mary's Hospital, Seoul, South Korea

        -  Uijongbu St. Mary's Hospital, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea

        -  St. Paul Hospital, Seoul, South Korea

        -  Bucheon St. Mary's Hospital, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea

        -  Incheon St. Mary's Hospital, Incheon, South Korea

        -  St. Vincent Hospital, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea

        -  Deajon St. Mary's Hospital, Daejeon, South Korea

        -  Cheonnam University Hospital, Gwangju, South Korea
    
  