
    
      The purpose of this research is to investigate the analgesic effects of intravenous lidocaine
      in the perioperative and postoperative period, on various surgical interventions. In the
      perioperative period, its effect on the reduction of opiodic use will be evaluated, while
      during the postoperative period will be evaluate the degree of analgesia, the rate of
      reduction of additional analgesics, the impact on the clinical parameters and the patient's
      rehabilitation.

      The research will be conducted at the Clinic of Gynecology and Obstetrics, the Surgery
      Clinic, the Urology Clinic, the Orthopedic Clinic, of Universitary Clinical Centre of Kosovo
      and the American Hospital in Pristina, Republic of Kosovo.

      The study will be conducted during the period April 2018 - January 2020.

      After obtaining a permit from the ethics committee, all patients to be investigated will be
      informed first through the information form for all the risks and advantages of this
      analgesic technique and from them will be consented to their participation in the research.

      In the intervention group of the study will be included 520 patients of both genders and ages
      18-65 years. Patients will undergo these surgical interventions: gynecological, abdominal,
      laparoscopical, urological and orthopedic interventions.

      The intervention group includes two groups for each type of surgery:

      Group I (n = 50); at induction of anesthesia will be given lidocaine 2mg / kg / i.v., bolus,
      and in perioperative and postoperative period will be given lidocaine 1.5mg / kg / h-1,
      continuously during surgery and 48 hours after surgery.

      Group II (n = 50); at induction of anesthesia will be given lidocaine 2mg / kg / i.v., bolus,
      and ketamine 0.15mg / kg / , bolus, i.v .; lidocaine will continue during the operation and
      in the postoperative period with a dose of 1.5mg / kg / h-1, continuously, during the
      operation and 48 hours after the operation.

      The control group (n = 30) will be given opioids during surgery, and opioids and nonsteroid
      antiinflammatory agents will be given 48 hours after surgery.
    
  