
    
      Investigator will recruit 8 patients with oral microstomia caused by a sclerotic skin
      disorder. Patients must be 18 years of age or older with an established diagnosis of a
      sclerotic skin disorder by a dermatologist. Sclerotic skin disorders may include scleroderma,
      CREST, scleromyxedema, and morphea involving the face.

      At the initial screening visit, demographic information will be obtained, inclusion and
      exclusion criteria will be reviewed, and informed consent will be obtained for those deemed
      eligible for enrollment. Patients who qualify for the study, and who have never been exposed
      to hyaluronidase before, will have 0.1 cc hyaluronidase injected to assess whether they have
      an allergic reaction.

      Qualifying patients will undergo monthly intradermal injections of 200 units of hyaluronidase
      into the cutaneous lips by the study staff into through 6 treatments. Subjects will be
      evaluated for improvement in primary and secondary endpoints using clinical examination,
      photographs, and questionnaires during initial and follow-up visits.

      Since this is a pilot study, there are only 2 case reports published wherein hyaluronidase
      was used for similar indications. One study injected approximately between 120 and 150 units
      for morphea-induced microstomia; this study listed locations of injection sites (ie, right
      jaw line, left jawline, and chin). Another used between 20 and 200 units of hyaluronidase for
      scleroderma-induced microstomia; investigators injected in 2 rows of the cutaneous lips and
      approximated number of injections in a schematic. Investigator elected to inject the higher
      end of dosage used, 200 units (1 full vial of hyaluronidase), as this was effectively used in
      a publication. Additionally, there has not been any dose-related side effect concerns with
      hyaluronidase to our knowledge. It is common practice to use multiple vials to treat
      hyaluronic acid complications, which is safely done.

      Subjects will be evaluated for improvement in primary and secondary endpoints using clinical
      examination, photographs, and questionnaires during initial and follow-up visits.
    
  