
    
      Design- international, multicentre, crossover, cluster randomised controlled trial (x-cRCT)
      of eligible patients in participating ICUs using two 12-month interventional trial periods
      separated by a 3-month inter-period gap.

      An observational ecological assessment will be conducted in all ICU patients during one week
      of each month during the 3-month surveillance period before the first intervention period; in
      all trial eligible patients during the two 12-month intervention periods; in all ICU patients
      during one week of each month of the final 3-months of the two intervention periods; in all
      ICU patients during one week of each month during the 3-month inter-period and post-trial
      periods.

      Participants- General ICUs that admit mechanically ventilated patients will be randomised in
      the first 12-month period to either implement the SDD protocol in addition to standard care
      or to continue standard care without SDD, and then to cross over to the other arm during the
      second 12-month period.

      Eligible patients are defined as:

        1. All patients who are mechanically ventilated via an endotracheal tube on admission to
           the ICU and who are predicted to remain ventilated beyond the end of the calendar day
           after the day of ICU admission, or

        2. All patients who become mechanically ventilated via an endotracheal tube during their
           ICU stay and who are predicted to remain ventilated beyond the end of the calendar day
           after the day they are first ventilated, or

        3. All patients who not already recruited but are receiving mechanical ventilation via an
           endotracheal tube and are expected to receive ongoing ventilation for a further 48-hours
           or more despite an earlier prediction that ventilation would be discontinued earlier.

      All patients eligible for the intervention will receive the following in addition to the
      usual infection control measures:

        1. 1. A six-hourly topical application of 0.5g paste, containing colistin 10mg, tobramycin
           10mg and nystatin 125,000 IU, to the buccal mucosa and oropharynx

        2. A six-hourly administration of 10 mL of a suspension containing 100 mg colistin, 80 mg
           tobramycin and 2 x 106 IU nystatin, to the gastrointestinal tract via a
           gastric/post-pyloric tube

        3. A four-day course of an IV antibiotic. Patients not already receiving a therapeutic
           antibiotic will be prescribed cefotaxime 1g six-hourly or ceftriaxone 1g daily, with
           dose adjusted as appropriate for organ dysfunction. Ciprofloxacin (400mg 12-hourly) may
           be used as an alternative if there is a contraindication to cephalosporins (e.g.
           allergy). Patients already receiving an alternative IV antibiotic to treat infection
           will not receive this additional IV antibiotic, but will continue the prescribed
           antibiotic for the usual duration of therapy.

      Statistical considerations and sample size- SuDDICU will recruit 10 000 to 15 000 patients
      from 29 ICUs and will have 80% power to detect an absolute reduction in hospital mortality of
      3-5% from a baseline mortality of 29%, depending on the precise number of clusters.
    
  