
    
      Hypotheses:

      Crises in medical oncology need to be precisely defined and classified. It should be the
      first step to offer appropriate support and solutions, improve communication and eventually
      improve quality of life/work for caregivers and for patients. Crises in medical oncology can
      imply all actors: doctors, nursing staff, psychologists, administration and patients. The
      definition of crisis and the level of importance of each situation may vary among these
      different groups. Nevertheless, we expect to identify shared characteristics. Patients' point
      of view which is rarely expressed will be collected. This work will also bring a better
      understanding of the perception each group have of each other.

      Objectives:

      Our main objective is to identify the main crises facing the patients and caregivers in
      medical oncology and rank them by order of importance. Each actor will also express its
      perception of other actors' list of crises.

      Methods:

      This work is led by an innovative multidisciplinary team of investigators associating
      patients, oncopsychologists, nurses and oncologists. Four study groups of participants are
      composed: a group of patients, a group of oncopsychologists, a group nurses and a group of
      oncologists.

      Demographic characteristics, general characteristics of the disease for the patients or type
      of exercise for the caregivers are collected.

      The first step of the project is to establish a list of crisis situations in each group
      consisting of 10 participants. The methodology applied is a modify Delphi in three rounds via
      a digital survey. In the first round, participants react to a pre-existing list, and are
      invited to complete it. The content is then analyzed, classified and developed into a list
      emailed for the second round.

      In a second round, the participants establish a ranking of the items on a scale of 1-6 (not
      important to extremely important). The group of patients will then rank the items added by
      the caregivers, and vice-versa.

      During the third and last round, the average of items is presented and the participants
      submit a new ranking. Individual interviews will be held to comment the results.

      The second step of the project enables to widen the study population, with a minimal
      objective of 100 participants per group. These new participants receive the list established
      in the first step to grade 20 items per frequency and importance.
    
  