
    
      The aim of this investigation is to examine a new prototype of a quantitative monitoring
      instrument that will meet these requirements. Patients undergoing surgery under general
      anesthesia will be monitored with a new EMG device (T4-EMG) from induction of anesthesia
      until recovery of neuromuscular blockade. Continuous data will be recorded onto an interfaced
      computer from the T4-EMG monitor during this time period. At the same time, continuous
      neuromuscular data will be recorded onto the computer from an AMG device (TOF-Watch, the
      "established standard" for clinical use) which is attached to the same arm. The applicability
      (ease of use, equipment need, etc.), repeatability (precision or internal consistency), and
      performance (agreement with established standard, bias) of the T4-EMG compared to the AMG
      will be determined during onset and recovery of neuromuscular blockade.

      44 patients presenting for elective surgical procedures with an expected duration greater
      than 60 minutes will be enrolled in this study. ASA I to III patients requiring neuromuscular
      blockade in the operating room will be eligible for enrollment. Anesthetic management will be
      standardized.

      Upon arrival to the operating room, neuromuscular monitoring surface electrodes will be
      applied. All monitoring will be conducted while the patient is under general anesthesia for
      the surgical procedure. Surface electrodes (non-invasive EKG electrodes) will be placed on
      the cleansed skin over the ulnar nerve of the available arm near the wrist. The electrodes
      will be connected by leads to a peripheral nerve stimulator (TOF-Watch). When the nerve
      stimulator is activated, the response to stimulation will be measured simultaneously by the
      AMG (TOF-Watch-acceleration of contraction of the adductor pollicis-thumb) and the EMG
      (T4-EMG-electrical activity of the adductor pollicis-thumb) devices. Therefore, the TOF-Watch
      will serve as nerve stimulator for both study groups. The transducer of the AMG device will
      be placed on the thumb of the corresponding hand. A 75-150g preload (via the Hand adapter)
      will be applied as per standard recommendations. After induction of anesthesia, but before
      administration of rocuronium, calibration, supramaximal stimulation, and stable baseline will
      be achieved for the TOF-Watch as suggested by the GCRP guidelines.

      The T4-EMG will be placed on the same arm as the AMG device, with sensing electrodes attached
      to the surface of the thenar eminence (base of the thumb). A second sensing lead, used to
      detect the delivery of an electrical stimulating pulse, will be placed over the stimulating
      leads of the AMG device. This sensing lead will only be used to trigger data acquisition in
      the T4-EMG, and has no direct connection to the patient, nor any electrical feedback
      connection that alters the function of the AMG. After a satisfactory level of stimulation and
      response has been obtained for the TOF-Watch, the T4-EMG device will be turned on, and the
      impedance of the thenar sensing leads will be measured. The trigger sense will be engaged,
      and further baseline stimuli will be delivered via the AMG (TOF-Watch). Data simultaneously
      collected from the thenar sensing leads will be inspected on the T4-EMG display, and fine
      adjustment of electrode positioning and stimulus intensity may be made to optimize the evoked
      myoelectric response from the patient. At the conclusion of the setup procedure, all settings
      of the AMG and the T4-EMG will be held constant for the remainder of the surgery.

      After these baseline data are collected (average time 5 minutes), the neuromuscular blocking
      agent (NMBA) will be administered. Data relating to onset (a TOF ratio decreases from 1.0 to
      0.3 or less on the AMG device display), maintenance (the TOF ratio is less than 0.3 and
      constant on the AMG device display), and reversal (an increase in the TOF ratio from 0.1 to
      0.9 or above) will be recorded. Monitoring will continue until full recovery of neuromuscular
      function is noted (a TOF ratio of at least 0.9 or greater on the AMG device display). At this
      time, the anesthesia agents will be turned off and the patient awakened and extubated.
      Patients' trachea may extubated before achieving a TOF ratio of 0.9 if they awaken before
      this time, as per usual clinical routine determined by the clinician.

      For the first 34 patients, the TOF-Watch is used as the nerve stimulator for both the AMG
      (TOF-Watch) and EMG (T4-EMG) groups. The ability of the T4-EMG device to sense/measure TOF
      ratios is the primary aim of the study (in comparison to the "clinical gold standard"
      TOF-Watch). However, the prototype T4-EMG (as well as the commercial device to be developed)
      will also contain a nerve stimulator (as do all qualitative and quantitative monitors). On a
      subset of patients monitored by the TOF-Watch (10 patients), the stand-alone T4-EMG device
      (single unit containing both the nerve stimulator and sensing/monitoring components) will be
      connected to the same arm and operated independently of the TOF-Watch. Its stimulating
      electrodes will be placed on the surface of the arm adjacent to the TOF-Watch electrodes;
      sensing leads will be placed on the thenar eminence as in the protocol described above. The
      T4-EMG will be set up independently of the TOF-Watch, with its own stimulator adjustment
      being made according to the same protocol as the TOF-Watch adjustment. The T4-EMG will be
      operated to stimulate and record at times selected by the anesthesiologist that do not
      conflict with operation of the TOF-Watch or interfere with other patient care activities.
      Evoked muscle response data will be displayed by the T4-EMG, but amplitude ratios will not be
      computed and it will not be used for direct patient care. The purpose is to demonstrate that
      the device elicits and records evoked muscle responses from surgical patients and to assess
      usability: this is in contrast to the main protocol where the T4-EMG is triggered by the
      TOF-Watch and where comparison of recorded responses is the goal.

      The primary endpoint in the first 33 patients will be an analysis of the agreement between
      the AMG (clinical "gold standard") and EMG devices during neuromuscular recovery. Data will
      be compared between the two devices at AMG-derived TOF ratios values of 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, and
      1.0 (if achieved) during recovery of neuromuscular function. Bias and limits of agreement
      will be calculated at each TOF value.
    
  