
    
      This prospective study have been approved by Taipei Medical University-Joint Institutional
      Review Board. The starting point for each patient is the day of surgery and the end-point is
      1 year after the operation. During bariatric surgery, all patients would undergo a liver
      biopsy under laparoscopic guidance. The diagnosis of NASH and liver fibrosis would be made
      histologically. For histological examinations, liver tissue specimens would be fixed in 10 %
      formalin, embedded in paraffin, and then stained with hematoxylin and eosin. A detailed
      history wound be obtained including history of alcohol use, type 2 DM, hypertension, or
      hyperlipidemia. Written informed consents would be obtained from all patients who would agree
      to undergo surgery. A histologic assessment would be planned approximately 1 year after
      bariatric surgery, if patient would agree.

      In this study, excess weight loss (EWL) is defined as the excess weight over the ideal body
      weight calculated according to the Metropolitan Life Weight Tables. The weight reduction
      success would be defined as the percentage of excess weight loss (%EWL) >50% at the point of
      1 year after operation. Diagnosis and classification of type 2 DM is based on criteria
      established by the American Diabetes Association. The individual components of glycemic
      control (levels of serum glucose, HbA1c levels) body weight, waist circumference, and blood
      pressure would be examined. Additionally, the levels of total cholesterol, LDL-C,
      triglyceride, uric acid, aspartate aminotransferase (AST),alanine aminotransferase (ALT),
      albumin, insulin, C-peptide, iron, calcium, complete blood cell counts would be assessed 1
      day before surgery and 12 months post-operatively. All patients would receive abdominal
      ultrasonography, duplex doppler ultrasonography, transient elastography (FibroScan®) before
      and 12 months after bariatric surgery. The diagnosis accuracy of transient elastography
      (FibroScan®) would be validated. Transient elastography (FibroScan®) appears to be a
      non-invasive, reproducible, and reliable method for predicting liver fibrosis, in patients
      with hepatitis B virus, hepatitis C virus, NAFLD and alcoholic liver disease.

      Patients body weight would be measured in light clothing without shoes to the nearest 0.1 kg,
      and body height would be measured to the nearest 0.1 cm. BMI is calculated as weight in
      kilograms divided by height in meters squared. Waist circumference would be measured midway
      between the lateral lower rib margin and the superior anterior iliac crest.
    
  