
    
      Objective: This project, Molecular Genetics of Retinal Degenerations will study the
      inheritance of genetic retinal degenerations, both Mendelian and complex, in families of many
      nationalities and ethnic backgrounds in order to identify the genes that, when mutated, cause
      retinal degenerations and the pathophysiology through which they act.

      Study Population: The number of subjects to be enrolled has no logical upper limit, but will
      be at least 250 and below 5,000 during the next 5 years. The study consists of ascertaining
      individuals, and especially families with multiple individuals, affected by retinal
      degenerations including retinitis pigmentosa (RP) and also other closely related retinal
      degenerations such as Usher syndrome (USH) and Bietti crystalline dystrophy (BCD).

      Design: These patients and their families will undergo detailed ophthalmological examinations
      and, where indicated, additional non-investigational examinations to characterize their
      retinal degeneration and determine their affectation status. A blood sample will be collected
      from each individual for isolation of DNA and in some individuals for lymphoblastoid
      transformation to establish a renewable source of DNA. Linkage analysis, association
      analysis, physical mapping, and mutational screening will be carried out to identify the
      specific gene and the mutations in it that are associated with retinal degenerations in this
      family. If necessary, the gene product will be characterized biochemically.

      Outcome Measures: Linkage will be determines using the lod score method and mutations in
      specific genes will be assessed using a combination of residue conservation, blosum score,
      and molecular modeling. Association will be determined using chi-square and Fisher exact
      tests. Biochemical, metabolic, and physiological effects will be individualized to the
      specific assay.
    
  