
    
      The advent of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has revolutionised the treatment
      of HIV disease, with both patients and physicians enjoying the marked reductions in HIV
      related morbidity and mortality. However, as long term therapeutic success has become a
      realistic goal of treatment, there are increasing reports of toxicities associated with
      therapy.

      Indeed since the advent of HAART the major reason for change in therapy has not been a lack
      of efficacy associated with drug regimens but the toxicity associated with individual agents.
      Although the potential adverse events associated with antiretrovirals are manifold there are
      signature treatment-limiting toxicities associated with particular agents such as EFV and
      CNS/neuropsychiatric adverse events, LPV/r and gastrointestinal toxicity and ATV/r and
      jaundice.

      A recent study performed at the Chelsea and Westminster hospital showed that 61% of regimen
      switches were due to toxicity and the majority of these occurred after 12 weeks of therapy.

      Darunavir is a recently licensed protease inhibitor which requires ritonavir
      boosting.Currently DRV/r is licensed for use in treatment-experienced individuals. In
      triple-class experienced patients ritonavir boosted darunavir has been associated with
      greater viral load reductions when combined with optimized background (OB) than OB alone. A
      study of PI experienced patients randomized to receive Kaletra or ritonavir boosted darunavir
      with optimised background therapy showed significantly higher rates of virological
      suppression in the DRV/r arm; rates of toxicities were similar overall but less diarrhoea in
      the DRV/r than the Kaletra arm. Darunavir is licensed twice daily and has a high barrier to
      the development of resistance. DRV/r dosed at 800/100mg once daily has been compared with
      LPV/r in treatment-naïve subjects. DRV/r was non-inferior to LPV/r overall and performed
      significantly better than LPV once daily and in subjects with a high baseline viral load.
      DRV/r and LPV/r have also been compared head to head in 'early'treatment-experienced patients
      (failing first or second line therapy but LPV-naive). Overall DRV/r exhibited superiority to
      LPV/r with 77% and 67% achieving viral suppression to less than 50 copies/ml by
      intent-to-treat analysis respectively (95% confidence interval for the difference 2-17%; p
      <0.0001). Animal studies have shown a low risk of teratogenesis associated with DRV.

      This study aims to investigate whether substitution of NNRTI/PI with ritonavir boosted
      darunavir leads to resolution of toxicity associated with these drugs, continued virological
      suppression and immunological reconstitution and whether this is associated with an
      improvement in quality of life.
    
  