
    
      1.0 STUDY OBJECTIVES

      1.1. To evaluate the efficacy of allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) in
      patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) either who have achieved complete remission
      (CR) after induction chemotherapy or who experienced recurrent leukemia then achieved second
      CR after salvage chemotherapy. The efficacy of the treatment will be measured in terms of the
      frequency of relapse after HCT and the duration of remission (the primary endpoints).

      1.2. The secondary end points of the study include; engraftment (absolute neutrophil count
      over 500/㎕, unsupported platelet count over 20,000/㎕), donor chimerism at 2 and 4 weeks after
      HCT, secondary graft failure, acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), lymphocyte
      subset recovery at 1, 2, 3, 6, and 12 months, cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation/CMV disease,
      Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) reactivation/post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder,
      transplantation-related mortality (100 day, 1 year), leukemia free survival, and overall
      survival.

      1. 3. The hematopoietic cell donors in the study will include; HLA-matched sibling donors,
      HLA-matched unrelated donors, and HLA-mismatched family members, so that the majority of
      patients who achieve CR after induction or salvage chemotherapy will undergo allogeneic HCT
      as a part of consolidation therapy.

      2.0 BACKGROUND INFORMATION

      2.1. ALL is a malignant disorder characterized by the rapid proliferation of immature
      lymphocytes, which results in the accumulation and infiltration of neoplastic lymphocytes in
      the blood/bone marrow and other tissues. Allogeneic HCT is a curative therapeutic modality
      for a significant proportion of patients with ALL. Allogeneic HCT from HLA-matched sibling
      donors can produced long-term leukemia free survival in patients with ALL in high-risk first
      CR or second CR.(1) In adults with standard-risk ALL, the greatest benefit is achieved from a
      matched sibling allogeneic transplantation when compared to autologous transplantation or
      consolidation/maintenance therapy in the first CR status.(2)

      2.2. Wider application of allogeneic HCT in patients with ALL, however, is impeded by limited
      donor availability. Less than a third of patients who need allogeneic HCT will have a
      HLA-matched sibling who can donate hematopoietic cells. For those patients who do not have an
      HLA-matched donor in the family, provided that they do not carry rare or private
      HLA-haplotype, HLA-matched unrelated donor can be found.(3) The chance of finding a willing
      unrelated donor in Korea is about 50%. On the other hand, nearly all patients who are in the
      need of allogeneic HCT have at least one HLA-haploidentical familial member, who is most
      willing to give hematopoietic cells immediately, not only for the initial transplantation,
      but also for the subsequent additional donations, if those became necessary. Early attempts
      to transplant allogeneic hematopoietic cells across the barriers of HLA-haplotype difference
      was met with high frequencies of engraftment failure and severe graft-versus-host disease
      (GVHD).(4, 5) Depletion of donor T cells from the graft before HCT decreased the frequency
      and severity of GVHD. However, it resulted in increased graft failure, delayed immune
      reconstitution, and increased fatal infections.(6-8) Further efforts to improve the outcomes
      of HLA-mismatched familial donor HCT included use of polyclonal(9, 10) or monoclonal
      antibodies(11, 12) against T cell as a part of conditioning regimen (in vivo-T cell
      depletion) and incorporation of the concept of feto-maternal immune tolerance in the donor
      selection process among several available HLA-haploidentical family members.(13)

      2.3. In addition to aforementioned approaches, use of RIC in the setting of HLA-mismatched
      familial donor HCT has been explored. Various RIC regimens, utilizing total body irradiation
      (TBI),(14, 15) busulfan,(16, 17) or melphalan,(18) along with fludarabine, have been shown to
      be effective in achieving successful engraftment with less transplantation-related mortality
      (TRM), especially in elderly patients and in patients with organ dysfunctions, in the setting
      of HLA-matched donor HCT. These findings showed that under adequate immunosuppression, but
      not necessarily myeloablation, of the patients, donor hematopoietic cells can engraft and
      complete donor hematopoietic chimerism can be achieved. There are data that suggest the same
      principle may be extended to HLA-mismatched HCT settings as well. Successful engraftment of
      allogeneic hematopoietic cells across HLA-haplotype difference has been well-documented after
      RIC in animal models,(19-21) and in infants with severe combined immunodeficiency
      syndrome.(22, 23) In adult patient with hematologic malignancies, several studies involving
      small number of patients showed feasibility of successful engraftment of hematopoietic cell
      graft from HLA-haploidentical familial donor after RIC.(24-27)

      2.4. Data generated in our hospital enhance the evidence of feasibility of hematopoietic
      engraftment across the HLA-haplotype barrier in adult patients after RIC.(28) Between April
      2004 and February 2008, 31 patients (including 21 patients with acute leukemia) underwent
      HLA-haploidentical HCT after RIC of busulfan, fludarabine, and ATG and all 28 evaluable
      patients achieved engraftment with absolute lymphocyte count (ANC) over 500/㎕ on median day
      16.5. As early as 2 weeks after HCT, 22 of 24 evaluated patients showed complete donor
      chimerism of 95% or over. None of the patients in the study experienced secondary graft
      failure. While achieving consistent and durable donor cell engraftment, the cumulative
      incidences of grades 2-4 acute and chronic GVHD were 19%, and 20%, respectively.

      2.5. Between May 2008 and May 2009, 31 additional patients with acute leukemia were treated
      with HLA-mismatched HCT using the same treatment strategy as in the aforementioned study. As
      such, the data of 52 patients are now available. There were 24 male and 28 female with median
      age of 39.5 years (range, 16-70). Thirty-seven patients had AML, 13 ALL, and 2 acute mixed
      lineage leukemia. Ten patients were in first CR status, 15 in second or third CR status, and
      27 had refractory disease. The donors were either offsprings (n=23), mothers (n=16), or
      siblings (n=13) of the patients and their median age was 37 years (range, 3-68). The
      conditioning regimen for HCT included busulfan in reduced-dose, fludarabine, and
      antithymocyte globulin. GVHD prophylaxis was given with cyclosporine and methotrexate. Other
      than 4 patients who experienced leukemia progression within 30 days of HCT or died early, all
      the rest 48 patients achieved donor cell engraftment with absolute neutrophil count (ANC)
      >500/㎕ on median 14.5 days (range, 10-27). One patient experienced secondary graft failure
      subsequently. Cumulative incidence rates for acute GVHD grade 2-4 and chronic GVHD were 10%
      (95% CI, 4%-23%) and 33% (95% CI, 22%-51%), respectively. Cumulative incidence rates of
      leukemia progression/recurrence were 13%, 41%, and 77% for patients in CR1, CR2-3, and
      refractory leukemia at the time of HCT. In all, five patients in the series died without
      leukemia progression/recurrence giving transplantation-related mortality (TRM) rate of 12%
      (95% CI, 5%-29%). Kaplan-Meier event-free survival and overall survival rates were 44% and
      50% for patients in CR1 at HCT, 40% and 23% for patients in CR2-3, and 10% and 15% for
      patients with refractory leukemia. These results showed that HCT from an HLA-mismatched
      family member can be performed in patients with acute leukemia successfully without increased
      GVHD or TRM.

      2.6. In our current prospective study, we try to integrate HLA-mismatched HCT in overall care
      of patients with ALL in the first or second CR. In the past, those patients without an
      HLA-matched donor in the family or unrelated donor registry were not offered allogeneic HCT.
      The outcomes of HCT will be analyzed according to several clinical variables such as patient,
      disease, and donor characteristics.
    
  