
    
      The 'HomeTeam will be developed and evaluated by completing 3 specific aims:

      Aim #1: Develop components of a multi-faceted program (HomeTeam) that consolidates
      evidence-based practices in patient and family activation and engagement related to
      medication safety, with the goal to adequately and reliably support transitions from the
      hospital to the patient home "work system" for medication management. Inpatient stays and the
      hospital discharge periods will be targeted as opportunities in activating, engaging, and
      enabling patients and family members to improve medication safety.

      (1a) Identify evidence-based practices in patient and family activation and engagement
      related to medication safety during care transitions.

        1. b) Develop program components (e.g., action-oriented patient/ family education, improved
           medication reconciliation, patient-centered rounds, learning systems through systematic
           feedback from home care professionals)-including tools to assess, prioritize,
           streamline, and integrate existing practices- aimed at engaging patients and families
           and supporting medication use safety during care transitions from hospital to home with
           a participatory design (PD) approach.

           Aim #2: Refine and implement the HomeTeam program in two organizations (one academic,
           one community hospital), with a peer-to-peer assessment methodology to identify and
           refine patient and family engagement practices for transitional care medication safety.

        2. a) Refine HomeTeam program through participatory design approach and peer-to-peer
           assessment

      (2b) Implement and pilot test HomeTeam in all participating sites

      Aim #3: Evaluate the implementation process and the impact of the toolkit 'HomeTeam' on
      medication safety after hospital discharge. Investigators will use a pre-post design to
      evaluate the impact of the toolkit over a one year period, focusing on 65 years of age and
      older medicine patients. The primary outcome is preventable and ameliorable adverse drug
      events (ADEs) after discharge. Secondary outcomes include 30-day post-discharge readmissions
      and ED visits due to medication-related issues process improvement assessment,
      patient-reported outcomes, and toolkit adoption assessment (e.g., acceptability,
      feasibility). Qualitative methods (post-implementation interviews with clinicians and
      patient/ family members) will be used as part of the evaluation.

      Hypothesis: Investigators hypothesize that the HomeTeam Medication Safety Program will reduce
      preventable and ameliorable post-discharge 30-day ADEs in the following subpopulations: older
      adults with at least 5 medications discharged from hospital to home on (H01) anticoagulants,
      (H0b) opioids, (H0c) diabetes agents.

      The project will be conducted in two hospitals: Bayview Medical Center (academic) and Howard
      County Medical Center (community). Dissemination plans include national medication safety
      organizations (e.g., Institute for Safe Medication Practices), patient safety organizations
      (e.g., Batz Patient Safety Foundation), and professional societies (e.g., Society of Hospital
      Medicine). Different dissemination modalities are planned, including story-telling through
      social media and short videos targeted for patients and clinicians.
    
  