
    
      Primary Investigate the presence of hypotonic anal sphincter after anorectal dilatation and
      HiFU procedure

      Secondary

        1. Detect the presence of fecal incontinence

        2. Demonstrate the absence of alterations in the fecal pattern

        3. Detect alterations in rectal filling sensation and e evacuation desire

        4. Evaluate anal pain

      PATIENTS AND METHODS Thirty (30) consecutive patients indicated for treatment of prostate
      cancer with HIFU (FocalOneR, Edap TMS, France) will be selected. The specific inclusion and
      exclusion criteria are specified below. All should present the diagnosis of usual acinar
      adenocarcinoma of prostate Gleason score 6 (3 + 3) or Gleason 7 (3 + 4). No patient may have
      PSA greater than 10.0. A digital prostate exam should show prostate-restricted disease. The
      clinical staging should be ≤ cT2a. There will be no age limit for inclusion. Patients may not
      have anatomical, functional or pathological alterations of the anal canal and rectus or
      history of anorectal trauma and may not have a diagnosis of psychoneurologic diseases, such
      as: Depression, Stroke, Schizophrenia, Degenerative Neurological Diseases or others.

      All patients will be submitted to the manometry study the week prior to HIFU together with
      the application of specific questionnaires (Cleveland Clinic Incontinence Score-CCIS, Fecal
      Incontinence Quality of Life Score-FIQLS, and Rome IV for functional constipation. This
      examination will be conducted in a friendly environment and by experienced professionals.

      Patients who met the inclusion and exclusion criteria and who signed the informed consent
      form will be linked to the study.

      REALIZATION OF HIFU, MANOMETRY AND QUESTIONNAIRES All patients treated with HIFU should have
      prostate volume less than 40g for treatment of hemigland or 30g for whole gland treatments.
      Patients will have rectal cleansing for 3 to 6 hours prior to the procedure and will be
      treated according to the FocalOneR treatment protocol, with general anesthesia and bladder
      catheterization with Foley 16 or 18 Fr catheter. After general anesthesia and positioning,
      digital dilatation of the anal sphincter and introduction of the HIFU probe will be
      performed. With the end of treatment, the probe is withdrawn, and the patient awake from the
      anesthesia. In the anesthetic recovery room will be applied the visual pain scale that will
      also be applied at the time of hospital discharge and on the thirtieth day of the procedure.
      Patients may receive common analgesics as needed.

      To perform the manometry examination it is necessary that the patient is awake, without
      effect of sedatives and cooperating with examination. A suppository will be used to clean the
      rectum 3 to 4 hours prior to the examination. And the pressures of rest and voluntary
      contraction of the anal sphincter will be evaluated, as well as the behavior of the pubortal
      muscle during the evacuation maneuver. Retinal inhibitory reflex (RIRA), sensitivity and
      rectal capacity will also be evaluated.

      Questionnaires that evaluate the pre and post HIFU anal physiology will also be applied at
      the time of manometry.

      PLACE OF ACHIEVEMENT OF RESEARCH AND FINANCIAL RESOURCES The selected patients will perform
      the tests of manometry, the HIFU procedure, the follow-up and treatment of possible
      complications in the Hospital of Transplants Euryclides de Jesus Zerbini (Hospital
      Brigadeiro) through the Unique Health System (UHS/SUS). This research does not have any
      private financial support. The funds will come from the SUS and there will be no excess
      expenses to the SUS.

      THE SAMPLE AND TIME OF RECRUITMENT Thirty (30) consecutive patients will be selected, with
      indication of treatment of malignant neoplasm of the prostate by the HIFU method, and that
      they respect the criteria of inclusion and exclusion. The estimated time for recruitment of
      the completed sample is 30 days. And the deadline for the entire study will be 60 days from
      the start of the study.

      STATISTIC Statistical analysis will be performed with the help of SPSS 17.0 for Windows.
      Results such as mean, median and prevalence will be calculated. The significance level
      adopted will be 0.05.

      COSTS All manometry examinations will be performed at the Paulista Endoscopy Center (CPE -
      CNPJ: 48.109.011 / 0001-30). The CPE will make available all the physical structure,
      employees, trained doctors and materials needed to perform the manometry exams. Patients will
      be asked to attend CPE (Rua Cincinato Braga, 37, CJ. 12, 1st floor, Bela Vista, SP) and NO
      COST TO THE BRIGADEIRO HOSPITAL, FOR PATIENTS AND / OR RESEARCHERS.

      RISK ANALYSIS, PROTECTION MEASURES AND SUSPENSION OF RESEARCH This research does not involve
      any experimental procedure. The treatment of patients with HIFU is already established with
      specific cancer survival results found in the literature for 10 years (7, 8).

      The manometry exam is a very safe technique and practically free of complications. In very
      rare cases, small rectal bleeding of spontaneous resolution, low intensity pain in the anal
      region, and very rarely, perforation of the rectal mucosa may occur with the need for
      surgery. (19) In any case, the presence of complications will be treated at the Brigadeiro
      Hospital, which has urologists 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. In addition, the Brigadeiro
      Hospital has emergency room for patients 24/7 with clinicians on call and support general
      surgery staff. The patients will be instructed to return immediately to the Hospital in case
      of any complications, where they will be attended by a doctor of the urology team and
      communicated the occurrence to the researchers.
    
  