
    
      Introduction: Asthma is a chronic respiratory disorder primarily driven by increased airway
      inflammation. It is one of the most prevalent chronic conditions affecting Canadians. It is
      the most common chronic illness affecting children and the fourth most common disorders
      affecting adults. In 2001, nearly 2.2 million (8.4%) Canadians were diagnosed as having
      asthma. More importantly, asthma is an escalating medical problem in Canada, e.g., between
      1994 and 2001, there was a 40% increase in the number of Canadians with asthma. Not only is
      the prevalence of asthma increasing, but there has been a rapid rise in the morbidity and
      costs associated with asthma and its poor control. The WHO estimated that the global cost of
      caring for asthma exceeds that of AIDS/HIV and tuberculosis combined. Though recent
      guidelines have emphasized the importance of improving asthma control and quality of life,
      leading to huge amounts of resource being dedicated to this, more than 50% of adult patients
      with asthma remain poorly controlled. As current treatment strategies appear to be failing,
      it is important to target simple, cost effective interventions that are applicable for most
      patients with asthma and will increase overall levels of control and decrease asthma
      morbidity. There is evidence to suggest that aerobic exercise may improve asthma symptoms and
      control in children. In addition, there is evidence that exercise directly improves
      inflammatory and immune profiles in non-asthma patients, which may provide the mechanism by
      which exercise could improve asthma. However, there are no known studies that have
      systematically assessed the effects of aerobic exercise on asthma control, quality of life or
      immune function in adult asthma populations.

      Objective: The primary objective of the current application is to assess the efficacy of
      aerobic exercise as an intervention to improve asthma control and quality of life in adult
      patients with asthma. The results of this study will provide data that will inform physicians
      and members of the Thoracic community about the benefits of exercise for asthma. The study
      will also assess potential inflammatory pathways by which exercise may elicit improvements in
      asthma morbidity. The results of this study should be available for the next Canadian
      Thoracic Society Canadian Adult Consensus Guidelines.

      Methodology: The current proposal is for a study of aerobic exercise in sedentary patients
      with poorly controlled asthma. In addition to usual care, 52 patients will undertake
      supervised aerobic exercise. The exercise program will consist of 3 X 1hr sessions of
      supervised exercise per week for 12 weeks. The exercise routine, under medical supervision,
      will consist of 10 minutes of warm up exercises, 40 minutes of biking and/or walking (and
      eventually jogging), and 10 minutes of cool down exercises. These patients will be compared
      to a group of 52 patients who will follow their usual regimen, this group will be offered the
      exercise programme once they have completed the post assessments. For the primary outcomes
      (asthma control [Asthma Control Questionnaire], quality of life [Asthma Quality of Life
      Questionnaire]) and secondary outcomes (inflammatory profile) will be evaluated at baseline
      and after 12 weeks (the length of the treatment). To check the efficacy of the intervention
      both lung function, ambulatory peak flow, and exercise tolerance data will also be collected.
      Repeated measures analysis of covariance-type models with time (pre, post intervention) as
      the within subject factor, group (exercise, usual care) as the between factor, and sex, age,
      and asthma severity as the covariates will be used for the primary outcome variables. To
      assess the potential mechanistic role of inflammation on the exercise-asthma relationship a
      series of regression-like GLMs will be conducted.

      It is hypothesized that: (1) The exercise intervention will result in clinically and
      statistically significant improvements in levels of asthma control and asthma quality of
      life; (2) The exercise intervention will result in clinically and statistically significant
      improvements in inflammatory profiles, with reductions in Th2 cytokines, and activation of
      inflammatory cells, and increases in Th1 cytokines; and (3) Changes in inflammatory profile
      will be directly linked to improvements in asthma measures.

      We believe that the proposal will have great clinical significance for patient management.
      This project will be the first to systematically evaluate the benefits of exercise training
      on asthma control and quality of life in adult asthma patients. We anticipate that the
      results of this study will form the basis for new national and international guidelines and
      will provide an evidence-based background for physicians to prescribe aerobic exercise for
      patients with asthma.
    
  