
    
      Lichen planus is an inflammatory disorder that affects skin, mucous membranes (the skin in
      the mouth and vagina), nails, and hair. It is thought that T-cells (cells that help fight
      infection) become activated and multiply faster than normal and that this contributes to the
      development of the skin sores.

      Alefacept works by slowing the rate at which T-cells become activated and helps to decrease
      the number of T-cells. By blocking the activity and decreasing the number of T-cells
      Alefacept may help improve the disease and decrease the sores on the skin.

      Participants in this study will be randomly assigned to receive either alefacept or a
      placebo. A placebo looks just like the study drug but contains no active medication. Placebos
      help study doctors find out if the effects of the study drug are due to the drug itself or
      just because of being in the study. This type of study design helps measure the true
      effectiveness of a treatment. Participants have a 1 out of 2 chance of receiving alefacept
      and a 1 out of 2 chance of receiving placebo. Neither participants nor the study doctors will
      know which group participants have been assigned to.

      The researchers expect to enroll 26 subjects in this study at research sites in the U.S.
      About 16 subjects will be enrolled at Brigham and Women's Hospital and Massachusetts General
      Hospital.

      Biogen Idec., Inc. is the maker of alefacept and is the sponsor of this study.

      If taking part in another research study or have taken part in a research study in the last
      28 days, individuals will not be able to take part in this study. Patients cannot be on
      multiple studies simultaneously; however, exceptions are made for non-invasive,
      non-interventional, and observational studies.

      This study will last 24 weeks, with a total of 16 visits; screening week 0 (baseline), weeks
      1-12, week 16 and week 24. Participants will not be allowed to use any oral or injectable
      medications for lichen planus during this study. Participants also will not be allowed to use
      certain creams for lichen planus during the study. The study consists of weekly injections of
      the medication for 12 weeks and then a 12 week follow up period.

      All participants must be at least 18 years of age with a diagnosis of moderate to severe
      mucosal lichen planus. Neither pregnant nor nursing women will be included in the study.
    
  