
    
      Background The ability to control a patient's body temperature under a wide variety of
      conditions is extremely important, and is of particular importance after CA. TH targeted to
      32-34°C as a targeted temperature management (TTM) demonstrably improves outcomes in at least
      two clinical conditions: adults resuscitated from CA and neonates suffering from hypoxic
      ischemic encephalopathy.1-7 TH is recommended for CA patients by major organizations that
      provide resuscitation guidelines, including the American Heart Association, the European
      Resuscitation Council, and the International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation.8-10 This
      indication was confirmed by a non-expert jury who provided clinical recommendations for five
      professional and international critical care societies (the American Thoracic Society, the
      European Respiratory Society, the European Society of Intensive Care Medicine, the Society of
      Critical Care Medicine, and the Société de Réanimation de Langue Française): the jury
      strongly recommends TTM to a target of 32-34°C as the preferred treatment (vs. unstructured
      temperature management) of out-of-hospital adult CA victims with a first registered
      electrocardiography rhythm of ventricular fibrillation or pulseless ventricular tachycardia
      and still unconscious after restoration of spontaneous circulation.11 Additional evidence
      exists, albeit lower level, for use of TH for comatose survivors of CA initially associated
      with non-shockable rhythms.8-10 The debate regarding the optimal level of TTM has been
      recently evaluated in a large randomized controlled trial comparing 2 different levels of TTM
      performed during 28 hours.12 In this study similar results regarding neuroprotection and
      survival have been obtained using either a 36°C target or a 33°C target (i.e. "real" TH).13
      Consequently these 2 different levels of TTM can be used as it have been recently recalled by
      experts in the field. These treatments should be started as soon as possible, especially
      within the first 4 hours after CA. However this delay could be prolonged until 6 to 10 hours
      after CA.8-11 To date, however, available modalities for inducing precise TTM and TH have a
      number of technical, logistical, and financial barriers, including difficulties in placement,
      risks of use (such as needle sticks, infections, blood clots, and skin damage), and high
      cost. The Esophageal Cooling Device (ECD) is a disposable device that potentially improves
      the effectiveness of 32-34°C targeted TH while minimizing the risks of other existing methods
      such as invasive methods.14 The ECD is a multichambered silicone heat exchanger that is
      placed in the esophagus to provide highly efficient heat transfer to a patient while
      simultaneously maintaining access to the stomach to allow gastric suctioning, decompression,
      and drainage, as usually performed in such patients hospitalized in ICUs. The esophagus is in
      close proximity to blood flow from the heart and great vessels, and the ECD is designed to
      take advantage of this heat exchange environment. The ECD's ability to decompress the stomach
      and avoid distention of the esophagus away from the device ensures good contact with the
      esophageal mucosa, and thus maximizes heat transfer from the patient. The ECD replaces the
      standard gastric tube which is placed in the target patient population as a routine standard
      of care, is made of standard medical-grade silicone, and is generally similar in size and
      shape to the gastric tubes currently used. Initial mathematical and animal studies have shown
      strong support for the efficacy and safety of the ECD.14-16

      Study design: Prospective, interventional study evaluating the feasibility (efficacy) and
      safety of the ECD in patients resuscitated from CA and treated with TH.

      Patient population: Patient population will consist of patients suffering resuscitated
      out-of-hospital or in-hospital CA with stable return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) and
      hemodynamic conditions with an indication to TH implementation according to standard
      recommendations.

      Data collection: All clinical and biological parameters will be recorded according to the
      Utstein-style recommendations for reporting resuscitation outcomes. Neurologic outcome will
      be assessed according to the Cerebral Performance Category (CPC) score. Initial temperatures
      will be measured via a tympanic and naso-pharyngeal temperature sensors in the prehospital
      field and the inhospital cath-lab respectively. Continuous temperature measurement
      (specifically during cooling, maintenance, and rewarming) will be measured by bladder
      temperature sensors, and arterial temperature monitoring (Picco®) if available. Time of ECD
      placement and potential side effects will be recorded.

      Specific treatment: The placement of the ECD will follow standard recommendations as per
      Instructions for Use. The ECD will be connected to the Gaymar console (Meditherm III, Gamida,
      France). In our institution, TH is performed in all patients resuscitated from an OHCA except
      those presenting exclusion criteria. TH can be initiated as soon as possible by
      administration of cold saline at 4°C if necessary followed by application of the available
      cooling device (blankets, endovascular methods, etc) aiming a target temperature of 32-34°C
      for 24 hours as recommended. 8-11,13 For all enrolled patient, the ECD will hereby replace
      the other cooling device usually used in our ICU.

      Other treatments: Standard treatments for resuscitation after CA will follow local, national,
      and international guidelines as previously described. Briefly, core temperature is usually
      measured using esophageal or urinary Foley catheters with thermistor probe (Tyco Healthcare,
      France) and/or arterial temperature monitoring (PiCCO, Pulsion Medical System, France) if
      available and/or necessary. During TH, sedation is performed with continuous infusion of
      midazolam or propofol and sufentanil. Neuromuscular blockade is induced using cisatracurium
      to favor cooling and prevent shivering if necessary. Circulatory function is monitored by
      radial or femoral arterial catheter if necessary and blood pressure is maintained at ≥90mmHg
      systolic and >65mmHg mean arterial pressure. Hypotension is treated with dobutamine and
      norepinephrine or epinephrine titrated to the targeted blood pressure according to the
      cardiac output monitored using echocardiogram, or PiCCO® systems according to the physician
      in charge. Fluid management is left at the discretion of the attending physician.
      Neuromonitoring and prognostication after CA uses serial clinical examinations, biomarkers
      (lactates, creatinine, NSE, S100B protein), transcranial Doppler, daily
      Electro-Encephalo-Gram, cerebral CT-scan or MRI, and Somato-Sensory-Evoked-Potential if
      necessary.

      Statistical analysis:

      Since this is a pilot study a sample size of 15 patients was calculated based on local
      feasibility considerations. This is a non comparative study. Thus the statistical analysis
      will be descriptive. For all quantitative parameters, mean, SD, median and quartiles will be
      calculated. For qualitative parameters, percentage and their two-sided 95% confidence
      intervals will be calculated. All analyses will be made in patients who received the ECD. In
      case of unsuccessful attempt to use the ECD, the patient will be listed.

      Informed consent and ethical considerations: This study will be conducted according to the
      principles of the Declaration of Helsinki of the World Medical Association. The protocol have
      been submitted, modified and accepted by the local Ethics Committee of our local AP-HP
      institution (Institutional Review Board of Paris VI Hospital, Comité de Protection des
      Personnes de GHPS, Paris 12ème, approval CPP/79-14, ID RCB 2014-A01145-42, 10/28/2014).

      Written informed consent will be obtained before inclusion from each patient's next of kin
      when present at patient's admission.. According to French law and our local Ethics Committee
      and because of the short delay to enroll patients, if no family member can be reached before
      inclusion despite systematic researches performed by the physician in charge of the patient
      as soon as patient's admission, a patient presenting inclusion criteria and no exclusion
      criteria can be included in emergency. In all cases, surviving patients without severe
      neurological sequels will give their written informed consent as soon as possible (i.e. when
      awake).

      An approval regarding the use of the ECD from the French committee responsible for the
      devices used in human beings (Agence Nationale de Sécurité du Médicament et des produits de
      santé, N° DMDTP/DMTECH/KB/2014-A01145-42, 9/4/2014) and the CE mark (N° , the 03/24/2014)
      have been specifically obtained separately. Specific insurances are delivered by ACT society
      and its French representing company IST Cardiology (Chubb Insurance Company of Europe SE,
      10/10/2014, protocol 2014-A01145-42).

      This trial has also been declared to the French Informatics' Society (Commission Nationale
      Informatique et Liberté N°1593420).

      References:

        1. HACA. Mild therapeutic hypothermia to improve the neurologic outcome after cardiac
           arrest. N Engl J Med. 2002;346(8):549-556.

        2. Bernard SA, Gray TW, Buist MD, Jones BM, Silvester W, Gutteridge G, et al. Treatment of
           comatose survivors of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest with induced hypothermia. N Engl J
           Med. Feb 21 2002;346(8):557-563.

        3. Shankaran S, Laptook AR, Poole WK. Hypothermia for perinatal asphyxial encephalopathy. N
           Engl J Med. Mar 18 2010;362(11):1051-1052; author reply 1052.

        4. Sinclair HL, Andrews PJ. Bench-to-bedside review: Hypothermia in traumatic brain injury.
           Crit Care. Feb 15 2010;14(1):204.

        5. Froehler MT, Ovbiagele B. Therapeutic hypothermia for acute ischemic stroke. Expert Rev
           Cardiovasc Ther. Apr 2010;8(4):593-603.

        6. Dietrich WD, Bramlett HM. The Evidence for Hypothermia as a Neuroprotectant in Traumatic
           Brain Injury. Neurotherapeutics: The Journal of the American Society for Experimental
           NeuroTherapeutics. 2010;7(1):43-50.

        7. Kelly FE, Nolan JP. The effects of mild induced hypothermia on the myocardium: a
           systematic review. Anaesthesia. May 2010;65(5):505-515.

        8. Peberdy MA, Callaway CW, Neumar RW, Geocadin RG, Zimmerman JL, Donnino M, et al. Part 9:
           post-cardiac arrest care: 2010 American Heart Association Guidelines for Cardiopulmonary
           Resuscitation and Emergency Cardiovascular Care. Circulation. Nov 2 2010;122(18 Suppl
           3):S768-786.

        9. Nolan JP, Neumar RW, Adrie C, Aibiki M, Berg RA, Bottiger BW, et al. Post-cardiac arrest
           syndrome: Epidemiology, pathophysiology, treatment, and prognostication A Scientific
           Statement from the International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation; the American Heart
           Association Emergency Cardiovascular Care Committee; the Council on Cardiovascular
           Surgery and Anesthesia; the Council on Cardiopulmonary, Perioperative, and Critical
           Care; the Council on Clinical Cardiology; the Council on Stroke. Resuscitation.
           2008;79(3):350-379.

       10. Nolan JP, Morley PT, Hoek TL, Hickey RW. Therapeutic hypothermia after cardiac arrest.
           An advisory statement by the Advancement Life support Task Force of the International
           Liaison committee on Resuscitation. Resuscitation. 2003;57(3):231-235.

       11. Nunnally ME, Jaeschke R, Bellingan GJ, Lacroix J, Mourvillier B, Rodriguez-Vega GM, et
           al. Targeted temperature management in critical care: A report and recommendations from
           five professional societies. Crit Care Med. Dec 23 2010.

       12. Nielsen N, Wetterslev J, Cronberg T, et al. Targeted Temperature Management at 33
           degrees C versus 36 degrees C after Cardiac Arrest. N Engl J Med. 2013;369:2197-2206.

       13. ILCOR statement on Nielsen study published in the N Engl J Med.
           http://www.med.upenn.edu/resuscitation/documents/TTMILCOR.pdf

       14. Kulstad E, Metzger AK, Courtney DM, Rees J, Shanley P, Matsuura T, et al. Induction,
           maintenance, and reversal of therapeutic hypothermia with an esophageal heat transfer
           device. Resuscitation. Jul 1 2013.

       15. Kulstad EB, Courtney DM, Waller D. Induction of therapeutic hypothermia via the
           esophagus: a proof of concept study. World J Emerg Med. 2012;3(2):118-122.

       16. Vaicys V, Eason A, Schieber JD, Kulstad EB. Therapeutic hypothermia induction via an
           esophageal route-a computer simulation. Am J Emerg Med. Jul 2012;30(6):932-935.
    
  