
    
      Anxiety disorders begin during childhood and adolescents, are extremely common, but are often
      under-diagnosed and under-treated. If untreated, pediatric anxiety disorders can be chronic
      and impairing into adulthood. The good news is that evidence-based treatments can be highly
      effective in reducing symptoms, and for a good number of children and adolescents, treatment
      can reduce anxiety symptoms to a minimum with marked improvement in function. In the largest
      comparative efficacy study, remission (minimal or no symptoms of anxiety), occurred in about
      65% of children and adolescents treated with a combination of a selective serotonin reuptake
      inhibitor (SSRI) and cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT). In contrast, CBT without an SSRI
      achieved remission in 35% of children at 3 months and 45% at 6 months-a 30% and 20%
      difference, respectively.

      Nonetheless, CBT alone is the preferred treatment of most patients and families. Lack of
      awareness of the significant difference in remission rates and concerns about medication side
      effects may drive patient and family preference, even though SSRIs have a positive safety
      profile.

      In the study described above, CBT was limited in ways that might account for why it was less
      effective. CBT was shorter in duration, had fewer sessions, and less exposure opportunities
      than it was originally designed to have and had less family involvement than more current
      approaches. Given that patients and families prefer CBT, it is important to know if
      combination of CBT and an SSRI is truly superior to CBT only or whether fully implemented CBT
      can close the gap in remission rates with the combination of CBT and an SSRI. The study will
      also provide information about which children and adolescents achieve remission with CBT or
      CBT and an SSRI.

      The Partners in Caring for Anxious Youth (PCAY) study will screen children and adolescents
      ages 7-17 years in pediatric primary care clinics affiliated with three institution: Lurie
      Children's Hospital of Chicago, University of California Los Angeles and University of
      Cincinnati. If a child screens positive with symptoms of an anxiety disorder, the patient and
      family will be offered an opportunity to learn about PCAY. If the family is interested in
      PCAY, a study staff person will provide information and answer any questions. If the patient
      and family want to enroll they will sign a consent form, complete an evaluation, and if
      eligible and willing to move forward, be randomized to either CBT or CBT plus an SSRI. The
      study team will work with the patient and family to connect to a therapist in the community
      to start CBT and if medication is part of treatment, work with the patient's pediatrician to
      begin medication. CBT will include up to 20 session of therapy and medication treatment will
      be a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (either fluoxetine, sertraline or escitalopram).
      The goal of treatment is for the child or adolescent with an anxiety disorder to reach
      remission and have a marked improvement in functioning. The first part of treatment lasts 6
      months and there is then ongoing follow-up for an additional 6 months (12 months total). When
      the study is finished, the investigators hope to know if CBT and an SSRI is really superior
      to fully implemented CBT or not. The results of this study will inform patients, families,
      providers, payors and policy makers on the value of medication when combined with CBT.
    
  