
    
      Patent ductus arterioses (PDA) is a major morbidity encountered in preterm neonates,
      especially in babies less than 28 weeks gestation or 1000g.Natural ductal closure is
      inversely related to gestational age and birth weight. The incidence ranges from 15% to 37%
      in newborn babies less than 1750 grams.The presence of PDA has significant effects on
      myocardial functions as well as systemic and pulmonary blood flow. Preterm newborns adapt, by
      increasing the left ventricular contractility, and thereby maintaining the effective systemic
      blood flow even when the left to right shunts equals 50% of the left ventricular output. This
      is mainly accomplished by an increase in stroke volume (SV)rather than heart rate.This
      increase in stroke volume is primarily due to reduction in afterload and simultaneous
      increase in left ventricular preload. An increasing number of biological substances like
      hormones, enzymes which are markers of cardiac stress, dysfunction or myocardial
      injury-collectively called biomarkers-are emerging as diagnostic and prognostic markers
      especially in the setting of heart failure or ischemic injury. The pharmacological basis for
      medical therapy is the use of non selective cyclo-oxygenase (COX) inhibitors, which inhibits
      prostaglandin synthesis and causes ductal constriction. The two most widely studied and used
      non selective COX inhibitors are indomethacin and ibuprofen. The future of pharmacological
      treatment of PDA could be with the use of nitric oxide inhibitors and prostaglandin receptor
      antagonists. Ibuprofen is an effective choice for the treatment of PDA in preterm infants as
      it has been demonstrated in previous several studies.Since there is a meta-analysis that
      claims there is no need for further studies about ibuprofen prophylaxis to treat PDA in low
      birth weight infants we aimed to evaluate the effect of ibuprofen prophylaxis in very
      extremely low birth weight infants. One such marker emerging in the diagnosis of hs-PDA is
      brain natriuretic peptide (BNP). Natriuretic peptides are hormones, produced either by atria
      (atrial natriuretic peptide-ANP) or by ventricles (BNP) in response to myocardial stress,
      secondary to dilatation, hypertrophy or increased wall tension.One of the aims of this study
      is to investigate the effect of oral prophylactic ibuprofen administration on BNP levels and
      renal functions.
    
  