
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients with stage IIIA non-small cell lung cancer
           treated with surgery with or without radiotherapy versus radiotherapy alone after
           achieving a response to a neoadjuvant chemotherapy regimen containing cisplatin or
           carboplatin.

        -  Compare the progression-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      participating center, response to induction chemotherapy (complete vs partial vs minor), and
      histological subtype (squamous vs nonsquamous).

      All patients receive 3 courses of induction combination chemotherapy comprising cisplatin or
      carboplatin in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with
      complete or partial response (or minor response if disease has become resectable) are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Within 6 weeks of randomization, patients undergo radical lobectomy or
           pneumonectomy plus dissection of the hilar and mediastinal lymph nodes.

      Patients with positive resection margins of at least 1 cm and/or positive mediastinal nodes
      undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 5.5 weeks.

      Patients with postresection subclinical/microscopic disease with negative tumor margins
      undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 4-4.5 weeks.

        -  Arm II: Within 6 weeks of randomization, patients undergo primary radiotherapy. Patients
           with subclinical/microscopic disease with negative tumor margins undergo radiotherapy 5
           days a week for 4-4.5 weeks.

      Patients with gross tumor volume and tumor margins at least 1 cm undergo radiotherapy 5 days
      a week for 6 weeks.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 640 patients will be accrued for this study within 8 years.
    
  