
    
      This home-based randomized clinical trial is designed to test the efficacy of ZA-5 mg in
      Parkinson's disease (PD) and parkinsonism patients. This trial will also address barriers to
      treatment of patients with PD and parkinsonism by providing rigorous evidence about whether
      ZA reduces fracture risk in patients with PD and parkinsonism, simplifying treatment by
      giving ZA at home without extra medical visits and BMD testing, and overcoming poor
      persistence with oral therapies because one infusion may prevent bone loss for at least 2
      years. The outcome of this trial will demonstrate how a home-based fracture prevention can
      reach older PD patients who would not otherwise receive treatment to reduce their high risk
      of fractures.

      Patients with PD will be recruited throughout the US by participating neurologists and health
      networks as well as the Parkinson's Foundation. Patients may also self-refer to the study.
      Interested patients can access study information on a study website
      (topaz.eurekaplatform.org) as well as through the Parkinson's Foundation Helpline. Patients
      who wish to enroll will be directed to an interactive electronic consent (eConsent).
      Following eConsent, participants complete a screening questionnaire (to confirm eligibility),
      followed by a baseline questionnaire. If a participant is determined to be eligible following
      these steps, they may be scheduled for a Telemedicine assessment to further confirm the PD or
      parkinsonism diagnosis, unless they have been referred directly from a participating
      neurologist. If confirmed, the participant will be mailed a supply of vitamin D3 800-1000 IU
      and instructed to take one vitamin D tablet every day for 2 months. Lastly, a Nurse Home
      Visit will be scheduled and conducted to confirm final eligibility, randomization, and
      administration of the study drug, if appropriate. Participants who are randomized will be
      contacted every 4 months for at least 2 years to determine if they have had any fractures.
    
  