
    
      Rationale: In dermatology, many minor surgical and laser procedures are carried out under
      local anesthesia of the skin. Anesthesia using topical formulations is time consuming, as the
      anesthetic has to be applied at least one hour before treatment, and is often only partially
      effective. On the other hand infiltration anesthesia is often associated with discomfort and
      is not tolerated by patients who are for example needle phobic. In the past years, enhanced
      and accelerated penetration of various topically applied substances, including
      photosensitizers, has been proven by pretreatment of the skin with a fractional laser,
      creating a pattern of microscopic ablation craters.(Haedersdal et al., 2010) This improvement
      in drug penetration seems to be regardless of ablation crater depth.(Haak et al., 2012) There
      is limited evidence that transdermal lidocaine absorption can be increased by fractional
      laser pretreatment.(Oni et al., 2012; Oni et al., 2013) These findings might suggest that
      local anesthesia of the skin may be achieved by applying an anesthetic drug topically on a
      skin surface pretreated with a fractional laser. However, little is known about the role of
      the formulation of the topical drug delivered using this method.

      Objective: The primary objective of this study is to assess the analgesic effect of
      fractional carbon dioxide laser assisted delivery of two topical anesthetics (articaine
      hydrochloride 40 mg/ml and epinephrine 10 μg/ml solution (AHES) and EMLA cream) compared to
      application of these anesthetics without fractional laser pretreatment. The secondary
      objective is to compare the efficacy of these two different anesthetics, when applied
      according to the fractional laser drug delivery principle.

      Study design: Prospective, single blinded, randomized, controlled, within subject, pilot
      study.

      Study population: 10 healthy volunteers ≥18 years, who give written informed consent
      Intervention: In each subject, four test regions on subject's back of 1x1 centimeter will be
      randomly allocated in a 2x2 design to (1) ablative fractional laser (AFXL) pretreatment (5%
      density, 2.5 mJ/microbeam) followed by topical application of AHES, (2) AFXL pretreatment
      followed by application of EMLA cream, (3) sham AFXL followed by application of AHES on the
      intact skin and (4) sham AFXL followed by application of EMLA cream on the intact skin. Sham
      AFXL will be done by delivering an AFXL pass at 5% density and 2.5 mJ/microbeam right
      adjacent to the region of AHES or EMLA application on the intact skin. After ten minutes
      incubation time, an AFXL pass will be given as a pain stimulus at each test region with 5%
      density and 35 mJ/microbeam. Subjects will be asked to indicate pain on a visual analogue
      scale (VAS) from 0-10 (0: no pain; 10: worst imaginable pain) directly after each pain
      stimulus.
    
  