
    
      Protocol 1:

      This will explore the first aim. 8 Healthy younger volunteers will be recruited to under go 3
      arms cross over studies. Interventions will include oral and intravenous amino acids, in
      addition to intravenous GLP-1 and glucose dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP).

      8 older subjects also will be recruited for comparison of the response of GI hormones to
      amino acids oral feed between young and older men.

      Therefore the total number will be recruited to perform this protocol is 16.

      Post intervention in all visits, measurements will be taken for:

      Insulin, Amino acids, GLP-1, GIP, Ghrelin and peptide YY (PYY).

      The measurable end points for this protocol are:

        1. Gut hormones levels in response to the 2 methods of AA delivery (I.V and oral)

        2. Differences in gut hormones levels between young and older subjects when AA's are
           delivered orally

      Protocol 2:

      This will explore the second aim. 16 healthy older subjects will be recruited and subdivided
      randomly into two groups to receive either post absorptive or postprandial insulin
      concentrations with or without GLP-1 at physiological ranges in a cross over fashion . During
      acute study parameters of muscle glucose and amino acids metabolism will be tested together
      with muscle microvascular recruitment and macro vascular flow in the tested leg.

      The measurable end points for this protocol are:

        1. Muscle Glucose uptake, assessed by measuring 2-deoxyglucose (2-DOG) phosphate in muscle
           biopsies

        2. Myofibrillar protein synthesis, assessed via muscle biopsy fractional synthesis rate
           (FSR)

        3. Whole Leg Muscle Protein Synthesis, assessed via Arterial-Venous difference (AV method)

        4. Whole Leg Muscle Protein Breakdown, assessed via AV method

        5. Whole Leg Net Protein Balance, assessed via AV method

        6. Muscle microvascular recruitment, assessed via microvascular contrast bubbles filling
           and refilling post destruction by ultrasound waves.
    
  