
    
      Following institutional ethical committee approval, 34 patients undergoing burr-hole surgery
      for chronic subdural hemorrhage were included in this prospective, randomized, double-blind
      study.

      Written informed consent were obtained from all subjects before enrollment in the study.

      During the preanesthetic checkup,the operative procedure and anesthetic techniques were
      explained to all patients.

      Upon arrival to operating theater, standard monitoring were applied to all patients and
      bispectral index was applied before starting the drug infusions and was used for maintenance
      of sedation during operation.

      Subjects were randomized into 2 groups. Magnesium (M) group received Magnesium sulphate
      50mg/kg IV over 15 minutes Followed by continuous infusion at 15 mg/kg/h Fentanyl (F) group
      received fentanyl 1 μg /kg IV bolus over 15 minutes Followed by continuous infusion starting
      at 0.5 μg /kg/h Loading and infusion doses of magnesium sulphate and loading doses of
      fentanyl were chosen from previous studies.

      In both groups fentanyl and magnesium sulphate were accompanied by IV propofol at a dose of
      50- 150 μg /kg/min bolus over 10 minutes to achieve target sedation level, that is, Ramsay
      sedation scale (RSS) 3, if RSS afterwards does not reach 3, a supplementary bolus dose of 0.2
      mg/kg propofol were given to the patients, followed by ( 20-40 μg /kg/ min) to maintain
      Intraoperative level of sedation by bispectral index (BIS ) reading by 60-80 After achieving
      predefined target sedation level (RSS of 3), surgeons infiltrated the sites of the burrholes
      with 20 mL of a local anesthetic solution containing 10 mL of 0.5% bupivacaine and 10 mL of
      2% lidocaine with adrenaline infiltrated locally at least 5 minutes before surgical incision.
      After burr-hole craniotomy followed by the hematoma evacuation is accomplished, the Infusion
      of sedatives were discontinued just after placement of the final skin suture.

      Intraoperative patient's movement is defined as those likely to interfere with surgical
      procedure such as bending of hand and/or leg and movement of head were recorded. The first
      intervention is to attempt patient reassurance for 30 seconds. If movement continues then the
      bolus dose of propofol of 0.5 mg/kg was given and infusion dose was increased in the
      previously described manner till the maximum dose to regain BIS sedation score between 60-80.

      If the patient starts to move again the same sequence was repeated. Induction of general
      anesthesia was deemed the final intervention in case satisfactory condition was not achieved
      within the rescue propofol.

      All patients were transferred to the post-anesthesia care unit (PACU) after surgery.

      The data collected are:

        1. Total amount of Propofol consumption.

        2. Total number of patient movements

        3. The intraoperative and postoperative hemodynamic data

        4. VAS (Visual analogue scale for pain) score

        5. Time to first rescue analgesic

        6. Adverse events

        7. Surgeon satisfaction score was recorded.

      Statistical analysis:

      Data was analyzed using SPSS © Statistics version 23 (IBM© Corp., Armonk, NY, USA).
      Chi-square test (Fisher's exact test) was used to examine the relation between qualitative
      variables. For quantitative data, comparison between the two groups was done using
      independent sample t-test or Mann-Whitney test as appropriate. All tests were two-tailed. A
      p-value < 0.05 was considered significant.

      Sample Size calculation:

      A previous study reported that pre-procedure magnesium sulphate reduced the total propofol
      requirements to 130±19.09 mg compared to 172.8±29.09 mg with pre-procedure fentanyl. Based on
      these results, a sample size of 15 cases in each group was satisfactory to elicit the
      difference at an alpha level of 0.05 and a power of the test of 95%. The sample size was
      increased to 17 per group to compensate for possible dropouts.
    
  