
    
      MedSafer is a Canadian-made electronic tool that automates deprescribing and generates
      individualized, prioritized deprescribing opportunities for older adults based on existing
      evidence from algorithms such as the Beer's criteria and STOPP/START in order to stop
      potentially inappropriate medications. Its clinical content has been in place for over a year
      in a Canadian Institutes for Health Research funded study and has been tested on over 5000
      hospitalized patients. Software output has been analyzed and validated by Canadian experts in
      internal medicine, geriatrics, palliative care, nursing, and pharmacy.

      In the previous study funded by the Canadian Institutes for Health Research (expected total
      recruitment: 6000), while deprescribing reports were generated automatically, data still had
      to be entered manually, by trained research assistants. For this study, the next stage of
      development involved creating an API that could accept medical conditions in the format of
      ICD10 codes and medications as DINs.

      "MedSafer e-Care" addresses the needs of patients and caretakers by facilitating safe
      deprescribing. Deprescribing is time consuming, complex, and not all caretakers (clinicians)
      are trained with the expert knowledge required to cross reference multiple medical conditions
      with often 10 or more medications. "MED e-care" is an EMR (electronic medical record) that
      contains patient medical conditions and medications stored as international disease
      classification codes (ICD10) and drug identification numbers (DIN). The MedSafer team has
      designed an API that cross-references ICD10 codes and DINs against existing evidence-based
      algorithms for safe deprescribing. The API has been tested on a variety of medical conditions
      and medications contained within the MedSafer rule set. This process can overcome barriers to
      stopping medications including caretaker time constraints and knowledge gaps.

      Data packets are processed by the MedSafer API and deprescribing reports are returned to MED
      e-care and displayed to the user on the EMR interface. Reports will be available to
      caretakers (nurses, physicians and pharmacists) who can choose to stop or taper medications
      within the EMR. Opportunities are prioritized based on potential for harm and ease of
      discontinuation, and factor in a measure of patient frailty and life expectancy. When
      necessary, instructions for tapering medications are provided. Links to patient educational
      brochures are included and can be printed for the patient and family detailing harmful
      medications and deprescribing rationale. MED e-care has already entered negotiations with the
      nursing home group OMNI Health Care to recruit at least five and up to 18 of the 18 care
      sites from within the OMNI group of homes across Ontario.

      The estimated duration of the study is 12 months. Deployment will approximate a Stepped Wedge
      Cluster Randomized Trial Design (calculations performed with steppedwedge function in Stata
      v. 15). To accomplish this, at least 10 unique patients would need to be enrolles per ACF
      every 2 months following a 3-month baseline period (minimum total 300 patients).

      The 5 OMNI ACFs will be grouped in 3 clusters. During the control phase, the MedSafer API
      will not be accessible to the caretakers at the ACF. This serves to obtain baseline
      deprescribing levels for each ACF. When the first cluster completes its baseline phase, the
      MedSafer API feature will become accessible in MED e-care for the physicians, pharmacists and
      nurses. Staff at the ACFs will receive a communiqué before entering the intervention phase as
      well as a brief training on how to access this feature in the EMR. Following a 3 month
      intervention period, the 2nd cluster will switch from its baseline phase to intervention. The
      last cluster will enter the intervention phase 3 months after that. Once in the intervention
      phase, users will receive quarterly deprescribing reports for their patients. MED e-care will
      selectively allow access to the MedSafer feature for each site when it is their turn to enter
      the intervention phase.

      Cluster 1: 3 months control + 9 months intervention

      Cluster 2: 6 months control + 6 months intervention

      Cluster 3: 9 months control + 3 months intervention

      During the control phase, residents at the 5 nursing homes or their proxy will be contacted
      by a trained research assistant who will ask them to participate in the study. Their
      participation will consist of a survey regarding their attitude towards deprescribing.

      During the intervention phase, staff at the nursing homes (nurse, pharmacist, physician) will
      be asked to distribute educational brochures regarding medications to patients/proxies, as
      applicable to the medications the patient is taking.

      During the intervention phase, this feature will provide users with individualized and
      prioritized deprescribing opportunities: a) identifying the medication, b) explaining why
      that medication is potentially inappropriate and c) providing instructions on how to safely
      stop/taper the medication. The user will review these opportunities and appropriate candidate
      medications for deprescribing can then be tapered or stopped directly in the EMR.

      Structured feedback about MedSafer deprescribing opportunities is important and imperative to
      optimize success and sustainability of any deprescribing intervention. Working with the user,
      through rapid cycle interventions, the investigators will curate an output that minimizes
      alert fatigue and is acceptable to stakeholders (caretakers/clinicians). Users of the
      MedSafer feature will include physicians, pharmacists and nurses, including nurse
      practitioners, at the 5 OMNI long-term care facilities.
    
  