
    
      Its pathogenesis is not fully understood, nevertheless there is evidence that melanogenesis
      in melasma differ from tanning and post-inflammatory hyperpigmentations as well as there is
      an involvement of the whole epidermal melanin unit in the process (not just hypertrophic
      melanocytes), mastocytes, fibroblast and endothelium derived cytokines, as well as there are
      upper dermal abnormalities different from other acquired pigmentary disorders. Patients with
      melasma have also been found to have higher markers of oxidative stress status.

      Melasma has significant impact on patients physical health, interpersonal relationships
      ,social-well being and self- esteem as they refused to leave their house, felt inferior to
      others, and incessantly thought about their melasma being.

      Melasma is often resistant to treatment and frustrating for both patients and clinician. In
      spite of presence of several methods for treatment of melasma exacted as, Topical compounds
      that include the Kligman's formula which is the triple combination of ( retinoid,
      hydroquinone, and steroid) and azelaic. Chemical peels (e.g., glycolic, β hydroxyl, and
      trichloroacetic acid )although these must be used cautiously in patients with darker skin.
      Laser and Light therapies represent potentially promising options for patients who are
      refractory to other modalities, but they also carry significant risk of worsening the
      disease.

      Recently, some reports refer to the use of metformin in treatment of melasma. Metformin is
      antidiabetic drugs that was shown to exert its biological effect by decreasing cyclic
      adenosine phosphate , which is a well known modulator of melanin synthesis. Metformin
      decreased skin pigmentation in vivo with minimal side effects, suggesting a potential
      application of metformin in the treatment of hyperpigmentation disorders. Where the metformin
      was applied topically onto a mouse tail, whitening of the tail was observed. In addition,
      metformin decreased the epidermal level of melanin when metformin was applied to human skin
      punch biopsies and to reconstructed human epidermis. When melanocytes were treated with
      metformin, basal level of total melanin (eumelanin and pheomelanin) were reduced
      significantly. Also metformin blocked forskolin and alpha melanocyte-stimulating hormone
      which increase the levels of melanin. Metformin decrease levels of tyrosinase,
      tyrosinase-related protein-1 and tyrosinase-related protein-2.
    
  