
    
      Total hip arthroplasty (THA) is the recommended treatment to restore functionality and
      control pain in post-traumatic hip osteoarthritis due to acetabular fractures. However, THA
      in post-traumatic osteoarthritis following acetabular fractures is a complex procedure and it
      is burdened with occasional failures. Modest long-term outcomes have been reported, generally
      lower than conventional THAs performed due to osteonecrosis or primary osteoarthritis:
      10-year clinical results are usually good but not excellent (average Harris Hip score: 88),
      10-year revision rate is between 15% and 26%. In review study about the complications of
      post-traumatic THAs, 30% of ossifications, 4.4% of dislocations, 5.6% of infections, and 2.1%
      of neurovascular lesions were reported: all the percentages were higher than in primary
      conventional THAs.

      The most critical issues are related to the young age of the patients, to the anatomical
      changes affecting the periarticular tissues, to the presence of hardware and to the greater
      exposure to septic complications. All these factors may prevent the surgeon to achieve a good
      cup positioning and a satisfying outcome. However a correct surgical technique, associated
      with meticulous pre-operative planning and the use of low-wear implants can improve the
      clinical result and the long term survival rates.

      However, the literature about mid-to-long-term studies about post-traumatic THAs is scarce
      (currently 5 with an average follow-up of at least 5 years). Furthermore, these studies often
      include outdated implants, positioned with invasive surgical techniques and with removal of
      all previous hardware. Therefore, a long-term study (minimum 10-year follow-up) involving
      more recent implants, with modern articular couplings demonstrating low wear (such as
      ceramic-on-ceramic), and performed with minimally invasive technique and pre-operative
      CT-guided planning, would be desirable.

      The aim of this study is to describe the survival rates and the long-term clinical and
      radiological outcome (minimum 10-year follow-up) of cementless THAs, with ceramic-on-ceramic
      couplings, performed with minimally-invasive technique and CT guided pre-operative planning,
      in post-traumatic osteoarthritis due to acetabular fractures
    
  