
    
      Chronic hepatitis C is one of the most frequent infectious diseases worldwide and a major
      cause of chronic liver disease. At diagnosis, approximately 20 % of patients with chronic
      hepatitis C already have liver cirrhosis.

      Therapy for hepatitis C has meanwhile reached a high level of efficacy and effectiveness: at
      present, about 90 % of patients treated with a combination of peginterferon alfa, ribavirin
      and sofosbuvir for up to 12 weeks will reach a sustained loss of hepatitis C virus.

      Psychiatric side effects of interferon alfa are well known and may require dose reduction or
      even premature discontinuation of therapy.

      As patients on interferon treatment sometimes report concentration or memory impairment that
      in some cases interferes considerably with their capacity to manage the requirements of
      everyday life, the investigators planned and intend to conduct a prospective and longitudinal
      study evaluating - among other parameters - neurocognitive performance before, during, and
      after therapy with an antiviral IFN-free therapy.

      In previously performed scientific work, the investigators were able to show that
      interferon-based combination therapy of chronic hepatitis C may cause reversible impairment
      of neurocognitive performance during treatment period. Moreover, the investigators have
      recently demonstrated that successful IFN-based antiviral treatment (criterion: SVR,
      sustained virological response) leads to significant improvement of relevant aspects of
      attentional and neurocognitive performance. These results indicate that HCV-related
      neurocognitive impairment is potentially reversible.

      Nevertheless, there are still open questions and important issues to be addressed in
      connection with this field of research, especially regarding several aspects IFN-free
      antiviral therapy:

      Questions to be answered:

        -  At least 12 months after the end of successfully performed IFN-free antiviral treatment
           - are psychometrically assessed parameters related to patients' quality of life,
           fatigue, neurocognitive performance, and mood significantly improved as compared to
           pretreatment (i.e., baseline) values?

        -  At least12 months after the end of antiviral treatment, is there a significant
           difference between patients with and without sustained virological response (special to
           historical group of IFN-treated patients without a sustained virological response) with
           respect to neurocognitive performance, emotional state, fatigue and quality of life?

        -  In the absence of a clinically significant liver damage in patients with chronic
           hepatitis C - does the mere presence of the hepatitis C virus have any significant
           influence on neurocognitive or attentional performance? Is it possible to confirm the
           respective findings yielded in the context of former interferon-based treatment
           regimens?

        -  With the current and upcoming IFN-free treatment options - are there still any
           significant therapy-related changes in symptom areas such as neurocognitive performance,
           mood or fatigue?

      Study Design:

      Prospective monocentric study with a longitudinal repeated measures design including
      hepatitis C patients with indication for standard IFN-free antiviral therapy
      (sofosbuvir/daclatasvir +/- ribavirin; sofosbuvir/ledipasvir +/- ribavirin) and a long-term
      follow-up of quality of life, neurocognitive performance, fatigue, and emotional state.
      Planned sample size: n = 30 hepatitis C patients.
    
  