
    
      Age-related hearing loss, or presbycusis, is highly prevalent among the elderly. It can have
      a major impact on the quality of life due to progressive communication difficulties that may
      lead to psychosocial dysfunction and in extreme cases to social isolation and depression.
      Hearing aids and cochlear implants have evolved rapidly over the past decades and may
      strongly improve quality of life in elderly with hearing loss. Nevertheless, it is estimated
      that in the US and Europe only one out of five to six people with substantial hearing loss is
      actually using hearing aids. In fact, nearly 50% of people with hearing loss never underwent
      a hearing test at all. This may be due to denial of illness associated with aging or to
      disbelieve in bene t from hearing aids or cochlear implants. Hearing screening could increase
      awareness of hearing loss among elderly and identify those who might bene t from
      amplification. However, classical audiometry (i.e. pure- tone thresholds and
      speech-recognition in quiet) is not ideal for screening purposes as it is time consuming and
      it requires expensive equipment including a soundproof booth and a calibrated audiometer.

      Over the past decades, several Speech-In-Noise tests were developed to get a better
      assessment of a person's hearing ability in real-life situations. These tests generally
      measure the speech reception threshold (SRT) in dB signal to noise ratio (SNR). SRT is
      determined as the difference between the level of presented speech and background noise at
      which the tested per- son can correctly reproduce 50% of words or sentences. It is now
      generally recognized that the SRT is more representative of a patient's hearing ability in
      real-life situations than pure- tone audiometry or speech recognition in quiet. The Speech-
      In-Noise test, based on spoken sentences, is still being used in clinical practice. However,
      its general use for a broad clinical population has been disputed because not every person is
      able to understand and repeat complete sentences in noise, regardless of his hearing loss.
      This test is there- fore considered as an assessment of the entire auditory system, including
      memory and certain linguistic aspects, rather than of hearing loss alone.

      In 2013, the Digits-In-Noise (DIN) test was developed, overcoming several shortcomings of the
      previous telephone test. It uses, for example, wideband signals instead of the limited
      telephone bandwidth and concatenating digits, spoken by a male voice. The DIN test requires
      listeners to repeat three spoken numbers (a so-called digit triplet) presented through a
      headphone, while a continuous noise is presented synchronously to the same ear. The response
      is then scored correct or incorrect automatically by the computer. Depending on the test
      setting, the response can either be imputed by the listener him- self or by an administrator.
      By using simple digits in a closed set paradigm, the contribution of top-down processing and
      thus the influence of cognitive status is thought to be minimized. For this test, no learning
      effect was detected, low measurement errors were reported (0.7 dB SNR for normal-hearing
      listeners) and high validity was claimed by comparing measured digit- triplet SRTs and
      sentence SRTs. Although SRT-in-noise reflects different aspects of hearing acuity than
      pure-tone thresholds, both measures are also highly correlated. Previously reported
      correlation coefficients vary from 0.77 to 0.86. These studies included populations with a
      wide range of hearing losses, varying from severe to no hearing loss at all.

      Based on this relationship, the DIN test could potentially be used as a screening instrument
      for hearing loss. However, these two studies did not report specifically on a population of
      elderly subjects, and this is one of the main target groups for hearing screening. It is
      important to validate the assumed relationship between SRT-in-noise and hearing loss for this
      particular population with a smartphone, as it may be influenced by general aging, for
      example, a decline in cognitive skills.

      The purpose of this project is to validate a quick, easy-to-use and administer smartphone
      hearing-in-noise test. The app (called HearMe) can potentially be used to easily and quickly
      collect hearing-in-noise and speech-in-noise measurements. The smartphone app developed is a
      hearing-in-noise test that presents the subject with a series of stimuli consisting of a
      spoken three-digit sequence presented at a varying hearing-to-noise ratio. For each stimulus
      presentation, the user tap the three-digit sequence. The duration of the app is less than 3
      minutes. For this project we will test at least 50 participants with hearing loss and 50
      control subjects between the ages of 18-80. The participants will be invited to take the app.
      The approach for this pilot study is to characterize hearing-in-noise thresholds (also
      referred to as a speech-reception threshold) as measured by the app in both participant
      groups, and relate it to the phenotype of each group as a preliminary evaluation of the app
      as well as a preliminary validation against their routinely collected measurements of hearing
      function (pure-tone audiometry thresholds).

      With this study, the investigators aim to evaluate the developed smartphone HINT/DIN test for
      its ability to screen the elderly for hearing loss. The investigators hope to examine the
      relationship between pure-tone thresholds and SRT-in-noise as measured by the HearMe
      smartphone application.
    
  