
    
      The primary objectives of this study are to:

        1. determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) of
           escalating doses of Chemophase in combination with mitomycin (mitomycin C, MMC)
           administered as weekly intravesical instillations for five weeks, and

        2. establish the dose of Chemophase with MMC recommended for future studies.

      The secondary objectives of this study are to:

        1. assess the pharmacokinetics of intravesical administration of MMC alone and in
           combination with intravesical administration of Chemophase,

        2. for those patients treated at the MTD, assess the safety and tolerability of
           intravesical administration of MMC with Chemophase over up to 7 additional maintenance
           treatments every 3 months following the initial six weekly instillations, and

        3. observe patients for any preliminary evidence of anti-tumor activity of MMC and
           Chemophase when combined.

      Study patients will receive six (6) weekly study treatments (at Weeks 1 through 6) followed
      by post-treatment evaluations, at Weeks 8 and 12. The 12 patients treated at MTD will
      continue to receive combination therapy every three months until the end of Year 2 or until
      the time of documented tumor recurrence, whichever occurs first. For other patients,
      long-term follow-up after Week 12 will consist of disease monitoring of patients by telephone
      and will be performed every three (3) months beginning three months after last study
      treatment for two years and then every six (6) months thereafter, until bladder tumor
      recurrence.

      The following therapies are prohibited from the time of enrollment through Week 12 of the
      study:

        -  Treatment with heparin

        -  Any intravesical therapy except for MMC and Chemophase

        -  Any potentially myelosuppressive therapy

      For the MTD patients who are receiving continued study drug treatments after Week 12, the
      following therapies are prohibited for the duration of study drug treatment:

        -  Any intravesical therapy except for MMC and Chemophase

        -  Any potentially myelosuppressive therapy
    
  