
    
      Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is the leading cause of disability and death in children. In
      both pediatric and adult populations, concussion is the most prevalent type of TBI and can
      result in persistent post-concussive symptoms. Early recognition and treatment of concussion
      is critical to the prevention of long-term sequelae and has recently become a national
      public-health priority. Comprehensive assessment and diagnosis of concussion commonly
      includes the use of a multimodal approach using a graded symptoms checklist, neurocognitive
      testing, and balance assessment. An objective biomarker to definitively diagnose concussion
      would revolutionize its management-allowing for accurate and immediate determination of
      return to play/duty, decreasing unnecessary exposure to radiation, and reducing the overall
      cost of care. Considering the paucity of evidence regarding the use of pupillary light reflex
      in concussed children and the lack of a biomarker for concussion, further examination of the
      use of objective pupillary metrics in this population is warranted.

      The purpose of this study is to gather information and compare the potential use of
      pupillometry to identify concussions and post concussive syndrome with standard age
      appropriate assessments. The proposed study design is prospective, longitudinal case-control
      consisting of two distinct cohorts: concussed participants and healthy control participants.
      All concussion management decisions will be determined independent of the study by the
      healthcare provider(s). Trained personnel performing follow-up assessments will use
      established clinical criteria to notify appropriate healthcare provider and/or study team
      member of any clinical concerns or unanticipated events.

      The study will compare concussed pediatric patients 5-17 years of age recruited from the
      emergency department within 72 hours following injury with age and gender matched
      non-concussed pediatric patients recruited from affiliated primary care and adolescent
      clinics. Assessment of both concussed and non-concussed subjects will take place at the
      initial enrollment visit and will be repeated at 1-2 weeks for the concussed subjects and at
      12-14 weeks for both groups. Age appropriate assessment will include the Post-Concussion
      Symptom Inventory (PCSI), Post-Concussion Symptom Scale (PCSS), pupillometry, Immediate
      Post-Concussion Assessment and Cognitive Testing (ImPACT), and Balance Error Scoring System
      (BESS).

      The primary objectives are to examine the acute (<72 hours), subacute (1-2 week), and
      long-term (12-14 weeks post-injury) longitudinal association among pupillary metrics,
      standardized neurocognitive tests, and objective balance assessment in pediatric patients
      with concussion versus controls. The secondary objectives are to evaluate the effectiveness
      of pupillometer data as an objective biomarker to aid in the identification of concussion and
      post-concussive syndrome in children. Results will generate new knowledge regarding the
      clinical utility of pupillometers in this patient population. We will explore the period that
      best differentiates concussion and controls.
    
  