
    
      In this study, we plan to utilize ultrasensitive mass spectrometry (MS) and other
      conventional proteomic approaches to identify the low and high abundant proteins present in
      human FF. Additionally, we plan to use high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and
      Western blot techniques to evaluate the Neu5Gc and glycan array based ELISA techniques to
      detect anti-Neu5Gc antibody profile in human FF. This analysis will be performed on FF
      samples obtained from normal women undergoing In-Vitro Fertilization and Embryo Transfers
      (IVF-ET) for a male factor alone and oocyte donors from our 3rd Party Reproduction Program
      and from lean and obese women with PCOS. This study will provide information on protein,
      glycoprotein, and steroid hormone expression during normal folliculogenesis and during the
      pathologic condition of PCOS, which should also provide basic scientific information on
      normal and abnormal oocyte development.

      Human FF bathes the developing oocyte. Previous studies indicate that the FF contains
      cytokines, steroidal and protein hormones, and growth factors. The presence of proteins with
      such significant biological properties implies a paracrine and autocrine role for the FF in
      promoting normal oocyte development. Furthermore, the presence of any antigenic sialic acid
      Neu5Gc and the presence of antibodies targeting these antigenic glycoconjugates (glycolipid
      and glycoproteins decorated with sialic acid) may interfere with oocyte development, hormonal
      expression, fertilization, and possibly implantation. Here we hypothesize that an exhaustive
      proteomic and glyco-proteomic characterization of human FF is essential for a thorough
      understanding of its biological significance. We also hypothesize that PCOS may have
      differential expression of the FF protein and glyco-protein milieu, and that the expression
      may differ further between lean and obese women with PCOS. PCOS represents a heterogeneous
      disorder. The severity of hyperandrogensim, metabolic and menstrual disturbance, and obesity
      is variable with up to 40% not clinically expressing signs of classic hyperandrogenism. On
      the other hand, these atypical, often lean, PCOS women can have impaired glucose tolerance
      and diabetes. Reports suggest that these lean PCOS women have altered serum IGFBP-1, a
      characteristic endocrine feature of patients with obese PCOS, and related to hyperinsulinemia
      and/or obesity. The lean phenotype of PCOS and its significance is unclear but may represent
      a cryptic or unexpressed form of PCOS or may be a prelude to individuals who will later
      manifest clinical signs of obese/overweight PCOS. Changes in expression may be expected
      because of the different amounts of steroidal hormones and inflammatory markers in the FF
      derived from women with PCOS.
    
  