
    
      Cutaneous scars are frequently encountered conditions. The process of wound repair, however,
      is complicated, and various factors contribute to different types of scarring (eg.
      hypertrophic, atrophic).

      WP 2.1: Regular skin repair

      In elective plastic surgery most excised operative skin specimens are usually discarded, and
      represent an excellent opportunity of harvesting skin biopsies without additional invasive
      measures. This work package analyzes skin samples of individuals after elective plastic
      surgery with normal wound healing serving as control group.

      WP 2.2: Skin repair with and without hypertrophic scar formation

      A classic example of fibroproliferative repair in the skin is hypertrophic scarring
      classified as a dermal skin lesion, which is raised above skin level, stays within the
      confines of the initial wound and increases in size by pushing out the margins of the scar
      without invading the surrounding normal tissue.

      Hypertrophic scarring is a condition commonly observed after burns and in regions of
      prolonged wound healing (>21 days). The underlying pathology of hypertrophic scarring,
      however, is poorly understood. Hypertrophic scars can be managed conservatively, and only
      require surgical intervention under special circumstances.

      This work package analyzes the clinical and molecular response to a standard treatment
      regimen in skin regions with and without hypertrophic scars after skin injuries.

      WP 2.4: Wound healing in normal and diabetic individuals

      Diabetes mellitus is a known factor to cause impaired wound healing. Due to microangiopathic,
      macroangiopathic and other conditions resulting from atherosclerosis and peripheral
      neuropathy wound healing in diabetic individuals is usually delayed (hypotrophic, atrophic)
      and often complicated by immunosuppression and superinfections. The rising prevalence of
      diabetes mellitus in the elderly population makes it necessary to understand its related
      processes in relevant clinical wound models.

      Split-thickness skin-grafting is a commonly applied technique in plastic surgery, and donor
      sites of previously uninjured skin regions spontaneously heal within two weeks, representing
      an ideal condition to monitor clinical and molecular changes in diseased vs. non-diseased
      states.

      This work package analyzes skin repair in donor sites of split-thickness skin grafts in
      non-diabetic and diabetic individuals.
    
  