
    
      Background:

      Although rarely recognized as a pressing health care problem, leg ulcers comprise a common,
      complex, and costly condition. Over 80% of ongoing management of chronic wounds occurs in the
      community, and leg ulcers are one of the most frequently seen chronic wounds. The cost of leg
      ulcer care is considerable, being reported in both the UK and France to account for 2% of
      their total national health budgets. In Canada, the impact is only now being recognized due
      to the pressure on home care caseloads resulting from hospital downsizing, nursing shortages,
      and growing numbers of complex health populations. In one Ontario study, the care for fewer
      than 200 community leg ulcer cases cost in excess of $1.5 million for supplies and nursing
      visits, which translates to $100s of millions yearly Canada-wide. The impact on the
      individual is significant--chronic, painful, and often takes years to heal. Two-thirds of
      individuals with leg ulcers have at least one recurrence, and 45% have a history with the
      condition dating back 10 years.

      State of Knowledge & Clinical Practice Guidelines:

      Over the past decade, evidence from RCT studies and a recent Cochrane systematic review in
      BMJ demonstrated that venous leg ulcers treated with compression therapy are more likely to
      heal. Multi-layer high compression systems are more effective than low compression. However,
      the small number of people in trials comparing different high compression systems meant the
      review was unable to draw conclusions about their relative merit. Four of these trials have
      compared 4-layer bandage with short stretch technologies--the most commonly used technologies
      in Canada. In total, these trials involved only 220 patients, and were thus underpowered.
      Furthermore, they did not consider factors such as client preference and ease of use, or
      incorporate an economic evaluation.

      Plan of Investigation:

      The study will be a multi-centre, pragmatic, randomised trial of two types of compression
      bandaging technologies, incorporating an economic evaluation.

      Research objective: To compare the effectiveness of 2 high compression technologies delivered
      in the community on ulcer healing, recurrence rates, quality of life, and cost-effectiveness.

      Interventions: Four-layer bandage vs. Short-stretch bandage. Sample size: 414 total, 207 in
      each arm (80% power, " 0.05 to detect 4 week difference in time to heal).

      Inclusion Criteria: leg ulcer>1 cm in any one dimension, minimum duration of 1 week,
      ABPI>0.7.

      Randomization: will be carried out and stratified by: Clinical Centre (3 Health Regions in
      Ontario); Margolis' Prognostic Model (ulcer area and duration), Ulcer episode (1st or
      recurrent ulcer).

      Analysis: Primary outcome: time-to-healing of the reference ulcer.

      Secondary outcomes: quality of life & expenditures for treatment. Durability of healing will
      be assessed-follow-up for up to 52 weeks post-healing to determine recurrence rates
      associated with both technologies.

      Summary:

      There is consensus internationally in recommending the application of graduated multi-layer
      compression. High compression is more effective than low compression; however, there is no
      clear evidence as to which high compression technology is more effective.
    
  