
    
      Background:

        -  Advanced squamous cell carcinoma involving the head and neck (SCCHN) has a mortality
           exceeding 50 percent and significant impact on function and quality of life.

        -  Treatment of locally advanced SCCHN with anti-Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR)
           antibody cetuximab (Erbitux or C225) or DNA damaging agent cisplatin concurrent with
           radiation therapy (RT) have shown improvements in response, survival, and organ
           preservation, of approximately10-20 percent over RT alone. The combination of cetuximab,
           cisplatin and RT is currently under investigation as the next standard for concurrent
           chemo-RT for patients with SCCHN.

        -  Cetuximab inhibits EGFR, which is overexpressed by approximately 90 percent of SCCHN and
           is associated with decreased patient survival. EGFR contributes to activation of the
           Mitogen Activated Protein Kinase (MAPK) and Signal Transduction and Activating
           Transcription Factor (STAT3) pathways, which promote induction of genes involved in cell
           proliferation and survival.

        -  Recently, the Nuclear Factor-kappaB (NF-kB) pathway has been shown to be an independent
           pathway important for altered expression of prosurvival genes, the malignant phenotype,
           and prognosis.

        -  Proteasome inhibitor bortezomib (Velcade, PS-341) can inhibit NF-kB and target genes, as
           well as increase expression of tumor suppressor genes such as p53 in SCCHN. Bortezomib
           in combination with RT, cetuximab or cisplatin induces greater cytotoxic effects in
           cancer cells than these treatments individually in preclinical studies.

        -  In this phase I trial we will determine the feasibility of administering bortezomib
           concurrently with cetuximab and RT, and cetuximab, cisplatin and RT. We hypothesize that
           bortezomib can be given with these combinations with an acceptable toxicity profile and
           a maximum tolerated dose (MTD) that demonstrates clinical activity and effects on NF-kB,
           MAPK and STAT3 pathway signaling and apoptosis in SCCHN.

      Specific Objectives:

      Primary Objectives

      -To evaluate the feasibility and toxicities of combining the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib
      with cetuximab, or cetuximab and cisplatin concurrent with radiation for therapy of patients
      with advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN), and to identify the MTD
      for bortezomib for further clinical phase 2 development.

      Secondary Objectives

      -To evaluate the objective response rate, progression-free survival and overall survival with
      the above regimen.

      To determine the effects of bortezomib with cetuximab, or bortezomib, cetuximab with
      cisplatin to inhibit activation of the NF-kB, EGFR, MAPK, and STAT3 signal pathways,
      expression of pro-survival and pro-angiogenesis genes regulated by these pathways, and
      effects on proliferation, apoptosis and angiogenesis.

      Eligibility:

      -Patients with advanced Stage IV SCCHN, without history prior neck radiation, for whom
      concurrent chemo-RT is an option.

      Design:

        -  All patients will receive standard RT to a total dose of 70 Gy, in 2 Gy/day fractions, 5
           days/week, concurrent with either bortezomib and cetuximab, or bortezomib, cetuximab and
           cisplatin.

        -  Bortezomib will be given following a dose escalation schema (3 dose levels of 0.7, 1 and
           1.3 mg/m2/dose) IV twice weekly for the first two weeks of three 21-day cycles which
           each include a 1 week break, starting the week prior to RT initiation and for a total of
           7-8 weeks.

        -  In group A, patients with receive bortezomib, cetuximab and RT, and in group B,
           bortezomib, cetuximab, cisplatin and RT.

        -  Previously established MTDs will be used for weekly administration of cetuximab
           (400mg/m2 initially and then 250 mg/m(2) IV weekly), and cisplatin (30mg/m(2) IV
           weekly).

        -  Cetuximab or cetuximab and cisplatin will be given with the first dose of bortezomib the
           week prior to RT and continue weekly during RT (7-8 weekly doses). Drug therapy will not
           be given after RT completion.

        -  Groups A will accrue before group B, to identify the MTD for the combination of
           bortezomib, cetuximab and RT, and then bortezomib, cetuximab, cisplatin and RT, for
           expansion and phase 2 development.

        -  Serum and blood will be collected for study of potential proteomic and genetic markers
           of drug sensitivity and effects, and tumor response and recurrence, within 2 weeks
           pretreatment and days 5, 12 of bortezomib cycle 1, and day 12 of cycles 2 and 3. Serum
           will be collected thereafter every 3 months up to 24 months.

        -  Optional tumor and/or skin biopsies will be performed within 2 weeks before start of
           treatment and on day 5 of the first week during treatment with drugs alone, and on day
           12 after start of RT for correlative studies of the combined effects of bortezomib with
           cetuximab, or bortezomib cetuximab and cisplatin on signal pathway activation, apoptosis
           and other markers, without and with RT. (Details of correlative studies). Patients will
           be evaluated by CT and FDG-PET pre-treatment and for response 8 weeks post-RT using WHO
           RECIST criteria.

        -  The study design and sample size is Phase 1, 3-6 patients per dose level to establish
           the MTD. An additional 6-10 patients (in each group) will be treated at the MTD in order
           further assess toxicity, response and molecular correlatives. The anticipated sample
           size is between 6 and 46.
    
  