
    
      The experimental design will include procedures to address each specific aim, with most
      involving a within-subjects approach that examines the effect of different levels of
      treatment (e.g., no therapy, traditional DBS, novel DBS) on neurological function, including
      dependent variables derived from tests of motor and cognitive function. This approach will
      extend to the electrophysiological data as well; where the relative effect of each level of
      treatment on spontaneous- (e.g., resting beta and gamma band power) and task-related (i.e.,
      evoked or event-related potential latency and amplitude characteristics) cerebral rhythms
      will be quantified for each subject and further aggregated to characterize group-level
      effects (see data analysis below).

      Prior to surgery, participants will undergo additional brain imaging procedures in order to
      characterize the anatomical and functional connectivity of the brain region to be targeted
      during surgical lead placement and the cerebral cortex. The additional imaging sets will
      include DTI and resting state functional MRI scans that will add an additional 30-45 minutes
      to the standard of care pre-operative clinical MR procedure.

      Following standard of care placement of the DBS lead(s) within the targeted brain region,
      access to the lead for study-related activities will be achieved by attaching a disposable
      extension to the end of the lead that is lodged subcutaneously, extracranially. The
      disposable extension will then be tunneled to a site remote to that of the surgery in order
      to minimize risk of contamination of the permanently implanted hardware. The recording
      equipment will then be connected to the externalized extension, thus enabling study-related
      DBS delivery and the recording of local field potentials (LFP) from the targeted brain
      region.

      Study-related activities will start the third morning after DBS surgery to allow the patient
      time to recover from the implant procedure (start may be delayed if additional recovery is
      deemed warranted through consultation with clinical care team). It is expected that the study
      testing will continue through post-implant day 9, with the second standard of care DBS
      implant surgery performed on post-implant day 10. During the externalization period, subjects
      will participate in daily data collection tasks for up to 8 hours per day, with study-related
      activities performed in short segments, broken up across morning and afternoon sessions. Once
      testing is completed in the operationally-defined medication OFF state, patients will be
      permitted to take their usual dose of medication and testing will continue. Frequent rest
      periods will be included within each testing block to minimize fatigue effects and improve
      data quality. Electrophysiological recordings may also be performed when the patient is not
      in the laboratory, including overnight during sleep, using portable recording equipment and
      activity monitors that resemble a holster device. Recordings will be made using either a
      commercially-available cap electrode system that is placed temporarily during each
      experimental session or using standard cup electrodes affixed to the scalp using either
      standard methods (i.e., collodion or electrode paste). If collodion electrodes are used,
      collodion electrodes will remain on the patient for several days in a row up to the duration
      of the externalization period. Daily checks will be performed to ensure the integrity of the
      electrode interface and electrodes will be re-gelled or re-applied as needed.

      Daily study-related activities within the laboratory will include 1) spontaneous recordings
      made with the patient at rest, 2) motor and cognitive task-synchronized recordings, and 3)
      somatosensory evoked potentials, and 4) evoked potentials elicited by direct stimulation of
      the deep brain target region. On the first day of testing, a monopolar threshold review,
      similar to what is performed as part of standard of care clinical DBS programming may be
      performed. This involves careful titration of the settings of electrical stimulation
      delivered via the DBS lead in order to determine thresholds for sensorimotor and other
      side-effects and will help to set the upper limits of stimulation delivered as part of the
      experimental procedures. Moreover, this process will be used to characterize the therapeutic
      benefits derived from DBS. In all cases, stimulation will be limited to less than the
      approved charge density safety limit of 30 microcoulombs/cm2 per phase. On certain days,
      patients may be asked to arrive to the test location after an overnight fast from their
      anti-PD medications in order to characterize the effect of dopaminergic medications on
      experimental responses. Finally, daily schedules may be altered based upon patient fatigue as
      well as potential scheduling conflicts (e.g., MRI or MEG availability) and the total number
      of days the patient is externalized may be shortened at the discretion of the surgical team,
      including the need to accommodate operating room scheduling.

      A minimum of six months after surgery, participants will be asked to return for a follow-up,
      approximately 4-hour research visit to evaluate therapeutic outcomes. Specifically, patients
      will be asked to return to the main campus laboratory after an overnight fast from their
      anti-parkinsonian medications. During that visit, the efficacy of the patient's
      standard-of-care DBS programming settings (i.e., the settings set by their treating physician
      as part of their routine, post-op clinical care) will be evaluated through blinded scoring
      using subscales of the MDS-Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS).
    
  