
    
      Major liver resection is associated with significant intraoperative blood loss and blood
      transfusions. Blood transfusion in elective liver surgery is a key determinant of
      perioperative morbidity and mortality, as well as possibly long-term oncologic outcome. Whole
      blood phlebotomy is a simple intervention, whose aim is to decrease the central venous
      pressure yielding a state of relative hypovolemia and thus lead to decreased blood loss and
      subsequently blood transfusion. Small studies, mostly from the liver transplant literature,
      would suggest that phlebotomy with controlled hypovolemia can result in decreased blood loss
      and blood transfusion. Since blood loss is an important issue in liver surgery, and the
      benefits of phlebotomy and controlled hypovolemia are unknown in liver resection patients, a
      rigorously conducted trial in a representative population of patients undergoing liver
      resection is warranted, and feasible. In this proposal, it is hypothesized that by the use of
      hypovolemic phlebotomy, it is possible to decrease blood loss and blood transfusions. To test
      this hypothesis the investigators plan to randomly allocate participants to hypovolemic
      phlebotomy plus standard of care or to standard of care. Participants will be those patients
      undergoing elective major liver resection at The Ottawa Hospital, le Centre Hospitalier de
      l'Université de Montréal, and le Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Sherbrooke for any
      indication. The primary outcome will be red blood cells transfusion up to 30 days following
      surgery. Secondary outcomes will include intraoperative blood loss, other blood product
      transfusion requirements, perioperative morbidity and mortality, safety, physiologic
      parameters, and feasibility elements. A total of 440 patients will be randomized across the 3
      sites in Ontario and Quebec. The efficacy of phlebotomy in terms of blood loss and
      transfusion prevention will be assessed.
    
  