
    
      Chronic Rhinosinusitis (CRS) is one of the most common chronic illnesses in North America,
      with an incidence of approximately 13 per cent in the US.

      Endoscopic sinus surgery (ESS) has become standard treatment for patients with chronic
      rhinosinusitis (CRS) unresponsive to maximum medical treatment. The success of surgery
      depends on several factors, an adequate surgical field is among the most important factors in
      preventing complications in ESS.

      Topical vasoconstrictors, such as adrenaline and cocaine has been widely used. To date no
      studies exist comparing the use of topical cocaine with adrenaline in ESS.

      The purpose of this study is to assess the effect of topical cocaine 4% versus adrenaline on
      intra-operative bleeding during ESS and to describe the phisiologic changes with the use of
      topical vasocontrictors. A secondary objective is to describe the phisiologic changes with
      the use of topical vasocontrictors

      Study Design:

      A prospective randomized single-blind controlled trial will be conducted. The surgeon
      performing the ESS and evaluating the bleeding will not be present at the time of injection,
      and so will remain blinded.

      All patients over the age of 18 years undergoing bilateral ESS for chronic sinusitis at
      McGill University Health Center will be invited to participate. The study will be conducted
      from November 2012 until the number required of patients is enrolled.

      Topical vasoconstriction technique After oral intubation, vital signs and all anaesthetic
      parameters will be kept as constant as possible for the duration of the surgery. Three cotton
      neuropatties will be soaked with 4% cocaine. One neuropattie will be placed in the
      sphenoethmoidal recess, one in the middle meatus, and one in the anterior end of the middle
      turbinates on the side that the randomization has determined. In the other side, three cotton
      neuropaties will be soaked with adrenaline 1:1000 and placed in the same positions than the
      others. Then the patient will be draped and both sides will be injected with xylocaine 2% and
      adrenaline 1:100.000. After this we will wait for 10 minutes and the surgery will be
      initiated.

      At the commencement of surgery and at regular 15-minute intervals, the operating surgeon will
      estimate the intensity of bleeding in the operative field. The extent of nasal bleeding will
      be evaluated according to the validated scale used by Boezaart. At each assessment, other
      parameters including mean arterial blood pressure (MAP), heart rate, and end tidal CO2 will
      be recorded into a chart by the co-investigator.

      The total blood loss will be collected and recorded separately for each side. Separate
      suction tubes and canisters will be used for each side. The total blood loss will be measured
      by subtracting the amount of saline solution used to rinse the surgical field from the amount
      of blood and fluids suctioned from the surgical field. Although this method of estimating the
      intra operative blood loss is not flawless as some blood and fluids usually fall posteriorly
      into the nasopharynx and are later suctioned by the anesthesiologist prior to extubation,
      this amount is deemed to be negligible.

      Proposed data analysis: The data will be collected by the co-investigator. Patient names and
      other specific identifiers will not be included. Data will be entered into an Excel
      spreadsheet and statistical analysis will be applied with SPSS vs.13.
    
  