
    
      Patients and Methods The study protocol was approved by our Institutional Review Board.
      Thirty wrists of 30 distal radius fracture patients who underwent osteosynthesis using
      locking plates (19 females, 11 males; age range 23-89, mean age 59.5 years) were evaluated.
      Patients were excluded if they reported a previous history of traumatic injuries to the arm.
      The patients were divided into two groups: 15 patients in the plan group utilized our 3D
      digital preoperative planning software, and 15 patients in the control group utilized
      standard preoperative assessment on plain radiographs and CT scans. The age, sex, and
      fracture types were matched between groups. According to the preoperative CT scans, fractures
      were classified using the AO classification system.

      Preoperative Planning In the plan group, 3D digital preoperative planning and a surgical
      simulation were performed in order to determine the reduction and the placement of the
      implants in addition to the plate/screw size prior to surgery. Reduction and placement of the
      implants were simulated using software newly-developed by the authors (Zed-Trauma, LEXI Co.,
      Ltd. Tokyo, Japan). Planning using this software is based on digital imaging and
      communications in medicine (DICOM) data from CT scans. All preoperative planning group
      patients had pre- and post-operative CT scans in order to compare the planned and
      post-operative reduction shape and placement of the implant. The CT comprised contiguous
      sections of 1 mm thickness. The software allows the surgeons to 1) visualize the fracture
      displacement, 2) simulate repositioning of the fragments, 3) place the plate and screws, 4)
      adjust the sizes of the implants, and 5) check the shape after the reduction and implant
      placement by measuring anatomical shape (Figure 1 and 2). After importing the DICOM images to
      the software, a 3D image of the distal radius was made. Each distal radius fracture was
      segmented according to the main fracture fragments using the cut function. Each fragment was
      repositioned in accordance with fracture lines. After repositioning the fragments, the bone
      shape was checked three dimensionally. Reduction of the fragment was performed to regain the
      volar tilt and the radial inclination, and less than 2mm step-off for the intra-articular
      displacement referring to the healthy side wrist X ray. Simulation of the implantation of the
      volar locking plate used 3D templates with variable sizes of plates and screws. The Stellar
      II locking plate (HOYA Technosurgical, Inc., Tokyo, Japan) was used in this study. This plate
      system has small, medium, and large sizes for the width, and short and long sizes for the
      plate length. Screw lengths from 10 to 24 mm for the distal (2.4 mm diameter), and 10 to 20
      mm for the proximal (2.6 mm diameter) are available. Computer aided design models of
      different-sized implants were installed in the software. The plate size was chosen to cover
      the distal fragment maximally and not exceeded the width of the distal radius. The plans were
      made by a single hand surgeon. After the planning, osteosynthesis was performed under general
      anesthesia. During the surgery, the operator performed the reduction and the placement of the
      plate while comparing images between the preoperative plan and fluoroscopy. The surgeons
      tried to reproduce the planned position of the implant by checking the distances from the
      margin of the implant to the margin of the radius under fluoroscopy. The screw sizes were
      determined by intraoperative measurement in reference to the preoperative plan. For the screw
      fixation, a guide block was used to insert the distal screws.

      In the control group, preoperative planning was performed using conventional
      posterior-anterior and lateral view radiographs. Based on the X-ray image, the plate size was
      chosen using the conventional template. After the planning, osteosynthesis was performed
      under general anesthesia in the same manner as for the plan group. The surgeries were
      performed by several residents and fellows under supervision of a hand surgeon.

      Evaluations The planned sizes of implant were compared with the actual sizes used at
      operation in the plan group. The screw holes were numbered from 1 to 8 for the distal (there
      were 7 holes in small and medium plates, and 8 holes in a large plate), and from 1 to 3 for
      the proximal. The screw lengths actually chosen were recorded according to the screw number.

      To evaluate the accuracy of the anatomical reduction, volar tilt and radial inclination of
      the post-operative wrists X-ray were compared with those of the healthy side wrist in both
      plan and control groups. The posterior-anterior view was obtained with the elbow flexed at
      90°, the ulna perpendicular to the humerus, and the forearm in the pronated position. The
      lateral view was obtained with the elbow flexed at 90° and adducted against the trunk. The
      wrists were in a neutral position with no flexion, extension, or deviation in either view.
      Volar tilt was measured on a lateral view. The angle between a line along the distal radial
      articular surface and the line perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the radius at the
      joint margin was measured as volar tilt. Radial inclination was measured on a
      posterior-anterior view. The angle between one line connecting the radial styloid tip and the
      ulnar aspect of the distal radius and a second line perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of
      the radius was measured as radial inclination. These radiological parameters were measured by
      a single hand surgeon. In addition, preoperative planning and postoperative reductions were
      compared by measuring the volar tilt and radial inclination of the 3D images in the plan
      group (Figure 3). The axis of the radius was adjusted. The angle between a line from the
      dorsal edge to the volar edge of the radius and the line perpendicular to the longitudinal
      axis of the radius was measured as 3D volar tilt. The angle between a line from the radial
      styloid tip to the ulnar aspect of the distal radius and the line perpendicular to the
      longitudinal axis of the radius was measured as 3D radial inclination.

      Statistical Analysis The results are expressed as mean +/- standard deviation. An intra-class
      correlation coefficient (ICC) was used to evaluate the accuracy of the anatomical reduction.
      The ICC values of the radiological parameters (volar tilt and radial inclination) between
      healthy side wrists and injured side wrists after the surgery were evaluated in both the plan
      and control groups. In addition, the ICCs of the 3D measurements between the pre-operative
      plan and the post-operative 3D images were evaluated in the plan group.

      For the accuracy of the implant choices, the ICCs for the screw lengths between the
      preoperative plan and the actual choices were evaluated. According to the previous
      recommendation12, ICC less than 0.40 was considered poor reproducibility, between 0.40 and
      0.59 was considered moderate, between 0.60 and 0.74 was considered good, and between 0.75 and
      1.00 was considered excellent. The differences between preoperative plan and postoperative
      reductions, healthy side and injured side after surgery were analyzed using the paired
      t-test. P values of <0.05 were considered significant. All analyses were performed using SPSS
      version 13.0 (SPSS, Chicago, IL, USA).
    
  