
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess anti-tumor activity of neoadjuvant sorafenib tosylate in tumor samples from
           patients with resectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).

      Secondary

        -  To characterize pathologic findings in sorafenib tosylate pre-treated patients
           undergoing surgical resection for HCC: 1-2 core tumor biopsies will be performed prior
           to treatment and at day 35.

        -  To evaluate the number of R0 resections in these patients.

        -  To correlate pathological biomarker changes in resected tumors after 4-week treatment
           with sorafenib tosylate in comparison with biopsies obtained prior to treatment in these
           patients.

        -  To evaluate plasma biomarkers, including PIGF, VEGF-A, VEGF-C, sVEGFR2, sVEGFR3, sKIT,
           IL-6, Ang2, IL-8, bFGF, AFP, collagen 4, endostatin, thrombospondin, TSP-1 and
           angiostatin, and CXCL12 at baseline, day 28, and the day before surgery.

        -  To identify potential biomarkers of sensitivity and/or resistance on biological and
           pathological samples of these patients (exploratory).

        -  To characterize the safety profile of sorafenib tosylate in these patients.

        -  To assess the tolerance of liver resection after sorafenib tosylate treatment of these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive oral sorafenib tosylate twice daily on days 1-28 in the absence of
      unacceptable toxicity. Approximately 7 days after completion of sorafenib tosylate therapy,
      patients undergo liver resection.

      Blood and tissue specimens are collected periodically for laboratory and biomarker
      assessments. Biomarkers include both molecular markers investigating the direct antitumor
      effects of sorafenib tosylate against cancer cells vs the effects of the drug on
      angiogenesis.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up on day 50 and at 3 months after
      surgery.
    
  