
    
      This is a trial of TTI-621 in subjects with relapsed or refractory hematologic malignancies
      and selected solid tumors.

      TTI-621 (SIRPαFc) is a soluble recombinant fusion protein created by directly linking the
      sequences encoding the N-terminal CD47 binding domain of human SIRPα with the Fc domain of
      human immunoglobulin (IgG1). TTI-621 acts by binding human CD47 and preventing it from
      delivering an inhibitory "do not eat" (anti phagocytic) signal to macrophages.

      This trial will be conducted in 2 phases and 4 parts: Phase 1a Part 1 (escalation phase) and
      Phase 1b Parts 2-4 (expansion phase).

      In the dose Escalation Phase (phase 1a Part 1), subjects with lymphoma will be enrolled in
      sequential dose cohorts to receive TTI-621 to characterize safety, tolerability,
      pharmacokinetics, and the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD).

      In the Expansion Phase (phase 1b Parts 2-4), TTI-621 will be given to subjects with a variety
      of hematologic malignancies and selected solid tumors to further define safety and to
      characterize efficacy. In the Expansion Phase Part 2, the safety and efficacy of TTI-621 will
      also be assessed when it is given in combination with other anti-cancer drugs. The dose of
      TTI-621 to be delivered in the Expansion Phase Parts 2-3 of the study may be increased or
      decreased based on the subject's tolerability and on the subject's response to treatment.

      In the phase 1b dose optimization of the study (Part 4), further dose escalation of TTI-621,
      beyond the dose determined during phase 1a dose escalation, will be pursued in patients with
      relapsed and/or refractory CTCL following a 3+3 escalation design and using a revised DLT
      criteria to further evaluate the safety and tolerability of TTI-621 at dose levels higher
      than the initially recommended phase 1b Parts 2-3.

      Secondary objectives include further characterization of the pharmacokinetics,
      pharmacodynamics, and development of ADA; and to gain preliminary evidence of the anti-tumor
      activity of TTI-621 in subjects with a variety of hematologic malignancies and selected solid
      tumors. In addition, the safety of TTI-621 will be evaluated in combination with other
      anti-cancer agents.
    
  