
    
      Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) is a debilitating disease that remains (smell, nasal patency,
      flow) because currently treatment protocols available to us are with a limited efficacy.

      For many years, practitioners have tried to identify a universal therapeutic protocol. It
      turns out that no treatment (functional endoscopic surgery, antifungal therapy, medical
      treatment with antibiotics / corticosteroids) does not resolve all of the symptoms and their
      effectiveness is variable from one patient to another.

      The most plausible explanation is that the term "rhinosinusitis" includes various different
      pathophysiological mechanism entities, requiring different treatment. Like certain skin or
      lung diseases, chronic inflammation of the sinuses may have different origins, allergic or
      extrinsic (infectious). It is therefore important to determine the type of inflammation
      responsible for adapting the management.

      First, it is important to determine from all forms of CRS (with or without polyps), those
      associated with allergic inflammation and infectious ones. The presence or absence of polyps
      does not appear to be a determining factor of the type of inflammation. However, the criteria
      - allergy and asthma - could provide guidance to an allergic mechanism.

      The study aims to distinguish different phenotypes CRS according to clinical, anatomical
      criteria and biological criteria. Clinical classification obtained would assess and predict
      more finely treatment response and target according to the phenotype, the best supported.
      Surgery is one of the therapeutic options in the treatment of rhinosinusitis, but the term
      satisfaction of healing and patient comfort is variable, a finer and precise distribution of
      patients will allow us to better predict the success of the surgery and therefore the offer
      targeted patients.

      Primary objective :

      To assess the response to surgical treatment of rhinosinusitis and the outcome of these
      patients in order to highlight predictors of success of surgery.

      Secondary objectives:

      Assess chronic rhinosinusitis phenotype by score SNOT 22 (importance of symptoms) which
      assesses the average severity of different groups Assessing the future of non-operated
      patients
    
  