
    
      Aims of the study:

        1. Evaluate the relative efficacy of an individually delivered versus group-based CBTgrief.

        2. Evaluate the relative cost-effectiveness of an individually delivered versus group-based
           CBTgrief.

        3. Examine the theoretically proposed treatment mediators of CBTgrief.

        4. Explore loss-related and sociodemographic characteristics as possible moderators of
           intervention effects.

      Primary hypothesis:

      Both individually delivered and group-based CBTgrief show statistically significant
      reductions in symptoms of PGD, and group-based CBTgrief will show non-inferiority (i.e.,
      equal efficacy) compared to individually delivered CBTgrief at post-intervention and at six
      months follow-up.

      Secondary hypotheses:

        1. Both individually delivered and group-based CBTgrief show statistically significant
           reductions in symptoms of depression, anxiety, and posttraumatic stress, and group-based
           CBTgrief will show non-inferiority (i.e., equal efficacy) compared to individually
           delivered CBTgrief at post-intervention and at six months follow-up.

        2. Group-based CBTgrief will be more cost-effective than individually delivered CBTgrief.

        3. The observed effect of CBTgrief is mediated by changes in theoretically proposed
           maintaining mechanisms of complicated grief reactions (i.e. insufficient integration of
           the loss; negative loss-related cognitions; depressive and anxious avoidance).

        4. Gender, level of education, age, baseline grief symptom level, type of loss,
           circumstances of the loss, time since loss, and number of additional losses will
           moderate the observed effects of CBTgrief.

        5. Additional exploratory analyses include an additional matched comparison group, who have
           not received treatment in order to compare the effect of individual and group-based
           CBTgrief to a non-treatment group. This group will be extracted from a large-scale
           survey study: The Aarhus Bereavement Study (NCT03049007). Here, it is hypothesized that
           CBTgrief will have a statistically significant medium size effect on symptoms of PGD,
           both at post treatment and six months follow-up compared to a matched comparison group,
           who did not receive treatment.

      Design: The present study is conducted as a randomized non-inferiority trial, with a 1:1
      allocation ratio to individually delivered versus group-based CBTgrief using block
      randomization.

      Participants: Participants are recruited from the Danish National Center for Grief (DNCG),
      which is a Danish national organization that provide specialized psychological therapy to
      bereaved individuals who have lost a loved one. The therapists at the DNCG will screen and
      treat bereaved elderly people for complicated grief reactions with CBTgrief at their clinics
      in Odense and Copenhagen, Denmark. DNCG identifies participants through consultants, local
      practitioners, self-referral, and the DNCG grief support line.

      Assessment points: Participants will be assessed at pre-, mid-, and post-intervention as well
      as at three and six months follow-up (T1-T5). Additionally, data on healthcare utilization
      will be retrieved from the Danish national registers concerning use of health care services
      such as visits to general practitioners, psychologists etc.

      Sample size: A group sample size of 2x64 will enable us to detect non-inferiority between
      individually delivered and group-based CBTgrief with a non-inferiority of -0.5 SD on the
      primary outcome, i.e. symptoms of PGD, and a statistical power of 0.80. The true difference
      is assumed to be 0.0 and the one-sided significance level (alpha) of the test is 0.025. Based
      on an estimated dropout rate of 20% the total number of participants needed to recruit is
      N=160 participants.
    
  