
    
      Breast cancer has been one of the most common malignant tumors in women, accounting for 23%
      of all the malignancies. There are estimated 1,300,000 new cases of breast cancers and
      400,000 deaths due to breast cancers every year in the world. Hormone receptor-positive
      breast cancer accounts for about 70% of all breast cancers.

      Since ovarian resection was first used in the treatment of advanced breast cancer in the late
      19th century, with more than a century of development, endocrine therapy has become the most
      important adjuvant therapy for hormone receptor-positive breast cancers, especially for
      advanced breast cancers. Increasing clinical trials of adjuvant endocrine therapy such as
      ATAC, BIG1-98, and IES, which have been implemented since 2002, have ascertained the effect
      of adjuvant endocrine therapy with aromatase inhibitor, and the guidelines for the diagnosis
      and treatment of breast cancer have been also changed accordingly.

      Although early-stage hormone receptor-positive breast cancer patients have a better prognosis
      than HER-2 positive and triple-negative patients, there is still a long-lasting risk of
      postoperative recurrence, which has been confirmed in two large-scale meta-analyses reported
      by the Early Breast Cancer Trialists' Collaborative Group (EBCTCG). A meta-analysis released
      by the EBCTCG in 1998 indicated that early-stage hormone receptor-positive breast cancer
      patients, especially lymph node-positive patients, experienced the second recurrence peak at
      2-3 years and 7-9 years after completion of endocrine therapy. In 2016, the EBCTCG released
      another relevant study at the annual meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology
      (ASCO), in which the long-term recurrence rate within 5-20 years was up to 14% in T1N0 breast
      cancer patients who had undergone 5 years of adjuvant endocrine therapy. Therefore, the 5
      years of standard adjuvant endocrine therapy cannot eliminate the risk of recurrence. Most
      scholars have suggested that the duration of endocrine therapy should be extended to reduce
      the recurrence risk of breast cancer.

      Numerous clinical trials have focused on the use of extended endocrine therapy in patients
      with specific types of breast cancer. In the MA17R trial, patients received 3-5 years of
      tamoxifen or 5 years of aromatase inhibitor treatment, followed by another 5 years of
      aromatase inhibitor treatment. The extended aromatase inhibitor treatment was found to
      significantly improve the disease-free survival time of hormone receptor-positive early
      breast cancer patients, while also reducing the risk of contralateral breast cancer and
      distant relapse. In the NSABP B42 trial, patients who had received initial 5 years of
      aromatase inhibitor treatment or initial 5 years of tamoxifen + aromatase inhibitor treatment
      were all treated with extended aromatase inhibitor. Although the primary endpoint (P = 0.048)
      did not reach the expected value, extended treatment with aromatase inhibitors significantly
      reduced the secondary endpoints - breast cancer-free interval and distant relapse, confirming
      the conclusion of the MA17R study. In the DATA trial, although extended treatment with
      aromatase inhibitor did not benefit in general, subgroup analysis showed that some high-risk
      patients, such as patients with positive lymph nodes, tumors larger than 2 cm in diameter, or
      receiving chemotherapy, could benefit from 6 years of anastrozole treatment. The IDEAL trial
      showed that there is a trend of benefit in patients with positive lymph nodes. With the
      support of many large-scale clinical studies published in succession, the NCCN practice
      guidelines for breast cancer released in 2017 recommends an additional 5 years of aromatase
      inhibitor treatment following the initial 5-year treatment in postmenopausal patients with
      early-stage breast cancer at high risk for relapse. As per the Chinese Society of Clinical
      Oncology guidelines published in 2019, the extended endocrine therapy is also recommended for
      postmenopausal hormone receptor-positive patients who have been well tolerated to the initial
      5-year adjuvant treatment. However, there are some restrictions, such as positive lymph
      nodes, G3 or other risk factors that require adjuvant chemotherapy. For premenopausal hormone
      receptor-positive patients who have been well tolerated to the initial 5 years of endocrine
      treatment, extended endocrine therapy is also recommended in some situations, such as the
      presence of positive lymph nodes, G3, less than 35 years old at diagnosis, high-level Ki-67
      or pT2 and above.

      However, the extended endocrine therapy also has some adverse events. Multiple studies have
      shown that long-term use of tamoxifen can significantly increase the incidence of adverse
      reactions such as endometrial cancer, thrombotic disease, and dyslipidemia. Similarly,
      long-term treatment with aromatase inhibitors can also increase the incidence of adverse
      reactions such as osteoporosis, fractures, dyslipidemia, and hypertension. In the ATLAS
      trial, the incidence of endometrial cancer in patients treated with 10 years of tamoxifen was
      higher than that in patients treated with 5 years of tamoxifen. Similar results are
      discovered in the aTTom trial. In the IDEAL trial, the incidence rates of osteoarthritis and
      osteoporosis in patients treated with 5 years of letrozole was increased by 14% and 10% of
      that in patients undergoing 2.5 years of treatment. A study involving nearly 100,000 breast
      cancer patients showed that only 49.9% of breast cancer patients died of breast cancer, 16.3%
      died of cardiovascular disease, and 33.8% died of other causes. Among them, breast cancer and
      cardiovascular disease were the main causes of death in well- and poor-tolerated patients,
      respectively. This suggests that although anti-cancer treatment can reduce cancer deaths, it
      may increase the death due to cardiovascular disease. Such deaths are often offset, which
      often improves the BCFI, but does not benefit the overall survival.

      Therefore, an effective predictor for relapse risks that can accurately determine the
      necessity of extended endocrine therapy is expected to be discovered. The use of this
      predictor will both improve patient's prognosis and reduce treatment-related side effects.
      The author's team recently discovered a possible factor with a long tubular structure in
      breast cancer lesions using immunofluorescence staining, which was named as sj-subway. The
      authors conducted a retrospective analysis based on the specimen library and case follow-up
      library of the Breast Center of Shengjing Hospital Affiliated to China Medical University.
      They found that sj-subway was positively expressed in various subtypes of breast cancer
      tissues, and mostly expressed in the hormone receptor-positive subtype. The group with more
      sj-subway expression had a higher positive expression of hormone receptor/ progesterone
      receptor. Further survival analysis also revealed the worse prognosis of patients with the
      existence of higher sj-subway expression. Therefore, the authors speculate that positively
      expressed sj-subway may become a predictor of recurrence and metastasis in high-risk patients
      with hormone receptor positive. However, the clinical use of this factor to screen the
      population benefiting from extended endocrine therapy remains to be studied.

      This real-world study intends to observe the difference in the clinical efficacy of extended
      endocrine therapy under different sj-subway expression in high-risk hormone receptor-positive
      breast cancer patients, and to analyze whether the use of sj-subway can further screen out
      the population with benefit from extended endocrine therapy, thus further improving the
      survival of such patients without additional adverse events.
    
  