
    
      Despite exciting recent advances in cancer treatments, there still, ultimately, comes a time
      when advanced disease progresses, and patients can reliably be expected to have months, not
      years, left to live. For patients with metastatic cancers studied in the investigator's
      Coping with Cancer NCI R01s, this comes after progression on 1st- or 2nd-line therapy -- be
      it chemo-, immune-, or targeted therapy. Prior studies conducted by the investigator have
      found that oncologists can reliably predict when patients have only months to live (e.g.,
      remarkable agreement between oncologist estimates of months to live shared with patients and
      patients' actual survival of months). By contrast, patients appear largely unaware of their
      prognosis. For example, 5% of patients a median of 5 months from death, accurately understood
      they had incurable, late/end-stage, terminal cancer, and likely only months to live. Dying
      cancer patients appear to lack the prognostic understanding needed to make informed choices.

      Patients who grasp that they are dying (e.g., the 8.6% who "get the gist" that they likely
      have months to live), relative to those who do not, have been shown to have: a) higher rates
      of advance care planning (ACP), b) receive less burdensome, unbeneficial care (e.g., fewer
      intensive care unit, ICU, stays, less cardiopulmonary resuscitation, CPR), and c) more
      value-consistent care. The investigator has found that patient prognostic understanding is
      improved by oncologist discussions of life-expectancy, but despite 71% of patients wanting to
      discuss prognosis with their oncologists (83% adult cancer patients thought prognostic
      information was extremely/very important), only 17.6% of cancer patients within months of
      death reported that they had discussed prognosis with their oncologist. Not only do
      oncologists appear to discuss prognosis less than patients want them to, but even when
      prognostic discussions do occur, the investigator has found that some approaches (e.g.,
      matter-of-fact) are more effective than others (e.g., vague) for promoting patients'
      prognostic understanding. Thus, prior work identifies a need to improve communication to
      promote patient prognostic understanding in a way that oncologists will likely learn, accept,
      use, and possibly implement more broadly in clinical practice.

      To address this need, the investigator developed the "Giving Information Simply
      &Transparently" (GIST), Oncolo-GIST intervention -- a manualized oncologist communication
      intervention that simplifies how to impart prognostic information by focusing on 4 basic
      steps: 1) Giving scan information, 2) Informing prognosis, 3) Strategizing sensitively, and
      4) Transparently asking what the patient heard. Unlike traditional emphasis on numerical or
      medical details, the Oncolo-GIST approach is based on Reyna's Fuzzy-Trace Theory of
      decision-making, which emphasizes the need for an understanding of the bottom-line gist of a
      situation. The Oncolo-GIST approach distills prognostic discussions to clear communication of
      end-of-life (EoL) decision-making essentials (e.g., life-expectancy). 3 specific aims of the
      Oncolo-GIST approach will be tested in 2 phases:

      Phase 1 will consist of two parts: 1) An interview of key stakeholders/key informants
      regarding Oncolo-GIST Version 1.0 in order to inform refinements to produce Oncolo-GIST
      Version 2.0. 2) An open trial of Oncolo-GIST Version 1.0 to inform refinements to produce
      Oncolo-GIST Version 2.0.

      Phase 2 will involve a cluster randomized trial of Oncolo-GIST Version 2.0 on 50 patients
      with metastatic cancers worse on at least 1 line of therapy (chemo-, immune-, targeted),
      whose oncologists do not expect to survive 12 months. Patients will be assessed in the week
      prior to their scheduled scan, within 1 week of the clinic visit in which progressive scan
      results are discussed, and then 2 and 4 months later to explore intervention effects on
      primary and secondary outcomes, respectively. Oncologists will be assessed in the week
      following that same clinic visit to obtain their impressions of the discussion of prognosis
      and the patient's prognostic understanding.

      In the phase one stakeholder interviews the investigator aims to obtain feedback on
      Oncolo-GIST Version 1.0 from stakeholders/key informants on an early draft of the Oncolo-GIST
      manual and proposed approach using a version of the Delphi method in which the investigator
      will interview bereaved family caregivers of advanced cancer patients (n=10) and oncology
      clinicians who care for patients with advanced gastrointestinal (GI) and thoracic (lung)
      cancers (n=10).

      The Delphi method involves gathering opinions from "experts" (i.e., key
      informants/stakeholders), keeping feedback anonymous, and circulating it back to experts
      until consensus is reached. Two feedback rounds will occur in Phase 1. The investigator will
      recruit 10 bereaved caregivers (e.g., family/friends such as widows) of patients who died in
      the past year with primary diagnoses of GI or lung cancers, and 10 oncology clinicians
      (oncologists, palliative care physicians, nurses, nurse practitioners, social workers and
      psychologists) who care for patients with metastatic GI and lung cancers to obtain their
      feedback on the Oncolo-GIST Version 1.0 manual and procedures. Consenting subjects will be
      provided a copy of the Oncolo-GIST 4-step manual and a survey to obtain structured feedback
      on content, format, and language, which they will be asked to return within 4-6 weeks.
      Responses will be reviewed and compiled and returned to experts for additional feedback on
      the revised manual. A 30-60-minute follow-up telephone or video-conferenced interview of
      experts will be conducted by study staff within the following 2 weeks to identify important
      themes that may be clinically useful to incorporate into the Oncolo-GIST 2.0 intervention.
      Interviews will be audio-recorded, transcribed, and kept confidential. The investigator has
      successfully employed these procedures in a prior study, the EMPOWER intervention, with
      cancer patient caregivers (CA218313).

      In the phase 1 open trial the investigator aims to determine feasibility and acceptability of
      Oncolo-GIST Version 1.0 in a trial of 10 advanced cancer patients to gather information of
      the feasibility and acceptability of the intervention to patients and oncologists and to
      inform refinements that will result in Version 2.0.

      We will consent the 8 available oncologists identified by Drs. Shah and Saxena in the GI and
      lung cancer clinics at Weill Cornell Medicine (WCM). The PI will assign a number to each of
      the 8 oncologists and provide these numbers to the study statistician who will then randomly
      assign 4 of the numbers to training in the Oncolo-GIST intervention and the other 4 to usual
      care. Ten patients who meet the eligibility criteria will receive care from 1 of the 4
      oncologists trained in the intervention. Phase 1 expert data will be reviewed and summarized,
      indicating strengths and weaknesses of the intervention and recommended modifications. Phase
      1 open trial data will be cleaned, collated, and analyzed. Feasibility of patient recruitment
      and retention and oncologists' ability to apply the technique will be evaluated.
      Acceptability will be assessed among oncologists randomized to the intervention and their
      patients. The quantitative and qualitative data will inform refinements to the study design
      and intervention procedures that will result in Oncolo-GIST Version 2.0. A summary document
      will identify the main thematic issues raised in gathering of the Phase 1 data and will
      explain how they will (or why they will not) be addressed in revisions to the intervention.
      The 4 oncologists trained in Version 1.0 will receive additional instruction to be compliant
      with Version 2.0.

      The details for Phase 2 are enumerated in a separate record marked "Giving Information
      Systematically and Transparently in Lung and GI Cancer Phase 2" (Oncolo-GIST P2), under NCT
      ID# NCT04179305.
    
  