
    
      PAST PRE CLINICAL AND CLINICAL EXPERIENCE:

      The effect of the electric fields generated by the NovoTTF-100L device (TTFields, TTF) has
      demonstrated significant activity in in vitro and in vivo pancreatic adenocarcinoma
      pre-clinical models both as a single modality treatment, in combination with gemcitabine and
      in combination with paclitaxel. TTFields therapy has also shown to inhibit metastatic spread
      of malignant melanoma in in vivo experiment.

      In a small scale pilot study, patients with stage IIIB- IV non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
      who had had tumor progression after at least one line of prior chemotherapy received
      Pemetrexed together with TTFields applied to the chest and upper abdomen until disease
      progression. Efficacy endpoints were remarkably high compared to historical data for
      Pemetrexed alone.

      In a large prospective, randomized trial, in recurrent glioblastoma (GBM). The outcome of
      subjects treated with TTFields was compared to those treated with an effective best standard
      of care chemotherapy (including bevacizumab). TTFields treated subjects had comparable
      overall survival to subjects receiving the best available chemotherapy in the US today.
      Similar results showing comparability of TTFields to best standard of care (BSC) chemotherapy
      were seen in all secondary endpoints. Recurrent GBM patients treated with TTFields in this
      trial experienced fewer side effects in general, significantly fewer treatment related side
      effects, and significantly lower gastrointestinal, hematological and infectious adverse
      events compared to controls. The only device-related adverse events seen were a mild to
      moderate skin irritation beneath the device electrodes. Finally, quality of life measures
      were better in TTFields treated subjects as a group when compared to subjects receiving
      effective best standard of care chemotherapy.

      In a large prospective, randomized trial, in newly diagnosed GBM, TTFields in combination
      with standard-of-care temozolomide chemotherapy extended both progression-free survival and
      overall survival compared to temozolomide alone. There was no significant increase in serious
      adverse events from TTFields in combination with temozolomide versus temozolomide alone. The
      most common adverse reaction from TTFields treatment was mild to moderate skin irritation.

      DESCRIPTION OF THE TRIAL:

      All patients included in this trial are diagnosed with unresectable pancreatic
      adenocarcinoma. In addition, all patients must meet all eligibility criteria.

      Eligible patients will be enrolled, baseline tests will be performed and the patients will be
      treated continuously with the device concomitant with gemcitabine or concomitant with
      gemcitabine plus nab-paclitaxel until disease progression.

      TTFields treatment will consist of wearing four electrically insulated electrode arrays on
      the torso. Electrode array placement will require shaving of the abdomen/back as necessary
      before and during the treatment. After an initial short visit to the clinic for training and
      monitoring, patients will be released to continue treatment at home where they can maintain
      their regular daily routine.

      During the trial,the patient will need to return once every 4 weeks to the clinic where an
      examination by a physician and a routine laboratory examinations will be done. These routine
      visits will continue for as long as the patient's disease is not progressing.

      During the monthly follow up visits to the clinic patients will be examined physically.
      Additionally, routine blood tests will be performed. A routine CT of the chest and abdomen
      will be performed at baseline and every 8 weeks thereafter, until disease progression. After
      this follow up plan, patients will be contacted once per month by telephone to answer basic
      questions about their health status.

      SCIENTIFIC BACKGROUND:

      Electric fields exert forces on electric charges similar to the way a magnet exerts forces on
      metallic particles within a magnetic field. These forces cause movement and rotation of
      electrically charged biological building blocks, much like the alignment of metallic
      particles seen along the lines of force radiating outwards from a magnet.

      Electric fields can also cause muscles to twitch and if strong enough may heat tissues.
      TTFields are alternating electric fields of low intensity. This means that they change their
      direction repetitively many times a second. Since they change direction very rapidly (150
      thousand times a second), they do not cause muscles to twitch, nor do they have any effects
      on other electrically activated tissues in the body (brain, nerves and heart). Since the
      intensities of TTFields in the body are very low, they do not cause heating.

      The breakthrough finding made by Novocure was that finely tuned alternating fields of very
      low intensity, now termed TTFields (Tumor Treating Fields), cause a significant slowing in
      the growth of cancer cells. Due to the unique geometric shape of cancer cells when they are
      multiplying, TTFields cause the building blocks of these cells to move and pile up in such a
      way that the cells physically explode. In addition, cancer cells also contain miniature
      building blocks which act as tiny motors in moving essential parts of the cells from place to
      place. TTFields cause these tiny motors to fall apart since they have a special type of
      electric charge.

      As a result of these two effects, cancer tumor growth is slowed and can even reverse after
      continuous exposure to TTFields.

      Other cells in the body (normal healthy tissues) are affected much less than cancer cells
      since they multiply at a much slower rate if at all. In addition TTFields can be directed to
      a certain part of the body, leaving sensitive areas out of their reach.

      In conclusion, TTField hold the promise of serving as a brand new cancer treatment with very
      few side effects and promising affectivity in slowing or reversing this disease.
    
  