
    
      Background:

      The effectiveness of glucosamine sulphate as a treatment for OA is still under debate. Most
      clinical trials evaluate the effectiveness of OA treatments by self-administered
      questionnaires about joint pain, stiffness and function (Lequesne Algofunctional Index,
      Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index - WOMAC).

      Although OA has been shown to reduce the viscosity and viscoelasticity of synovial fluid, few
      studies have used these properties as objective outcome measures in the assessment of
      glucosamine therapy.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate whether glucosamine sulphate oral supplements
      improve the viscous and viscoelastic properties of synovial fluid in osteoarthritis patients
      and to explore potential correlations between these properties and subjective assessments of
      joint pain and function.

      Research Method:

      Patients will be invited to participate in the study if they have been recommended for
      synovial fluid aspiration to relieve joint discomfort caused by effusion. Subjects will be
      randomly assigned to receive either 1500mg of glucosamine sulphate or a placebo daily for 3
      months. To relieve pain, subjects will be allowed to take up to 4000 mg of acetaminophen per
      day. If this is insufficient, NSAIDS will be permitted up to a maximum period of 5
      consecutive days. Subjects will be asked to keep a log of their analgesics consumption.

      At the baseline visit, patient demographics will be recorded and subjects will be asked to
      complete the WOMAC index questionnaire, which includes 24 questions to evaluate joint pain,
      stiffness and physical function. After noting the degree of joint effusion (minor, moderate,
      severe), an experienced physician will aspirate synovial fluid from the study knee to relieve
      joint pressure. A sample will be collected for analysis of viscosity and viscoelasticity.

      Followup visits will be scheduled after every 4 weeks over the 3-month study period. Each
      visit will include the completion of a WOMAC questionnaire, clinical assessment of the degree
      of joint effusion and aspiration of synovial fluid (as necessary) for characterization. Any
      adverse events (such as headaches, abdominal pain, allergic episodes) will also be reported
      to the physician.

      Changes in synovial fluid viscosity and viscoelasticity will be determined after 3 months of
      glucosamine supplementation and compared to the placebo group. Correlations between synovial
      fluid properties and WOMAC scores will also be described.
    
  