
    
      -  This research study is a Phase II clinical trial, which tests the effectiveness of an
           investigational drug(s). The investigational drugs used in this research study are;

             -  nivolumab

             -  lenalidomide

             -  dexamethasone.

        -  Preliminary experience suggests that the combination of lenalidomide and dexamethasone
           may prevent or postpone smoldering multiple myeloma (SMM) from becoming active multiple
           myeloma. The purpose of this research study is to determine if the addition of nivolumab
           may improve the rate of prevention in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone.

        -  "Investigational" means that the FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not
           approved the combination of nivolumab, lenalidomide and dexamethasone as a treatment
           regimen.

        -  Lenalidomide is an immunomodulatory drug derived from thalidomide. Lenalidomide works by
           stopping blood flow to your cancer cells and signaling your cancer cells to die off. The
           FDA has approved lenalidomide for the treatment of many types of cancer including
           multiple myeloma, and myelodysplastic syndromes.

        -  Dexamethasone, also FDA approved, is a type of steroid and is usually combined with
           other chemotherapy for the treatment of blood cancers, such as myeloma and leukemias.

        -  Nivolumab is approved by the FDA for some lung cancers, some skin cancers, some kidney
           cancers, and Hodgkin lymphoma. It is currently being evaluated for use in the treatment
           of several other types of cancers. Nivolumab may kill or stop cancer cells from growing
           by blocking a signal in the cells allowing the immune system to fight the cancer. This
           drug is a human monoclonal antibody, which is a molecule that is made in a laboratory
           that is designed to act identically to cells in the immune system.
    
  