
    
      Peer violence is an important violence exposure for young adolescents and has been linked to
      later perpetration or experience of violence in intimate relationships. It is an obstacle to
      learning and may impact school students' mental health. Prevention of peer violence requires
      an intervention that empowers youth and teaches them empathy and stronger social skills. The
      non-governmental organisation Right To Play operates in 18 countries and has a flagship
      programme that is used in all countries that has never been subject to most rigorous
      evaluation. It is a multi-faceted programme that has at its heart an intervention that is
      delivered throughout the school year in two 35 minute sessions games following activities
      from the manual Red Ball Child Play that focus on 4 areas of youth development: physical,
      cognitive, social, and emotional components. These structural activities are designed to
      improve critical thinking, confidence and resilience. They are complimented by a range of
      additional activities including junior leader training for selected promising young leaders,
      week long summary camps, sports days and activities to engage parents and members of the
      community. The main intervention is delivered by coaches employed by Right To Play and given
      a 3 week training initially, with subsequent regular refresher engagement. They are supported
      by junior leaders in the games after junior leader training. Training to teachers on the
      intervention is also provided.

      A two-arm, cluster randomised controlled trial based in middle schools in Hyderabad, Sindh
      province, Pakistan is evaluating this intervention. It is being conducted in 40 schools, half
      are boys schools (20) and half (20) girls'. Twenty of the schools have been randomised to the
      intervention arm and twenty to the control (delayed intervention) arm. The outcomes will be
      addressed using quantitative methods with data collected from students in Grade 6 at the
      start of the trial. These measures will be conducted pre-intervention and 12, and 24 month
      follow up periods.
    
  