
    
      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The first component of the study investigated associations among discrimination, blood
      pressure, and cardiovascular risk factors, and used data from Exam IV (1992-1993) of CARDIA,
      a multi-site longitudinal study of cardiovascular risk factors among Black and white men and
      women. Analyses examined the association between blood pressure and discrimination based on
      race/ethnicity, gender, social class, sexual orientation, and religion, and took into account
      response to unfair treatment. To assess for effect modification, separate analyses were
      performed for the eight strata defined by the sampling strategy: Black/white x male/female x
      equal to or less than high school/more than high school. Additional multivariate analyses
      examined whether, within the four gender/education strata, discrimination contributed to
      Black/white differences in blood pressure, adjusting for relevant covariates. Other analyses
      explored the relationship between discrimination, response to unfair treatment, and other
      possible cardiovascular risk factors, including hostility, body fat distribution, lipid
      fractions, blood glucose, skin color, substance use (tobacco, alcohol, and illegal drugs),
      and body self-image.

      The second component concerned appropriate measures of social class for studies of women's
      health. It used data on 718 women who participated in Examination II of the Kaiser Permanente
      Women Twins Study (1989-1990) . Socioeconomic information existed on: adult individual and
      household class (which took into account the individual class position of both the respondent
      and her partner or head-of-household, if present), childhood household class, and class
      trajectory (comparing childhood and adult household class). Data on health characteristics
      included: blood pressure, body mass index, waist-hip ratio, lipoprotein fractions, fasting
      and postload insulin and glucose serum concentrations, self-assessed health status, age at
      first completed pregnancy, total number of childbirths, duration of breast feeding, physical
      activity, and smoking status. Analyses evaluated whether different magnitudes of class-based
      differences in these health characteristics were detected with these diverse measures of
      social class, using multivariate techniques that corrected for the correlation of errors
      within twin pairs. The effects of using these different class measures were also examined for
      analyses testing the hypothesis that social class was inversely related to risk of
      hypertension among women, adjusting for relevant covariates.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  