
    
      Bad breath (oral malodor, lat. halitosis) is amongst most common patients' complaints in the
      dental office. Ironically, available literature and research done on this topic thus far are
      relatively scarce. Oral malodor is most commonly caused by oral bacteria (87%), yet it can
      also be sourced from ear, nose and throat region and in a small percentage from distant parts
      of the body or is of unknown origin. Periodontal pathogens and other Gram(-) anaerobic
      microorganisms such as Porphyromonas gingivalis, Treponema denticola, Prevotella intermedia,
      Fusobacterium nucleatum, Enterobacter cloacae, Prevotella loescheii and Porphyromonas
      endodontalis are regarded as producers of malodorous gases. Namely, these bacterial species
      and periodontal pathogens particularly produce so called volatile sulfur compounds (VSC)
      which give mouth air its malodorness. Methylmercaptan, hydrogen sulfide and dimethyl sulfide
      are waste products of bacterial metabolism, specifically degradation of sulfur-, methionine-
      and cysteine-containing aminoacids. Offensive smells also stem from other compounds which do
      not contain sulfur, diamines and polyamines such as cadaverine, putrescine and skatole.

      Probiotics are defined as living microorganisms which are considered to have beneficial
      health effect on their host when consumed in adequate amount. Regarding their advantageous
      role in periodontal disease, inhibition of specific periodontal pathogens and alteration of
      host immune response through multifactorial causes are thought to be their main working
      mechanisms. Reuterin and reutericyclin are two bacteriocins produced by Lactobacillus reuteri
      that inhibit growth of pathogenic bacteria, while bacterium also exhibits strong capacity of
      host tissue adherence and subsequent competition with pathogens.

      Based on this data, research on efficacy of probiotic lozenges on halitosis in patients with
      chronic periodontitis.
    
  