
    
      This clinical trial is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study aiming to study
      the efficacy and side effects of MSCs adjunctive to TAU compared to a normal saline solution
      in patients with TRBD. Relevant patients with bipolar depression will be addressed in order
      to establish whether they are willing to be screened for the study. The patients must be
      assigned a patient number and sign the consent form after receiving oral and written
      information about the study prior to undergoing any study procedures.

      MSCs will be infused as a single dose up to one week after the inclusion of the patient. The
      treatment trial lasts eight weeks. Of note, the investigators will assess patients also at
      week 26 with a neurocognitive and clinical battery. It will not be allowed changes in
      psychiatric medication during this period. If a patient or the treating clinician decides
      that the patient could receive better treatment outside of the study, the patient may leave
      the study at all times, as specified in the informed consent. Patients were not allowed to
      take nonsteroidal or steroidal anti-inflammatory medications during the study. Medications
      for hypertension, diabetes, hypothyroidism, allergies, infections, or other medical
      conditions were allowed as dictated by the patients' treating physicians. The investigators
      defined refractory bipolar depression as depression that failed to respond to two trials
      (during lifetime) with antidepressants and/or mood stabilizer with proven efficacy in bipolar
      depression (lithium, lamotrigine, quetiapine, lurasidone, olanzapine) in adequate doses for
      at least 6 weeks or until cessation of treatment due to side effects (Schoeyen et al., 2015).

      After the initial injection, patients will continue maintenance treatment with their current
      psychiatrist. During this time, they will not receive additional injections but will receive
      treatment as usual per their clinician's choice. Patients will remain on stable psychiatric
      medications during this period. If patients need to change medications, they will be removed
      from the study protocol.
    
  