
    
      Employ innovative haemogenomic approaches to determine gene expression signatures specific
      for idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). There is currently no specific clinical or
      laboratory diagnostic test available for PD. In GENEPARK, blood samples from patients with
      genetic PD and idiopathic PD will be analysed by microarrays to identify gene expression
      signatures specific for PD. The specificity of the new biomarkers for PD will be tested by
      the analysis of patients with atypical parkinsonisms, including multiple system atrophy
      (MSA), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and diffuse Lewy body disease (DLBD), as well as
      in patients with other basal ganglia disorders such as Huntington's disease (HD) and dopa
      responsive dystonia (DRD). The validated gene expression signatures will be utilised to
      develop a new test for diagnosis of idiopathic PD. Determine correlation between gene
      expression signatures and different stages of PD.

      Gene expression in presymptomatic and symptomatic patients with genetic forms of PD as well
      as patients in various stages of idiopathic PD will be analysed to identify gene expression
      signatures specific for various stages of the disease. It should be emphasised that since no
      clinical measures are present in presymptomatic genetic PD such molecular markers could serve
      as surrogate markers to monitor therapeutic efficacy of possible preventive treatments in PD.
      Determine correlations between gene expression signatures and morphological evidence of
      neurodegenerative process in PD brain as determined by neuroimaging. Gene expression
      signatures identified in blood samples will be correlated with changes in brain as detected
      by neuroimaging in PD patients. Such correlations of molecular and morphological markers of
      disease will facilitate the selection of blood markers in relation to disease progression.
      Moreover, molecular and morphological markers of disease progression could be utilised in
      combination for monitoring the effects of new neuroprotective therapies for PD. Develop
      standardised approaches to development and validation of haemogenomic biomarkers.

      This objective will be achieved by the special emphasis on careful clinical selection of
      patients, sufficient power regarding patient numbers, as well as extensive quality control
      and validation of the data. Develop new bioinformatic software tools for selection of genomic
      biomarkers using microarray data. The aim of the GENEPARK is to develop the theoretical
      foundations and to build the software tools for sample classification and selection of
      genomic biomarkers using microarray data. The established computational tools and novel
      methods developed within the GENEPARK will be applied to the patient data to study advantages
      and limitations of different methodologies.
    
  