
    
      The broad goal of this research project is to develop a core set of biomarkers for
      chemotherapy-related cognitive impairment (or chemobrain). Clinical studies have documented
      mild cognitive impairment in chemotherapy patients most frequently within the domains of
      attention and memory, though impairments have been observed across a broad range of cognitive
      abilities. In addition, neuroimaging studies have demonstrated chemotherapy-related
      structural and functional changes in distributed cortical areas, including regions of the
      fronto-parietal attention network. While these studies suggest chemotherapy treatment
      negatively impacts patient health and cognitive function, it remains unclear how chemotherapy
      affects neural mechanisms of cognitive abilities. Current literature is limited in four major
      ways: (1) most research has focused on breast cancer populations, providing little insight
      into impact of tumor type, (2) few studies have examined the parametric effects of
      chemotherapy toxicity, (3) neuropsychological exams provide weak resolution of specific
      cognitive functions, and (4) neural factors associated with cognitive impairment are
      difficult to dissociate from non-neural (e.g. psychosocial) factors. To overcome these
      central limitations, the investigators propose a one-year longitudinal study that aims to
      systematically examine the influence of cancer stage and treatment toxicity on mild cognitive
      impairment observed in hematological malignancy (HM) patients by implementing a core battery
      of behavioral and neural measures of attention.

      Our specific aims (SA) are to:

      SA1: Quantify chemotherapy-related impairments of attention-specific processes in HM
      patients.

      H1a: No difference in behavioral measures of attention will be observed across HM groups
      prior to treatment, and HM groups will perform worse than healthy controls.

      H1b: Exposure to chemotherapy will predict behavioral impairments of attention, and the
      magnitude of impairment will be linked with treatment toxicity.

      SA2: Quantify electrophysiological measures of attention-specific processes and determine the
      link between chemotherapy-related impairments in neural activity and cognitive ability.

      H2a: No difference in electrophysiological measures of attention will be observed across HM
      and healthy control groups prior to treatment.

      H2b: Exposure to chemotherapy will predict functional impairments in electrophysiological
      measures of attention, and the magnitude of impairment will be linked with treatment
      toxicity.

      H2c: Chemotherapy-related impairment in neural measures of attention will be predicted by
      concurrent impairments in behavioral measures of attention (as in H1b).

      SA3: Implement controlled simulations of on-road driving scenarios that probe specific
      attention processes to determine the impact of chemotherapy on complex real-world behavior.

      H3a: No difference in driving performance will be observed across HM groups prior to
      treatment, and driving performance will be better in healthy controls compared to HM
      patients.

      H3b: Exposure to chemotherapy will predict greater impairment in simulated driving
      performance, and the magnitude of impairment will be linked with treatment toxicity.

      H3c: Impairments in behavioral (as in H1a) and neural measures (as in H2a) of attention will
      predict greater impairment in simulated on-road driving performance.

      Our empirical approach will allow us to more rigorously study the neural mechanisms of
      chemotherapy-related cognitive impairment. The current proposal aims to extend previous
      research by longitudinally investigating an understudied cancer population whose constituents
      are assigned to a treatment group at diagnosis, thus providing sufficient experimental
      control for examining parametric effects of cancer burden and treatment toxicity on specific
      mechanisms of attention. Results obtained from this study will be critical to understanding
      risk factors associated with chemotherapy, which will allow clinicians to make informed
      treatment recommendations in order to reduce the likelihood of cognitive impairment and
      maintain the highest quality of life possible for the ever-increasing cancer survivor
      population.
    
  