
    
      Several studies have reported an unwanted adverse effect of weekend admission on mortality in
      certain acute medical conditions. Though the reason for this variation could be illness
      severity, some studies have hypothesized that this could be due to variation in care provided
      over weekends when services are a minimum. The increased mortality over weekends for certain
      conditions in the National Health Service (NHS) in England has led to an intense debate on
      reconfiguring the health service. Little is known about the impact of the weekend effect on
      severe acute kidney requiring dialysis (AKI-D) in England, the incidence of which has
      increased more than 12-foldover the past 15 years. Most nephrology departments in England
      provide continuous consultant cover over weekends and have the capacity to perform emergency
      dialysis as needed over weekends suggesting that a weekend effect is less likely to occur.
      Patients admitted over the weekend may present in three ways - with severe AKI requiring
      dialysis over the weekend, with AKI and requiring dialysis on a subsequent weekday or with no
      AKI, but develop AKI-D during the in-patient stay over next few days. Some studies have
      reported that patients starting dialysis on Sunday or a diagnosis of severe AKI over weekend,
      does not affect mortality, while others have reported increased mortality for AKI in all
      sizes of hospital over weekend. One explanation for this observation is that necessary
      dialysis therapy may not be initiated on a weekend as a result of limitations in physician or
      nurse staffing or device availability. However, bias can be created by single center studies
      as it is well recognized that the epidemiology of AKI-D shows considerable regional variation
      and this may be true for all days of the week. It can also be speculated that patients
      admitted on weekends may not receive optimal care resulting in development of new AKI or
      progression of AKI to AKI-D resulting in excess mortality.

      With this background, the investigators wanted to investigate whether a weekend effect on
      mortality exists for AKI-D patients in England. The investigators hypothesized that patients
      admitted over weekend would have increased mortality irrespective of demographic features and
      clinical characteristics. They also hypothesized that the effect on mortality would be more
      pronounced in centers with no on-site nephrology services.
    
  