
    
      Obesity and diabetes are chronic diseases characterized by increased visceral adipose tissue
      and sub-acute inflammation. These conditions can lead to insulin resistance, hyperglycemia,
      oxidative stress], and lipotoxicity, and lead to the development of metabolic syndrome.
      Previous work has shown that these comorbidities, as well as high levels of glucocorticoids,
      can modulate the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and inflammatory response. In some
      cases, these conditions and responses perturb neuroimmune endocrine system homeostasis.

      Another potential outcome arising from inflammation, insulin resistance, hyperglycemia, and
      lipotoxicity is a nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), a chronic liver disease that
      often coexists with obesity-related type 2 diabetes. Previous studies have demonstrated that
      NAFLD compromises glycemic and lipid homeostasis. The hyperglycemia and the lipotoxicity
      drive the metabolic pathways of the cell towards gluconeogenesis, glycolysis, and de novo
      lipogenesis, and the subsequent increase in free fatty acid (FFA) production can cause
      oxidative stress.

      Previous studies have shown that non-pharmacological interventions can be used as strategies
      for treating and/or preventing inflammatory and metabolic diseases. Furthermore, exploiting
      specific proteins and transcription factors that target the mitochondria represents potential
      mechanisms for these interventions.

      Along these lines, natural products and derivatives thereof, often referred to as natural
      medicines, have been gaining notoriety as sources of effective therapeutics. For example,
      polyphenols present in plants can be metabolized to form propionic acid, which is later
      transformed into another metabolite, butyrate. As reviewed by Juárez-Hernández et al.,
      Na-butyrate and synthetic derivatives thereof increase prebiotic lactobacilli and
      bifidobacteria growth in the colon, consequently improving thermogenesis and energy
      expenditure, ultimately reducing hepatic lipid deposition, improving triacylglycerol content
      and insulin resistance and protecting against metabolic impairment, as well as liver
      inflammation and/or damage. Furthermore, butyrate can induce the expression of fibroblast
      growth factor 21 (FGF-21), which plays a vital role in stimulating hepatic fatty acid
      β-oxidation. In this sense, prebiotics may be a promising treatment for chronic inflammatory
      and metabolic diseases in humans.

      The efficacy of prebiotic compounds, such as fructooligosaccharides (FOS),
      galacto-oligosaccharides (GOS) and yeast β-glucans, minerals including magnesium, zinc,
      selenium, and plants like Silybum marianum (L.) Gaerth. (Silymarin), have been evaluated for
      the treatment of specific diseases. However, most of these studies only describe the effects
      of the supplements being administered alone. Thus, the present study monitored the synergic
      effects of a novel supplement formulation containing prebiotics, yeast β-glucans, minerals,
      and silymarin on lipid metabolism, inflammatory and mitochondrial proteins in eutrophic, and
      overweight/obesity I volunteer.
    
  