
    
      Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillator (ICD) implant improves survival in patients with a
      higher risk for sudden cardiac death. There are 2 types of ICD available; transvenous ICD
      (TV-ICD) and subcutaneous ICD (S-ICD). During ICD implant, defibrillation testing (DFT) is
      performed to test functionality of the device. However, DFT can be associated with
      complications such as inability to convert, complications arising from general anaesthesia,
      prolonged resuscitation, stroke and death. Whereas DFT may be associated with complications,
      the benefit of DFT is debated as literature shows there is only a modest average effect of
      DFT, if any, on mortality, shock efficacy or safety. Recently it was shown in a randomized
      controlled trial called 'SIMPLE' that routine defibrillation testing of TV-ICDs at the time
      of implant does not improve shock efficacy or reduce arrhythmic death. For S-ICD there is
      only limited data available of the effect of DFT on S-ICD efficacy. Data have however shown
      that the conversion efficacy of the S-ICD is comparable to TV-ICD.

      DFT is currently performed in standard S-ICD implants, but is omitted in specific cases.
      However, an alternative method to evaluate the correct position may be desired when omitting
      DFT. The PRAETORIAN Score is developed using computer modelling data on factors influencing
      defibrillation thresholds. The PRAETORIAN score represents the chance of a patient having an
      elevated defibrillation threshold and consequently failing a DFT or conversion of a
      spontaneous arrhythmia episode. The score was retrospectively validated in two studies with
      180 and 321 patients.

      It was reported that most S-ICD implants are performed under general anesthesia, however
      other anesthesia protocols are used as well. One of the most predominant factors to use
      general anesthesia is the performance of the DFT. If this is omitted, other anesthesia
      protocols may be a good option for many patients as well.
    
  