
    
      PRIZER Study is a prospective, multicenter, post-market, single arm study with plan to
      include approximately 135 patients eligible to be treated with RenzanTM Peripheral Stent
      System stratified in 2 groups: 90 FEM-POP patients (From superficial femoral Artery to the
      Proximal edge of patella) and 45 Isolated POP patients (From Hunter's canal to the Origin of
      anterior tibial artery).

      The sponsor will work in accordance with standard operating procedures (SOP) and the
      Monitoring Plan in order to ensure adherence to the CIP and applicable regulations at the
      investigational sites.

      The Monitoring Plan is built according to a risk-based monitoring approach and describes the
      level of source data verification to be performed by the monitors.

      Risk-based monitoring approach uses all available means to supervise the trial (central
      monitoring, remote monitoring and on-site monitoring), focusing in critical data points and
      issues ensuring that adequate monitoring (central, remote and on-site) at each site is
      completed to ensure protection of the rights and safety of the subjects and the quality and
      integrity of the data collected and submitted.

      The sponsor shall provide training and the necessary guidelines to assist each
      investigational site on the data collection in the eCRF. Each site is responsible to report
      the available data requested by the CIP. In order to ensure data quality and avoid missing
      information in the eCRF, edit checks are designed during database development. In addition,
      Sponsor's CRA and Data Management team will be responsible to review the data and raise
      queries accordingly into the eCRF. An audit trail logging all data entered and edited is
      available within the EDC system. All source documents are maintained in the hospital files
      ready for inspection by the Sponsor and regulatory authorities upon request. The Sponsor will
      inform the investigator of the time period for retaining these records as per applicable
      regulatory requirements.
    
  