
    
      - Methodology in details:

      All patients with ST elevation myocardial infarction who meets the inclusion criteria will be
      subjected to:

      A. Full history taking: including age, sex, history of DM, HTN, Smoking, dyslipidemia,
      history of cerebrovascular stroke, family history of renal problems as well as time of onset
      of chest pain and time to reperfusion. Regular medications and any nephrotoxic administration
      within the prior week to the index event will be reported.

      B. Targeted physical examination:

        -  General examination and cardiac examination to detect signs of heart failure and/or
           signs suggestive of mechanical complications.

        -  C. Twelve lead ECG: To diagnose ST elevation myocardial infarction, Diagnostic STE is
           defined as new STE at the J point in at least 2 contiguous leads ≥ 2 mm (0.2 mV) in men
           or ≥ 1.5 mm (0.15 mV) in women in leads V2-V3 and/or of ≥ 1 mm (0.1 mV) in other
           contiguous chest or limb leads.3 The presence of reciprocal changes (manifested as ST
           depression in a region that approximates the vector 180 degrees opposite the major
           vessel of injury) increases the specificity of STE caused by STEMI.4 .

        -  D. Collecting baseline venous blood samples for Random blood glucose, Hemoglobin, serum
           creatinine and GFR, before the procedure. to be noted that reperfusion by primary PCI
           will not await tests results to be available.

      E. Coronary angiography and primary PCI will be done by the interventional cardiologist as
      per standard technique. After the procedure the volume of used contrast agent will be
      reported.

      F. Echocardiography: will be performed within 48 hours after the primary PCI to assess
      systolic, diastolic and valvular functions.

      G. Follow up of serum creatinine 12 hours after the procedure then daily till time of
      discharge.

      H. CHA2DS2-VASC score will be calculated for each patient. Based on the CHA2DS2-VASC score,
      patients are given 1 point foreach of the following risk factors : CHF, hypertension, age 65
      to 74 years, diabetes mellitus, vascular disease and female gender and 2 points for age 75
      years or older and previous stroke or transient ischemic attack.

      I. Mehran risk score will be also calculated, that risk score includes 8 prognostic
      variables:

        -  hypotension (5 points, if systolic blood pressure <80 mmHg for at least 1 hour requiring
           inotropic support),

        -  use of intra-aortic balloon pump (5 points),

        -  CHF (5 points, if class III/IV by New York Heart Association Classification or history
           of pulmonary edema),

        -  age (4 points, if >75 years),

        -  anemia (3 points, if hematocrit <39% for men and <36 for women),

        -  diabetes mellitus (3 points ),

        -  contrast media volume (1 point per 100 ml),

        -  estimated GFR 2 points, if GFR 60 to 40 ml/min per 1.73 m2; 4 points, if GFR 40 to 20; 6
           points, if GFR <20).

      Four categories of CIN risk of were established from the cut-off points and intervals defined
      by Mehran et al. 2010 as follow:

        1. Low, <5 points.

        2. Moderate, 6 to 10 points.

        3. High, 11 to 15 points.

        4. Very high, >15 points. Patients who develop CIN will have their characteristics studied
           as well as their CHA2DS2VASC score , MEHRAN score and their individual components to be
           compared to those who did not develop primary PCI related CIN.
    
  