
    
      Research Objectives:

      We are now reaching a new age with an opportunity to advance to theoretically better culture
      environments and improvements on measures of embryo assessment.

      The objectives of this research study will be to evaluate and compare the reproductive
      outcomes in isolating one of two new interventions introduced by the Time-Lapse Incubator
      (TLI) system. The first will be an assessment of the TLI environment compared to the standard
      Bench Incubator (BI) environment. The second will be an assessment of the added morphokinetic
      grading of embryos compared to the traditional morphologic grading alone.

      Although the primary objective of this study will focus on clinical pregnancy rates and fresh
      embryo transfers, further research using embryos frozen from this study will be conducted to
      also evaluate cumulative pregnancy rates per oocyte pick-up (OPU) cycle in the future.

      Methods The current study will be a prospective randomized and double-blinded study using
      three patient arms. The first arm will include patients randomized to embryo culture in a
      tri-gas bench incubator (Miri, Benchtop Multi-room incubator). These embryos will undergo
      multiple evaluations using light microscopy and traditional morphologic assessment according
      to accepted criteria. The second arm will include patients randomized to embryo culture in a
      time-lapse incubator (Miri TL, Time-Lapse Incubator). These embryos will remain in the TLI
      and undergo both morphologic and morphokinetic evaluation and grading according to a
      multivariable scoring model. They will not be removed from incubation for the duration of
      culture. The third arm will include patients also randomized to embryo culture in a
      time-lapse incubator (Miri TL, Time-Lapse Incubator). These embryos will remain in the TLI
      and undergo only traditional morphologic assessment according to accepted criteria with no
      additional imaging. They will also not be removed from incubation for the duration of
      culture. The time points and evaluated parameters will be identical to those in arm 1 of the
      study.

      Patients will be assessed for suitability, inclusion and exclusion criteria by the physician
      and nursing team prior to initiation of an IVF/ICSI cycle at our centre. Once the patient is
      deemed eligible, a member of the care team will discuss details of the study with the
      patient.

      Approved study subjects will undergo standard controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH).
      Protocols and their corresponding medications will be decided upon at the discretion of the
      treating physician. These may include long gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist
      protocol and GnRH antagonist protocol. Follicular aspiration will be performed in the IVF
      unit via transvaginal needle aspiration. Endometrial preparation and luteal phase support
      will be recommended as per our departmental protocol. The number of embryos for transfer will
      be defined prior to cycle initiation, according to The Israel Society of Obstetrics &
      Gynecology.

      Patient randomization will occur after Human Chorionic Gonadotropin (hCG) administration has
      already been ensured, prior to Intracytoplasmic Sperm Injection (ICSI). The randomization
      procedure will be accomplished using computer-generated randomization.

      After follicular aspiration and transfer to the laboratory, the follicular fluid will be
      examined for presence of oocytes. Oocytes will then be scored for maturity and any
      morphologically abnormal features. ICSI will then be performed using fresh sperm from the
      corresponding partner.

      Embryos will then be placed in culture media. The embryos within culture media will then be
      placed in either the Miri Benchtop or Miri Timelapse incubator according to their
      corresponding group of randomization. Note that the environment of the Miri benchtop and Miri
      TL incubators will be considered identical. oxygen concentration and carbon dioxide
      concentrations set at 5% and 5.5% respectively.

      Embryos in arm 1 of the study (Miri Benchtop incubator) will be morphologically assessed by
      light microscopy at pre-defined time points and according to accepted criteria by one of the
      trained laboratory embryologists. The time points for evaluation will be at 16 - 20 hours
      post-ICSI (for normal fertilization), at 44 - 48 hours (day 2) post-ICSI, and then at 64 - 72
      hours (day 3) post-ICSI. Evaluated parameters will include cell number, cell size, cell
      symmetry, and percent fragmentation. Any gross abnormalities will be noted. Embryos will then
      be graded on day 3 according to these evaluated parameters and transferred according to
      preferential grading. If embryo transfer has been predetermined for day 5, additional
      assessment will take place at approximately 116 hours.

      Embryos in arm 2 of the study (Miri TL incubator) will be morphologically and
      morphokinetically assessed by the same laboratory embryologists using digital images
      generated by the incubator's integrated time-lapse imaging system. Assessment and scoring
      will be performed as per our scoring classification system. Morphological screening of
      embryos will initially be performed in order to discard or exclude those clearly not viable
      for transfer. Morphokinetic parameters will then be used in order to rank remaining embryos
      score categories from a maximum of 4.0 to a minimum of -2.0, in order of hypothesized
      decreasing implantation potential.

      Embryos in arm 3 of the study (Miri TL incubator) will be morphologically assessed by the
      embryologists using digital images generated by the incubator's integrated time-lapse imaging
      system. As noted above, the time points and evaluated parameters will be identical to those
      in arm 1 of the study. Decisions on embryos for transfer will also be identical.

      For each patient, embryos will be selected for transfer based on their morphologic scoring
      alone (Arm 1 and 3) or by the morphokinetic decision tree scoring (Arm 2). The number of
      embryos for transfer will have been pre-determined (as noted above).

      Those embryos not selected and deemed appropriate for future transfer will undergo
      cryopreservation by vitrification.

      Blinding of the current study will be ensured at multiple points. The gynecologists
      performing oocyte retrieval and embryo transfer will be blinded to the predefined and
      randomized patient group. Patients will be unaware of their group of randomization.
      Statisticians will also be blinded to the group of randomization in calculating pregnancy
      outcomes. It will unfortunately not be possible to ensure blinding of those embryologists
      performing the morphologic and morphokinetic assessments.

      Sample Size calculation:

      The pregnancy rate in our IVF Unit in the sub-group of patients with demographic and clinical
      characteristics similar to those included in the study, is about 40%. Assuming that in the
      TLI group pregnancy rate will increase by 10%, the sample size required per group is 124
      patients per arm, with an alpha risk of 5% and a power of 80%.

      Statistics:

      The statistical analysis will be done by intention to treat.
    
  