
    
      In this pilot study, the main goal is to evaluate the capacity of the Metabolic Hyperspectral
      Retinal Camera (MHRC) - the experimental instrument - to identify the presence of a specific
      hyperspectral signature in the retinal arterioles of subjects suffering from arteriosclerosis
      while this signature should not be present in the retinal arterioles of control subjects
      considered healthy and without arteriosclerosis risk factors. The study is open,
      non-controlled and without randomization or placebo.

      30 subjects of each group will be enrolled in the study for a total of 60 subjects.
      Recruitment will take place at the Montreal Heart Institute (Montreal, Quebec, Canada) and
      will be led by the research team of the Principal Investigator. Specific inclusion/exclusion
      criteria will differentiate subjects in each group. Once subjects fitting the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria will be identified, they will be enrolled and asked to sign the
      informed consent form approved by the Research Ethics and New Technology Development
      Committee (Montreal Heart Institute).

      Following this step, an ophthalmic examination will be performed. During this examination,
      both eyes will be evaluated in order to detect the presence of eye pathologies (advanced
      cataracts, venous occlusion, age-related macular degeneration or glaucoma) that could
      interfere with the analysis of the MHRC optical imaging results. The ophthalmic examination
      consists first of a slit-lamp evaluation and secondly of an optic coherence tomography (OCT)
      plus a color image of the fundus (standard instruments commonly used in ophthalmology
      clinics) following the instillation of eye drops to dilate the pupils. The whole examination
      should last 45 minutes (it takes 15 to 20 minutes for the pupil to be sufficiently dilated to
      carry out the examinations). If the ophthalmic examination does not reveal any of the
      exclusion criteria, in the next minutes, the subject will be asked to undergo the baseline
      MHRC examination. This baseline imaging session will last a maximum of 15 minutes.

      All data according to the light signal spectrum will be analyzed subsequently. Only
      depersonalized data, identified solely by the subject number, will be used by the
      investigators.

      Risks associated to the subject's participation in this research project have been evaluated.
      Pupil dilation will be necessary to obtain quality images of the retina using conventional
      imaging techniques (OCT and fundus) and with the MHRC. The subject's pupils will remain
      dilated for 4 to 6 hours afterward, which may cause significant glare in areas where light is
      strong.. The MHRC is a research instrument which images the retina non-invasively and Health
      Canada authorization has been obtained for its use in the context of this study. The only
      foreseeable harm connected to its use is discomfort connected to the injection of light into
      the eye. The power of the monochromatic light source has been calculated to be well below the
      recommended exposure limits.. Very rigorous verifications were made according to the
      parameters fixed by the "American National Standard for safe use of laser" (ANSI 136.1) for
      laser radiation exposure.

      Finally, all conflicts of interested are declared in the protocol and the informed consent
      form. Measures are in place to mitigate them in order to maintain research and data analysis
      integrity.
    
  