
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the progression-free survival of bevacizumab in combination with oxaliplatin,
           irinotecan hydrochloride, fluorouracil, and leucovorin calcium (FOLFOXIRI) versus
           bevacizumab in combination with irinotecan hydrochloride, fluorouracil, and leucovorin
           calcium (FOLFIRI) in patients with unresectable, metastatic colorectal cancer.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the safety profile, including long-term adverse events of these regimens in
           these patients.

        -  To compare the overall response rate, duration of response, and secondary R0 surgery
           rates of metastases and overall survival between treatment arms.

        -  To evaluate potential surrogate markers predictive of bevacizumab activity.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to ECOG performance
      status (0 vs 1-2), prior adjuvant chemotherapy (yes vs no), and participating center.
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (FOLFOXIRI): Patients receive irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 1 hour, oxaliplatin
           IV over 2 hours, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours, and bevacizumab IV on day 1.
           Patients also receive fluorouracil IV continuously over 48 hours beginning on day 1.

        -  Arm II (FOLFIRI): Patients receive irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 1 hour, leucovorin
           calcium IV over 2 hours, and bevacizumab IV on day 1. Patients also receive fluorouracil
           IV continuously over 48 hours beginning on day 1.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 2 weeks for up to 12 courses. Treatment with
      bevacizumab, fluorouracil, and leucovorin calcium continues in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo serum extraction and blood sample collection periodically for genotyping
      studies. Patients also undergo collection of tumoral sections from paraffin embedded primary
      and/or metastatic lesions periodically for immunohistochemical analyses.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 8 weeks.
    
  