
    
      Radiation therapy remains the principal treatment for nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). The
      most frequently occurred radiation-related side effect is probably the radiation-induced oral
      mucositis, which affects up to 100% of NPC patients receiving radiation therapy, especially
      combined with chemotherapy.

      Oral mucositis is just the most common cause of significant weight loss for patients with
      nasopharyngeal carcinoma during treatment. Patients with oral mucositis will have restriction
      of normal food, and alternative to semi liquid or liquid diet, resulting in inadequate
      nutritional intake, malnutrition, weight loss. Furthermore, worse nutrition status will
      decline immune function, hematopoietic function and repair function, which will influence the
      patient's quality of life, reduce the tolerance of treatment, and affect treatment effect.

      At present, the guidelines at home and abroad more and more emphasize that early nutrition
      treatment and intervention before systemic malnutrition, also suggest nutrition treatment and
      intervention at the same time of anti-tumor treatment. Therefore, the timing of nutritional
      intervention changes from ineffective antitumor therapy as a palliative treatment to the
      early start of antitumor therapy. For nasopharyngeal carcinoma, early and whole course
      nutritional intervention can prevent and treat malnutrition or cachexia; improve the
      treatment tolerance and compliance; control or improve certain adverse reactions of
      radiotherapy; improve the quality of life; and then improve the function and curative effect.
      First choice of nutritional intervention is oral nutrition supplement. For patients without
      gastrointestinal dysfunction, parenteral nutrition is not necessary, even harmful, increasing
      the risk of infection.

      Nutren® Optimum has a higher protein ratio (P:F:C = 17:35:48), and 50% of the protein sources
      were lactalbumin and 50% casein. Lactalbumin is a high-quality protein, which dissolved and
      dispersed in the whey protein. Lactalbumin is easy digestion and absorption, with high
      bioavailability, and net protein utilization rate (NPU) is higher than that of casein and soy
      protein. Lactalbumin is rich in branched chain amino acids, which can be used as energy
      material for energy. Lactalbumin has a sulfur-containing amino acid, which can maintain the
      level of GSH and be in the role of antioxidation; containing glutamine, which contributes to
      muscle glycogen update and improves immune function. In addition, lactalbumin can also
      significantly reduce neutrophil apoptosis, enhance neutrophil migration and phagocytosis, and
      enhance the immune function. Therefore, lactalbumin has the highest nutritional value among a
      variety of proteins, known as protein king. A cup of 210ml's Nutren® Optimum contains 5g
      lactalbumin.

      Nutren® Optimum contains dietary fiber, which produces short chain fatty acids to promote the
      proliferation of intestinal probiotics, and play anti-inflammatory, pro-apoptotic, anti-tumor
      effect, and maintain intestinal health. At the same time, vitamin E is specially added in
      Nutren® Optimum to protect T lymphocytes, protect red blood cells, anti-oxidation, inhibit
      platelet aggregation, enhance immunity, and so on. In addition, 64% fat sources of Nutren®
      Optimum are monounsaturated fat, which conducive to the metabolism of glucose and lipid.
      Especially added L-carnitine can promote fat oxidation by using better fat for energy,
      without reducing water and muscle. Nutren® Optimum provides 30 kinds of vitamins and minerals
      and other nutrients, and can provide a comprehensive and balanced nutrition.

      This single center, open-label, randomized controlled clinical trial selects Nutren® Optimum
      as oral nutritional support for interventional group while routine diet guidance for control
      group, aiming to evaluate the efficacy and safety of early and whole course nutritional
      support by Nutren® Optimum during intensity modulated radiation therapy for nasopharyngeal
      carcinoma, which can improve patients' nutritional state and quality of life, reduce side
      effects and improve the tolerability and effectiveness of antitumor treatment.
    
  