
    
      The purpose of this project is to conduct a randomized, controlled trial (RCT) to determine
      if choice of antihypertensive medication influences changes in functional status and other
      cardiovascular risk factors among older persons with hypertension. Functional status,
      determined by measures of physical performance, is an important predictor of cardiovascular
      outcomes in older adults. Seniors with compromised function experience more CV events, have a
      higher risk of undergoing cardiac surgery and higher risk of CVD-related death than
      higher-functioning peers. Seniors with hypertension experience accelerated declines in
      function, and presently physical exercise is the primary strategy for preventing this
      decline. However, functional responses to exercise are highly variable and appear to be
      influenced by the type of antihypertensive medication(s) utilized to control blood pressure.
      Preliminary evidence suggests that, compared to other first-line antihypertensive agents,
      angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors enhance exercise-derived improvements in
      functional status among hypertensive seniors. This RCT will test this hypothesis. Sedentary
      men and women > 60 years of age with functional limitations and hypertension will be
      recruited from two sites to participate in a longitudinal intervention study. Participants
      will be randomly assigned to one of three first-line antihypertensive agents: (1) the ACE
      inhibitor perindopril, (2) AT1 receptor antagonist losartan, or (3) the thiazide diuretic
      hydrochlorothiazide. Note: Participants with a documented history of hypersensitivity to ACE
      inhibitors will be randomized 1:1 to one of the two other study drugs. All participants will
      also participate in a structured aerobic exercise intervention. The primary aim is to
      determine if, compared to losartan and HCTZ, perindopril improves self-paced gait speed. The
      secondary aim is to determine the relative effect of perindopril on a) exercise capacity, b)
      body mass and composition, and c) circulating indices of cardiovascular risk. This study is
      expected to differentiate beneficial effects of three FDA-approved antihypertensive
      medications on an emerging cardiovascular risk factor in a clinically-relevant population.
      Thus the study has important implications for expeditiously influencing clinical practice
      guidelines in the prescription of antihypertensive drugs to millions of Americans.
    
  