
    
      The investigators included in the present study 40 patients who sought the UNIMES Dentistry
      Clinic for the BFP removal procedure. All female, aged between 20 and 40 years and showing
      good general health. All the patients received information and had access to the informed
      consent form that after the necessary explanations was duly filled and signed. Clinical
      parameters such as periodontal indices (depth of probing, plaque index and gingival index),
      characteristics of the jugal mucosa, opening of the mouth, and the amount of fat removed were
      evaluated. After detailed anamnesis and verified the need to remove the buccal fat pad by
      constant bite on the jugal mucosa or for aesthetic reasons of facial thinning the patients
      were instructed to perform the blood tests, fasting blood glucose and complete blood count.
      With the exams presenting normal levels and compatible with health status, the patients were
      scheduled to perform the proposed therapy. The surgical procedure was performed using the
      technique with intrabuccal access, already consecrated in the literature (Materasso, 2006).
      The buccal fat pad access was made by means of a small incision no more than 3 mm in length
      in the soft tissue located in the lower aspect of the zygomatic counterfoot, taking care to
      visualize and protect with the retractor the Stensen's conduit. With the aid of blunt-tipped
      or hemostatic scissors dissection was performed, taking care to preserve the membrane
      surrounding the ball of fat. After removal of one side, pressure was removed to remove air
      and the procedure was started on the opposite side, after the removal of the two sides was
      realized simple suture with silk thread. There were no formal indications for sending the
      samples for anatomic and / or histological examination. Patients were adequately medicated
      with analgesics and anti-inflammatories and antibiotics for 5 days. Kinesio therapy tapes
      were applied and placed towards the origin for insertion of the muscles involved in the
      region, and exchanged after 4, 7, and 10 days. Severe bilateral cryotherapy in the areas of
      extraoral surgery for 24 to 48 hours was performed. The first return was 4 days after the
      procedure and the next 7, 10, 15, 30, and ninety days, where physical, clinical, standardized
      photos and oral opening measurements were performed.
    
  