
    
      Background and rationale Opioid-induced constipation is the most common side effect of opioid
      therapy - depending on the settings up to 90% of patients taking opioids experience
      constipation with the most conservative estimate among MMT patients being 30%. Currently, the
      recommended treatment for opioid-induced constipation includes a combination of stool
      softeners, stimulants and osmotic laxatives - increased gastrointestinal secretions result in
      increased volume and softness of fecal masses, and more intense peristalsis promotes bowel
      voiding. The effectiveness of existing treatments for opioid-induced constipation is limited
      - they are effective in approximately 50% of cases, often have side effects such as abdominal
      cramping and diarrhea and, most importantly, do not address the pathobiological basis of
      opioid-induced constipation. Opioids in general and methadone in particular act on peripheral
      opioid receptors located in myenteric and submucosal plexus and cause relaxation of
      longitudinal and increased tone of inner circular smooth muscles as well as decreased
      gastrointestinal secretions that in turn result in constipation. The most logical therapeutic
      approach to the treatment of opioid-induced constipation in MMT would be using opioids that
      cause selective local reversal of μ-opioid activation with a peripherally-acting opioid
      antagonist such as naloxone, which when administered orally does not have systemic effects
      due to extremely low oral bioavailability.

      Objectives The primary objective is to evaluate the effectiveness of a combination of
      methadone and naloxone in 50:1 for treatment of opioid-induced constipation in MMT patients.
      The secondary objective of the study is to assess the likelihood of development of opioid
      withdrawal symptoms in MMT patients who receive combination of methadone and naloxone
      compared to those who receive methadone only.

      Design Study has a double-blind placebo-controlled crossover design: following signing
      informed consent and initial assessment 20 subjects who meet eligibility criteria will be
      randomized into one of two groups: group A will receive combination of methadone and naloxone
      in a ratio of 50:1 shown to be safe and effective in other trials during week 1 of the study
      and methadone only during week 2 of the study. Group B will receive methadone only during
      week 1 of the study and combination of methadone and naloxone in a ratio of 50:1 during week
      2 of the study. Thus, all participants will receive combination of methadone and naloxone for
      one week and methadone alone for one week. Neither study participants, nor the pharmacists
      observing the doses, nor study personnel will know if naloxone is added to subjects'
      methadone preparations. Allocation to Group A or Group B will be done by random assignment.
      The pharmacy research medication management service will prepare the randomization code such
      that there will be a balanced assignment after every 4 subjects. Bowel functioning will be
      assessed quantitatively primarily using the Bowel Function Index (BFI) at initial assessment
      and at the end of weeks one (day 8) and two of the study (day 15). Also data on the number of
      complete spontaneous bowel movements (CSBMs), their temporal relationship to medication
      administration and outcome will be collected every day prior to administration of the next
      dose of methadone. In addition to parameters of bowel functioning Subjective Opiate
      Withdrawal Scale (SOWS) will be administered daily in order to assess potential opioid
      withdrawal symptoms.

      Statistical Methods/Data Analysis Primary endpoint of the study is the reduction of
      constipation symptoms severity as measured by the difference between BFI scores taken after
      one week of receiving combination of methadone and naloxone and after one week of receiving
      methadone only. Secondary endpoint of the study is the occurrence of opioid withdrawal
      symptoms as measured by the difference between the mean SOWS scores taken daily during each
      of two weeks of the study. Paired t-test will be used to compare BFI and mean number of CSBMs
      between the weeks of treatment with a combination of methadone and naloxone and methadone
      alone as well as to compare average SOWS scores between the weeks of treatment with a
      combination of methadone and naloxone and methadone alone.
    
  