
    
      Description Background: Many older individuals are at high risk for health complications and
      functional impairment due to low levels of physical activity. Walking is an acceptable and
      safe activity associated with many health benefits. Strength and flexibility exercises are
      also important components of the exercise prescription for optimal health and function in the
      elderly. Developing interventions to promote healthy physical activity is a current public
      health priority, and counseling by providers in health care settings is a promising approach.
      Objectives: The primary objective was to evaluate the effects of nurse counseling on total
      weekly minutes and frequency of home-based walking and strength/flexibility exercises.
      Secondary objectives included evaluating physical function and accelerometer physical
      activity. A sub-study initiated in April 2004 examined the association between exercise and
      cognitive functioning. Methods: The design is a randomized clinical trial. Outcomes were
      assessed at 5 months (end of initiation phase) and 10 months (maintenance). Clinic-based
      exercise counseling was delivered by a nurse and physical therapy assistant at baseline and a
      1-month follow-up. Interventions were based on exercise for people over 50 information
      available on the National Institute on Aging internet website. VA primary care patients aged
      60 to 85 referred by their primary care provider were assigned to one of 2 conditions: a)
      exercise counseling or b) health education contact control. All participants received
      preventive health counseling emphasizing safety and falls prevention. The exercise counseling
      group also received follow-up phone contacts, including automated motivational messages, from
      the nurse. All participants had continuing contact with research staff but were exposed to
      different specific intervention components. . Status: Data collection complete; additional
      analyses in progress.
    
  