
    
      Objectives:

        1. To determine the post mortem concentration of hepatic and bone VA in corpses of
           adolescent, young and elderly adults as an indicator of exposure to dietary VA

        2. To assess the effect of high VA exposure on key enzymes in liver and bone tissue and to
           assess the risk of hypervitaminosis A in people exposed to compulsory mass vitamin A
           fortification program in Guatemala.

      Methodology:

      Setting and sampling The corpses for this study will be obtained from the National Institute
      of Forensic Sciences' (INACIF) departmental morgues in 2 hospitals in Guatemala City. The
      study population will be 150 cadavers sampled for VA tissue concentration; gene expression
      analysis combined with histopathology.

      Sample collection process and duration All samples will be collected during necropsies
      carried out at the INACIF forensic morgue. During necropsy, the liver will be weighed and the
      information recorded. A range of up to 10 x 3 g samples of the liver's right lobe will be
      obtained. Each sample will be properly labelled with previously prepared codes. Liver samples
      for histopathological analysis will be stored in 10% buffered formalin for 24 hours prior to
      transfer to ethanol before embedding, sectioning and staining. All samples collected for
      retinoid analysis will be frozen on dry ice in the morgue, transported as such to the
      laboratory and subsequently stored at -80˚C. Liver samples for gene expression analysis will
      be collected in RNAlater solution to protect RNA stability and subsequently stored at -80˚C
      until shipment to Newcastle University. The hepatic VA analysis will be done in Newcastle
      University using established High Perfromance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) methods. Samples
      for analysis of gene expression will be sent on dry ice to Newcastle for RNA extraction and
      quantification. Since it is possible to obtain good quality RNA suitable for Quantitative
      Polymerase Chain Reaction (q-PCR) based analyses from post mortem tissue up to 72 hours after
      death, tissue samples stored in RNAlater within 24 hours of death will be adequate for gene
      expression analysis. Furthermore, experience from the investigators human biobank in
      Newcastle shows that tissue RNA can be extracted successfully after the demise of a patient
      up to 72 hours after death as long as the tissue has a pH of over 6. Gene expression of key
      regulatory proteins, such as LRAT and CYP26A1 will be performed in Newcastle. Choice of genes
      was based on the fact that LRAT may become saturated at very high levels of VA, leading to
      increasing levels of free circulating VA that can be metabolized to retinoic acid and other
      metabolites via CYP26A. Histopathological analysis will be carried out by pathologists in
      Guatemala with digitised slides being sent to the pathologist within Newcastle University -
      these slides will be analysed by both pathologists independently.

      Bone samples will also be obtained during the necropsy carried out at the INACIF forensic
      morgue. The iliac crest bone will be exposed by making an incision and removing the overlying
      soft tissue (skin, adipose tissue, connective tissue and muscle). The periosteum and cortical
      bone shall be removed via osteotomy exposing the spongy bone. Biopsy needles will be used to
      take samples from the spongy bone for analysis of tissue VA concentrations and gene
      expression, as previously described, at Newcastle University.

      All samples will be shipped to Newcastle University on dry ice.

      Study duration According to the information provided by INACIF 18 autopsies were performed
      between March and May 2013 on children less than one year of age, 24 on children from 1 to 4
      years old, 11 on children 5 to 9 years old, 51 on individuals from 10 to 14 years old, 281 on
      adolescents 15 to 19 years old, and 401 on young adults 20 to 24 years old. According to
      INACIF's forensic doctor, ~60% of the total number of autopsies carried out in Guatemala are
      performed in the capital city. The main causes of death in children under the age of 9 were
      head injuries and other types of trauma. Individuals from 10 to 24 years of age died mainly
      due to violence: firearms, stabbings, choking and different types of trauma.
    
  