
    
      The prevalence of childhood obesity has tripled within the last twenty-five years (Skelton et
      al., 2009). Interventions targeting children are a high priority because children bear the
      greatest lifetime health risk from overweight and obesity (Ogden et al., 2007; Franks et al.,
      2010). Health professionals in primary care settings have the potential to reach large
      numbers of parents and children and address obesity because they have regular interactions
      with and are influential in the lives of families. Studies show that even brief advice
      delivered well can have a meaningful impact. To support providers in this important role, the
      Centers for Disease Control and Prevention collaborated with other health organizations to
      develop recommendations for assessment, prevention, and treatment of childhood and adolescent
      overweight and obesity. Despite the 2007 publication of these recommendations and increasing
      recognition of childhood obesity as a public health problem, rates of provision of
      obesity-related guidance and counseling remain low (Tanda & Salsberry, 2013), and research
      indicates that health care providers could use additional education, training, and support
      related to obesity prevention and treatment. Thus, effective strategies to support pediatric
      primary care providers in their efforts to intervene against address childhood obesity are
      needed. Building off the successes achieved in their Phase I study, SIMmersion LLC, in
      collaboration with Dr. Nancy Sherwood from HealthPartners Institute , Dr. Jayne Fulkerson
      from the University of Minnesota, and Dr. Michael Fleming from Northwestern University, will
      expand the Phase I simulation prototype, utilizing feedback provided by a team of independent
      experts. The innovative computer-based training system with interactive role-play simulations
      will provide health care providers with much needed experiential opportunities to develop
      skills in conducting discussions with parents and children about obesity. The product's
      efficacy will be evaluated in a randomized controlled trial (RCT); 100 pediatric, family
      practice, and nursing clinicians and trainees at various levels of experience will be
      recruited to participate. Half of the participants will be randomly assigned to the
      intervention group during which they will use the newly developed simulation product to
      develop their skills and half of participants will be randomly assigned to the wait-list
      control group; the primary outcome is performance in a role play with trained actors at 2
      month follow-up.
    
  