
    
      Members of underserved racial/ethnic minority groups who participate more actively in the
      treatment process have almost three times the odds of staying in treatment and following up
      with appointments compared to standard treatment. Improving patient-clinician communication
      may therefore improve treatment engagement, from starting and participating in treatment
      actively to maintaining treatment for the successful resolution of symptoms and improvements
      in quality of life. Interventions that enhance communication behaviors by asking patients
      about their cultural views, using open-ended questions, establishing rapport, and using
      patient terms can increase patient participation and satisfaction. Interventions that expose
      clinicians to cultural content by asking patients about preferences for treatment, barriers
      to accessing services, the role of support from family or friends, and that encourage
      information exchange also improve treatment engagement. The goal of this study is to develop
      a communication intervention that improves treatment engagement for members of underserved
      racial and ethnic minority groups by improving clinician communication behaviors and exposing
      them to patient cultural content. Here, culture is understood as a dynamic process of meaning
      making between the patient and clinician. This intervention is not designed for patients
      belonging to a specific racial or ethnic group, but to improve general communication between
      patients and clinicians. The intervention improves communication by making communication
      behaviors and cultural content topics of explicit conversation rather than allowing
      clinicians to make cultural assumptions and take them for granted. We are focusing on racial
      and ethnic minorities because of significant evidence documenting disparities in health
      communication and care.

      In session 1, the clinician does the full CFI in DSM-5 (~15 minutes) and then completes the
      full standard intake with information not already obtained through the CFI (~35 minutes). In
      sessions 2 and 3, the clinician integrates the CFI-EA (~5 minutes) within regular care in
      standard appointments. At JHMC, Session 2 lasts 60 minutes and is for treatment initiation.
      Session 3 lasts 20-30 minutes and is to check for treatment continuation. Because this is a
      grant to train in developing mental health interventions, the study team is following an NIMH
      model known as the Stage Model of Intervention Development. The first project is creating the
      intervention through patient and clinician feedback at JHMC and expert consensus with the K23
      mentoring team. The second project is testing the intervention in a trial that compares the
      CFI-EA to treatment as usual. Patients for Project 1 will be recruited through a sample of
      convenience among patients accessing care on the days the research assistant is in the
      waiting area. For project 2, patients will be sampled consecutively by the JHMC's intake
      coordinator from the time that the project starts until the target enrollment is reached. The
      intake coordinator will keep a record of all patients who agree and do not agree to enroll in
      the study. Patients who agree to be enrolled during Project 2 will be recruited by the
      research assistant in the waiting area and then assigned randomly to either CFI-EA clinicians
      or treatment-as-usual clinicians based on a random number generator. The study team is using
      the same study measures in both projects to examine whether revisions to the CFI-EA conducted
      at the end of Project 1 show improvements in outcomes after Project 2.
    
  