
    
      Cognitive behavioral models of panic disorder maintain that recurrent, unexpected panic
      attacks result from anxiety sensitivity, or the fear of anxiety-related physiological
      sensations (e.g., fear of increased heart rate) and catastrophic misinterpretations regarding
      the danger of those sensations (e.g., misinterpreting increased heart rate as an oncoming
      heart attack). From these models and subsequent clinical research, interoceptive exposure has
      emerged as the most efficacious component of cognitive behavioral therapy for panic disorder
      treatment and, as expected, an efficacious intervention for decreasing anxiety sensitivity.
      Nevertheless, small-to-moderate effect sizes, wide variability in response rates and dropout
      rates indicated that panic disorder treatments may benefit from modifications to improve upon
      retention, response rates, and symptom reduction.

      Patient motivation and lack of engagement have been identified as factors to intervene upon.
      Numerous therapeutic techniques have been used to facilitate patient motivation in treatment;
      however, one specific direction that has gained increasing empirical interest is the
      inclusion of values identification. Values have been incorporated as a motivational component
      in empirically supported behavioral techniques and treatments, including Motivational
      Interviewing, Behavioral Activation Treatment for Depression packages, and Acceptance and
      Commitment Therapy. Evidence from randomized controlled trials have generally supported the
      inclusion of packages containing values components in facilitating exposure therapy, and
      preliminary evidence has specifically favored the inclusion of packages containing values
      components in exposure therapy in cognitive behavioral therapy for panic disorder. However,
      there is no research known by the author that examines the influence of values on motivation
      in interoceptive exposure. Therefore, research examining the effect of a values component in
      isolation motivation in and acceptability of interoceptive exposure exercises has the
      potential to further improve treatment efficacy reducing costs associated with panic disorder
      and the many other conditions treated by interoceptive exposure. Therefore, the purpose of
      the current study is to examine the effect of emphasizing values in the treatment rationale
      on treatment response, willingness to tolerate distress, and acceptability of a one-session
      interoceptive exposure intervention among a clinical analogue sample with elevated anxiety
      sensitivity.
    
  