
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most prevalent form of arthritis and is estimated to affect nearly
      27 million adults in the U.S., with one third of those 65 and older having been diagnosed
      with OA. As the population ages, this estimate is expected to grow rapidly. Traditional
      treatments for OA primarily attempt to address the symptoms (pain, inflammation, and
      discomfort) associated with the disease. This usually involves the use of analgesics (i.e.
      acetaminophen, tramadol), non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) (i.e. ibuprofen,
      diclofenac), or cyclooxygenase-2-specific (COX-2) NSAIDs (i.e. celecoxib) alone or in
      combination. Steroid and hyaluronic acid injections have also been used with some success.
      Many of these treatments have shown limited effectiveness in randomized controlled clinical
      trials (RCTs). To avoid the cardiac risks and gastrointestinal issues associated with
      traditional OA treatments (particularly with long-term use), many patients have turned to
      complementary and alternative medicines (CAMs) such as dietary supplements.

      The discovery of eggshell membrane as a natural source of combined glucosamine, chondroitin,
      and hyaluronic acid has prompted the evaluation of this material as a potential treatment for
      OA. ESM Technologies, LLC (Carthage, MO) has developed methods to efficiently and effectively
      separate eggshell membrane from eggshells to create a shell-free eggshell membrane. The
      isolated membrane is then partially hydrolyzed using a proprietary process and dry-blended to
      produce 100% pure Natural Eggshell Membrane (NEM速).

      In preliminary open-label human clinical trials totaling 37 subjects with OA, oral
      supplementation with 500 mg per day of NEM速 resulted in an observed decrease in pain in 7-30
      days. Therefore, an eight week randomized, multicenter, double blind, placebo controlled
      supplementation trial was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of NEM速 for the
      relief of the pain and stiffness associated with moderate OA of the knee - the Osteoarthritis
      Pain Treatment IncorpOrating NEM速 (OPTION) trial.
    
  