
    
      The participants will be recruited by the home nursing services or by a nurse at a short-time
      ward in the nursing home.

      The composite intervention consists has two components (A and B):

      Component A: Clinical assessment and critical medication review

      Drawing on information from the medical history, clinical finding according to examination
      made by the principal investigator (trained physician), information from the General
      Practitioner (GP) and the findings from blood tests, we will make a systematic and critical
      medication review. This systematic review has the following considerations:

        -  Are drug-drug unintended interactions likely to occur? Interaction analysis supported by
           https:// www.interaksjoner.no

        -  Are there use of potentially inappropriate medication? Assessed based on the Norwegian
           General Practice Nursing -Home criteria.

        -  Could nutritional related problems like loss of appetite, dry mouth and nausea, be
           attribute to adverse drug effects? Assessed by the list we made of drugs who often
           contributes to these side effects according to The Norwegian Pharmaceutical Product
           Compendium.

      Component B: Nutritional intervention- individual nutrition plan. Drawing on the principles
      for good nutritional practice, and National guidelines, this component include the following
      considerations:

        -  Nutritional status by use of Mini Nutritional Assessment short form (MNA-SF), and
           further in- depth nutrition assessment if MNA-SF is in range 0-11.

        -  Assessment of the nutritional needs.

        -  Assess food and drink intake with a 3- day dietary record to the estimated nutritional
           needs.

        -  In collaboration with the home nurse, the participant and if possible/ necessary a next
           to kin, focusing on individual problems and develop an individual nutritional plan.

      The project is about a controlled implementation of measures recommended in current national
      guidelines. We will follow a principle known as the "Nutritional Stairs", and choose
      interventions in the nutritional plan as close to "normal" food as possible. This means that
      the individual nutritional plan takes into account:

        -  Physical and mental disorders are diagnosed and optimal treated. (Oral health care
           included)

        -  Intervention to optimize the meal environment and meal itself, e.g., enough light in the
           room, specific tools to make eating possible if necessary, company

        -  The frequency of meals, length of night fasting, special diets as energy- and nutrient
           dens diets, consistency customized diet (liquid or solid food)

        -  Enriched food and in between meals/snacks

        -  Nutritional supplements

      The intervention last six months, and participants in the intervention group will receive
      four visits at home; baseline and after 4, 12 and 24 weeks. At baseline and at week 24, the
      principal investigator (trained physician) and the nurse will visit the participants. At week
      4 and 12, only the nurse will visit them. The control group, are visited by a nurse twice: at
      baseline and after 24 weeks, and are follow-up by the home nurse service and their GP "as
      usual".

      Drop- out during the study period and reasons for "loss to follow-up (LTFU)" will be
      registered; e.g., moved from the municipality, acute illness that make further participation
      difficult, admission to long time ward in nursing home, or any other reason to withdraw
      participation. In the intervention group, we will on behalf of and subject to the
      participant's consent, make an appointment for consultation by the GP, if the clinical
      assessment suggests undetected diseases or diseases not optimal treated. If oral health
      problems are encountered, we will recommend a consultation by a dentist.
    
  