
    
      The World Health Organization (W.H.O). defines oral potentially malignant disorders (OPMDs)
      as "A histologically proven lesion that is associated with a significantly increased risk of
      malignant transformation."Oral leukoplakia is the most commonly occurring oral potentially
      malignant disorder. According to World Health Organisation (WHO), it is defined as
      "predominantly white plaques of questionable risk having excluded other known diseases or
      disorders that carry no increased risk for cancer."Leukoplakia has a prevalence rate of 1-4%
      in the world and 0.2% to 5.2% in Indian Subcontinent, with a malignant transformation rate
      (MTR) of 0.13% to 10%.

      The risk factors include- a) Smokeless and smoking tobacco b) Ultraviolet radiation c)
      Associated infections like candida, Human papilloma virus (HPV), Epstein Bar Virus (EBV) d)
      Synergistic effects of alcohol e) Epithelial atrophy due to conditions like syphilis, vitamin
      deficiencies, iron deficiencies f) trauma.

      There are mainly two types of leukoplakia- homogenous and non-homogenous. When widespread or
      multiple patches of leukoplakia are noted, the term proliferative verrucous leukoplakia (PVL)
      is used. The homogenous leukoplakias have a lower risk of malignant transformation (0.6%-5%)
      as compared to non-homogenous (20-25%), while its highest for PVL (61%). The MTR is also high
      in lesions of size more than 200 mm, tongue and floor of mouth, female patients, old age,
      severe dysplasia, HPV and candida associated and DNA Aneuploidy.The presence of dysplasia in
      the lesions of leukoplakia increases the incidence of malignancy by 30 %.

      On exposure to carcinogens, tissue cells proliferate and shrink the cytosolic capacity as an
      adaptation which can be appreciated as hyperplasia of epithelium in histological sections.
      The persistence of irritant factor leads to cellular degeneration and atrophy, thus further
      progressing into irreversible cell damages, leading to apoptosis, genetic damages and
      malignant transformation. There are many studies which suggest the role of reactive oxygen
      species and reactive nitrogen species in the initiation and progression of carcinogenesis.
      The generation of oxidative stresses further lead to DNA damage in later stages. Studies are
      also done which shows decrease in the serum superoxide dismutase, glutathione reductase,
      glutathione peroxidase and catalase in the patients of leukoplakia.

      It is a well-established fact that, oral cancer development is a two-step process which
      constitutes the emergence of premalignant disorders and their subsequent conversion into
      cancer. The asymptomatic nature of leukoplakia makes the scenario more difficult as they go
      unnoticed, leading to their diagnosis only in the stages of malignant conversion. Medical as
      well as surgical management of cancer causes a deterioration in quality of life of patients
      due to potentially harmful side effects. Thus, more focus is necessary for chemoprevention of
      leukoplakia lesions at the premalignant stages thereby preventing its malignant
      transformation.

      The management of leukoplakia includes both conventional as well as surgical modalities. The
      conventional approaches include Beta Carotene, Lycopene, ascorbic acid, alpha tocopherol,
      retinoids. But, no significant results are documented on regression rate and prevention of
      recurrence of the lesions. Other treatment modalities under the experimental trials include
      extracts of green tea, inhibitors of cyclo-oxygenase 2, epidermal growth factors, peroxisome
      proliferator. However, there is no generally approved standard systemic therapy so far. Local
      surgical procedures include photodynamic therapy, laser therapy, cryotherapy and excision.

      Melatonin chemically N-acetyl-5-methoxytryptamine is a hormone produced in the pineal gland.
      It is synthesised from the amino acid, tryptophan. The basic physiological function of
      melatonin is to control day night cycle and hence is commonly used in insomnia, jet lag and
      some other psychological disorders.

      Melatonin has been proved to exert oncostatic properties through various mechanisms like
      potent antioxidant effect, antiproliferative functions, stimulation of anticancer immunity,
      antiangiogenic effects, modulation of oncogene expression and anti-inflammatory. It also
      exhibits anti candidal and radioprotective effect on the oral mucosa. Thus, melatonin may be
      helpful in treatment of oral leukoplakia.

      Therefore, this study intends to evaluate the effect of topical application of melatonin on
      clinical response as well as on histopathological and immunohistochemistry findings of
      leukoplakia.
    
  