
    
      PROTOCOL

      Double bedtime dosing during immediate-release morphine administration to cancer patients:

      A randomized, double-blind cross-over comparison of a double bedtime dose versus two standard
      doses at bedtime and at night

      Introduction

      Oral morphine is recommended by the World Health Organization for pain control in moderate or
      strong cancer pain 1. At our hospital we use the practice recommended by the Expert Working
      Group of the European Association for Palliative Care for introduction of strong opioids with
      titration with immediate-release (IR) morphine dosed every 4 hour until an optimal balance
      between analgesia and side effects is achieved. After the optimal daily dose is defined
      slow-release (SR) morphine in the same total daily morphine dose is started 2. One of the
      features of the EPAC guidelines is that patients during treatment with IR morphine are given
      a double bed-time that replaces the next 4-hourly dose during night 2. The rationale behind
      this recommendation is that giving a double dose will prolong duration of morphine analgesia
      and eliminate the need for awaking the patient during night. However, this recommendation is
      based on expert opinion and not evidence from clinical studies 2. Todd et al. has recently
      presented results that challenge this approach from a cross-over study in which the patients
      received either a double bedtime dose or regular doses every 4-hour 3. This study showed that
      patients receiving a double bedtime dose reported more pain, more use of rescue medications
      and reported inferior sleep quality compared to patients receiving regularly scheduled doses.
      A limitation of this study was that they did not perform the study blinded and thus
      consequently the results are subject to bias. It is a need for a placebo-controlled study
      before the evidence carries enough weight to change current recommendations.

      Besides a clinical study it is also relevant to obtain pharmacokinetic observations during
      double bedtime and regularly IR morphine dosing. Repeated blood sampling will disturb the
      patients during night and hence confound the clinical observations (e.g. sleep quality).
      Consequently, the blood samples will not be obtained in the same dosing interval where the
      clinical data are obtained.
    
  