
    
      Stroke survivors with chronic hemiparesis of the upper extremity undertook 18 one-hour
      training sessions over a 6-week period. Participants received occupational therapy focusing
      on grasp-and-release using a task-oriented protocol developed at the Rehabilitation Institute
      of Chicago by Dr. Mary Ellen Stoykov. Over 90% of all repetitions performed during each
      session were focused on functional activities, as opposed to active exercise. The skills and
      strategies developed in therapy were then implemented into activities identified as goals by
      the participant, such as donning socks. Difficulty of the task, activity, or exercise was
      progressed for each participant to provide optimal challenge to enhance skill.

      Subjects were assigned to one of two groups by casting lots. One group (VAEDA Glove)
      performed all tasks while wearing a custom Voice And EMG-Driven Actuated glove, the VAEDA
      Glove. The other group (No-Glove) performed the same types of tasks without use of the VAEDA
      Glove. The VAEDA Glove is a portable active-assistance glove, designed to assist digit
      extension in order to allow repeated practice of specified tasks. The glove contains cables
      traversing the dorsal side of the digits in order to provide extension and resist flexion.
      Forces are transmitted through the cables from a servomotor located remotely to the digits.
      The servomotor controls torque or displacement in the cable. Along the digits, the cables
      traverse through custom plastic blocks, which serve both to guide the cable and to prevent
      joint hyperextension.

      The VAEDA Glove can be controlled with up to 3 channels of electromyography (EMG). For this
      study, electrodes were placed above flexor digitorum superficialis (FDS) and extensor
      digitorum communis (EDC). The group using the J-Glove could receive assistance during hand
      opening, but only if appropriate EMG activity was detected. The EDC EMG activity had to reach
      a prescribed threshold before extension assistance would be provided. Similarly, FDS EMG
      activity had to surpass a threshold level during hand closing before the user was allowed to
      flex the digits. Feedback of muscle activity was available to the user through a custom
      graphical user interface.
    
  