
    
      Introduction and Objective: The primary objective of the proposed four-year randomized,
      controlled trial is to document that providing a hands-on skills training and assistive
      technology (AT)/environmental modification program for older Veterans who are dependent in
      activities of daily living (ADLs) and their informal caregivers will result in improvements
      in caregiving processes (i.e., caregiving skills) and outcomes (i.e., safety during tasks)
      compared to the current standard of care and have beneficial direct and indirect effects for
      both members of the dyad. Secondary objectives are to determine the effects of the program on
      Veteran and caregiver subjective well-being (depression, quality of life) and to compare the
      relative effectiveness of two validated implementation modalities the traditional in-person
      approach and real-time interactive tele-video conferencing.

      Research Plan. The study will be conducted with older Veterans (>60yrs) with mobility
      impairments who live in the community and are dependent on an informal caregiver for ADL
      assistance involving mobility, transfer or positional change. The study will utilize a
      modified randomized controlled cross-over design with four study arms and three or four
      outcome assessment periods. Prior to the first home visit, participants will be randomized to
      an intervention modality (in-person vs. tele-video) then randomized within those groups to an
      immediate intervention (IIG) or delayed intervention/control group (DICG).

      Methods. In-home interviews will be completed with 180 Veteran caregiving dyads to obtain
      baseline, self-reported measures of caregiving needs, processes and outcomes using
      standardized, validated instruments. In-home visits by an Assistive Technology Specialist
      (ATS) will mirror the interview visits (within 1 week) to independently and objectively
      assess needs through observation of functional tasks. Dyads will be re-evaluated one (T2),
      two (T3), and four to five (T4) months later to ascertain change. Following T1 assessments,
      those in the IIG will receive 2 additional home visits from the ATS to (1) deliver the
      intervention and (2) reinforce the intervention. A 2nd blinded ATS will conduct the T2
      outcome assessments. At T2 an ATS will conduct observation-based assessments which will also
      serve as a repeat baseline for the DICG. The intervention schedule will then be repeated for
      dyads in the DICG during T3. The final assessments for both groups will be collected 3 months
      after the intervention during T4.

      Intervention. The Caregiver Assessment of Skill Sets & Individualized Support Thru Training
      or CG ASSIST program has recently undergone feasibility testing in a VA RR&D pilot study.

      The intervention consists of (a) provision of assistive technology (AT) and simple home
      modifications to facilitate ADLs and (b) dyad training on the appropriate use of the devices
      and proper task execution using standardized protocols individualized to the needs and
      preferences of the dyad and environmental features of the home.

      Clinical Relevance. Supporting and assisting caregivers in providing care for Veterans to
      help them age in place has important implications for the VHA system and the safety, dignity
      and quality of life of the Veterans we serve.
    
  