
    
      This is a prospective, interventional, double-blinded, monocenter randomized controlled trial
      comparing a laparoscopic gastroesophageal valvuloplasty to laparoscopic Toupet fundoplication
      in patients with proven GERD with a maximum hiatal hernia of 3cm. In this design, both
      patient and researcher are blinded to the treatment allocation.

      Block randomization will be used to ensure an equal number in each treatment arm. Block
      randomization works by randomizing participants within blocks such that an equal number are
      assigned to each treatment. To reduce selection bias by predictability of the treatment
      allocation, random block sizes are used. Also the investigator is kept blind to the size of
      each block. A computer is used to generate 15 blocks for each participating center with
      random block sizes of 4, 8 and 12. Allocation proceeds by randomly selecting one of the
      orderings and assigning the next block of participants to study groups according to the
      specified sequence.

      Patients will be included during a two-year period and followed for a minimum of one year.
      When a patient is referred to a participating surgeon for antireflux surgery, he or she will
      receive study information to give them sufficient time for consideration. The surgeon will
      ensure all required pre-operative diagnostic tests are performed and that the indication for
      surgery is valid. During a follow-up visit, the surgeon ascertains that the patient complies
      with all inclusion criteria and does not meet any of the exclusion criteria. Study
      participation will be discussed and after informed consent is obtained, the patient will be
      included in the trial.

      After inclusion, the patient is immediately randomized but treatment allocation is not yet
      shared with the surgeon. The patient will receive validated questionnaires to record the
      pattern of symptoms, quality of life, medication and medical care usage. Data from the
      pre-operative tests will be recorded.

      On the day of surgery, the surgeon will be able to see treatment allocation and after
      performing the appropriate surgical procedure, records the course and specifics of the
      surgical procedure. Patients will receive a diary to record their meals and symptoms.

      Follow-up in the outpatient clinic will take place at the surgeon's discretion. At fixed
      moments: 3, 6 and 12 months after surgery, the patients will once more receive validated
      questionnaires. Also at about three months, a follow-up manometry and 24-hour pH and/or
      impedance monitoring will be performed.

      A power analysis was performed to calculate the sample size. Our primary aim was to compare
      the effect of both surgical procedures. Based upon the current medical literature, the
      objective/subjective success rate for the laparoscopic Toupet fundoplication is around 88%.
      Pilot data from a retrospective cohort of patients that underwent valvuloplasty report a
      subjective success rate of 96%. Our hypothesis was that the gastroesophageal valvuloplasty is
      not inferior to the Toupet fundoplication when comparing its effects on acid control.

      To prove non-inferiority of the valvuloplasty regarding acid reflux control, using a
      non-inferiority limit of 5%, 73 patients are required in each group. In all power
      calculations, a significance of 5% and power of 90% was used.

      To accommodate for a loss to follow-up of up to 10 percent, a total sample size of 160 was
      chosen.
    
  