
    
      Observational, prospective, post-authorisation multicentre study.

      The study will include patients with a recent diagnosis (< 3 months) of MDS or CMML,
      receiving immediate active/support treatment or for whom an observation approach ("wait and
      see") is initially adopted, as per normal clinical practice in each participating site.

      The minimum follow-up period of a participant patient will be 36 months from recruitment,
      until survival can be documented, differentiating between

        1. Patients starting immediate active treatment: data will be collected every 3 months or
           every time an event arises during the active treatment phase. After the final dose of
           the initial treatment therapy, data collection will take place every 6 months during the
           post-treatment follow-up phase, regardless of the number of times the patient attends
           medical appointments, up to a minimum of 36 months' follow-up from the start of active
           treatment.

        2. Patients for whom initial treatment strategy is support treatment or observation: a
           minimum follow-up period of 36 months will be established from the date of inclusion in
           the study, with data collection every 6 months or whenever an event occurs, regardless
           of the number of times the patient attends a medical appointment. The need for treatment
           for MDS (o CMML, where applicable) during this period will be considered an event, after
           which data will be collected every 3 months or each time an event occurs during the
           entire active treatment phase. After the final dose of the initial treatment therapy,
           data collection will take place every 6 months during the post-treatment follow-up
           phase, regardless of the number of times the patient attends medical appointments, up to
           a minimum of 36 months' follow-up from the start of active treatment.

      Patients will be included consecutively, without the treatment prescription decisions
      affecting the decision to include the patient in the study. Indeed, in order to ensure the
      presence of patients with MDS of different prognoses and of patients with CMML, inclusion
      will be stratified into the following three cohorts, each of which will include patients
      receiving immediate treatment and those initially opting for observation/support:

        -  Group 1: Patients with low or intermediate-1 risk MDS as per the International
           Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS) 1.

        -  Group 2: Patients with intermediate-2 or high risk MDS as per IPSS.

        -  Group 3: Patients with any type of CMML as per the prognosis index CMML Prognostic
           Scoring System (CPSS) 2.

      A total of 600 patients are expected to be recruited from 50 sites.

      Primary objective:

      To assess clinical evolution from the time of diagnosis in patients with MDS or CMML, within
      normal clinical practice.

      The study will assess event free survival (EFS) depending on the therapeutic strategy
      initially adopted by the investigator after a diagnosis of MDS or CMML under normal clinical
      practice conditions.

      EFS is defined as the period of time elapsed between diagnosis of the condition (MDS or CMML)
      and the appearance of one of the following events:

        -  Progression of the disease, or

        -  All-cause death, or

        -  Appearance of a clinically significant condition requiring a change in initial
           therapeutic strategy, or

        -  Appearance of an adverse event* requiring treatment to be suspended. *This applies to
           all patients included in the study, under active or support treatment.

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To describe the demographic, clinical (including MDS or CMML classification as per WHO
           2008 (5, 19)), and analytical characteristics of patients recently diagnosed with MDS or
           CMML. Clinical characteristics include a health assessment as per the CIRS-G scale
           (Cumulative Illness Rating Scale for Geriatrics), the comorbidity rating for SMD
           (MDS-CI) by Della Porta and Malcovatti, 20 or other scale used across all participating
           sites in normal clinical practice, and the performance status of the patient as per ECOG
           scale.

        2. To describe the therapeutic strategies initially applied for patients with MDS or CMML,
           based on clinical characteristics (specific cytogenetic alterations, adverse events,
           etc.), age, health status (CIRS-G scale), ECOG and IPSS (IPSS-R) or CPSS, in addition to
           the reasons for adopting different initial therapeutic strategies.

        3. To analyse the response of MDS/CMML to treatment based on the IWG ( International
           Working Group) response criteria in myelodysplasia, modified in 2006.

        4. To describe patient evolution based on time-dependent response parameters.

             -  Time to Progression of the disease (TTP) as per the IWG response criteria modified
                in 2006.

             -  Evolution to acute myeloblastic leukaemia (AML) (median time until transformation
                into AML).

             -  To analyse progression free survival (PFS) from inclusion in the study until
                documented progression of MDS or CMML or death during follow-up.

             -  Overall survival (OS) measured from the date of diagnosis of the disease until date
                of all-cause death, where applicable.

             -  Assessment of overall response rate of dependence on red blood cell and platelet
                transfusions.

        5. To document the tolerance profile (safety) of the treatment administered under normal
           clinical practice conditions.

        6. To describe the use of healthcare resources relating to the initial therapeutic strategy
           for MDS or CMML in normal clinical practice, which can be financially measured, and to
           explore the possible differences both between the treat/do not treat option and the
           different therapeutic regimens administered.

        7. To describe clinically significant events requiring a change in initial therapeutic
           strategy (counting for EFS, the primary objective of the study).
    
  