
    
      Simultaneous measurements study (group 1) This group will be recruited and assessed in
      parallel with recruitment to group 2 at the discretion of the treating physician, based on
      the resource availability in the cath lab.

      In the simultaneous measurements study group, measurements will be collected from a Wirecath®
      and a regular sensor-tipped pressure wire in the same position in the coronary artery at the
      same time (simultaneously). The regular wire to be used is the market leading Abbott
      PressureWire®.

      By comparing the pressure measurements (Pd) from Wirecath® and from a regular sensor-tipped
      wire, we intend to examine if the pressure reported by the two wires deviate in any way. If a
      deviation exists, the hydrostatic error, caused by the height difference between the
      positions of Pa and Pd when using a sensor-tipped wire, will be assessed.

      In FFR-negative patients, after removal of the Wirecath®, the Abbott PressureWire® is used in
      LAD

        -  first to measure CFR by saline bolus injections and thermodilution during rest and
           hyperemia (Bolus-thermo CFR) and

        -  second together with a Hexacath/Rayflow@ infusion catheter and a saline infusion pump to
           measure absolute flow during rest and hyperemia that will be used to calculate CFR
           (Absolute-flow CFR).

      Wirecath will be used for PCI when indicated and performance documented by follow-up
      questions to the users.

      Regular study group (group 2) In the regular use study group, the Wirecath® is to be used as
      a regular pressure measurement tool, replacing the regularly used pressure wire.

      Pressure measurement results will be collected.

      Wirecath® will be used for PCI when indicated and performance documented by follow-up
      questions to the users.

      In FFR-negative patients, after removal of the Wirecath®, the Abbott PressureWire® is used in
      LAD

        -  first to measure CFR by saline bolus injections and thermodilution during rest and
           hyperemia (Bolus-thermo CFR) and

        -  second together with a Hexacath/Rayflow® infusion catheter and a saline infusion pump to
           measure absolute flow during rest and hyperemia that will be used to calculate CFR
           (Absolute-flow CFR).

      Echocardiography-CFR group (group 3) Patients from group 1 and group 2 that have undergone
      Bolus-thermo and Absolute-flow CFR measurements, will be recruited to group 3. In this group
      echocardiography-CFR (Echo CFR) will be measured within 14 days. The echocardiography is
      performed according to the standard procedure of the hospital. The correlation between the
      methods will be investigated.
    
  