
    
      High volume drinking and related adverse consequences pose significant health concerns at US
      colleges and universities; drinking behavior often leads to students being sanctioned for
      violations of campus alcohol policy. Given the widespread use of mandated alcohol
      interventions for these students, optimizing their initial effects and their duration could
      substantially mitigate adverse alcohol outcomes. Self-affirmation represents a promising
      adjunct to brief alcohol interventions, particularly those delivered via computer that are
      popular but tend to have smaller effects. Basic research shows that when self-affirmation
      exercises precede the receipt of health information, they decrease defensiveness and
      resistance to threatening health information and increase acceptance and processing of health
      messages. Furthermore, the facilitative effects of self-affirmation are strongest among those
      at higher risk. Because many mandated students display both defensiveness and high drinking
      severity, use of self-affirmation to enhance information processing and reduce defensive
      responding could optimize the efficacy of an active alcohol intervention in this at-risk
      subpopulation. The investigators propose to use a two-group randomized design to investigate
      the effect of a self-affirmation exercise prior to an empirically supported brief alcohol
      intervention consisting of computer-delivered personalized normative feedback (PNF). Building
      on an extensive history of academic-student affairs collaborations, the investigators will
      recruit 450 mandated students from a large public university over the course of 5 semesters.
      The primary aim is to examine the additive effects of an initial self-affirmation (SA)
      manipulation prior to receiving PNF (SA + PNF) relative to Control + PNF on alcohol use and
      consequences. This study extends prior work by evaluating the ability of self-affirmation
      exercises to supplement active alcohol interventions (rather than just health messages), and
      tracking the impact on alcohol use over a longer (12-month) follow-up period. Secondary aims
      include (a) testing theoretically-derived mediation sequences that explain the SA + PNF
      effects on alcohol use and alcohol consequences, incorporating mechanisms of action
      associated with both self-affirmation and brief alcohol interventions, and (b) the
      examination of theoretical moderators of the effects of SA + PNF on alcohol use and alcohol
      consequences. The investigators will use latent growth curve modeling analyses to examine
      direct and indirect intervention effects on alcohol use and consequence trajectories from
      (pre-intervention) baseline assessment across 1-, 3-, 6-, 9- and 12-month follow-ups. The
      public health goal of this research is to reduce the acute and chronic effects of alcohol
      misuse by improving the efficacy of a low intensity brief alcohol intervention. The findings
      of this study have both practical and theoretical implications. Demonstration of the additive
      utility of a very brief self-affirmation exercise could improve the efficacy and impact of
      currently available computer-delivered interventions for mandated students; it may also
      expand the reach of self-affirmation theory, leading to adaptation of self-affirmation for
      use with other at-risk populations receiving brief alcohol interventions.
    
  