
    
      Objectives The main objective is to analyze long-term survival (15 years) and major
      cardiovascular complications (MACE, (early 30-day death, stroke, any prosthesis reoperation,
      and major bleeding), in patients aged 50-65 years who underwent isolated aortic valve
      replacement (AVR) due to severe aortic stenosis . Secondary objectives were to analyze the
      evolution of transprosthetic gradients by echocardiography,, and degree of significant
      structural degeneration in bioprostheses.

      Material and Method: A retrospective analytical study of patients aged 50-65 years who
      underwent AVR surgery for stenosis between 2000-2015 in 30 centers with a Cardiovascular
      Surgery Dept. in SPAIN as an inclusion criterion. As exclusion criteria, autonomic change of
      residence, need for concomitant surgery, previous cardiac interventions and infective
      endocarditis.

      Survival analysis and clinical data records will be performed through the Public Health Care
      computed medical records , and direct telephone contact with family and / or relatives, in
      case of doubts. A crude analysis of the data and a posterior analysis by propensity score
      matching with SPSS or R software will be carried out using a 1: 1 or 2:1 "nearest neighbour"
      matching protocol based on the Number of total bioprosthesis. A total sample of more than
      5000 cases is expected, of which about 1000 would be bioprostheses that would serve as a
      basis for the pairing. According to previous data(ANDALVALVE STUDY), to find a 4.8%
      difference in the primary endpoint, two groups of 1025 patients are required for a p = 0.05
      and 80% for a bilateral contrast of two independent proportions. Subanalysis will be
      performed by subgroups of age (50-55 vs. 55-65 years) and another according to the mark of
      the 2 prostheses of each type most implanted. All statistical analyzes will be two-tailed
      with an alpha error of 0.05 to consider statistically significant data, and will be reviewed
      by IBIMA or Private biostatistics. Competing risks analysis will be performed to calculate
      the cumulative incidence of stroke, reoperation and major bleeding for each prosthesis type.

      Conclusions: A positive result (similar survival in group B, with lower complications) could
      change the current indications of AVR in our environment, allowing the age of indication for
      bioprostheses in European guidelines to be reduced below 60 years
    
  