
    
      Partners at the University of Maryland Baltimore (UMB) School of Medicine (SOM), School of
      Social Work (SSW), and community collaborators will pilot an intervention focused on Black
      and African-American children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (hereafter, autism) and other
      developmental delays. The research fills several gaps in the academic literature. First,
      there is a dearth of intervention research focusing on Black families raising young children
      with autism. Early intervention significantly improves child and family outcomes across
      childhood and into adulthood. Yet, Black children with autism are less likely to access such
      services. Even when controlling for socioeconomic status, racial disparities in autism and
      developmental disability diagnoses and services persist. The causes for these socioeconomic
      and racial disparities are largely unknown. Researchers have recommended caregiver support
      programming while on waitlists to improve caregiver-provider interactions and caregiver
      knowledge of the diagnostic process; yet, such interventions have not been described in the
      literature.

      SSW researchers led a community-based trial to adapt a peer-led intervention, Parents Taking
      Action, for low-income Black families raising children with autism in Baltimore. The
      psychoeducational and child behavior management intervention, led by trained Parent Leaders,
      is unique in that it considers families' cultural and socioeconomic characteristics. Our
      social work team worked closely with our community advisory board to make cultural
      adaptations to the manual for use in Baltimore with a majority Black population. Our social
      work team has since further adapted the program to deliver content in two six-week modules
      (12 weeks total).

      Despite the social work team's efforts to understand and address racial autism disparities, a
      wholly community-based model has limitations. Once a child is referred to a clinic for
      developmental concerns, long appointment waitlists contribute to further delays in timely
      diagnosis and treatment, as well as parental distress. Wait times also contribute to
      appointment absenteeism, which further delays timely access to care. A study suggested
      support programs for waitlisted families can begin to address these challenges. In total,
      these studies have suggested an integrated community-clinical model can provide critical
      supports to children and their families while on a waitlist and strengthen connections
      between families and clinical providers. Thus, this project will test the feasibility,
      acceptability, and short-term outcomes of a peer-led program, Parents Taking Action with a
      clinical sample.
    
  