
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine whether a telemedicine monitoring system can
      improve the care of patients with OSAH. This system allows close monitoring of patients after
      prescription of CPAP, and will transmit clinically useful physiologic information (i.e.,
      residual sleep apnea, mask leak, applied pressure, compliance with therapy) daily to the
      patient's healthcare provider. This should allow early detection of problems with appropriate
      interventions thereby improving early experience with CPAP, reducing the number of patients
      who discontinue CPAP therapy and improving overall compliance.

      The primary objectives are to determine whether a telemedicine system:1)improves 3 month
      compliance (average hours of use/night), and 2)reduces the costs of caring for patients with
      moderate to severe OSAH who are prescribed CPAP.

      Secondary objectives are to determine whether this system will improve a variety of other
      outcomes including: 1) CPAP acceptance (proportion of patients who agree to use CPAP), 2)
      proportion of high CPAP users (>4 hours average per night), 3) subjective sleepiness, 4)
      satisfaction with CPAP, 5) side effects with CPAP, 6) # changes in therapy, and 7) time to
      adequate treatment. In addition, the overall satisfaction of this system will also be
      assessed.

      Telemedicine involves the provision or support of direct clinical care via the application of
      electronic and communicating technology, including the remote monitoring of health status. By
      providing patient data early in the course of CPAP prescription, we believe that this
      technology would be immensely useful in improving compliance and acceptance of the device in
      patients with sleep apnea.

      We intend to perform a randomized controlled trial of this system versus standard care in
      patients with moderate to severe OSAH. Patients will be randomized to either the 'standard
      care' arm or the 'telemedicine' arm. To minimize allocation bias, randomization will be
      performed using sequential numbered envelopes.
    
  