
    
      Peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPC) have become the preferred source of hematopoietic
      stem cells for allogeneic transplantation because of technical ease of collection and shorter
      time required for engraftment. Traditionally, granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF)
      has been used to procure the PBPC graft. Although regimens using G-CSF usually succeed in
      collecting adequate numbers of PBPC from healthy donors, 5%-10% of subjects will mobilize
      progenitor cells poorly and may require multiple large volume apheresis or bone marrow
      harvesting.

      AMD3100 is a bicyclam compound that inhibits the binding of stromal cell derived factor-1
      (SDF-1) to its cognate receptor CXCR4. CXCR4 is present on CD34+ hematopoietic progenitor
      cells and its interaction with SDF-1 plays a pivotal role in the homing of CD34+ cells in the
      bone marrow. Inhibition of the CXCR4-SDF-1 axis by AMD3100 releases CD34+ cells into the
      circulation, which can then be collected easily by apheresis. Recently, several reports have
      demonstrated that large numbers of progenitor CD34+ cells are rapidly mobilized in healthy
      volunteers following a single subcutaneous injection of AMD3100. The ability to collect a
      large quantity of PBPC's with a single injection of this drug makes this an attractive agent
      for mobilizing both autologous and allogeneic donors for hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation.

      A phase one dose escalating trial of AMD3100 in healthy donors done outside the NHLBI
      suggested the peak CD34+ mobilizing effects of this agent occurred at the 240 microgram/kg
      dose. Of note, no dose limiting toxicities were observed at the highest dose level of 320
      mcg/kg. In two current trials at the NHLBI, AMD3100 has also proven to be well tolerated at
      the 240 mcg/kg dose, however, the progenitor CD34+ cell yield following a matched volume
      apheresis was lower compared to G-CSF mobilizations collected from the same healthy
      volunteers. More importantly, the number of CD34+ cells collected following one dose of
      AMD3100 has frequently been less than 3 x 10(6) CD34+ cells/kg, the previously defined
      minimal dose of progenitor cells required to optimize allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation outcomes. In addition, preliminary data from non-human primate studies
      suggest that higher doses of AMD3100 may improve CD34+ cell yield in an apheresis collection.

      Based on these data, it is possible that inter-subject variability in CD34+ cell mobilization
      may have led investigators (in the prior phase I study) to prematurely terminate AMD3100 dose
      escalation based on the perception that CD34+ doses had peaked. We therefore propose this
      dose escalating study, designed to evaluate the safety and activity of AMD3100 when
      administered in escalating higher doses (240 microgram/kg dose, 320 microgram/kg dose 400
      microgram/kg dose 480 microgram/kg dose). Activity will be evaluated by measuring the most
      effective dose of AMD3100 in mobilizing progenitor CD34 + cells into the circulation in
      healthy donors. To minimize inter-subject variability, we will administer two different doses
      of AMD3100 to each subject, evaluating the peak CD34+ cell count achieved after each dose.
      Separate cohorts of healthy volunteers will be evaluated for each dose escalation. The short
      half life and rapid wash-out of AMD3100 allows for this method of study.
    
  