
    
      Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is well known as a chronic metabolic disease. As the main
      manifestation of T2DM , the disorder of glucose metabolism which is due to the gradual
      dysfunction of pancreatic islet and significant insulin resistance results in many problems
      and complications associated with T2DM such as hypertension, cardiovascular diseases(CVD),
      lipid disorders and other complications. Currently, there are more than 346 million people
      suffered from T2DM worldwide, among which T2DM accounts for about 90%. A report published by
      Chinese diabetes and metabolic syndrome research group in 2010 showed that overall prevalence
      of diabetes is 9.7% over the age of 20 and the total number of diabetes mellitus has reached
      92.4 million in Chinese population and what's worse, more than 15.5 percent of adults are in
      the pre-diabetic state. Through traditional diet therapy, exercise, changing lifestyle, and
      standardized medical treatment have a certain effect on diabetes and its complications, T2DM
      can't be cured so far. How to cure diabetes mellitus and improve the quality of life of
      diabetic patients is a common problem faced by doctors in all countries. In 1984, Pories et
      al have found that glucose metabolism indicators significantly improved when he analyzed a
      report of three-year progress results of obesity patients with T2DM after laparoscopic
      Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery(LRYGB) , thus opening a door to the surgical treatment for
      diabetes. Now LRYGB is often performed in Europe and United State, and has been written into
      the diabetes treatment guidelines by American Diabetes Association in 2009. The surgical
      treatment for diabetes is an extension from the surgical treatment for morbid obesity. So
      diabetes treatment guidelines in 2014 show that bariatric surgery may be considered for T2DM
      with a body mass index （BMI） >35 kg/m2, especially if diabetes or associated comorbidities
      are difficult to control with lifestyle and pharmacological therapy. However, it also
      mentioned that small trials have shown benefit in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and
      BMI 30-35 kg/m2 after bariatric surgery. But it still lacks sufficient evidence for patients
      with BMI below 30kg/m2. A survey conducted in Shanghai, China, showed that the prevalence of
      type 2 diabetes was 9.8%, while the prevalence of obesity was 4.3%.But in the United States,
      the incidence of type 2 diabetes was 10.9% and the obesity population defined by a BMI ≥30
      kg/m2 may account for one third of the total population in 2009-2010. In addition, patients
      in Asian countries are mostly abdominal obesity compared with that of patients in the United
      States and Europe where have different type of obesity. Taking into account the differences
      of body size and diet between the United States & Europe and Asian countries, diabetic
      situation has its special features in different regions, especially in Asia China. Asian
      Chinese have a high incidence of T2DM and a relatively low BMI levels. Evaluating the
      benefits from LRYGB for T2DM in Asian Chinese diabetes subjects with a body mass index of
      less than 35kg/m2 and looking for sufficient evidence to this operation become necessary.
    
  