
    
      Introduction: Patients post-stroke may have autonomic dysfunction, with increased blood
      pressure, heart rate (HR) and increased risk of sudden death. Studies have shown that
      transcranial direct-current stimulation (tDCS) can modulate the autonomic nervous system in
      healthy subjects, but little is known about these effects in stroke.

      Objective: To evaluate the effect of tDCS after treadmill training in the autonomic nervous
      system modulation in patients post-stroke.

      Methods: Clinical study, crossover, controlled, randomized, double-blind individuals with
      hemiparesis after stroke adults. Patients will undergo a spirometric evaluation (Harbor
      protocol modified with constant speed, determined by the individual and the incline of the
      treadmill with incremented 2.5% every 2 minutes). The next day will begin with one of the two
      randomized protocols, one week interval between them: 1 (tDCS active and treadmill), 2 (tDCS
      placebo and treadmill). Each protocol will last 40 minutes (20min of tDCS over 20min mat).
      They will be evaluated heart rate variability (HRV) and blood pressure variability (VPA)
      before a minute for the protocols and in the recovery phase, for 15 minutes. 2mA current
      intensity, the anode electrode over the left temporal cortex and cathode on the contralateral
      deltoid muscle. Considering the neurophysiological effects of noninvasive techniques
      neuromodulators plasticity before the modulation of the autonomic nervous system, it is
      concluded that this study shows potential for the discovery of a new therapeutic tool in the
      rehabilitation of patients with stroke and hypertension. The hypothesis is that increasing
      the excitability of the left insular cortex, a modulation of the autonomic nervous system in
      controlling the variability in systolic blood pressure and heart rate is possible in
      conjunction with aerobic training, can provide greater hemodynamic effectiveness and decrease
      the time training. It is also understood that the study may have impact on the reduction of
      public costs spent on the rehabilitation of patients with stroke.
    
  