
    
      Design: Intervention study with two randomized arms in 5 primary care centers of two health
      areas.

      Study population: 466 smokers over the age of 18 consulting their primary care physician for
      any reason and who do not fulfil the exclusion criteria.

      Measurements and interventions: The study data will be collected using a structured
      questionnaire and data collection sheets specifically designed for the study The structured
      questionnaire will include the following data: sociodemographics, clinical history, smoking
      habit, respiratory symptomatology, smoking dependence test and smoking cessation motivation
      test.

      The data collection sheets will include information related to the spirometric results, peak
      expiratory flow rate and the carbon monoxide test when performed.

      On visit 0, the primary care physician will give a brief structured smoking cessation advice
      to all patients combined with a detailed and structured discussion of the spirometric
      results. After this visit the patients will be randomised in two arms (control and
      intervention groups).

      Randomisation will be performed using a computer programme.

      Randomisation will be carried out by the Coordinating Centre.

      Both groups will be followed up by telephone at three (visit 1) and six months (visit 2) and
      at one-year (visit 3) and two-year(visit 4).

      During the follow up visits brief structured smoking cessation advice will be reinforced in
      the control group but the spirometric results will not be discussed. In the intervention
      group brief structured smoking cessation advice will be reinforced with a detailed structured
      reminder discussion of the results obtained from the spyrometry of visit 0.

      Follow up visits 1 and 2 will be undertaken by telephone and the patients will be asked about
      their smoking habit and will be given a brief questionnaire.

      One month before visits 3 and 4 both groups will undergo the same series of tests performed
      prior to visit 0 with the exception of the peak expiratory flow rate. Spirometry will be done
      only in the intervention group.

      On visits 3 and 4, the same intervention will be done. On both visits 3 and 4 all the
      participants who report smoking withdrawal will undergo the carbon monoxide test.
    
  