
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and maximum tolerable dose (MTD) of this combination in patients
      with acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

      II. To determine the response rate (RR) including CR (complete remission) + CRi (complete
      remission with incomplete count recovery) within 3 months of treatment initiation of this
      combination in patients with AML.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the CR + complete remission with partial hematological recovery (CRh) rate and
      morphologic leukemia free (MLF) rate within 3 months of treatment initiation of this
      combination in patients with AML.

      II. To determine the duration of response (DOR), event-free survival (EFS), overall survival
      (OS), MRD status at response and best MRD response attained by flow-cytometry, 4- and 8-week
      mortality, and number of patients bridged to hematopoetic stem cell transplant (HSCT) and
      median duration to HSCT from the initiation of the combination.

      III. To investigate correlations of response to this combination with a pre- therapy,
      on-therapy, and progression 81-gene panel of gene mutations in AML.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To investigate possible relationships between response and non-response to the combination
      with pretherapy, on-therapy, and progression gene expression signatures.

      II. To investigate the characterization of genetic heterogeneity in tumor cell populations,
      by performing targeted single-cell sequencing on longitudinally collected AML tumor
      populations from patients using a novel microfluidic approach that barcodes amplified genomic
      deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) from thousands of individual leukemia cells confined to droplets
      (single cell sequencing).

      III. To identify individual cell populations (AML blasts, T-cells - both bulk and T-cell
      subsets and coreceptor/ligand expression, macrophages and their coreceptor/ligands) and how
      their signaling state in disease relates to clinical outcomes.

      IV. To store and/or analyze surplus blood or tissue including bone marrow, if available, for
      potential future exploratory research into factors that may influence development of AML
      and/or response to the combination (where response is defined broadly to include efficacy,
      tolerability or safety).

      OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib, dose-escalation study of venetoclax and magrolimab followed by a
      phase II study.

      Patients receive azacitidine subcutaneously (SC) or intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on
      days 1-7, venetoclax orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 of cycle 1 (may be reduced to
      days 1-21 for subsequent cycles after principal investigator approval), and magrolimab IV
      over 2-3 hours on days 1, 4, 8, 11, 15, and 22 of cycle 1, days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of cycle 2,
      and days 1 and 15 of cycle 3 and subsequent cycles. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to
      12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 and 100 days.
    
  