
    
      A 12-week, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled adaptive, Drop The
      Loser (DTL) design clinical trial of citicoline and pregnenolone will be conducted in 199
      outpatients with bipolar I or II disorder or schizoaffective disorder (bipolar type) and
      current alcohol use disorder. Potential participants will be identified and an appointment
      will be arranged. At this appointment, informed consent will be obtained, and assessment
      procedures, including a review of inclusion and exclusion criteria, will be performed.

      A structured clinical interview for Diagnostic Statistical Manual (DSM-5), Structured
      Clinical Interview for Disorders (SCID) will be performed to establish the diagnoses of
      bipolar I or II disorder and alcohol use disorder. Recent alcohol use (and, if present, other
      substance use) will be assessed using the Timeline Followback (TLFB) method. Drinking
      severity and withdrawal symptoms will be assessed through a variety of measures (e.g.,
      Clinical Institute Withdrawal Assessment of Alcohol Use-Revised (CIWA-Ar), Penn Alcohol
      Craving Scale (PACS), Short Index of Problems (SIP)). Length of problem alcohol use will be
      assessed by asking "When did alcohol first start causing you problems?" Blood will be drawn
      for laboratory analyses including a complete blood count (CBC) and Comprehensive Metabolic
      Panel (includes a liver panel with AST, ALT as well as lipids and electrolytes), and GGT and
      carbohydrate-deficient transferrin (CDT) will be added at baseline (week 0) and weeks 6 and
      12. Cognition, including the domains of memory, decision making, impulsivity, attention, and
      executive functioning will also be assessed at baseline and week 12 using the World Health
      Organization/University of California at Los Angeles Auditory-Verbal Learning Test (WHO-UCLA
      AVLT), Trail Making Test (TMT), and the Golden Stroop Color Word Test. Women of childbearing
      potential will receive a urine pregnancy test at baseline, week 6, and week 12 and will be
      counseled about effective contraceptive methods. A psychiatrist (PI or Co-I) will assess
      participants at baseline and weekly follow-up visits and will participate in the informed
      consent process. The active medication or placebo capsules will be initiated at baseline and
      increased weekly in weeks 1, 2 and 3 to achieve the target doses for citicoline (2000 mg/day)
      or pregnenolone (500 mg/day). Side effects will be managed in a blinded fashion. Safety and
      side effects will be assessed with the Systematic Assessment for Treatment Emergent Events
      (SAFTEE). At weekly visits, mood and suicidality will be assessed through various measures
      (e.g. Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HRSD17), Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale
      (CSSRS) and assessment of alcohol use will again be evaluated. All participants will receive
      Medical Monitoring (MM) as a psychosocial platform. After study completion, participants will
      be provided standard psychiatric care until outside referral is arranged.
    
  