
    
      In collaboration with the University of Iowa, the Palmer Center for Chiropractic Research
      will conduct a pilot study for the purposes of testing equipment, finalizing the data
      collection protocol, and training study personnel before conducting the full-scale trial.
      Only feasibility data will be collected and reported for this pilot study.

      The full-scale trial, titled as "Patient response to spinal manipulation" (Trial
      registration: NCT01670292 on clinicaltrials.gov), is the Project 1 of the Developmental
      Center for Clinical and Translational Science in Chiropractic (Award No. U19AT004663).

      In the current pilot study, we test how research clinicians can treat patients under study
      measurement conditions and with equipment resulting in modified treatment procedures. This
      pilot study will also test spinal stiffness using 3 different methods on 2 study visits. We
      will also assess the function of low back muscles during standing and while bending forward
      on 2 visits. These measurements include placing sensors on the back with tape and measuring
      the electrical activity of low back muscles. Participants with low back pain are treated with
      side-lying high-velocity low-amplitude spinal manipulation by experienced research clinicians
      who are doctors of chiropractic. Specifically, we will recruit 6 participants who are 21 - 64
      years old and have had low back pain for at least 3 months. Each participant will attend 1
      baseline visit, 1 enrollment visit, and 4 treatment visits over a period of approximately 4
      weeks. Following the baseline visit, participant eligibility will be determined. The
      enrollment visit will be scheduled on the same day as the first treatment visit. The
      following feasibility data will be collected:

        -  # of participants recruited

        -  # of participants consented

        -  # of participants enrolled

        -  # of participants who completed the study

        -  Total duration of the study from launch data to the final study visit
    
  