
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety of neo-adjuvant pembrolizumab in patients with locally advanced
      (unresectable primary cancer or resectable primary cancer with a high chance of recurrence)
      mismatch repair protein deficiency (dMMR) solid organ tumors by Common Terminology Criteria
      for Adverse Events (CTCAE) assessed toxicity and post-surgical complication assessment by the
      Clavien-Dindo classification.

      II. To assess the rate of complete pathological response for patients who undergo surgical
      resection following at least 3 doses of neoadjuvant pembrolizumab.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To quantify the rate of organ sparing at 1 year for all patients treated with one dose of
      pembrolizumab (intent to treat) and those patients who receive at least 3 doses of
      neoadjuvant pembrolizumab and decline to undergo surgical resection and opt to continue
      receiving pembrolizumab for a total of 1 year.

      II. To assess radiographic tumor response to neoadjuvant pembrolizumab. III. To estimate the
      relapse-free survival and overall survival in all enrolled participants.

      IV. To determine the overall rates of pathological response to neoadjuvant pembrolizumab.

      V. To assess the rate of complete pathological response (intent to treat) for patients who
      undergo surgical resection following at least 1 dose of neoadjuvant pembrolizumab.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat
      every 21 days for 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients who do not respond to pembrolizumab and stop the treatment after 2 doses may undergo
      surgery within 6 months.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 6 weeks for 1
      year, every 12 weeks, and then every 6 months for up to 2 years.
    
  