
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the abuse liability potential of slow intravenous (IV) hydromorphone bolus
      infusion rate with fast IV hydromorphone bolus infusion rate among inpatients with
      breakthrough cancer pain (from the "DRUG LIKING" scale of the Drug Effects Questionnaire
      [DEQ] questionnaire).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the abuse liability potentials of slow IV hydromorphone bolus with fast IV
      hydromorphone bolus among inpatients with breakthrough cancer pain (from the other scales of
      the DEQ questionnaire).

      II. To compare the analgesic efficacy of slow IV hydromorphone bolus with fast IV
      hydromorphone bolus among inpatients with breakthrough cancer pain.

      III. To compare the adverse effects of slow IV hydromorphone bolus with fast IV hydromorphone
      bolus among inpatients with breakthrough cancer pain.

      IV. To explore the abuse liability potential of slow IV hydromorphone bolus with fast IV
      hydromorphone bolus among the sub group of patients who achieved successful analgesia,
      defined as at least a two point or 30% reduction in pain intensity score on a 0-10 scale.

      V. To obtain exploratory data regarding the relationship between pharmacogenetics and
      pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) effects of hydromorphone.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP A:

      TREATMENT PHASE I: Patients concurrently receive IV hydromorphone over 2 minutes and IV
      placebo over 15 minutes.

      TREATMENT PHASE II: Patients are then crossed over to concurrently receive IV hydromorphone
      over 15 minutes and IV placebo over 2 minutes.

      GROUP B:

      TREATMENT PHASE I: Patients concurrently receive IV hydromorphone over 15 minutes and IV
      placebo over 2 minutes.

      TREATMENT PHASE II: Patients are then crossed over to concurrently receive IV hydromorphone
      over 2 minutes and IV placebo over 15 minutes.
    
  