
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Many of the damaging clinical features of coronary artery disease can be asymptomatic or
      present without warning. Active myocardial ischemia is an important functional expression of
      coronary atherosclerosis and underlies most of these clinical manifestations. Tests
      in-hospital aimed at the assessment of risk can measure the activity of myocardial ischemia
      but do not consider ischemia during daily life. Electrocardiographic monitoring in apparently
      stable ambulatory patients has shown frequent asymptomatic myocardial ischemia with many new
      characteristics not seen in tests performed in-hospital such as the fact that events are
      mostly asymptomatic, surprisingly prolonged, not related to stress and show a diurnal rhythm
      similar to that reported for myocardial infarction. Out-of-hospital ambulatory monitoring has
      shown that asymptomatic ischemia is common and overlooked in the management of apparently
      stable patients with coronary disease. If the activity of ischemia affects prognosis, it may
      not be sufficient to treat symptoms alone and new goals may be necessary that aim to control
      all active ischemia during daily life.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The first five years of the grant quantified the activity of myocardial ischemia in
      approximately 90 ambulatory patients with coronary artery disease out-of-hospital in order
      to: study the natural history of ischemia in relation to the occurrence of coronary events;
      examine the effects of all out-of-hospital active ischemia on prognosis; establish if
      monitoring of active ischemia provides information about the risk of coronary events apart
      from usual testing The longitudinal study characterized patients according to history,
      symptoms, risk factors, exercise testing for myocardial ischemia, and cardiac catheterization
      data. Serial 48-hour ambulatory monitoring of the electrocardiogram was performed on and off
      standard medication at baseline and at six month intervals. The frequency and duration of all
      active ischemia out-of-hospital were related in a multivariate analysis to symptoms, clinical
      and laboratory data, and to coronary events such as death, myocardial infarction,
      hospitalization for unstable angina, and need for revascularization. Patients were enrolled
      during the first two years and followed for two to four years.

      The grant was renewed in 1996 to test the hypothesis that the aggressive treatment of plasma
      LDL and oxidized LDL will result in improvements in the activity of ischemia in patients with
      coronary artery disease and will reverse characteristic cell/vessel wall dysfunctions in the
      arteries of these patients. Patients will be evaluated in a randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled, parallel design trial. Ambulatory ECG monitoring and ultrasonic exam of
      endothelium-dependent vasomotion of the brachial artery will be used to measure the activity
      of ischemia and arterial dysfunction at baseline and after 12 months of therapy with standard
      diet (control group), standard diet plus lovastatin (LDL lowering strategy), or standard
      diet, lovastatin and probucol (LDL and oxidized LDL lowering strategy). The study is not
      considered to be an NIH-defined Phase III clinical trial.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  