
    
      Study Population

        1. Target: Thai Parkinson's disease (PD) patients with predominant rest tremor : 50
           patients

        2. Population sample: Patients who are getting their treatment at the Chulalongkorn
           Comprehensive Movement Disorder Clinic at King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital.

      Study methods as follows:

        -  All PD subjects will be provided the information on this research study and informed
           consent will be sought for every subjects.

        -  All PD subjects will be interviewed by a movememt disorders specialist or a trained
           interviewer for their demographic and clinical data.

        -  All PD patients will be examined for the severity of Parkinson's disease by a movement
           disorders specialist according the Unified Parkinson's disease Rating Scale (UPDRS),
           Hoehn and Yahr score, and tremor rating scale during the 'on period' in order to
           determine the additional effect of parkinson's glove and sham glove for suppression of
           tremor

        -  All PD patients will be randomly allocated into 2 groups (25 Parkinson's glove and 25
           sham glove) with block randomization method.

        -  All patients will get Parkinson's glove for home-based usage for 14 days, the
           appointment for follow -up will be done for 4 times, with once daily phone call from
           investigators in order to check for improvement symptoms and all adverse events such as
           pain will be recorded and determined it severity by the visual analog scale.

      Data collection

        -  Demographic and clinical data: age, gender, clinical diagnosis, tremor rating scale,
           pain score by visual analog scale , Parkinson's disease's severity score for each
           subject according to establishing standard rating scale.

        -  Tremor parameters form Parkinson's glove will be collected in SD card as 5 parameters:
           Peak magnitude, RMS, Angle, Frequency, Q. Number of stimulation times will be recorded.

      Data analysis The statistical analysis in this study is based from SPSS program version 17.
      Categorical data will be analyzed for frequency and percentage. Continuous data will be
      analyzed by mean and standard deviation (SD). Non-parametric study would be preferred if the
      small sample size or in case of distribution of data do not present as normal distribution
      (determined by Kolmogorov-Smirnov test). The repeated ANOVA will be used for determined the
      efficacy of parkinson's glove in the difference times in follow up periods.
    
  