
    
      For young black men who have sex with men (YBMSM), being at the intersection of racial and
      sexual minority status negatively impacts their access to healthcare and health seeking
      behavior, both of which fuel health disparities-particularly in infectious diseases.
      Prominent illustrations of these health disparities can be seen in reduced healthcare
      engagement and receipt of recommended vaccinations. Vaccine-preventable diseases such as
      hepatitis A and meningitis, as well as cancers caused by human papillomavirus (HPV)
      disproportionately impact MSM. As such, MSM are considered to be at high risk and are
      recommended to receive routine vaccination for hepatitis A (HAV), human papillomavirus (HPV)
      and meningitis. However, very little is known about how to promote uptake of routine
      vaccination among YBMSM. Traditional techniques of vaccination promotion (e.g., leveraging
      healthcare providers, school entry requirements) have been unable to address the racial
      disparities in vaccination rates. One promising method for influencing behavior change within
      YBMSM networks is diffusion of information through Popular Opinion Leaders (POLs). Trusted
      POLs may be successful in mitigating barriers in which traditional approaches have failed.
      The POL model engages persons who are leaders within their own networks/communities to
      promote behavior change. In response to PA-18-162 ("Health Promotion among Racial and Ethnic
      Minority Males"), the objective of this project is to develop and pilot test a POL
      intervention to increase routine HAV, HPV and meningococcal conjugate vaccination among
      YBMSM, ages 18-26. The long-term goal of our research is to reduce health disparities by
      identifying effective strategies to engage YBMSM in preventive healthcare. YBMSM will be
      included in all phases of research via a participatory action research (PAR) framework to
      facilitate community support and ensure intervention strategies are salient. PAR includes
      community members as equal collaborators in the research process. Outcomes from these aims
      are expected to have an impact on health outcomes by identifying effective strategies for
      increasing vaccination and routine healthcare engagement among YBMSM.
    
  