
    
      Type 1 diabetes (T1D) treatment adherence is complex and involves glucose monitoring,
      counting carbohydrates, and intensive insulin delivery via injections or insulin pump in
      response to food intake, exercise, and illness to achieve near-normal blood glucose levels.
      Evidence demonstrates that adhering to T1D treatment is challenging, especially during
      adolescence. Non-adherence leads to suboptimal glycemic levels that severely compromise
      health and quality of life. Suboptimal adherence to T1D treatment regimen is common in >50%
      of adolescents and directly related to suboptimal glycemic control, increased risk of
      hospitalizations for diabetic ketoacidosis, and decreased health-related quality of life
      (HRQOL). The maximum benefits of current diabetes technology are limited by the knowledge,
      skills, adherence barriers, and non-adherence behaviors.10-14 Ultimately, adolescents have to
      overcome these barriers in order to benefit from technological advances. Thus, there is a
      clear need for behaviorally focused interventions to identify and reduce adherence barriers.
      The overall objective of this study is to identify adolescents with elevated adherence
      barriers and provide novel tailored mHealth intervention (Diabetes Journey) targeting these
      barriers. This study is two phases and includes a small pilot of up to 12 adolescents with
      type 1 diabetes (Phase 1) and a randomized controlled clinical trial (Phase 2). The
      randomized controlled clinical trial will examine feasibility, acceptability and preliminary
      efficacy of Diabetes Journey versus enhanced standard of care (control group) in
      approximately 256 adolescents with type 1 diabetes. Primary and secondary outcomes include
      adherence barriers, adherence, health-related quality of life and A1C. Satisfaction and
      acceptability will also be examined. Mediators and moderators will include executive
      functioning, diabetes distress, family conflict, depressive symptoms, fear of hypoglycemia
      and sleep.
    
  