
    
      Dementia as one of the most debilitating diseases presents with decline in memory and
      cognitive functions causing reduction in the intellectual abilities and every day functions.
      Today, there are estimated 24 million people suffering from dementia world wide and those
      numbers are expected to double every 20 years (Qiu, De Ronchi, & Fratiglioni, 2007).

      About 80% of all patients suffering from dementia will develop at some point behavioural and
      psychological symptoms (BPSD)(Aalten et al., 2003). These symptoms will develop in at least
      50% of patients treated in outpatient setting and in 75% of patients in nursing homes
      (Zaudig, 2000).

      The behavioural and psychological symptoms (BPSD) syndrome may lead to high degree of
      distress in the patient and close-once, causing burnout of the primary care giver and
      transfer of the patient to a nursing home.

      These days, the primary treatment is based on antipsychotic pharmacotherapy that is often
      associated with side affects and far from assured efficiency and safety (Fung, Tsang, &
      Chung, 2012). Research showed that the usage of antipsychotic drugs increases the chance of
      stroke and premature death and thus, the food and drugs administration (FDA) recommends to
      avoid the usage of these drugs in treatment of dementia (Ballard et al., 2009).

      Non-pharmacological approach represents a good alternative in treatment of behavioural and
      psychological symptoms (BPSD). During the last decade the usage of alternative medicine is
      increasing (Fung et al., 2012), including the usage of aromatherapy in order to reduce
      anxiety and restlessness in dementia patients (Hersh & Falzgraf, 2007).

      The treatment of behavioural and psychological symptoms (BPSD) with aromatherapy is being
      used for years in order to improve sleep and reduce behavioural abnormalities. However, the
      amount of research that studies the efficacy of aromatherapy in dementia patients is limited
      (Fung et al., 2012). There is lack of conclusive evidence and knowledge in the effects of
      dementia treatment using aromatherapy. There are two possible explanations for the
      conflicting and inconclusive results of studies in this area:

        1. Period of treatment was too short (few minutes a day for only a week).

        2. The treatment was applied far from the olfactory system (e.g., legs)

      In order to confront these issues, the investigators are planning a study that will take
      place over the course of 4 month and will compare the treatment of aromatherapy close to the
      olfactory systems (i.e., face) and distant from it (i.e., legs).
    
  