
    
      Study Events Patients admitted to TJUH with a HF diagnosis will be identified by intensive
      clinical research coordinator screening methods. The potential subjects will be approached in
      the acute care area for interview and consent to participate. At that visit, the variables of
      interest will be collected and the questionnaires completed. Following discharge, the
      subjects will be re-interviewed at follow-up clinic visits or by telephone, depending on
      whether the visit is to a Jefferson University Physician provider or to an outside provider
      or as circumstances allow.

      Subjects will sign an informed consent to participate in HELP-HF. A selection of assessment
      questionnaires (listed below) and performance measures will be completed during the index
      hospitalization and at a subsequent follow up clinic visits or by telephone call. Some of
      these assessments involve data collection from standard of care encounters or tests and will
      be abstracted from the medical record.

      The Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire (KCCQ) The KCCQ is a valid, reliable and
      responsive health status measure for HF patients and serves as a clinically meaningful
      outcome assessment tool that is widely used in cardiovascular research, patient management,
      and quality of life self-assessment.12 The Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) The BPI is one of the
      most widely used measurement tools for assessing clinical pain. It allows patients to rate
      the severity of their pain and the degree to which their pain interferes with common
      dimensions of feeling and function. Initially developed to assess pain related to cancer, the
      BPI has validated as an appropriate measure for pain caused by a wide range of clinical
      conditions. , The Charlson Co-Morbidity Index (CCI) Comorbidity describes the effect of all
      other diseases an individual patient might have other than the primary disease of interest.
      The CCI is used to characterize comorbid medical conditions and allows inferences about the
      extent to which symptoms and other factors related to quality of life may be attributable to
      conditions other than HF. The CCI designates comorbid conditions in 19 categories and each
      category has an associated weight based on the adjusted risk of one-year mortality, and the
      overall comorbidity score reflects the cumulative increased likelihood of one-year mortality.
      Charlson scores can range between 0 and 35, with a higher score indicating increase in burden
      of comorbid disease.

      OTC Medication Inventory A comprehensive list of any over the counter (OTC) medications will
      be collected and reconciled via review of the electronic medical records and by subject
      interview.

      Brief Interventions Measures (BIM) The BIM questionnaire is a novel tool developed for use in
      the HELP-HF study. It is adapted from similar questionnaires used in palliative oncology care
      and incorporates an inventory of comfort measure identified in the literature. These include
      measures like application of heat or cold, massage, and other self-selected therapies.

      Case Report Form and Data Capture A paper case report form (data collection tool) will be
      developed for each subject's study records. All data will be entered by study personnel into
      a password-protected database using the REDCap (Research Electronic Data Capture) system.
      REDCap is a secure, web-based application designed to support electronic data capture for
      research studies. REDCap is used by selected areas within the University. It is a service
      available via a free collaboration with the NIH CTSA structure and accessed at TJU with
      permission and oversight via internal Information Systems at the University's Kimmel Cancer
      Center. REDCap allows for monitored dual data entry via a web-based system that is maintained
      on a protected server and will be used by the study investigators, coordinators and
      statistician.

      Statistical Analyses Plan Subject demographics and co-morbidities as well as characteristics
      of the self-reported pain, treatment selections, and efficacy will be reported as medians and
      interquartile ranges (IQRs) for continuous variables and as percentages of non-missing values
      for categorical variables. Patients will be stratified by pain scores. Univariate comparisons
      between patients with and without pain will be performed using the Pearson χ2 test for
      categorical variables and the Wilcoxon rank-sum test for continuous and ordinal variables.
    
  