
    
      The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness and the maintenance of a
      behavior change program called VAMOS (Active Life Improving Health) Program on physical
      activity and healthy eating habits in different environmental contexts of Florianópolis/ SC/
      Brazil. This study will be conducted in Health Centers (HC) of Florianópolis/ SC/ Brazil,
      defined according to environmental and income characteristics. Therefore, initially all
      geographic areas around the HC will be visited to classify the public places as favorable
      (with the presence of spaces for the practice of PA) and unfavorable environmental (do not
      have spaces for physical activity), using the instrument Physical Activity Resource
      Assessment (PARA). Thereafter, four HC will be selected: high income + high environmental
      quality index, high income + low environmental quality index, low income + high environmental
      quality index, low income + low environmental quality index. In each HC, the volunteers will
      be randomly assigned into two groups of approximately 25 people: VAMOS group and control
      group, resulting in a total sample of approximately 200 volunteer users. The volunteers will
      be invited to attend a lecture on healthy lifestyle in date, place and time set, in which a
      screening will be held in order to trace the profile of the population reached. On this
      occasion, a questionnaire containing information of sociodemographic data, health status,
      quality of life, physical activity, eating habits will be answered. They also will be asked
      to report their individual height and body mass. The participants that will be assigned to
      the VAMOS group will participate in a behavioral change program aimed at motivating changes
      in physical activity and eating habits during five months (12 meetings - six weekly meetings
      and six fortnightly meetings), while the control group will receive one educational lecture
      regarding lifestyle changes. The meetings of VAMOS Program will be held in the dependences or
      nearby the HC and will be mediated by the physical education professional previously trained.
      The Program will be evaluated by the RE-AIM framework: reach, effectiveness, adoption,
      implementation and maintenance. The effectiveness will be assessed from measurements of
      physical activity, eating habits, self-efficacy, social support, quality of life,
      anthropometry, and lipid profile before and after five months of intervention. The
      implementation will be assessed by identifying the extent to which the program will be
      conducted as planned. The maintenance will be estimated from revaluations of all outcomes, as
      measured before and after the intervention, six months and one year after the end of the
      program. For data analysis, in addition to descriptive statistics, two-way ANOVA for mixed
      models will be applied for within and between groups comparison, if the premises of this test
      are met. The level of significance that will be adopted is P<0.05. All analyzes will be done
      at SPSS statistical package, version 17.0.
    
  