
    
      Vascular Cognitive Impairment is an important cause of cognitive impairment and dementia.
      Till now, there are no approved symptomatic treatments for Vascular Cognitive Impairment.
      Research on novel pharmacological treatments that may reduce clinical symptoms in these
      patients is needed. Evidence suggests that executive dysfunction and memory impairment in
      Vascular Cognitive Impairment are caused by damage to monoaminergic and cholinergic
      neurotransmitter-systems, respectively.

      However, patients with Vascular Cognitive Impairment form a clinically heterogeneous group,
      i.e. the extent to which executive function and memory are affected differs from patient to
      patient. Previous intervention studies have not taken this inter-patient variability into
      account. Individually tailored pharmacological interventions, aimed at the affected
      neurotransmitter systems, may ameliorate cognitive symptoms in patients with Vascular
      Cognitive Impairment. Using a pharmacological challenge, it is possible to detect individual
      sensitivity to specific pharmacological interventions. Furthermore, with the use of novel MRI
      techniques, it is possible to correlate the location and severity of cerebrovascular lesions
      to impaired structural and functional connectivity in each subject.

      The investigators will recruit 30 patients with Vascular Cognitive Impairment (according to
      the criteria of the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association), at the Alzheimer
      Center of the VU University Medical Center and the Utrecht University Medical Center. They
      will also undergo MRI, including diffusion tensor imaging MRI (DTI)/'fiber tracking'; and
      resting state (RS) functional MRI (fMRI). In a double-blind, three-way, case cross over
      trial, the investigators will study the effects of methylphenidate on executive function and
      of galantamine on episodic memory function. During three separate visits, patients will
      receive the pharmacological interventions (placebo, methylphenidate, and galantamine) at the
      investigators Clinical Research Unit. Also, during a study day the investigators will collect
      blood samples at different timepoints.
    
  