
    
      Objective:

      The experiments covered by this protocol aim to uncover basic knowledge about the normal
      brain mechanisms that give rise to perception and cognition. The protocol encompasses
      sub-studies in healthy volunteers ( participants ) to uncover behaviors and their
      physiological basis.

      The protocol includes only non- or minimally-invasive techniques with minimal risk, including
      psychophysics, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), magnetoencephalography (MEG),
      genetic testing, and on-line tests using Amazon s Mechanical Turk (MTurk). The overarching
      goal of the research is to obtain new knowledge in the organization and operation of cortical
      circuits involved in visual and auditory perception. The protocol covers six specific
      inter-related aims, with specific sub-studies:

        1. Neurophysiological Mechanisms for Color

        2. Object-Color Associations (Color Memory)

        3. Connectivity of Functionally-Defined Regions

        4. Homologies between Monkeys and Humans

        5. Functional Organization of Sound Perception and Visual-Auditory Integration

        6. Multi-stability in Color Perception

      Study Population:

      Normal volunteer participants aged 18-65, who are in good general health and have normal or
      corrected-to-normal vision will be recruited from the local community and studied under this
      minimal risk protocol. We plan to recruit up to 200 in-person participants and up to 10,000
      on-line volunteers.

      Design:

      In some sub-studies, the same subject will be asked to participate in tasks involving fMRI,
      MEG and psychophysics, and multiple sessions of each, so that we can control for individual
      differences in relating the outcomes of each experimental technique. In other sub-studies,
      participation in multiple tasks will not be required. The extent of the participant
      involvement, and what they will be asked to do, will be clearly disclosed during consent, as
      indicated in the consent documents. Brain activity of healthy human volunteers will be
      monitored by fMRI and/or MEG. Anatomical MRI will be collected in some subjects to allow
      better localization of brain dynamics. Behavioral tests will be conducted using standard
      psychophysical approaches, involving presentation of visual and/or auditory stimuli while
      eye-movements are monitored using non-invasive eye tracking (such as with an infra-red camera
      directed at the participant s eyes). Subjects will be shown simple visual stimuli such as
      blobs, stripes and spirals in assorted colors, moving dots, checkerboards, and every-day
      images and video clips, such as of fruit rolling on a table cloth, faces, and scenery
      recorded in a car. Auditory stimuli will include every-day sounds such as birds singing,
      conversation, whispering, footsteps, car engines, and animal vocalizations, presented within
      normal sound limits (60- 90 dB). We will not use provocative or sexually explicit images,
      clips or sounds. During fMRI and MEG sessions, subjects will be asked to free view, passively
      fixate, or engage in an attentional task during fixation, such as reporting with an eye
      movement or button press occasions when two images of the same category are presented
      sequentially.

      Outcome Measures:

      Performance on behavioral tasks and brain activity (fMRI and MEG) will be combined to yield
      information about the neural correlates and processes underlying different aspects of the
      human neural visual processing stream including color perception, attention, visual
      discrimination and object/face/place recognition.

      i. MRI: to analyze measures such as the anatomical structures of the brain (using structural
      MRI); amplitude of the blood-oxygenation-level-dependent (BOLD) signal & using fMRI).

      ii. MEG: to quantify measures such as power spectrum, event- or task-related potentials,
      synchronization/desynchronization, and coherence between sensors or sources located close to
      the brain areas of interest.

      iii. Behavioral measures: to quantify measures such as hit rate, reaction times, thresholds,
      similarity judgments, associations, naming (such as names for color stimuli and sounds) and
      eye movements.

      We may measure autonomic data during the course of the experiment (such as heart rate,
      respiration, end-tidal CO2, skin conductance), which will be correlated with the outcome
      measures.
    
  