
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the progression-free survival (PFS) in three separate patient populations with
      uveal melanoma: Patients on COHORT 1 (guanine nucleotide binding protein [G protein], q
      polypeptide [Gnaq]/G protein, alpha 11 [Gna11] mutant uveal melanoma; temozolomide
      [TMZ]/dacarbazine [DTIC] naive) treated with AZD6244 (selumetinib) or TMZ (or DTIC); patients
      on both COHORT 1 and COHORT 2 (Gnaq/Gna11 mutant and Gnaq/Gna11 wild-type uveal melanoma;
      TMZ/DTIC naive) treated with AZD6244 or TMZ (or DTIC); and patients on COHORT 3 (Gnaq/Gna11
      mutant or wild-type uveal melanoma; previously treated with TMZ/DTIC) treated with AZD6244.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Overall survival (OS). II. Overall response rate (RR). III. To determine the tolerability
      of AZD6244 in patients with advanced uveal melanoma.

      IV. To correlate PFS, OS, and overall RR with Gnaq and Gna11 mutational status.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To correlate clinical outcome with baseline phosphorylated (p)-extracellular
      signal-regulated kinases (ERK), p-v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 1 (AKT), and
      phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) expression by immunohistochemistry.

      II. To correlate clinical outcome with changes in p-ERK, p-AKT, and PTEN expression by
      immunohistochemistry.

      III. To correlate clinical outcome with changes in Ki67 and cleaved caspase 3. IV. To explore
      the overall quality of life (QoL) of the treatment groups as measured by the Functional
      Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Melanoma (FACT-M) questionnaire.

      V. To explore the radiographic effects of treatment with AZD6244 as assessed by 18F
      fluorothymidine (FLT)-positron emission tomography (PET) imaging.

      OUTLINE: Patients in groups 1 and 2 are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. Patients in
      group 3 are assigned to arm II.

      ARM I: Patients receive temozolomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-5. Courses repeat
      every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who
      are unable to be treated with temozolomide may be treated with dacarbazine intravenously (IV)
      every 3 weeks (with approval from the Principal Investigator). Patients who experience
      disease progression may crossover to arm II.

      ARM II: Patients receive selumetinib PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every
      28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
    
  