
    
      Multicenter clinical trial in which 150 patients with heart failure in NYHA class II-IV will
      be randomized to two parallel groups: EFICAR and control. After being recruited, through the
      reference cardiology services, in six health centres from the Spanish Primary Care Prevention
      and Health Promotion Research Network (redIAPP), patients are followed for 1 year after the
      beginning of the intervention. Both groups receive the optimized treatment according to the
      European Society of Cardiology guidelines. In addition, the EFICAR group performs a 3 month
      supervised progressive exercise program with an aerobic (high-intensity intervals) and a
      strength component; and the programme continues linked with community resources for 9 months.
      The main outcome measure is the change in health-related QoL measured by the SF-36 and the
      Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaires at baseline, 3, 6 and 12 months. Secondary
      outcomes considered are changes in functional capacity measured by the 6-Minute Walking Test,
      cardiac structure (B-type natriuretic peptides), muscle strength and body composition. Both
      groups will be compared on an intention to treat basis, using multi-level longitudinal mixed
      models. Sex, age, social class, co-morbidity and cardiovascular risk factors will be
      considered as potential confounding and predictor variables.

      Protocol for the intervention group The EFICAR group differs from the control group only in
      terms of the exercise programme, which has two phases. The exercise programme is a
      combination of "high-intensity interval training" and "muscular strength training". It has
      been demonstrated that high intensity aerobic exercise leads to better aerobic and
      cardiovascular changes than light/moderate exercise in patients with HF • 1st PHASE (12
      weeks, 3 sessions/week): for the first three months, patients carry out a progressive
      exercise programme of 36 sessions under the supervision of the nurse, starting at low
      intensity (first month) and increasing it month by month.

      Aerobic training: Aerobic exercise is undertaken on a cycloergometer, including warm-up,
      conditioning and cool down phase. From the beginning, the exercise sessions are personalised
      according to the physical condition of each patient. The first month is for "start-up", the
      second for "progress" and the third for "maintenance". For those patients that are very weak
      or are not used to aerobic exercise, the first sessions are of light-to-moderate intensity.

      The Borg scale is used to evaluate the "perception of effort" during and after each session
      (values ranging between 6 and 20). This is a very useful scale to determine intensity with
      beta blockers, auricular fibrillation, pace-makers or other conditions which may alter the
      normal response of the heart rate to exercise. The exercise is also monitored with respect to
      the emergence of symptoms. Aerobic exercise is done before the strength training to guarantee
      activation of the muscles and cardiovascular system.

      Muscular strength training: muscular strength work is a essential aspect of the
      rehabilitation of patients with HF. To avoid training-related increase of the hemodynamic
      load the exercise is isotonic. In each session, after 5 min of stretching and 8-12 min of
      aerobic exercise, six types of exercise are carried out to work various muscle groups:
      biceps, upper arms and shoulders, knee extensors and flexors, hip flexors and extensors, and
      plantar flexors. For muscular strength training, weights are used for upper body and
      resistance bands for the lower body. A different percentage of body weight is applied for
      each muscular group. Each patient is regularly informed of the progress they have made.

      • 2nd PHASE: The training given in the first phase is intended to ensure that the patients
      make this exercise part of their routine. They are trained to carry out a type of interval
      aerobic exercise to they can keep up in their own environment, indefinitely and
      independently, together with muscular strength exercises. In addition, they are taught how to
      self-regulate the exercise intensity (Borg Scale, pulsometers, symptoms).
    
  