
    
      The main objective is to validate the predictive SCARE score of acute coronary syndrome
      during the medical assessment of chest pain. The primary endpoint will be SCARE score
      analysis (pre-established in 2016) with assessment of its calibration (Hosmer Lemeshow) and
      discrimination (AUC) in a multicenter population of chest pain with a potential diagnosis of
      Acute Coronary Syndrome established according to the European Society of Cardiology criteria.

      This is a multi-center study including any patient over 18 years of age calling call center
      for chest pain over a period of six months. It will exclude post-traumatic chest pain,
      patients under 18 years old, patients who do not speak French, patients refusing to
      participate in the study or refusing treatment, patients not affiliated to social security,
      patients incarcerated in a penitentiary center, patients under tutorship, curatorship or
      safeguard of justice.

      The collection of data will be carried out thanks to files filled prospectively by the
      medical physician for each call for the reason of a chest pain. These cards will list the
      epidemiological data (age, sex, weight, height) and clinical data of each patient, as well as
      the decision and the resources committed by the regulating physician (hospital care via SMUR
      or ambulance, treatment in city medicine). For hospitalized patients, the diagnosis of ACS
      will be retained if the patient meets the criteria defined by the European Society of
      Cardiology. For patients managed in ambulatory medicine, a telephone call to the patient will
      be made at one month to obtain the diagnosis.

      Then, the SCARE score will be analized in this multicenter population with evaluation of its
      calibration (Hosmer Lemeshow) and discrimination (AUC). The characteristic performances of
      the score (sensitivity, specificity, PPV, NPV, positive and negative likelihood ratios)will
      also be analized.
    
  