
    
      We will conduct a 24-month study that will include the test-retest reliability, criterion
      validity and sensitivity to change measurements of a novel monitoring technology that might
      provide an objective measure to monitor depression symptoms. There will be no randomization
      to control and experimental groups as this is a reliability/validity study of a measurement
      tool. In order to evaluate this technological measure for its psychometric properties, we
      will recruit 60 subjects recently diagnosed with depression. We will recruit only recently
      diagnosed patients to maximize the likelihood of the person improving their depressive
      severity during our study. Even though subjects will be referred by their clinicians as
      depressed patients we will use CES-D or Centers for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale
      to to confirm depressive symptoms in these patients. CES-D and not PHQ-9 will be the
      screener. We will also recruit 20 non-depressed subjects (who will also be screened by the
      CES-D). This is done to validate the ability of the VSSP to discriminate between
      non-depressed individuals and individuals presenting with depressive symptomatology. The
      subjects with depression will be recruited from the Boston Medical Center's (BMC) Psychiatry
      Clinic as well as BMC's two primary care practices. The non-depressed individuals will be
      recruited by posting ads in Boston Metropolitan area daily newspapers. We will administer the
      combined TLC-VSSP to these subjects 5 times over a three month period. This means that
      subjects will receive TLC-PHQ-9 during the 5-time encounters with the study. The time
      interval between the five evaluation sessions will be 1, 3, 4, and 4 weeks respectively. The
      first two data collection points will include test-retest reliability of TLC-PHQ9 and VSSP.
      The third, fourth and fifth data collection points will include follow-up assessments to
      detect change. In addition, the first and last data collections will include an evaluation of
      the criterion validity of VSS through an administration of the Inventory of Depressive
      Symptomatology (IDS) by a human professional (Validity). The first and last data collections
      will also be used to assess the ability of VSSP, TLC-PHQ9 and their combination to detect
      change in the severity of depression (as measured by the IDS). The first and last evaluations
      will be conducted in the research headquarters while the intermediate evaluations will occur
      over the telephone. The IDS interviews will be tape-recorded and conducted by a researcher.
      Another researcher will listen to a sample of the tapes throughout the study to assess the
      interviewer¿s fidelity to the IDS clinician administration protocol for each of the 30 items
      and score the questionnaire independently of the interviewer. In addition, subjects will
      provide both ¿structured¿ and ¿unstructured¿ voice samples in random order at each assessment
      point. Baseline Visit 2 Visit 3 Visit 4 Visit 5 (telephone) (telephone) (telephone) Week 0
      Week 1 Week 4 Week 8 Week 12 We designed the study with 5 data collection points in order to
      observe change in symptom severity levels at intermediate points before the final assessment
      at visit 5. We expect the majority of patients to be in some type of treatment, either
      receiving an antidepressant medication regimen or some form of therapy or both (we will not
      be concerned with the specific type of treatment). It is reported that approximately 60% of
      patients on antidepressant medications respond to treatment. Thus, we anticipate certain
      improvement in depressive symptoms among a substantial proportion of subjects who are taking
      antidepressants. We are also aware that some of the subjects who are being treated by
      antidepressants may experience side-effects. We estimate that approximately 15% of patients
      on antidepressants might discontinue treatment due to significant side-effects and lack of
      efficacy. In addition, some subjects may not be completely adherent to their medication
      and/or therapy regimens for a variety of reasons. These factors will make it possible to
      explore changes in symptom severity in two different directions of improvement and
      deterioration. We will collect information on these events (being on treatment, stopping
      treatment, non-adherence or under adherence to mediation taking, missing therapy sessions,
      etc.) by providing the subjects with a diary and asking them to write all treatment related
      events in that diary. The diary will include specific questions about possible events in
      treatment regimens.
    
  