
    
      Aging is associated with declines in both cellular and humoral immunity. A consistent
      observation of the aging immune system is a change in T cells. Another possible mechanism of
      diminished cellular immunity associated with age includes accelerated lymphocyte apoptosis.
      Enhanced lymphocyte apoptosis may play an important role in the pathogenesis of HIV disease.
      This study will use healthy volunteers to confirm and expand upon such observations. Samples
      from these volunteers will serve as controls to those from the HIV-infected participants of
      A5015 (a comparison study of 2 age-differentiated cohorts to determine potential mechanisms
      that might contribute to accelerated HIV-disease progression that is associated with aging).

      This is a non-treatment study; however, volunteers receive hepatitis A and tetanus
      vaccinations. Numbers of phenotypically naive CD4+ cells (CD45RA+/CD62L+) are compared
      between healthy, HIV-seronegative volunteers and HIV-seropositive patients of A5015. An array
      of assays to assess baseline differences in immune function between these study populations
      are performed. Expression of markers of activation are compared by measuring the coexpression
      of HLA-DR+/CD38+ and CD28+ on CD4+ and CD8+ lymphocytes between these populations. To
      investigate possible age-associated differences in apoptosis, Fas (CD95+) expression is
      measured on CD4+ and CD8+ T cells by flow cytometry, and spontaneous apoptosis is assessed
      using the propidium iodide method. DTH hypersensitivity to skin test antigens, lymphocyte
      proliferation to mitogens, soluble antigens, recall antigens, and neoantigens are compared
      between the 2 populations. Antibody responses to vaccination with tetanus and hepatitis A are
      assessed. Finally, thymic size as measured by CT scan and the frequency of T cells that
      contain TRECs is compared between these 2 populations.
    
  