
    
      In the present study, investigators retrospectively reviewed the medical records of all acute
      MI patients who were admitted to the coronary artery unit (CCU) of Shanghai Tenth People's
      Hospital between February 2014 and March 2018.

      All eligible patients' demographics, cardiovascular risk factors, comorbidities, laboratory
      tests, echocardiography data, angiography data, acute and dischage medications, and clinical
      outcomes will be collected. All patients admitt to our CCU department will receive CEM
      immediately after admission and continue until discharge. Heart thythm status and those
      characteristics assoicated with NOAF will be reviewed by several independent physicians and
      recorded in a centralized electronic database.

      Several post-MI NOAF assoicated characteristics and definitions are displayed as follows:

        1. Total CEM duration is defined as the period during which the monitor was started after
           admission and turned off before discharge.

        2. AF maintained duration is defined as the period during which an AF episode presented and
           terminated.

        3. Total AF duration is calculated by summing all AF episodes' maintained durations
           descripted above.

        4. AF burden was calculated by dividing the total AF duration by the total CEM duration.

        5. NOAF pattern included paroxysmal NOAF, persistent NOAF, transient NOAF, and persisting
           NOAF, definitions are demonstrated as follows:

      1) Paroxysmal NOAF is defined as more than 1 episodes of AF occur during hospitalization
      irrespective of the discharge rhythm status or only 1 episode of AF is observed during
      hospitalization and maintain sinus rhythm at discharge.

      2) Persistent NOAF is defined as only 1 episode of AF is observed during hospitalization and
      maintain AF at discharge.

      3) Transient NOAF is recorded if AF episodes only occur during hospitalization with emergency
      department ECG, on-admission ECG and discharge ECG maintaining sinus rhythm, irrespective of
      the frequencies of AF.

      4) Persisting NOAF is recorded if AF episodes occur during hospitalization with a discharge
      ECG still maintaining AF rhythm, irrespective of the frequencies of AF.

      6. Frequencies of NOAF

      7. Symptomatic and silent NOAF

        1. Symptomatic AF is defined as AFresulting in clinical symptoms or the need for urgent
           cardioversion.

        2. Silent AF is defined as any asymptomatic episodes of AF lasting for over 30 seconds at
           CEM.
    
  