
    
      The relationship between excessive salt intake and hypertension is well established in the
      literature. However, the intensity of blood pressure increase in response to such intake
      varies among individuals. The salt sensitivity is, therefore, measurement of blood pressure
      response to the variation of salt content in the diet in each individual. The importance of
      sensitivity to salt has been well demonstrated, with higher mortality in both hypertensive
      patients and in normotensives subjects. Despite this importance, the methods of assessment
      salt sensitivity are difficult to be adopted into clinical practice. The test considered the
      standard for sensitivity to salt is the administration of two cycles of low and high sodium
      diets, and checked the change in mean arterial pressure between the end of the first and
      second cycles. Note, therefore, that the supply of diets, as well as patient compliance, are
      difficult in routine clinical practice. The aim of this study is to compare the
      administration of fludrocortisone in identifying patients with salt sensitive with the gold
      standard low and high sodium diets. A experimental cross-over study, with 40 uncomplicated
      hypertensive patients, will be conducted. Initially, all patients are going to stay in a
      period of washout of antihypertensive medications with a duration of four weeks, receiving
      placebo. Following this, they will be submitted for salt sensitivity in two phases: during
      the cycle of diets, lasting two weeks, and during administration of fludrocortisone in a dose
      of 0.4 mg/day for 7 days. Between these two phases will be a period of four weeks. The order
      of the phases will be divided by simple randomization. Moreover, we will evaluate the
      relationship between blood pressure and 24-hour urinary sodium excretion during cycles of
      diet low / high sodium. After the study, the test accuracy of fludrocortisone will be
      analyzed by calculating the sensitivity, specificity and positive predictive value and
      negative, in addition to the construction of a ROC curve for determining a cutoff point to
      improve the specificity and sensitivity of the test.
    
  