
    
      Postoperative pain is one of the commonest problems encountered by anesthesiologists in their
      practice, especially after radical mastectomy surgeries , in which post-operative pain would
      cause a restrictive respiratory dysfunction, which is associated with poor postoperative
      outcomes.

      Postoperative pulmonary complications (PPCs) are the leading cause of death and increase
      hospital care expenditures in cardiothoracic and non- cardiothoracic surgery. Included under
      the heading of (PPCs) are respiratory failure, pneumonia, atelectasis, and exacerbation of
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

      Modiﬁed radical mastectomy, usually performed for the treatment of breast cancer, is
      associated with considerable acute postoperative pain and restricted shoulder mobility An
      estimated 40% of women report significant pain symptoms following mastectomy Poor pain relief
      has been associated with additional healthcare costs, resource utilization and prolonged
      inpatient stay after surgery.

      the thoracic paravertebral block (TPVB) is the most widely used technique to provide
      postoperative analgesia after breast surgeries Advantages of a TPVB technique include reduced
      postoperative pain, analgesic consumption and shorter post anesthesia care unit (PACU) stay
      There is also evidence to suggest that TPVB may have a favorable impact on cancer recurrence
      after mastectomy. Paravertebral blockade results in somatosensory and sympathetic blockade
      after injection of local anesthetic solution to the paravertebral space posterior to the
      pleura.

      Erector spinae plane (ESP) block is a recently described technique which may be an
      alternative to PVB for providing thoracic analgesia. Numerous case reports and case series
      describe ESP block for the management of acute and chronic thoracic pain. It involves
      injection of local anesthetic into the fascial plane deep to erector spinae muscle.

      Radiological imaging in a cadaver model has demonstrated that a single injection at the level
      of the T5 transverse process produced cranio-caudal spread between C7 and T8 . This accounts
      for the extensive sensory block that has been observed in case reports and is at least as
      extensive as the spread seen with TPVB ESP is a more superficial block with a better defined
      end-point - injection between the bony transverse process and erector spinae muscle. A more
      superficial ultrasound-guided block will be faster to perform and less painful for the
      patient. Furthermore, ESP does not have the same risk of pneumothorax as TPVB. There have
      been no randomized controlled trials involving ESP to date. All descriptions of the technique
      have been in case report / series format.

      The investigators hypothesize that ESP block efficacy is not inferior to TPVB with reference
      to dermatomal sensory spread and analgesic efficacy, while being easier to perform, has less
      associated discomfort and fewer complication risk ESP has been no randomized in many case
      trials and they found that it effective as postoperative analgesia in modified radical
      mastectomy.
    
  