
    
      In this proposed clinical trial, the investigators intend to develop and examine an
      innovative family-centered intervention care model for managing cognitive decline, improving
      postoperative recovery of hip-fractured patients with cognitive impairment, and enhancing
      family caregiver's competence in dementia care. This study is innovative in two aspects:
      first, its focus on older persons with comorbid conditions of cognitive impairment and hip
      fracture, and second, the development of a family-centered care model for this population.
      Therefore, the goal of this proposed study is to examine the cost and effects of a
      family-centered care model that includes a family-centered interdisciplinary care component,
      and a training/support component for family caregivers of hip-fractured patients with
      cognitive impairment. The control group receives only usual care and the experimental group
      receives usual care and family-centered care.

      The specific aims are:

        1. To develop a family-centered care model for hip-fractured elders with cognitive
           impairment, consisting of family-centered geriatric assessment, continuous
           rehabilitation, and supported discharge planning, and a family caregiver
           training/support component to manage symptoms and behavioral problems associated with
           cognitive decline and enhance postoperative recovery of hip-fractured patients with
           cognitive impairment and to increase caregiver's competence in dementia care. The
           protocol is pre-tested within the context of a randomized intervention study subject to
           existing constraints of the clinical (i.e., CGMH) and community settings.

        2. To evaluate the effectiveness of usual care and the family-centered care model for
           hip-fractured elders with cognitive impairment in a randomized control trial. Effects of
           the two care models will be evaluated by comparing the trajectories of selected outcome
           variables: patients' clinical outcomes, self-care ability, cognitive function,
           behavioral problems, health-related quality of life (HRQoL), and service utilization,
           and family caregivers' preparedness, competence, and HRQoL. Predictors of recovery
           trajectories for the usual care and family-centered care models will also be compared.

        3. If the effectiveness of the family-center care is established, the costs associated with
           the usual care and family-centered care models will be analyzed. Cost items include: (1)
           costs for personnel time and home care visits, (2) costs of hospitalization, (3) costs
           of emergency or outpatient visits after hospital discharge due to a fall or re-fracture
           in the same location, and due to diagnosis/treatment for post-operative cognitive
           impairment, (4) patients' out-of-pocket costs for equipment such as walkers, crutches,
           nutritional supplements, or other necessities to improve their health conditions or to
           support walking, and (5) transportation expenses for patients and primary caregivers to
           visit hospitals or costs of time away from work.

      Hypotheses

      Based on results from previous studies on the effects of the interdisciplinary care model
      (Shyu et al., 2005, 2008) and of the family caregiver training program for patients with
      dementia (Huang et al., 2013; Kuo et al., 2013), following hypotheses are proposed. During
      the first year after hospital discharge, elderly hip-fractured patients with cognitive
      impairment who receive the family-centered care model will:

        1. Have less cognitive decline, better clinical outcomes, self-care ability, HRQoL, and
           fewer behavioral problems than their counterparts who receive usual care.

        2. Have more outpatient visits and fewer hospital readmissions and emergency room visits
           than their counterparts who receive usual care.

        3. Their family caregivers will have better preparedness and competence in dementia care as
           well as HRQoL than caregivers of elderly hip-fractured patients with cognitive
           impairment who receive usual care.

        4. Have fewer re-admissions and emergency room visits at a lower total costs than the usual
           care and their care givers will have lower productivity losses.

      Background and Significance Dementia and hip fracture are both associated with substantial
      disability and mortality, often coexist, are increasingly common in older adults, and have
      shared risks (Friedman, Menzies, Bukata, Mendelson, & Kates, 2010). Cognitive impairment
      occurs in 31-88% of older persons after surgery for hip fracture (Holmes & House, 2000a,
      2000b). Cognitive impairment is not only a major risk factor for falling and hip fracture,
      but also predicts postoperative complications, delirium, rehabilitation difficulties,
      recurrence of fracture, nursing home placement (Jalbert, Eaton, Miller, & Lapane, 2010; Lee
      et al., 2011; Yiannopoulou, Anastasiou, Ganetsos, Efthimiopoulos, & Papageorgiou, 2012), poor
      functional recovery, increased risk of mortality (Dubljanin-Racpopoć, Matanović, &
      Bumbasirević, 2010; Holmes & House, 2000b), and further cognitive impairment (Shyu et al.,
      2013a).

      Hip fracture in Taiwan, as in many other countries, has become a serious health issue (Liou,
      Tsai, & Lin, 2002). Hip fractures are a significant cause of morbidity and mortality
      worldwide, especially in developed countries among people >50 years old (Johnell & Kanis,
      2006). The number of osteoporotic hip fractures in 2000 was estimated to be 1.6 million
      worldwide (Johnell & Kanis, 2006), and this number was projected to increase by 2050 to 6.26
      to 21 million (Parker & Johansen, 2006). By 2050 half of all hip fractures are estimated to
      occur in Asia (Dhanwal, Dennison, Harvey, & Cooper, 2011). The age-adjusted incidence rates
      (per 100, 000) for hip fracture in Taiwanese adults 50-100 years old from 1996 to 2000 were
      225 in men and 505 in women, and these numbers were 10 to 20 times above the incidence rate
      for the general population (Chie, Yang, Liu, & Tsai, 2004). Excess mortality was reported to
      last 2 to 8 years after hip-fracture surgery (Johnston, Barnsdale, Smith, Duncan, &
      Hutchison, 2010; Robbins, Biggs, & Cauley, 2006). After hip fracture, around half of older
      persons who were independent before hip fracture become partly or completely dependent in
      self-care ability (Shyu, Chen, Liang, Wu, & Su, 2004; Wildner et al., 2002). Hip fracture
      represents a major and growing health care problem in Taiwan. Recovery from and management of
      hip fracture may be significantly complicated by coexisting dementia.

      Few studies have explored the effects of intervention programs on postoperative cognitive
      impairment of older persons with a hip fracture. One study found that 37% of 256 elderly
      hip-fractured patients were cognitively impaired on admission, and 51% of them reached normal
      test scores during hospitalization (Strömberg, Lindgren, Nordin, Ohlén, & Svensson, 1997).
      They also found that cognitive impairment was associated with more postsurgical
      complications. A prior study (Shyu et al., 2013a) found that hip-fractured patients (N = 160)
      who received interdisciplinary care were 75% less likely to be cognitively impaired 6 months
      following discharge than those who received routine care (odds ratio = 0.25, P < 0.001).

      However, it remains unclear whether older hip-fractured persons with dementia benefit from
      similar rehabilitation and geriatric consultation as those without dementia. Some studies
      found that patients with dementia, especially mild and moderate dementia, who suffered a hip
      fracture benefited from multidisciplinary geriatric assessment and rehabilitation by
      returning to the community (Huusko et al., 2000), improving functional recovery (Rolland et
      al., 2004), decreasing postoperative complications, especially delirium and regaining prior
      independence (Moncada et al., 2006; Stenvall et al., 2012). On the other hand, the
      investigators found that cognitively impaired elderly patients (n = 51) benefited from
      interdisciplinary care, consisting of geriatric consultation, continuous rehabilitation, and
      supported discharge planning, by regaining their prior walking ability, but the intervention
      did not prevent these elders' subsequent falls and decrease emergency room visits as it did
      for those without cognitive impairment (n =109) (Shyu et al., 2102). In other words, the
      interdisciplinary intervention effects were greater for those without cognitive impairment.
      Another longitudinal study of 231 older persons with hip fracture found that cognitively
      impaired patients did not retain rehabilitation gains in locomotion, transfers, self-care,
      and sphincter control at 1 year following post-acute rehabilitation discharge (Young, Xiong,
      & Pruzek, 2011). The authors suggested that these cognitively impaired patients would have
      benefited from routine monitoring of cognitive status, a high level of continuity, and a
      reorientation program.

      In conclusion, of the few randomized controlled trials that have examined the effects of
      intervention programs on hip-fractured patients with cognitive impairment, most have analyzed
      the effects on a sub-sample of patients with cognitive impairment. Intervention programs have
      not yet been developed and tested specifically for hip-fractured patients with cognitive
      impairment. In addition, most studies on hip-fractured patients with cognitive impairment
      examined the short-term outcomes of rehabilitation, and few explored intervention effects on
      decreasing cognitive impairment and on recovery trajectories. To fill in these gaps in
      knowledge, this proposed clinical trial will develop and test a family-centered care model
      for hip-fractured patients with cognitive impairment and their family caregivers to
      facilitate postoperative recovery, decrease negative outcomes for patients, and support their
      family caregivers.

      The care model in this study will be delivered using a family-centered approach based on the
      Progressively Lowered Stress Threshold Model (PLST) (Hall & Buckwalter, 1987) and the concept
      of partnership with family caregivers (Harvath et al., 1994) to strengthen family caregivers'
      competence in providing care to hip-fractured patients with cognitive impairment. The PLST
      model proposes that patients with dementia become anxious or agitated by external or
      environmental demands and internal stimuli due to increasing disabilities resulting from
      progressive cerebral pathology and associated cognitive decline. The affected person's
      behavior becomes increasingly dysfunctional and often catastrophic when the stimuli continue
      or increase. Thus, promoting dementia patients' adaptive behavior requires modifying and
      reducing environmental demands and stress. In this study, the PLST model will be tailored to
      the individual needs of hip-fractured patients with cognitive impairment and their family
      caregivers to enhance caregivers' preparedness and competence in dementia care.

      At the same time, the concept of "partnership with family caregivers" emphasizes that
      caregivers possesses important knowledge about the patient under their care of and the care
      that patient receives (Harvath et al., 1994). The most useful and effective approach to
      dealing with caregivers' problems and concerns is to combine the knowledge of caregivers and
      nurses. Based on this notion, our family-centered care model focuses on nurse-caregiver
      collaboration. This collaboration combines the caregiver's and nurse's knowledge to
      facilitate in-home rehabilitation, identify the patient's behavioral problems and their
      causes, and to plan the patient's individual care, thus decreasing behavioral problems and
      improving postoperative cognitive function and recovery. The findings of this study can
      increase knowledge in geriatric medicine about handling comorbidities in older persons,
      especially those with cognitive impairment who are receiving treatment for other medical
      conditions.

      Basic Design The cost and clinical/intervention effectiveness of the family-centered care
      model is evaluated using a randomized experimental design. The proposed project will take
      place over a 5-year period at CGMH.

      The investigators compare a usual care model and a family-centered interdisciplinary care
      model, which consists of a family-centered approach to interdisciplinary care and a family
      caregiving-training component to enhance family caregivers' competence in providing
      post-operative care and handling behavioral problems and neuropsychiatric symptoms of adults
      with cognitive impairment. In this study, the investigators improved the original
      interdisciplinary care model, which included geriatric consultation, continuous
      rehabilitation, and discharge planning, by adding a family-centered approach by involving
      family caregivers in these main intervention components. For this trial, the investigators
      propose comparing one experimental group (usual care plus family-centered care) to a control
      group (usual care).

      After a fall leading to hip fracture, patients are mostly sent directly to the hospital
      emergency room, although some patients may visit outpatient clinics and enter the hospital
      via the clinic. These patients are cared for by orthopedists and receive internal fixation or
      arthroplasty. Consultations for internal medicine care are occasionally made depending on the
      patient's condition. During the first 1-2 days after surgery, nurses teach patients how to
      exercise while still in bed, using caution while changing their position. Pain-relief
      medications and antibiotics are also administered (for 2-3 days). The first day after
      surgery, physical therapy usually starts only for those who received arthroplasty of hip
      replacement. In the first session, physical therapists train patients to use a walker and get
      in/out of bed. Around 3-4 days after surgery, patients are usually discharged from the
      hospital without home assessment. After hospital discharge, no in-home programs are provided
      for rehabilitation or nursing care. Patients usually come back to the clinic around 1-2
      weeks, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, and 1 year after hospital discharge. However, adherence
      to this follow-up schedule is poor. Telephone follow-ups are seldom used. The current routine
      practice for elderly hip-fractured persons in Taiwan lacks well-organized interdisciplinary
      care protocols, has no continuity of care, and does not provide specific care for
      hip-fractured patients with cognitive impairment.

      Family-Centered Interdisciplinary Care The family-centered interdisciplinary care component.
      The interdisciplinary care model was developed and examined in prior studies, but with
      inconsistent findings (Shyu et al., 2008, 2010, 2013b). Prior analyses showed that the
      difference between usual care and the original interdisciplinary care model has narrowed due
      to improvements in usual care (Shyu et al., 2013b). At the same time, the effects of the
      original interdisciplinary care model were poorer for patients with cognitive impairment than
      without cognitive impairment (Shyu et al., 2012), and the model was not specifically designed
      from a family-centered perspective. Therefore, this study modified the original
      interdisciplinary care to involve family caregivers.

      (A) Family-centered geriatric assessment. The geriatric consultation team has the tasks of
      (1) providing comprehensive geriatric assessment and medical supervision to detect any
      potential medical and functional problems, and (2) decreasing delays before surgery. In
      addition to receiving usual care, patients are contacted within the first day of admission by
      the geriatric nurse who completes the initial assessment and discusses it with the
      geriatrician. Family caregiver will be invited to participate in the assessment and provide
      information. This assessment collects information on medical and fall history, vital signs,
      physical examination, physical and cognitive functions, nutritional status, preoperative
      risks, current medications, and comorbidities. Based on this assessment/consultation,
      suggestions will be made to the primary surgeon regarding time of surgery, utilization of
      infection and thromboembolic prophylaxis, postoperative nutritional management, urinary tract
      management, and delirium management/prevention. The primary surgeon, geriatric nurse, and
      geriatrician will collaboratively develop a postoperative care plan.

      In addition to receiving usual postoperative care, patients will be visited by the geriatric
      nurse on the first day after surgery to assess for signs of delirium, pain, and postoperative
      complications. If a patient presents any signs of delirium, cognitive impairment or any
      psychiatric symptoms, a geriatric psychiatrist will be consulted. If the patient has signs of
      other postoperative complications, the geriatrician will be consulted. Based on this
      geriatric consultation, suggestions are made to the primary surgeon on using infection and
      thromboembolic prophylaxis, postoperative nutritional management, urinary tract management,
      pain management, and delirium management. The health care team reviews the postoperative care
      plan to make any necessary changes.

      In this study, the geriatric assessment will involve family caregivers. At the same time, the
      family members will be informed of the care plan and sign an agreement form.

      (B) Family-centered continuous rehabilitation. The rehabilitation program will include (1)
      providing early postoperative rehabilitation to facilitate mobility, and (2) planning for
      hospital discharge with rehabilitation in the patient's usual environment. Postoperative
      rehabilitation starts on the first day after surgery and continues into the home setting
      after hospital discharge. During hospitalization, the geriatric nurse visits the patient once
      a day starting on the 1st day after surgery. For in-home rehabilitation, the geriatric nurse
      will visit patients to provide in-home rehabilitation training once every week during the
      first month, and once every 2 weeks for the second and third months following discharge. Both
      in-patient and in-home rehabilitation programs contain a hip fracture-oriented intervention
      and a general intervention for deteriorated physical fitness.

      The hip fracture-oriented rehabilitation will focus on pain relief, range of motion, muscle
      strength and endurance, proprioceptive enhancement, and balance challenges. The general
      intervention to rehabilitate deteriorated physical fitness will emphasize exercises to
      increase physical fitness. Physical fitness is defined as "the ability to perform muscular
      work satisfactorily" (Shephard, 1978) and is assessed by five common parameters: aerobic
      capacity, anaerobic capacity, muscle strength and endurance, flexibility, and body
      composition (Skinner, Baldini, & Gardner, 1990). Therefore, as in our prior trial, the
      in-home muscle-strength training program will progress according to the patient's recovery
      condition in six stages: ankle pumping exercises, knee extension, gently bouncing jump with
      knee semiflexed and both feet on the floor, gently bouncing jump with knee semiflexed and
      single foot on the floor (Shyu et al., 2008, 2012), and ball-rolling activities (Shyu et al.,
      2013b). The last exercise uses lower extremities to enhance proprioception. Fast walking will
      be used at later stages to enhance aerobic capacity (Shyu et al., 2013b).

      For the continuous rehabilitation program in this study, family caregivers will be taught the
      rehabilitation protocols as they are responsible for giving or managing patient care.
      Caregivers will be followed at each visit, progress of the rehabilitation will be monitored,
      and family caregivers will be asked to keep a diary to help monitor patients' rehabilitation
      adherence.

      Family caregiver-training component. The family caregiver training will be a two-session
      in-home training program developed in our prior studies (Huang et al., 2013; Kuo et al.,
      2013) and delivered by trained registered research nurses. This training will be implemented
      during the 3rd and 4th home visits (2 and 3 weeks after discharge, respectively) when the
      discharge transition is more settled (Shyu, 2000). During the first caregiver training
      session (3rd home visit), the research nurse will work with the family caregiver on a
      structured guide to assess the condition of the hip-fractured patient with cognitive
      impairment, including habits, daily routines, preferences, behavioral problems and
      environmental safety and stimuli. The strengths, weakness, and resources of the family will
      also be assessed. The research nurse will work with the family caregiver to identify
      behavioral problems and symptoms to target. They will also use the PLST model to explore
      environmental stimuli (antecedents) and consequences of the targeted behavioral problems.
      They will then collaborate on a tentative plan to minimize these stimuli and decrease the
      targeted behavioral problems by modifying the daily schedule and environment.

      During the second caregiver training session (4th home visit), the research nurse will
      confirm the behavioral problems and finalize the plan for handling specific behavioral
      problems. Specific suggestions will be re-emphasized and modified as needed to lower
      environmental stimuli of problem behaviors. The research nurse will also leave contact
      information for family caregivers if any problems arise between visits regarding delivery of
      the interventions.

      Research nurses will make follow-up phone calls to family caregivers once a week for 2 weeks
      to determine if behavioral problems and symptoms are handled, whether the previously made
      suggestions are followed, and if there are any difficulties. Based on these discussions and
      evaluations, research nurses will give further suggestions. In the meantime, family
      caregivers in the control group will receive social contact follow-up phone calls at the same
      time as caregivers in the experimental group.

      The sample size was estimated based on our interest in longitudinal changes in outcome
      variables. For sample estimation, the investigators used "Optimal Design" Software Version
      3.01, free software with a graphical user interface to compute sample size for multi-level
      and longitudinal research (Spybrook, et al., 2011). Since the proposed intervention has never
      been conducted before, the investigators can only estimate the sample size based on prior
      clinical trials of an interdisciplinary care model used with a subsample of hip-fractured
      patients with cognitive impairment (Shyu et al., 2005, 2008) and a training program for
      family caregivers of patients with dementia (Huang et al., 2013; Kuo et al., 2013). To
      estimate patient outcome variables, outcome indicators of overall performance of ADLs and
      IADLs, cognitive function, and physical component summary scores (SF-36) were selected
      because they are the attributes most affected by hip fracture and most likely to change with
      intervention (Shyu et al., 2005, 2008). To estimate family caregiver outcomes, outcome
      indicators of preparedness, competence, and self-efficacy of managing behavioral problems
      were selected because they were the direct outcomes affected by our previous individualized,
      home-based family caregiver-training program (Huang et al., 2013). To estimate the sample
      size for examining the effects of the family-centered care model in this study, the alpha was
      set to 0.05 and sample size per group required for each indicator to achieve a power of 0.80.
      The majority of estimated overall sample sizes for the proposed study ranged from 30 to 116.
      Therefore, the study would require approximately at least 58 subjects for each group. Since
      fewer than 20% to 30% of cases were lost in our previous studies (Huang et al., 2013; Kuo et
      al., 2013), 76 patients in each group would be adequate for the proposed study. Based on our
      recent studies, It is expected to recruit 5 to 6 hip-fractured patients with cognitive
      impairment and at least 60 years old every month. Therefore, data collection will be
      conducted for 26 to 31 months and will follow patient subjects for 1 year after hospital
      discharge.

      Procedure Subjects will be recruited by research assistants who will screen patient lists
      from the emergency room and hospital admissions daily to avoid losing potential cases. For
      patients who meet the study criteria, their primary physicians will be informed, and these
      patients will be invited to participate in this study. Elderly patients and their family
      caregivers who agree to participate will then be randomly assigned to the intervention group
      or the control group by a neutral party. Patients and their family caregivers in the
      experimental group will receive the family-centered care intervention, and those in the
      control group will receive usual care. Patients and families will not be aware of their group
      assignment and will be blinded to the care model they receive. Researchers who gather data
      will be independent of those who will deliver the interventions.

      Patients and caregivers in both groups will be assessed five times longitudinally. The first
      assessment will be in the wards after surgery and before discharge. The second, third, fourth
      and fifth, assessments will be made at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after discharge, respectively
      (Shyu et al., 2008, 2013b). Family caregivers will keep weekly diaries to record
      rehabilitation and cost information, which will be collected along with interview data. Diary
      recording will be promoted by providing rewards such as giving small gifts and constant
      feedback about patient's progress. Follow-up phone calls will be made for subjects who refuse
      further home visit but agree to give information over telephone calls. Those agree to accept
      telephone follow-ups will be telephoned to collect data on patients' self-care ability,
      service utilization, mortality, and family caregiver's preparedness and competence.

      Training Program for Interveners and Data Collectors Interveners and data collectors will be
      trained based on our extensive experience from prior clinical trials. One registered nurse
      will be trained to deliver family-centered care, including the family-centered rehabilitation
      and discharge planning by the geriatric nurse specialist, Ching-Tzu Yang who is expected to
      graduate from her PhD program this year and become the post-doctoral fellow of this study.
      These nurses will also be trained by our co-PI, Dr. Huei-Ling Huang, who previously trained
      caregivers of patients with dementia (Hung et al., 2013, Kuo et al., 2013), to develop
      collaborative partnerships with family caregivers to identify environmental stimuli of and
      manage behavioral problems/symptoms of patients with cognitive impairment. The protocols of
      the care model will be outlined in a researcher-developed manual. The intervener nurses will
      participate in at least five training sessions: at least one introductory session to explain
      the study purpose, design, theoretical base, and procedures of the intervention program (2
      hours), two sessions of simulated practice to become familiar with the manual (2 hours each),
      and two home visits supervised by the geriatric nurse specialist. After the intervener nurses
      achieve 100% consistency with the geriatric nurse specialist in care delivery, they can
      proceed independently. To ensure the quality of the intervention program, nurse interveners
      will attend regular team meetings with the surgeon, geriatrician, geriatric nurse, physical
      therapist, rehabilitation physician, and psychiatrist to discuss related issues and will be
      constantly supervised by the geriatric nurse specialist.

      Another two registered nurses will collect data. These data collectors will have at least 3
      years research experience and will receive two training sessions. In the first training
      session (2 hours), the PI or Co-PIs will explain the study purpose, design, instruments, and
      the geriatric nurse specialist will demonstrate a simulation interview with the family
      caregiver and patients. In the second training session (2 hours), the data collectors will
      practice collecting data from the patients and family caregivers under the supervision of the
      geriatric specialist. Data collectors will attend monthly research team meetings. Problems
      regarding data collection will be discussed and resolved on a regular, ongoing basis.

      Data Analysis Analyses will be conducted under an intention-to-treat principle. Differences
      in baseline characteristics, including pre-fracture self-care ability, between the
      intervention group and control group will be assessed by one-way ANOVA or chi-square tests,
      with the significance level set to 0.05.

      For Hypothesis 1, hip-fractured patients with cognitive impairment who receive the
      family-centered care model will have better clinical outcomes, self-care ability, cognitive
      function, HRQoL, and fewer behavioral problems than those who receive usual care. For
      Hypothesis 2, intervention participants will have more outpatient visits and fewer hospital
      readmissions and emergency room visits than those who receive usual care. Hypothesis 3,
      intervention participants' family caregivers will have better preparedness, competence, and
      HRQoL than those receiving usual care.

      Changes in outcome variables (patients' cognitive function [MMSE, PRMQ, DRS-R-98], clinical
      outcomes, self-care ability, HRQoL [SF-36], and behavioral problems [CMAI], and family
      caregivers' preparedness, competence, and HRQoL) will be analyzed using hierarchical linear
      models (Raudenbush & Bryk, 2002). A series of multilevel linear models will be estimated
      using usual care (control group) as the reference category.

      For binary outcome variables (dementia risk, delirium, subsequent falls, emergency room
      visit, hospital readmission, mortality, and complete independence in ADL [CBI = 100] and in
      CBI walking ability [walking ability item = 15]), a series of multilevel multinomial logit
      models will be estimated using usual care as the reference category. Doing so will allow us
      to estimate the odds for patient participants receiving family-centered care of being at risk
      for dementia or delirium, of using health services, of being completely independent in ADL
      and walking ability relative to the odds for the usual care group over time. When the
      investigators evaluate the non-linear function of changes with time, centering time will be
      at 3 and 6 months after discharge to minimize the possibility of multicollinearity because
      the most rapid improvement in recovery occurs during the first 6 months (Shyu et al., 2013b;
      Shyu, Chen, Liang, Wu et al., 2004). Finally, attrition will be accounted for with each dummy
      outcome variable, one identifying subjects who die during the 1-year follow-up period, and
      the other identifying those who drop out for other reasons.

      Hypothesis 4, those received family-centered care will have fewer re-admissions and emergency
      room visits at a lower total costs than the usual care and their care givers will have lower
      productivity losses.

      For the cost analysis, an "incremental cost-effectiveness ratio" will be calculated to
      demonstrate the additional costs for each elderly hip-fractured patient with better cognitive
      function outcomes and for clinical outcomes related to hip fracture within the 12-month
      period after hospital discharge. This ratio will then be used to determine whether the
      family-centered care model represents a more cost-effective care model for elderly
      hip-fractured patients. Additionally, a multi-way sensitivity analysis will be employed to
      test the robustness of the study results.

      The study will be completed and all hypotheses will be tested. Moreover, the results will
      provide a reference for planning future care models for elderly hip-fractured persons with
      other comorbidities.
    
  