
    
      SUMMARY OF PROCEDURES

      This will be an approximately 12 month long, single center, prospective study of patients
      between ages 2 and 12 years old who meet criteria for CIH in our pediatric intensive care
      unit during the period of enrollment. Patients will be screened by physicians and staff and
      evaluated via inclusion and exclusion criteria, the evaluation will discussed with the
      family/legal guardian by appointed critical care fellow, attending or physician appointee,
      and the patient will be enrolled if informed consent is granted. Following informed consent
      approval from family/legal guardian, blood samples will be collected and sent for storage and
      processing in the clinical laboratory at Children's.

      Three patient population groups will be assessed in this study:

        -  Group A - Study Patients - At risk for CIH/with CIH Labs will be drawn in our target
           population at diagnosis of CIH and sent for insulin and C-peptide levels. These levels
           will be repeated 24 hours after initiation of insulin, and then followed every three
           days until insulin is no longer needed, then repeated once more 24 hours after insulin
           is off (see protocol).

        -  Group B - Control Patients - At risk for CIH/without CIH Insulin and C-peptide levels
           will be drawn in a control group of patients with the same risk factors but without CIH
           at the time of admission, 24 hours after admission, then in 3 days.

        -  Group C - Control Patients - Not at risk for CIH/without CIH The same protocol of lab
           schedules will be used in a second control group consisting of patients that are not
           deemed at risk for critical illness hyperglycemia.

      III. POTENTIAL RISKS

      Most patients who meet criteria usually have an arterial line, central venous catheter, or
      "blood drawing" IV. It will be rare that a separate venous puncture will be needed to collect
      samples. If the blood to be collected, approximately 2cc per stick, is believed to negatively
      impact the patient by either the patient or clinical caretakers, blood will not be drawn.

      Information collected in this study will contain Protected Health Information (PHI) on
      subjects. There is the potential risk of unintentional disclosure of this information.
      However, certain steps will be followed in this study minimalize PHI disclosure to help
      protect the subjects' privacy and confidentiality. Once collected, this information will be
      kept in a database that is password protected and with limited access on a password-protected
      network. Other than institutions required by law to have access to research records, only
      authorized research staff will have access to the research database associated with the
      study. Furthermore, no data will be identifiable to study subjects, as each subject will be
      assigned a unique study number when entered into a database. If published or presented, no
      identifying features will be provided.

      IV. POTENTIAL BENEFITS

      There may be no direct potential benefit to the subjects participate in this study. However,
      the information learned from this study may benefit other patients in the future.

      V. INCLUSION AND EXCLUSION CRITERIA

      Inclusion:

      - All patients between ages 2 and 12 years of age admitted to the pediatric ICU who meet
      criteria for critical illness hyperglycemia (ie: all patients on mechanical ventilation, all
      patients on vasoactive medications, patients deemed otherwise "at risk" for CIH by attending
      service) and are started on our standard CIH screening and treatment protocol will comprise
      the pool of potential study candidates.

      Exclusion:

      - Certain patients who meet criteria for critical illness hyperglycemia and thus are started
      on insulin will be excluded from this study: Age Patients less than 2 or greater than 12
      years of age will be excluded from this study to decrease age variability.

      Pre-existing known endocrine disorder Patients with known or suspected Type 1 diabetes will
      be excluded because of their pre-existing absolute lack of insulin production secondary to
      autoimmune β cell destruction.

      Oncology patients Oncology patients will be excluded because of the effects of
      immunosuppressants on study markers.

      Renal replacement therapy Patients on continuous veno-venous hemofiltration (CVVH) or any
      type of dialysis (intermittent dialysis, peritoneal dialysis) will be excluded as it is
      unclear how different forms of renal replacement therapy affect insulin levels, and certain
      types of dialysis affect glucose and insulin levels (i.e. dextrose containing PD fluid).

      Non-adherence Inability or unwillingness of the legal guardian to provide consent, or
      unwillingness of the child to provide assent.

      VI. INFORMED CONSENT PROCESS

      Patients will be considered eligible for this study at the discretion of the pediatric
      intensivists or their appointees (i.e. pediatric critical care fellows or nurse
      practitioners). There will be discussion with the family of the background information,
      reasons for conducting the study, and the risks involved. At any time during the study there
      will be opportunity to be removed from the study without impact on care. After all questions
      have been answered, written informed consent will be obtained from the parents (or legal
      guardian), and signed by the intensivist or appointee.

      If the parent/subject decides not to participate, the child will continue with their standard
      of care procedures as originally planned without any further testing.

      As part of the ongoing informed consent process, whenever appropriate, the subjects
      participating in this study will be provided with additional pertinent information after
      initial time of consent.
    
  