
    
      Background: The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) became pandemic after emerging in Wuhan,
      China, in December 2019 which is caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus
      (SARS-CoV-2). Following the swift spread of the virus,4, 710,000 confirmed cases and 315,000
      deaths were reported worldwide as of May 17, 2020,and 317 confirmed cases and 5 deaths are
      reported nationally. To understand the drastically negative impacts of COVID-19 on the public
      health and key features pertinent to the disease various researches are under investigation
      at the global level and they are contributing to delineating the characteristics of the
      disease and its lethality. However, the potential acceptability of different risks varies
      depending on numerous factors including the type of research and the context in which it
      takes place. Currently, it is recognized that a 'one size fits all' approach towards the
      design and implementation of interventions may not be appropriate. Therefore, it is found
      apparent that global priorities, protocols and intervention assessments have to be
      contextualized and adjusted to local needs and realities, including translation of results.

      Objective: To determine the epidemiological and clinical features of COVID-19 cases,
      immunological and virological courses, interaction with nutritional status, and response to
      treatment for COVID-19 patients admitted to treatment centers in Ethiopia.

      Methods: This multi-site cohort enrolls, patients with confirmed COVID-19 infection admitted
      to treatment centers will be enrolled irrespective of their symptoms and followed up for 12
      months. Baseline epidemiological, clinical, laboratory and imaging data will be collected
      from treatment records, interviews, physical measurements and biological samples. Endline
      data involves treatment and prognostic outcomes to be measured using different biomarkers and
      clinical parameters, The patients will be followed up in the selected treatment centers for
      COVID-19 infection. For all data collected both descriptive and multivariable analyses will
      be performed to isolated determinants of the treatment outcome and prognosis to generate
      relevant information for informed prevention and case management.

      Expected outcome: The study will generate scientific data for a systematic understanding of
      natural history, epidemiological characteristics, clinical features and management of
      COVID-19 that will in turn enables country's health sector to develop strategies to prevent
      and control the pandemic before it poses further health and socioeconomic crisis.
    
  