
    
      Visit 1 - Outpatient Clinical Setting. The patient will be evaluated prior to treatment in
      the outpatient clinical setting in a way which is consistent for routine workup prior to any
      surgery of the tongue base for sleep apnea. This will include sleep nasendoscopy (see below),
      and if it is predicted pre-treatment that the transoral robotic approach may be appropriate
      then the patient will be given the option of participating in the study. This will include a
      review of the patient's pre-operative sleep study and a nasopharyngolaryngoscopic exam to
      assess for lingual tonsillar hypertrophy. A pre-operative MRI will be obtained to provide
      quantitative measurement of the patient's tongue base hypertrophy.

      Visit 2 - Sleep Nasendoscopy. The patient will undergo sleep nasendoscopy as outlined below,
      in order to assess the involvement of the tongue base in the patient's sleep disordered
      breathing. This is a routine diagnostic procedure. Patients are pharmacologically induced
      into a light phase of sleep and the upper airway is visualized directly with a
      nasopharyngolaryngoscope. Anesthetic management will be performed in standard fashion, using
      propofol titrated to an endpoint of moderate sedation, as is typically done for procedural
      sedation in esophagogastroduodenoscopy. Administration will be logged to permit analysis of
      dosing requirements. Respiratory pattern will be monitored noninvasively and logged to permit
      correlation of obstruction to propofol administration.

      Visit 3 - Intraoperative Setting. The patient will undergo an evaluation for "adequate
      exposure" for transoral robotic surgery and if "adequate exposure" is achieved then they will
      undergo transoral robotic surgery for lingual tonsillar hypertrophy to treat obstructive
      sleep apnea.

      Visit 4 - Postoperative Setting. This will be in the inpatient and/or outpatient setting
      within three weeks of surgical procedure. The patient will undergo routine postoperative
      clinical evaluation.

      Visit 5 - Postoperative Testing. The patient will undergo a follow-up sleep study to
      determine efficacy of the surgical procedure at three months post-operatively, the standard
      interval used to determine the outcome of the procedure.
    
  