
    
      Alveolar Osteitis (AO) is a complication following extraction of a tooth. AO manifests by
      localized pain in and around the extraction site where the postoperative blood clot has been
      disintegrated. The AO incidence is reportedly conditioned by multiple risk factors including
      trauma/difficult extraction, smoking, acute inflammation of periodontal tissues (e.g.
      dentitio difficilis) prior to extraction. The use of oral contraceptives results in about 10
      times higher incidence of AO. Furthermore, secondary contributing risk factors include age,
      flap design, local anesthetic containing vasoconstrictor, and bone/root debris left in the
      extraction wound. The drug tested in this study was composed from the Hyaluronic acid (HA)
      and Octenidine dihydrochloride (ODC). It was designed to perform comparatively in pain
      alleviation and to promote healing while avoiding the side effects.

      The aim of this clinical study was to determinate if there are any concerns of use a
      pharmacological drug composed of ODC and HA in treatment of AO. The drug was designed to
      fulfill the following criteria: to disinfect the wound (provided by ODC), attach to the
      mucosa (HA), obturate the wound (HA), be stable in the presence of saliva (HA), be fully
      absorbable (ODC, HA), enhance healing process (HA), be non-allergic and have analgesic effect
      (ODC, HA).

      The sponge-like pharmacological drug is a lyophilized water solution of ODC, HA, stabilized
      with calcium chloride; as such it is fully dissoluble, has antiseptic properties and is
      malleable. The drug was manufactured by Contipro Pharma a.s. (Czech Republic). The study was
      designed as a multi-center, open-label, first-in-men study and was approved by the ethical
      committee of the University Hospital Hradec Králové.

      Upon the study initiation, the study subjects' extraction wounds were examined and described
      by the medical professional and the subjects' perceived-pain self-evaluation base data was
      recorded. The perceived pain was recorded on 0-100 mm VAS. Afterwards, the treatment was
      introduced. Firstly, the wound had been irrigated with 2 ml of 3% solution of H2O2 to
      disinfect the site and then flushed by 2 ml of Aqua pro injectione to clear any remaining
      debris. After, the tested drug was applied into the extraction wound. This procedure was
      repeated on a daily basis for a maximum of 7 days or until the pain subsided below 20 mm and
      remained there for at least 2 days.

      The treatment was considered effective when the pain subsided to < 20mm VAS in < 8 days of
      treatment. Descriptive statistics were provided for each of the criteria using the following
      values: 1) for continuous data: mean, standard deviation (SD), median, lower/upper quartile,
      minimum and maximum values, 2) for qualitative data: absolute count and percentages.
      Hypotheses are tested at standard cutoff α = 0.05.

      A descriptive analysis approach (including frequency tables) was used to assess clinical
      management, clinical outcomes and healthcare resources used. When appropriate two-sided 95%
      confidence interval was obtained for population characteristics of a variable. All
      calculations and summaries were produced using R version 3.2.3 (R Core Team, Austria).
    
  