
    
      Classical Galactosaemia is an inherited disorder of galactose metabolism caused by profound
      deficiency of galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase (GALT: EC 2.7.712). This results in a
      systemic accumulation of toxic galactose intermediates and a decrease in the level of
      UDP-galactose, a required sugar for glycosylation. Galactosaemia has a relatively high
      incidence in Ireland, (1:19,000 births) presenting a particular public health problem. The
      neonatal life-threatening phenotype (liver disease, coagulopathy and sepsis) is rescued by
      restriction of dietary galactose. However, outcomes of treatment are disappointing beyond the
      neonatal period (even after successful newborn screening, early treatment and long term
      compliance). The majority of Irish patients harbour the severe Q188R Galt mutation.

      56.5% of Irish patients ≥ 6yrs have IQs ≤ 79; and 91.2% of Irish female patients ≥ 13yrs have
      Premature Ovarian Insufficiency (POI). Unfortunately, the basic pathophysiology of this
      condition remains enigmatic with limited treatment approaches.

      In their earlier work, the investigators reported very considerable variation in patient
      outcomes, even among siblings. The investigators have proposed that these differences are
      determined by variation in galactose accessory pathways (beyond the GALT deficiency). This
      may result in variable galactose tolerance in patients with linked variation in glycosylation
      pathways which could allow for enhanced UDP-galactose bioavailability essential for
      glycosylation. In their previous and current work the investigators have identified ongoing
      dysregulation of glycoprotein formation and expression of genes involved in glycan
      biosynthesis and cell signalling pathways in treated Galactosaemia patients.

      The present proposal, which builds on published previous work, enables the investigators to
      establish that Galactosaemia is a modifiable, multi-systemic glycosylation defect. The
      overall objectives of the work are to progress the development of biochemical markers (IgG
      N-glycan analysis) as prognostic indices for potentially modifiable relevant pathways. The
      investigators consider how the phenotype could be relaxed in some patients with Classical
      Galactosaemia, initially by studies of modification of exogenous galactose requirements to
      identify if the ongoing glycan processing defects identified may be improved reflecting
      accessory pathways of galactose disposal.

      Study Aim: Expand previous and published work using IgG N-glycan analysis to examine the
      glycosylation status of treated adult Galactosaemia patients in a larger study and develop
      this test as a reliable diagnostic tool. The investigators also carry out a pilot study to
      examine the effects of diet relaxation in paediatric patients (5-12 yrs) aiming to determine
      optimum galactose intake levels for this cohort with the hope of preventing long-term
      complications later in life. The investigators propose that this research offers new insights
      into the ongoing pathophysiology of this rare disorder with the possibility of developing new
      treatment targets, which over time could be cost-effective by preventing major disability.
    
  