
    
      Currently some pathogen-reduced platelet products (PR-PCs) have passed phase III studies, are
      in progress or can be expected in the near future. At present some transfusion centers
      throughout Europe have implemented PR-PCs, but as yet PR-PCs are not formally accepted as a
      standard product that should be applied nation-wide. Because many uncertainties currently
      exist on the "optimal" platelet product, it is in the interest of patients, health care
      providers and the transfusion provider (Sanquin) to decide on evidence.

      With all the current safety measures remaining in place, pathogen reduction provides a safety
      benefit by reducing the number of transfusions of platelet concentrates contaminated with
      bacteria, but which were missed by the screening method. In the Dutch situation, morbidity is
      estimated to be 1:14,000 platelet concentrates [Te Boekhorst, Transfusion 2005]. In this
      publication, two cases of transmission of B. cereus by a platelet transfusion are reported,
      where both patients experience a life-threatening sepsis, but recover eventually. Cases of
      bacterial transmission however often go unnoted, so a frequency as low as 1:130,000 has been
      reported [Dumont, Transfusion 2010]. The same is true for mortality; this value ranges from
      1:50,000 to 1:500,000.

      A more precautionary benefit is protection against known and unknown pathogens. It is
      difficult to estimate the actual risk, and consequently to estimate the benefit for the
      patient. While in The Netherlands no epidemics have occurred against which no screening tests
      could be developed, including Q-fever, there is a small but real risk that an epidemic can
      wipe out the blood supply in a country. This has happened in La Réunion, where an epidemic of
      chikungunya virus urged import of blood products from abroad, followed by rapid introduction
      of a pathogen reduction technology to ensure the blood supply [Rasongles, Transfusion 2009].
      An outbreak of this virus in Italy resulted in suspension of blood collections in an affected
      area, which led to a low blood inventory as well as a reduced delivery of plasma to
      fractionation institutes.

      Appreciating the difficulties of extrapolating in vitro tests towards in vivo efficacy,
      platelet products should be tested in clinical trials. Of note, radiolabeling techniques in
      volunteers as required by the FDA, are not used in the Netherlands. For major product
      variations in the Netherlands, investigators depend on studies in patients. Extending storage
      for logistic purposes, combined with maintaining or even improving the safety of platelet
      products, and maintaining clinical efficacy are the main features in the development of new
      platelet products. In this study protocol, the aim is to investigate transfusion efficacy of
      two different platelet products: plasma-PCs, and pathogen-reduced (PR)-plasma-PCs, combining
      extended storage with or without treatment with a photochemical pathogen reduction technique.
      Prior to the start of the clinical study an in vitro study of the product has been performed,
      showing that the study product meets the current in vitro quality requirements for release
      for transfusion. However, on site implementation validation still has to take place.

      Refractoriness to platelet transfusions and bleeding complications are the main clinical
      problems in intensively treated hemato-oncological patients and are essential endpoints for
      transfusion studies as well. In this trial, bleeding will be scored according to the World
      Health Organization (WHO) scale as a primary endpoint. Refractoriness is defined as a 1-hour
      CCI <7.5 and/or a 24-hour CCI <4.5 after ABO compatible platelet transfusions on at least two
      successive occasions. Known causes of non-alloimmune refractoriness are included in this
      trial because for the purpose of generalization, relevant to develop a national product,
      testing transfusion efficacy of new platelet products should imply all patients in need of a
      preventive support with platelet transfusions. The 1- and 24-hour CCI are commonly used to
      evaluate platelet transfusions and, albeit not without discussion, currently the platelet
      count is the only parameter in trigger-based transfusion policy. The ratio of both the 1-hour
      and 24-hour CCI mirrors both platelet recovery immediately after transfusion as the 1-hour
      CCI, and platelet survival one day after transfusion as the 24-hour CCI. Other secondary
      clinical endpoints of the trial will be transfusion requirement (red cells and platelets),
      transfusion interval to next transfusion and adverse reactions.
    
  