
    
      The overarching objective of the SWIFT trial (CTN-0097) is to foster widespread adoption of a
      regimen for rapid initiation of treatment with extended-release injection naltrexone (XR-NTX)
      at inpatient or residential Community Treatment Programs (CTPs). If widely adopted, such a
      regimen would have a substantial public health impact by expanding medication treatment
      options offered to patients with OUD to include XR-NTX.

      In multi-site, randomized (subject level) trials, XR-NTX, once initiated, has been found to
      have similar effectiveness to sublingual buprenorphine on clinical outcomes of retention in
      treatment and abstinence from opioids. However, initiation of naltrexone often involves a
      significant (up to 2 weeks) delay, which is a clinical hurdle that impedes the widespread
      adoption of XR-NTX as a treatment option. Initiation of naltrexone in patients actively using
      opioids requires that a patient be detoxified first, and the official prescribing information
      for XR-NTX recommends an additional 7- to 10-day waiting period after last dose of opioid
      before administering XR-NTX. This standard initiation regimen, involving a brief period of
      agonist, usually buprenorphine, taper followed by a 7- to 10-day waiting period, takes
      approximately two weeks. During this time, patients are vulnerable to drop out and relapse;
      further, this waiting period is problematic in the face of funding restrictions on the
      duration of inpatient stays. In a single-site randomized trial, a Rapid naltrexone induction
      method utilizing minimal buprenorphine, non-opioid medications to treat withdrawal symptoms,
      and upward titration of oral naltrexone starting with small doses, XR-NTX initiation was
      accomplished in 5 to 7 days and was found superior to the standard 14-day approach on the
      proportion of patients initiating XR-NTX.

      The primary goal of this hybrid effectiveness-implementation study is to determine whether
      the Rapid method of initiating treatment with XR-NTX is non-inferior to a standard method on
      the primary effectiveness outcome of successful initiation of XR-NTX (receiving the first
      injection) when implemented at community-based inpatient or residential programs. Secondary
      objectives include comparing rapid versus standard method of XR-NTX initiation on: time from
      admission to first dose of XR-NTX and time to dropout, craving, withdrawal severity,
      retention, abstinence, and safety measures, as measured during the inpatient initiation
      process and the first two months post XR-NTX induction. Other exploratory outcomes include
      predictors of initiation success, and economic analyses. The implementation goal is to
      operationalize an implementation facilitation strategy that will be used to train clinical
      sites on the XR-NTX initiation method, to capture fidelity to the rapid induction process,
      and to study barriers and facilitators to implementation and refine the implementation
      facilitation strategy accordingly.
    
  