
    
      A before-after study will be conducted in 7 Canadian and US ICUs. Each participating ICU will
      implement a tailored guideline implementation intervention aimed at narrowing the
      guideline-practice gap. The tailored implementation will consist of 4 phases:

        1. Audit of Nutrition Practices: The nutrition practice audit will be conducted as part of
           the data collection for our ongoing international nutrition quality improvement project.
           This involves collecting data on personal characteristics and nutrition therapy in a
           consecutive cohort of 20 mechanically-ventilated critically ill adult patients.
           Performance at each ICU will be assessed by a benchmarked report comparing the nutrition
           practices to individual recommendations of the Canadian Critical Care Nutrition CPGs,
           thus enabling identification of the ICUs strengths and weaknesses, and highlighting
           areas to target for improvement.

        2. Barriers Questionnaire: The barriers and enablers questionnaire will be completed by all
           physicians, all ICU leadership, the dietitian(s), and a random sample of 30 full- and
           part-time nurses. This questionnaire asks questions about barriers associated with
           guideline implementation, such as the characteristics of the guidelines, the care
           provider, the patient, and the context.

        3. Tailored Action Plan: Results of the audit of nutrition practices and barriers
           questionnaire will be evaluated by the investigators and representatives from the
           Canadian Critical Care Nutrition CPGs Committee. Committee members include research
           personnel, intensivists, ICU nurse educators, dietitians, and experts in knowledge
           translation and health services research. They will be responsible for reviewing the
           benchmarked reports for each participating ICU, identifying the gaps between the key
           guideline recommendations and what is actually happening in practice, and reviewing the
           results of the barriers questionnaire to identify the barriers associated with adhering
           to these specific recommendations at each site. In collaboration with the local opinion
           leaders, a tailored 12 month action plan will be developed for each individual ICU.

           The specific behavioral change strategies to be implemented as part of the tailored
           action plan will likely include powerpoint presentations and handouts, packages of key
           journal articles, reminders (e.g. posters, checklists), system tools (e.g. pre-printed
           orders, bedside algorithms), interactive web-based tutorials, guidelines on establishing
           local implementation teams and creating a culture of team work. Prior to the
           implementation of these behavioral change strategies in the context of the before-after
           study, focus groups will be conducted to elicit feedback, and revisions made
           accordingly.

        4. Audit of Nutrition Practices: The audit of nutrition practices will be repeated
           following the 12 month implementation period in order to evaluate changes in nutrition
           practices.
    
  