
    
      Reminiscence therapy and cognitive training are two of the most common non-pharmacological
      therapies used to treat AD. To date, there is no clear evidence regarding the impact of these
      treatments on the cognitive function of people with AD. The inconclusive evidence may be due
      to methodological limitations, the availability of a limited number of controlled studies,
      the lack of standardized interventions and the need for sensitive assessment tools.

      Increasingly, computerized systems are being designed to support both the cognitive
      assessment of patients with Alzheimer's disease and the administration of novel
      non-pharmacological interventions. Studies suggest that such systems may be of clear benefit.
      For example, in an initial study involving patients with AD, computerized cognitive training
      systems have been shown to be of value in providing a more standardized approach to cognitive
      training. Also, another study found that the use of a computerized system for reminiscence
      therapy was successful in facilitating patient-caregiver interaction.

      Our research is a collaborative effort designed to test the effects of two such
      computer-supported interventions in patients with mild AD. The purpose of the research is to
      compare the efficacy of personalized computerized reminiscence therapy and that of
      computerized cognitive training to a control group. The reminiscence therapy program is based
      on developing an internet-based personalized reminiscence system, which will facilitate
      flexible interactive use by patients and caregivers. The importance of a personalized system
      is especially salient in immigrant, or in highly mobile, societies due to the heterogeneous
      background of the patients.

      Separate preliminary studies have found positive effects of each system. The research will
      use various measures to evaluate the efficacy of both treatments, including the Mindstreams
      (NeuroTrax Corp., NJ) computerized neuropsychological assessment instrument, which will serve
      as the cognitive outcome measure.
    
  