
    
      This is a prospective single center study to evaluate side effects and efficacy of a
      lidocaine jelly 2% enema following endoscopic hemorrhoid band ligation. The investigators
      will administer a single dose of 15 mL lidocaine jelly 2%, obtained from Advocate main
      pharmacy, as an enema immediately post procedure. Patients will not be permitted to
      self-administer additional doses following discharge.

      Prior to being enrolled in the study, the clinician will perform a Comprehensive Metabolic
      Panel and Complete Blood Count. When appropriate, a urine pregnancy test will be performed
      prior to enrollment. The investigators will assess for any signs or symptoms of liver
      disease. These assessments will occur within one month of the procedure date. If the patient
      has any signs of renal or hepatic impairment (creatinine greater than 2 or Childs Pugh Class
      3), they will be excluded from the study. The researchers will also exclude patients with any
      history of arrhythmias or who are currently on anti-arrhythmic medications. Once the patient
      is deemed safe to proceed, the lidocaine gel enema will be placed at the cessation of the
      procedure by the investigator. At the time of the procedure, the clinician will assess and
      use their best judgement to determine if the rectal mucosa is generally intact by visual
      inspection. If the mucosa remains intact, the subject will be able to be included in the
      study. However, if the rectal mucosa is traumatized the subject will be excluded and will not
      participate in the randomized treatment.

      Following the procedure, the patient will be monitored closely with a one-on one registered
      nurse for 4 hours in an observation unit. Vital signs will be taken every 5 minutes, as well
      as continuous EKG monitoring and pulse oximetry monitoring. If any adverse side effects
      occur, the physician is immediately available for further management and admission to the
      hospital if needed. Upon completion of the 4-hour observation period, the participants will
      be evaluated by a registered nurse and physician prior to discharge home following the
      procedure. The patient will be discharged with a responsible adult who will care for the
      patient for 24 additional hours. The clinician will communicate with the patient and
      responsible adult regarding any adverse side effects. The patient will also receive a phone
      number to call to reach the physician or the physician's associate who will be able to
      verbally assist the patient immediately should any adverse events occur.

      For data collection, one hour following the procedure a clinician will screen for any adverse
      side effects and pain will be assessed using a numeric pain scale (0-10). The patient will
      also be contacted via telephone to assess adverse side effects and pain scale at 24 hours and
      48 hours post procedure. The investigators will also call the patient at 72 to 96 hours to
      assess for any adverse effects. The patients will be followed up by the principal
      investigator for routine check-ups following the procedure. The clinician will be easily
      accessible via telephone and the patient will be given instructions on how to contact the
      clinician, if needed.

      Data to be collected on each subject will include: date of procedure, specific patient ID,
      gender, age, internal hemorrhoids grade, race (White, African American, Hispanic, Asian),
      BMI, comorbid conditions, pain 1 hour post procedure, pain 24 and 48 hours post procedure,
      requirement of narcotic pain medication, requirement of other oral analgesic medication,
      sedation utilized and complications or adverse side effects from the medication.

      Upon data collection of this trial, we will monitor for any adverse events. If there is an
      adverse event that is deemed by the principal investigator likely due to drug administration,
      we will report it to the FDA immediately through written communication and an IND Safety
      Report. It will be reported within at least 7 calendar days of being notified of the adverse
      event.
    
  