
    
      Background

      Vulvovaginal irritation is a frequent complaint among postmenopausal women who are not on
      hormone therapy. Common symptoms include pruritus. Patients describe the irritation to be
      similar to that of vulvovaginal candidiasis during their reproductive years. Clinical
      improvement is seen with estrogen therapy. Most clinicians attribute the symptoms to vaginal
      dryness secondary to estrogen deficiency. However, the underlying pathophysiology of this
      clinical entity is not well defined. Since cytokines have been shown to play a significant
      role in the pathogenesis of infectious vaginitis, and there is evidence to suggest that
      estrogen influences cytokine production, we postulate that estrogen deficiency causes a
      disturbance in the vaginal cytokine environment similar to that of infectious vulvovaginitis.

      Studies that investigate the pathogenesis of bacterial vaginosis, vulvovaginal candidiasis,
      and vestibulitis have identified changes in the level of antibodies and cytokines in the
      vagina during these processes. Donders and co-workers performed a study looking at the
      correlation between disturbance of the lactobacillary flora, vaginal pH, interleukin 1beta
      (IL-1b), and interleukin 8 (IL-8). Menopausal women were excluded from this study. Vaginal
      pH, IL-8, and IL-1β concentrations increased linearly with decreasing lactobacilli by 4 to 10
      fold. IL-1β concentration was most closely related to decreasing lactobacilli, and IL-8
      concentration was most closely related to positive culture results. Regúlez, Garcia
      Fernández, and co-worker performed a study to correlate the symptoms of vulvovaginal
      candidiasis with vaginal IgE levels. Patients who have clinically overt vulvovaginal
      candidiasis with classical symptomatology regardless of whether yeast or mycelia is
      identified in fresh smear or culture had higher IgE levels in their vagina than asymptomatic
      carriers or uninfected controls. This variation of host response has been proposed as one of
      the mechanism why only some women with vulvovaginal candidiasis experience symptoms. This
      concept of an imbalance between TH1 to TH2 cell reactivity with preference to the latter was
      further suggested by Puccetti, Romani and Bistoni. In contrary to the findings by Regúlez,
      Garcia Fernández and co-workers, Fidel, Ginsburg, and co-workers studied the
      vaginal-associated immunity in women with recurrent vulvovaginal candidiasis and found that
      Th-1 type response is increased. This area is certainly controversial and requires further
      investigations. Since IL-6 has been suggested as one of the cytokines involved in Th-2 or
      immediate-type hypersensitivity response, it will be of interest to study whether its level
      is increased for patients with symptomatology. Foster and Hasday compared the levels of
      IL-1b, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-a) in perineal biopsy between women with vulvar
      vestibulitis and pain-free subjects, and found an increase in both cytokines in the former
      cases.

      Estrogen has been shown to influence cytokine activity in the reproductive tract.
      García-Velasco and Arici published a review article on chemokines and human reproduction. In
      the article, the clinical relevance of chemokines in normal human reproductive events such as
      ovulation, menstruation, and implantation were summarized. There was however little
      information on their relevance in vaginal physiology. This is consistent with the little
      information on the topic of vaginal physiology in the literature. A study by Franklin, and
      Kutteh on the variation of immunoglobulins, and cytokines in cervical mucus in twelve women
      on oral contraceptives (OCs), and fifteen naturally cycling women showed a definite influence
      of exogenous and endogenous hormones on their levels. Cervical IgA, and IL-1b levels in women
      taking Ortho Novum 777® paralleled the increasing dosage of oral norethindrone, and the
      levels decreased after discontinuation of the oral contraceptive. Cervical IL-1b, and IL-10
      both peaked just before ovulation in natural cycles. Cervical mucus IL-1b levels were found
      to correlate directly to changes in estrogen level during a natural cycle. Vaginal cytokine
      levels were not investigated in the study. Al-Harth, and co-workers measured cervicovaginal
      IL-1b, IL-4, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, interferon-gamma (INF-gamma), transforming growth factor-beta
      (TGF-b), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-a), macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha (MIP-1a)
      and TNG receptor II (TNFR II) during the follicular, and luteal phases of ovulatory cycle of
      six premenopausal women. Cervicovaginal IL-1b, and IL-6 were found to vary in level
      throughout the ovulatory cycle. Both IL-1b, and IL-6 were 5-fold higher in the follicular
      phase than in the luteal phase. Other cervicovaginal cytokines levels were not altered
      between the two phases. Plasma IL-8 level was higher in the follicular than luteal phase. The
      investigators' hypothesis is that postmenopausal estrogen deficiency causes changes in
      cytokine levels in the vagina similar to that found with vaginal candidiasis and bacterial
      vaginosis. A common cytokine etiology will account for the similarity of the symptomatology
      of infectious vaginitis and postmenopausal vaginal irritation.

      Unpublished preliminary data from a study done on premenopausal women by Ballagh in the
      co-operating Howard and Georgeanna Jones Institute for Reproductive Medicine, Department of
      Obstetrics and Gynecology, Eastern Virginia Medical School, Norfolk, Virginia, USA, has shown
      that the mean levels of vaginal IL-1b and IL-8, as measured by ELISA, are higher in the
      luteal phase than the follicular phase in naturally cycling women. The median level of IL-1b
      is higher in the luteal phase than follicular phase but that of IL-8 is higher in the
      follicular phase than luteal phase. These results show that vaginal interleukin environment
      varies throughout the menstrual cycle to another. Women on oral contraceptive pills have
      increased mean levels of both vaginal IL-1b, and IL-8 compared to naturally cycling women.
      These data, though preliminary, support the theory that steroid hormone may play a role in
      the regulation of vaginal cytokine levels.

      Objective

      The principal goal of this pilot study is to determine the correlation between postmenopausal
      vulvovaginal irritative symptoms with vaginal interleukin levels. Cytokines to be evaluated
      in vaginal lavage will include IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8 and TNF-α. Plasma interleukin levels will be
      assessed concurrently, and compared to the vaginal levels to ensure that the vaginal levels
      obtained are not a result of contamination by plasma transudate. This study is thought to be
      the basis for a future randomised controlled trial involving the treatment of symptomatic
      menopausal women for investigation whether the resolution of the symptoms with e.g. estrogen
      and DHEA therapy is associated with a decrease in the interleukin levels.

      Methods

      Screening Investigations (visit 1):

      History and physical examination Vaginal pH, KOH prep, whiff test, and wet prep for
      Trichomonas vaginalis Cervical sample for Neisseria gonorrhea & Chlamydia trachomatis assay

      Enrollment Investigations (visit 2):

        1. Vaginal pH

        2. Vaginal smear for Nugent score and maturation index

        3. Vaginal wet prep for Trichomonas vaginalis

        4. Vaginal KOH prep and whiff test

        5. Speculum examination and vaginal lavage

        6. Leukocyte counts in vaginal samples

        7. ELISA for serum IL-1b, IL-6, IL-8, TNF-a, IgE and estradiol

        8. ELISA for IL-1b, IL-6, IL-8 TNF-a and IgE in vaginal lavage samples
    
  