
    
      One in four women reports bothersome symptoms of a pelvic floor disorder with 16% reporting
      urinary incontinence (UI), otherwise known as leakage. Likewise, 1 in 5 women with UI reports
      fecal incontinence (FI). Women with dual incontinence (UI/FI) often have more bothersome
      symptoms, quality of life impact, and sexual dysfunction than those with just UI or FI. In
      many situations, bladder and/or bowel control problems are the result of a failure of
      communication between the brain and the sacral nerve. The sacral nerve controls the bladder,
      bowel, and pelvic floor and the muscles related to their function. If the brain and sacral
      nerve do not communicate correctly, the bladder and/or bowel cannot function properly, which
      often leads to incontinence, or leakage. The only currently available treatment with level 1
      effectiveness data for the treatment of BOTH UI and FI is called Sacral Neuromodulation.
      Sacral Neuromodulation (SNM) is a standard of care procedure used to treat men and women that
      have symptoms of Urinary and Fecal Incontinence and involves surgically implanting a device
      in to the patient's body to target this communication problem by stimulating the nerves that
      control bladder and bowel function with mild electrical pulses. This helps the brain and
      nerves to communicate so the bladder and bowel can function properly. It is known that
      changes in nerve stimulation and muscular function are important factors in the cause and
      onset of UI and FI and in how a patient will respond to various treatments, however, the
      precise mechanism of action of SNM on UI and FI remains unclear.

      This study therefore aims to obtain a better understanding of nerve and muscle function in
      patients with dual incontinence and to quantify how SNM affects the nerves of patients with
      dual incontinence. We hope to do so by using Current Perception Threshold (CPT) Testing,
      which is a way to quantify the function of different populations of afferent nerves. We will
      recruit patients who already plan on undergoing Sacral Neuromodulation implantation for the
      treatment of their dual incontinence, and as part of the research study we will use CPT
      testing to measure the amount of stimulation required to activate the participant's sacral
      nerve before SNM and will also measure the current perception threshold of the participant's
      sacral nerve after SNM treatment. We expect to see a difference in the amount of stimulation
      required to activate different pelvic floor nerves before and after the device implantation.
      By learning more about nerve function in patients with DI, we hope to find a way to screen
      patients before treatment with SNM to make sure the treatment will work for them. We also
      hope to learn how urethral and anal sphincter anatomy in patients with dual incontinence
      changes after treatment with SNM. Lastly, we will study the quality of sexual relationships
      in women with dual incontinence and their male partners and attempt to identify specific
      areas of dysfunction that are common in patients with DI.
    
  