
    
      Heart failure is a medical condition that is on the rise in the US and is associated with an
      enormous cost of $30 billion in healthcare expenses. People with heart failure may be treated
      with an LVAD that is connected to their heart and helps it pump the blood from the left side
      of the heart into the blood vessels that delivers blood to the body. These devices can be
      used to treat heart failure for the long term or they can be used while a patient waits for a
      heart transplant. In either case, the use of these devices is increasing.

      One of the primary risks associated with LVADs are those related to blood clotting.
      Maintenance of the LVAD depends on preventing blood clots especially right after the surgery
      that puts them in place. This requires putting patients with LVADs on blood thinners and then
      monitoring the blood thinner levels carefully so that they don't have problems with bleeding
      too easily or, on the other hand, forming blood clots if they aren't on the right dose of
      blood thinners. Excessive bleeding - called hemorrhaging - is the more common problem after
      surgery and half of all patients that receive an LVAD will require a blood transfusion within
      the first 30 days after they receive the device. A laboratory test that measures how quickly
      blood clots is used to determine if the patient has the right amount of blood thinners. The
      current standard test is called "activated partial thromboplastin time [aPTT]." There are
      problems with the reliability of this test because it reacts with other elements in the
      blood. Alternately, there is a test that more directly measures the amount of heparin blood
      thinner rather than coagulation time and may be more reliable than aPTT called anti-factor Xa
      [anti-Xa].

      The investigators have developed process diagrams that show steps for making decisions
      [called nomograms] that tell a nurse or doctor how to manage the heparin levels using test
      results from the aPTT test or the anti-Xa test; however, both tests will be performed at each
      decision time point, but the care team will only be told the results from the testing to
      which their patient is assigned.

      The purpose of this feasibility study is to establish feasibility of using the two nomograms
      to determine which provides the optimal clinical information for improving patients' outcomes
      that have had LVADs placed.

      Potential subjects will be recruited prior to their surgery and may decline to participate
      anytime before or after the surgery takes place. Subjects will be randomized to the aPTT
      nomogram or the anti-Xa nomogram. If they withdraw consent, they will receive the aPTT
      standard of care monitoring. The study procedures are performed by the clinical care team.
      Clinicians will be trained to use the nomograms.
    
  