
    
      Groundwater contamination caused by inorganic arsenic is a massive public health hazard in
      Bangladesh. Prolonged consumption of water containing high concentration arsenic leads to
      chronic arsenic poisoning which is characterized by dermatological features i.e. diffuse
      melanosis followed by spotted melanosis hyperpigmentation and keratosis.

      Until now there is no internationally accepted treatment for arsenical keratosis. Some
      authors suggest long-term administration of vitamin and mineral and topical application of
      salicylic acid, propylene glycol and neem may be effective. Cock's comb extract contains
      hyaluronic acid, chondroitin sulfates A, B and C, heparin, hexosamine and water. Study with
      cock's comb extract in the treatment of arsenical keratosis was done in the Department of
      Pharmacology, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University and was found effective. Therefore,
      the purpose of this study will be identification of compound isolated from cock's comb and
      its effect on palmar arsenical keratosis. After obtaining Institutional review board
      clearance, on the basis of inclusion and exclusion criteria, 40 patients with moderate to
      severe palmar arsenical keratosis will be enrolled from arsenic affected area located at
      Kamalla Union of Muradnagar Upazilla, Comilla. The study will be open phase II clinical
      trial. After enrollment, patients will be informed about the purpose as well as harmful and
      beneficial effects of the study. Informed written consent, detail history, clinical
      examination, photographs of the palm and water and nail samples will be collected before
      starting recruitment to confirm arsenicosis. For identification of compound present in the
      cock's comb thin layer chromatography and nuclear magnetic resonance will be done. Cytotoxic
      effects of the cock's comb extract will be analyzed by using brine shrimp assay. Cream will
      be prepared from cock's comb extract and supplied to the patient at an interval of 2 weeks to
      apply on palmar keratotic nodule with clean fingertip by rubbing gently at night for 12
      weeks. Adherence of the cream and side effects will be monitored routinely through phone and
      during visit at field level. Improvement will be assessed by measuring the palmar keratotic
      nodular size with the help of slide calipers. The mean score of the nodular size before and
      after treatment will be done. Statistical analysis will be conducted by paired t test. The
      result will be presented in tabulated forms and bar diagrams.
    
  