
    
      This will be a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-design study. Eligible
      patients will have moderate to severe ulcerative colitis, defined as:

        -  A Disease Activity Index (DAI) score of 6 to 10 (inclusive);

        -  Endoscopic evidence of active ulcerative colitis (DAI mucosal appearance sub score of
           ≥2) as assessed by flexible sigmoidoscopy unless colonoscopy is clinically indicated;

        -  Rectal bleeding (DAI sub score of ≥1);

        -  Physician's Global Assessment (PGA) of moderate disease (DAI sub score ≥2). Patients
           will be randomized to receive placebo, 10 mg Natura-alpha or 20 mg Natura-alpha.
           Patients will self-administer their assigned dose orally for 28 consecutive days, twice
           per day (b.i.d) at approximately 8:00 am and 8:00 pm.

      The effectiveness and safety of Natura-alpha will be evaluated at baseline, and after 7, 14
      and 28 days of treatment. Additional follow-up measurements will take place 7 and 28 days
      post cessation of treatment (Day 35 and Day 56, respectively). Stool samples for fecal
      calprotectin (FC) tests and optional blood samples (15 ml) for cytokine tests will be
      collected and analyzed at sponsor-selected sites and lab for exploratory analyses to be
      performed at a later date.

      Clinical response will be assessed by the Physician's Global Assessment (PGA) on the basis of
      sigmoidoscopy (Walkiewicz, Werlin et al. 2008) and mucosal appearance (DAI category).
      Sigmoidoscopy including histopathological examination to assess disease severity and changes
      in tissue inflammation will be conducted before and after treatment (Day 1, Day 28) by the
      same endoscopist at each site and read by one sponsor selected central pathologist.
      Truelove-Richards histological grading system will be applied for disease histological
      scoring (Pullan, Rhodes et al. 1994; Zhong, Huang et al. 2005; Liang and Ouyang 2008). Safety
      labs and adverse events (AEs) will be monitored for the duration of the study (including the
      7 day follow up visit).
    
  