
    
      Investigations description --------------------------------- Augmented Reality 2 different
      Head-Mounted-Displays (ARVision3D from Trivisio; dataGlass/2A from Shimadzu), controlled by 2
      PC will be used. The first HMD is a monocular optical see-through (OST) HMD: it is equipped
      with a semi-transparent LCD display for one eye. The user can directly see the physical world
      without limitations regarding the peripheral field of view. The second HMD is a binocular
      video see-through (VST) HMD: it is equipped with two LCD displays and a stereo camera system
      that records the physical environment and replays the video onto the displays in real-time.

      Experimental protocol

      ---------------------------- Before flight subjects will be familiarized with the setup and
      the protocol. For each flight day, 2 subjects will be studied one for each AR device. Halfway
      during the flight, the 2 subjects will swap places. The procedure will be the following on
      all 3 days.

      The experiment day will start at 7.30 a.m. with the test subjects equipped with heart rate
      recording device. After take-off and after work will be permitted, the 2 subjects will go to
      the experimental area where they will be seated. They will be equipped with one of the HMD
      (optical- or video-see through HM). During a parabola the subjects perform the
      experimentation task: symbolic input of five letters onto virtual keyboard depending on the
      experimental task during a parabola.

      To point towards the virtual keyboard the subject wears a thimble on his forefinger. The
      body-alignment scenario requires an additional panel on subject's non-dominant hand.

      During a parabola two subjects perform the tasks - one is using HMD type 1 in hyper-g and the
      other subject is using HMD type 2 in micro-g.

      During the 8 minute rest period between parabolas 15 and 16, the 2 test subjects will switch
      places. Switching place will be a straightforward process as each member of our team has
      expertise in manning the test equipment.
    
  