
    
      Background Bipolar sealing and cutting devices such as EnSeal® G2 Tissue Sealer are surgical
      instruments that use electrical powered diathermic energy to seal and transect tissue. These
      devices have shown high efficiency in a wide variety of open and laparoscopic general and
      gynecological surgical procedures.

      The surgical performance of the EnSeal® has shown to be comparable to that of ultrasonic
      cutting devices in several studies. However, the efficacy of this instrument and in
      particular of new instruments such as the EnSeal® G2 Tissue Sealer has not been evaluated in
      thyroid surgery.

      Primary Aim To verify whether the EnSeal® performance is superior to the standard surgical
      technique for thyroidectomy in a randomized clinical trial on 2 different institutions

      Patients and Methods A total of 160 patients will be included in the study. They will be
      divided into two groups of 80 subjects. Patients will undergo thyroidectomy in each of the
      two institutions: The National Institute of Medical Sciences and Nutrition in Mexico City and
      the Clinical Hospital in Sao Paolo Brazil. Surgical indication for thyroidectomy will
      comprise benign or malign diseases.

      Design A balanced randomized clinical trial design for assessing superiority in 2
      institutions. Patients with benign or malign thyroid disease will be balanced a priori within
      the 2 groups of the study.

      Sample Size Calculation The estimated number of cases was calculated based on potential
      differences in surgical time, which is the main outcome variable with the smallest difference
      to detect. Sample size was calculated assuming a hypothetical mean difference of 15 minutes
      with an 80% of statistical power, 95% of confidence, with a 5% of alpha error (Type I error)
      in a two-tied distribution hypothesis. Based on these assumptions a sample size of at least
      75 subjects per group (arm) is necessary.

      Institutional Review Board Evaluation The protocol will be submitted for evaluation to the
      Institutional Review Board of each institution and will have to be approved before enrolling
      the first patient. This protocol follows all institutional, governmental policies and medical
      regulations for clinical research in human beings.

      Informed Consent and Ethical Considerations All patients will receive complete information
      about this protocol. After a brief explanation those who accept to be enrolled will need to
      sign an informed consent before surgery. It is necessary that two independent witness may
      sign too the informed consent. All included patients will be des-identified for keeping as
      anonymous all the records. A special registry number will be allocated for every included
      subject. All potential harms and risks will be minimized for maximize the benefits. This
      protocol will adhere to the respect of the human dignity, privacy and autonomy.

      Trial Registry The trial will be registered in ClinicalTrials.gov before enrolling the first
      patient.

      Randomization Each group of 80 patients will be divided into 2 subgroups, one with
      preoperative diagnosis of benign disease and other with preoperative diagnosis of papillary
      thyroid carcinoma. Four sets of 42 envelopes will be prepared for randomization. All four
      groups (one with a benign and the other with a malignant thyroid condition) will be
      independently randomized in both institutions at the time of induction of the anesthesia. In
      a total of 80 patients, the EnSeal® G2 Tissue Sealer will be used for thyroid resection once
      the sub-platysmal flaps have been developed and in the opposite group, the operation will be
      performed using the standard tie & suture technique by two experts.

      Outcome Variables The primary outcomes will be operative time (minutes), blood loss
      (milliliters), loss of signal in laryngeal nerve monitoring, number of ligatures, pain
      intensity (score) and surgical complications (such as bleeding, hematoma, hypoparathyroidism,
      superior laryngeal nerve injury and recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy.

      Operational Definitions

      i. Operative Time Measured in minutes, starting at skin incision and ending with last closing
      suture of skin. Differences will be assessed using the t-student test.

      ii. Blood Loss Measured in cc. Will be evaluated by weighting soaking sponges and collected
      blood through the aspiration cannula. Differences will be evaluated using the t-student test

      iii. Loss of signal during continuous recurrent laryngeal nerve monitoring The number and
      time of loss or electromyography signaling of the recurrent laryngeal nerve will be recorded
      using continuous intraoperative neuro-monitoring and will be analyzed using the Fisher´s
      exact and the t-student tests

      iv. Number of Ligatures: The number of ligatures placed on blood vessels will be recorded.
      Differences will be analyzed by the Fisher´s exact test or the Chi-squared test.

      v. Pain Intensity All patients will receive a standard dose of pain medications. Pain will be
      assessed 12 and 24hs after surgery using a Visual Analogue Scale and pain medication dosing
      will be recorded. Differences will be analyzed using the t-test.

      vi. Hypoparathyroidism Serum calcium, phosphorus, albumin and intact parathyroid hormone will
      be measured in every patient, 24 hours after surgery. Patients with a corrected calcium ≥7.5
      mg/dl and no symptoms of hypocalcemia will receive no calcium supplements and no further
      blood tests will be obtained. In patients with symptoms (tingling trembling, parenthesis,
      tetanic, and cardiac manifestations) and/or corrected calcium <7.5 mg/dl. Ca supplements will
      be administered and calcium / phosphorus / albumin will be measured every 2 weeks until
      supplements have been weaned. In the case that hypocalcemia persisted for 3 months, calcium/
      phosphorus / albumin will be measured monthly up to 6 months. Transient hypoparathyroidism
      will be considered if hypocalcemia recovers in less than 6 months and the diagnosis of
      permanent hypoparathyroidism will be established if hypocalcemia persists for more than 6
      months. Differences will be analyzed using the Fisher´s exact test

      vii. Recurrent Laryngeal Nerve Injury All patients will undergo preoperative and
      postoperative laryngoscopy the day after surgery. At the end of the operation, response of
      will be assessed by direct stimulation of the vagus nerve and the recurrent laryngeal nerve.
      Acoustic response and electrical amplitude will be recorded. In the absence of vocal cord
      abnormalities in the postoperative laryngoscopy, no further evaluations will be performed. If
      vocal cord paralysis or paresis were found in the postoperative laryngoscopy, patients will
      enter a voice rehabilitation program and subsequent laryngoscopies will be performed 2 weeks,
      3 months and 6 months after surgery until recovery. Transient recurrent laryngeal nerve
      paralysis or paresis will be considered if vocal cord movement recovers in less than 6 months
      and the diagnosis of permanent vocal cord paralysis will be established if vocal cord
      abnormalities persist for more than 6 months. Differences will be analyzed using the Fisher´s
      exact test.

      Data Collection and Analysis All the data obtained from the clinical files, laboratory exams
      and registers from the neuro-monitoring will be saved in an Excel sheet in a numerical range.
      All records and databases will be kept anonymous. Correspondence including private or
      personal data will be avoided. Statistical analysis will be performed with a commercially
      available software. Variable representation will be made by means of excel, SPSS or numbers.

      All included variables will be analyzed based on their own scaling. Variable distribution
      will be tested before any statistical inference. Non-parametric analysis will be used in the
      case of a non-normal distribution. Any p value ≤5% or 0.05 (type I error) will be considered
      as statistically significant for a two-tied hypothesis.

      Publication and Authorship Considerations Any data or result obtained from this study will be
      planed and discussed by the two principal investigators. Authorship inclusion will be based
      on the Vancouver Convention and the Friedman guidelines. An author must be qualified when
      he/she has participated on the conception and design of the study, acquisition of data,
      analysis and interpretation of the data.

      Any partial or total publication or public presentation of the data of this protocol will
      require a previous authorization from the principal investigators.
    
  