
    
      The Hass Avocado contains monounsaturated fat, lutein, glutathione, vitamin E, and other
      antioxidants. This study will determine whether avocado exerts a beneficial effect by
      inhibition of the absorption of malondialdehyde (MDA) which is a measure of lipid
      peroxidation. In a previous study, we demonstrated that spice antioxidants resulted in a 70
      percent decrease in the formation of MDA during cooking and that healthy volunteers consuming
      burgers made with spice excreted 50 percent less MDA in their urine than subjects consuming a
      control burger made without spices. Since the spices were added during cooking of the burger,
      it was not possible to assess the effects of the antioxidants in the stomach. Foods in the
      stomach continue to form lipid peroxidation products during digestion and this is called the
      "bioreactor" function of the stomach. In the proposed study known quantities of fresh avocado
      will be placed on top of a burger prior to consumption to determine whether the avocado
      inhibits formation of MDA from cooked burger meat in the stomach. Study demonstrated an
      increase in inflammatory and oxidative markers in mononuclear cells using Western blot
      analysis of nuclear factor-kappa light chain enhancer of activated B cells (NFkB) and NADPH
      oxidase subunits following a mixed high calorie meal. Considering the rich content of
      bioactive compounds in the avocado, we therefore selected these methods for the endpoint
      determinations as well in this proposed randomized, crossover study.

      We will accomplish the following specific aims:

        1. To measure plasma and urine malondialdehyde by high performance liquid chromatography
           before and over6 hours after consumption of the test burgers with or without fresh
           avocado added just prior to consumption.

        2. To measure insulin, glucose, triglycerides, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α),
           interleukin 6 (IL-6), Interleukin 8 (IL-8), NFkB activation, nitric oxide and peripheral
           arterial tonometry after each test burger.

      These studies will add to the evidence that antioxidants in a lipid phase can inhibit
      formation and/or absorption of cytotoxic lipid products such as malondialdehyde. Ultimately,
      a better understanding of the role of bioactive substances from plant foods such as the
      avocado may demonstrate the importance of plant-based antioxidants in human health.
    
  