
    
      This proposal investigates a novel ankle robot (anklebot) adaptive control approach
      integrated with treadmill training to reduce foot drop and improve mobility function in
      chronic hemiparetic stroke survivors. Currently, stroke survivors with foot drop are trained
      to live with a cane or other assistive device, and often ankle foot orthotics (AFOs) for
      safety. Neither mediates task-practice or neuromotor recovery.

      The investigators have developed an adaptive anklebot controller that detects gait cycle
      sub-events for precise timing of graded robotics assistance to enable deficit
      severity-adjusted ankle motor learning in the context of walking. The investigators' pilot
      findings show that 6 weeks treadmill training with anklebot (TMR) timed to assist swing phase
      dorsiflexion only is more effective than treadmill alone (TM) to improve free-walking swing
      dorsiflexion at foot strike, floor-walking speed, and the benefits are retained at 6 weeks
      post-training. Notably, swing-phase TMR training improved paretic leg push-off, and reduced
      center-of-pressure sway on standing balance, indicating potential benefits to other elements
      of gait and balance, beyond those robotically targeted toward foot drop.

      This randomized study investigates the hypothesis that 6 weeks TMR is more effective to
      improve durably gait biomechanics, static, and dynamic balance, and mobility function in
      chronic stroke survivors with dorsiflexion deficits, compared to TM alone. Aims are to
      determine the compare effectiveness of 6 weeks TMR vs. TM alone on:

        1. Independent gait function indexed by gait velocity, swing-phase DF (dorsiflexion),
           terminal stance push-off.

        2. Balance function indexed by measures of postural sway (CoP), asymmetric loading in quiet
           standing, peak paretic A-P forces in non-paretic gait initiation, and standardized
           scales for balance and fall risk.

        3. Long-term mobility outcomes, assessed by repeated measures of all key gait and balance
           outcomes at 6 weeks and 3 months after formal training cessation.
    
  