
    
      Background: Hereditary ichthyosis are rare genetic diseases characterized by an abnormal
      epithelial keratinization due to mutations in gene involved in skin barrier. Patients present
      with scales on the whole body. Recent classification basically distinguishes syndromic from
      non-syndromic forms. Ichthyoses are severe diseases with significant impact on quality of
      life, due to troublesome symptoms (pruritus, pain), lack of effective therapy and
      complications such as ophthalmological anomalies. Among ophthalmological abnormalities, some
      are well known, such as eyelid abnormalities, including ectropion, and sicca syndrome.
      Conversely, corneal abnormalities such as keratoconus are not or very partially described in
      ichthyosis. The keratoconus is characterized by a corneal thickening and bulging with
      progressive loss of vision that may require a corneal transplantation. Its prevalence is
      0.05% in its symptomatic presentation but may reach 10% when considering subclinical
      keratoconus diagnosed on basis of corneal topographies. These forme fruste keratoconus or
      keratoconus suspect may remain subclinical or instead progress to severe keratoconus. Corneal
      collagen crosslinking has been shown to strengthen the cornea in order to halt progressive
      keratoconus, justifying the need for early screening. Keratoconus is a complex condition of
      multifactorial etiology. With regards to the pathophysiology of the keratoconus, some
      hypotheses incriminate the corneal epithelial differentiation that is similar to the
      epidermal differentiation altered in ichthyosis. This link between both dermatological and
      ophthalmological abnormalities is supported by clinical experience. It's was observed that
      ichthyosis patients have frequently a subclinical keratoconus. In clinical practice,
      ophthalmological abnormalities are not commonly investigated in ichthyosis patients and there
      are no data on prevalence in the literature. Furthermore, there are no guidelines on
      screening or therapy of ophthalmological abnormities in ichthyosis.

      The purpose of this project is to demonstrate that the prevalence of subclinical keratoconus
      (including forme fruste keratoconus and keratoconus suspect) is higher in ichthyosis compared
      to healthy controls.

      Descriptive analysis of the studied population for primary outcome: The proportion of
      patients with subclinical keratoconus (including form fruste keratoconus and keratoconus
      suspect) will be described in each study-group and compared between study-groups using Mac
      Nemar Test.
    
  