
    
      Patients with superficial partial thickness burns less than 10% Total Body Surface Area were
      recruited. Patients with burns involving the primary areas (face, hand, groin, joints, feet),
      previous treatment of the burn wound, previous burn injury to the same area, electrical
      burns, and patients with inhalation injury were excluded Also excluded were patients with
      diabetes, known sensitivity or allergy to one of the dressings or their constituents and
      allergy to NSAIDS, those being treated with systemic steroid medication, and patients with
      AIDS and AIDS related complex. Participants were then randomized to undergo either open
      dressings with petrolatum jelly or standard gauze dressings with silver sulfadiazine cream.
      The number of days to complete re-epithelialization was recorded for each patient. The
      incidence of wound infection and adverse reactions, notably the occurrence of allergic
      contact dermatitis was also recorded. The study also assessed both dressings in terms of
      adherence to the wound bed, ease of dressing removal, pain on application and removal of
      dressings, time required for dressing change and number of dressing changes in between
      follow-ups..

      A total of 50 participants were recruited. Age, sex, race, health condition, location of
      burn, % Total Body Surface Area area affected, time lag, causative agent, presence of initial
      cooling maneuver, medical condition, and associated injuries were similar for petrolatum
      jelly and silver sulfadiazine groups. There was no significant difference with regard to
      number of days to re-epithelialization. There was also no significant difference between the
      two treatment groups with regards to pain experienced during application and removal of the
      dressings, and the number of dressing changes required in between follow-ups. There was,
      however, a significant difference between open dressings with petrolatum jelly and silver
      sulfadiazine gauze dressing in terms of adherence to the wound bed, ease of removal of
      dressings and time required to change dressings. Open dressings with petrolatum jelly were
      found to be less adherent, easier to remove, and required less time for dressing change.

      Single-center, randomized, controlled clinical trial. Consenting adults 18-45 years old with
      superficial partial thickness burns less than or equal to 10% total body surface area seen
      within 24 hours of the injury were randomized to daily dressing either with petrolatum gel
      without top dressings or conventional silver sulfadiazine treatment with gauze dressings.
      Primary outcomes were blinded assessment of time to complete re-epithelialization, wound
      infection or allergic contact dermatitis. Secondary outcomes included assessment of ease,
      time and pain of dressing changes.

      50 patients were recruited and follow up data available for 38. Mean time to
      re-epithelialization was shorter in the treatment group by more than one day within an
      overall mean healing time of 7.0 days (p = 0.050). No wound infection or dermatitis was
      observed in either group. Scores for adherence to the wound, ease of dressing removal and
      time required to change dressings were significantly better in the petrolatum treatment arm
      (p < 0.01).

      Petrolatum gel without top dressings may be at least as effective as silver sulfadiazine
      gauze dressings with regard to time to re-epithelialization, and incidence of infection and
      allergic contact dermatitis. Petrolatum gel appears to be an effective, affordable and widely
      available alternative in the treatment of minor superficial partial thickness burns in
      adults.
    
  