
    
      Patients with HIV commonly use herbal products and dietary supplements in addition to
      medications prescribed by their physicians. Up to 73% of patients with HIV have reported
      using some form of complementary or alternative medicine. As such, the potential for
      clinically significant drug interactions between herbs and antiretrovirals is becoming
      increasingly appreciated. Despite this awareness, little is known about the effect of
      commonly used herbal products, such as echinacea, ginkgo biloba, and ginseng, on
      antiretroviral pharmacokinetics. Interacting herbal supplements have the potential to alter
      protease inhibitor (PI) plasma concentrations, as has been shown with St. John's Wort and
      garlic. Drug interactions may potentially increase antiretroviral concentrations, putting
      patients at risk for toxicities, or lower drug concentrations below the threshold of viral
      susceptibility, putting patients in jeopardy of antiretroviral failure. The protease
      inhibitors lopinavir and ritonavir both rely principally on cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4
      metabolism for their elimination. In addition, both drugs are substrates for the transport
      protein p-glycoprotein (P-gp), which may also contribute to their distribution and
      elimination.

      The primary purpose of this investigation is to determine whether the herbal supplements
      Echinacea purpurea, ginkgo biloba, and Panax ginseng alter the pharmacokinetic properties of
      the HIV protease inhibitor (PI) lopinavir, administered as the PI combination
      lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r). This is an open label pharmacokinetic study that will be
      performed on an outpatient basis. A total of 42 study participants who have met inclusion
      criteria will be sequentially divided into one of 3 groups, such that 14 subjects each will
      receive LPV/r alone and in combination with either E. purpurea, G. biloba, or P. ginseng.

      Subjects will begin taking LPV/r (400mg/100mg twice daily x 29.5 days), returning to the NIH
      on Day 15 of dosing for post-dose plasma collection and determination of lopinavir and
      ritonavir concentrations. On Day 16 participants will begin taking either E. purpurea (500mg,
      three times daily), G. biloba extract (120 mg, twice daily), or P. ginseng (500 mg, twice
      daily) for 28 days. On the 30th day of LPV/r (Day 15 of the herb), subjects will return to
      the NIH where they will take their final LPV/r dose and then have their plasma collected for
      determination of lopinavir concentrations. Data from this investigation will determine
      whether echinacea, ginseng, or ginkgo biloba supplements alter the pharmacokinetics of
      lopinavir.
    
  