
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of entinostat in combination with
      carboplatin, etoposide, and atezolizumab.

      II. To determine safety and tolerability of adding entinostat to carboplatin / etoposide /
      atezolizumab for extensive-stage small cell lung cancer (ES-SCLC).

      III. To determine the feasibility of administering entinostat concomitantly with
      atezolizumab, carboplatin, and etoposide as determined by the proportion of patients who
      receive 3 or more cycles of the combination.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. II. To determine the proportion of patients who
      are alive and without disease progression at 9 months (9 month progression free survival
      [PFS]) after starting entinostat, carboplatin, etoposide, and atezolizumab.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the clinical activity of entinostat plus carboplatin/etoposide/atezolizumab as
      determined by response rate (RR), progression free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS).

      II. To explore the prevalence of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) response element
      binding protein (CREB) binding protein (CREBBP)/ histone acetyltransferase p300 (EP300)
      mutations in newly diagnosed ES-SCLC population.

      III. To explore the relationship between CREBBP/EP300 mutations and clinical outcomes.

      IV. To explore immune biomarkers that may predict response to atezolizumab and entinostat and
      changes in these biomarkers over the course of study treatment.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of entinostat.

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive carboplatin intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on day
      1, etoposide IV over 60 minutes on days 1-3, atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1, and
      entinostat orally (PO) on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive atezolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and entinostat
      PO on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 13 cycles in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months for
      2 years, then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  