
    
      1. PURPOSE

           The purpose of this study is to determine if the Lying Head Back or Head Down and
           Forward head position for administering topical atomized nasal medication results in
           greater distribution and efficacy of budesonide administered via the mucosal atomization
           device in chronic rhinosinusitis patients who have had previous sinus surgery.

        2. HYPOTHESIS

           The investigators hypothesize that endoscopic sinonasal mucosal scores will be lower
           (improved) in patients oriented in the LHB than the HDF position while applying
           medication after 12 weeks of treatment.

        3. JUSTIFICATION:

           Topical medications administered by nebulizers are frequently utilized for patients
           suffering from refractory CRS. Nebulizers are useful as they atomize medication to
           increase contact with surrounding mucosa. This technique is most useful for widespread
           inflammation of the olfactory cleft, ethmoid, sphenoid and frontal sinuses where
           increased inflammation may obstruct drainage pathways. Obstructed sinus ostia may
           prevent mucosal clearance, impair ciliary function and subsequently contribute to
           infection. Topical medication, such as steroid therapy is a safe and effective method to
           locally reduce inflammation. The success of atomized nasal medications is dependent on
           multiple factors such as gravity, obstructive features of sinonasal anatomy and patient
           interpretation of the preferred delivery method. Several delivery methods for topical
           nasal therapies have previously been evaluated to determine the optimal head position
           for administration. However, a review of the literature suggests that the optimal method
           of administering atomized nasal steroids to the paranasal sinuses in human subjects has
           yet to be determined. It has been previously suggested that successful distribution of
           intranasal steroid sprays requires topical agents to contact and remain on desired
           mucosa to prevent disease reoccurrence. In a prospective single-cohort study, healthy
           subjects were recruited to evaluate the distribution and clearance rate of
           fluorescein-labeled nasal spray distributed using a squeeze bottle, nasal gel or nasal
           spray device. The investigators found there was no significant difference in clearance
           rate between the delivery methods.

           This trial provides the preliminary evidence to support further investigation on the
           rate of distribution from intranasal steroid administration in CRS patients. The
           findings cannot be generalized to a wider CRS population, as patients enrolled were
           healthy with no history of CRS or sinus surgery. Similarly, the investigators did not
           report the head position utilized to administer the treatment. Therefore, there remains
           no formal consensus for the optimal head position for CRS patients suffering from
           recurrent symptoms for the distribution and clearance rate of intranasal steroid
           medication.

           Clinician experience at the St. Paul's Sinus Centre (SPSC) has recommended that patients
           should orient themselves in the Lying Head Back (LHB) position to effectively treat
           edematous mucosa of the ethmoid roof and frontal sinus recess. These instructions are
           based on evidence collected in a previous cadaveric trial completed at our centre (in
           press). Our team evaluated the effect of head position on the distribution of
           fluorescent nasal spray within the paranasal sinuses of cadaver specimens. The
           investigators utilized two commonly instructed head positions, the Lying Head Back (LHB)
           or Mygind position and the Head Down and Forward (HDF) or Moffat's position. In this
           trial the investigators oriented cadaver specimens in either study position and
           evaluated the presence of fluorescent nasal spray across eleven clinically relevant
           anatomical areas. the investigators concluded that the LHB position had significantly
           greater frequency of distribution (OR = 1.85, 95% CI: 3.0, 6.9, p< 0.001) to all
           evaluated areas than the HDF position. This trial was limited by a number of factors,
           which include a small sample size (n=20). Similarly, cadaveric specimens cannot be
           generalized to humans, as moist and ciliated mucosa, and nasal polyps are not
           represented. Therefore, it remains controversial the optimal head position for the
           deposition of intranasal medication.

        4. OBJECTIVES:

           Primary Objective

           The primary objective of this clinical trial is to compare endoscopic sinonasal mucosal
           inflammation between patients oriented in the LHB and HDF position after 12 weeks of
           treatment. Subject sinus cavities will be assessed by a validated endoscopic mucosal
           staging system first at baseline, then at 6 and 12 weeks of treatment. Total scores will
           be compared between the treatment groups. The Lund-Kennedy (LKES) and Philpott-Javer
           (PJES) endoscopic staging systems will be utilized to quantify the severity of sinonasal
           disease. The Principal Investigator will complete all endoscopic evaluations and will be
           blind to treatment allocation.

           Secondary Objectives:

           The secondary objectives of this trial will be to compare LKES and PJES scores to
           compare sensitivity to change during the treatment period and degree of correlation
           between total scores and change in scores between the scoring systems. Inter-rater and
           intra-rater reliability will be calculated and compared for each scoring system. The
           purpose of this secondary outcome is to validate the PJES with the "gold standard" and
           widely used LKES, in terms of overall score and sensitivity to treatment.

        5. RESEARCH METHOD:

           Study Design:

           Parallel, single-blind, randomized controlled trial of subjects previously randomized to
           LHB or HDF treatment arms (from Part 1) in order compare endoscopic sinonasal mucosal
           scores after 12 weeks of treatment.

           Patients who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be recruited for the study
           at the clinic. After study patients voluntarily consent to participate in the study,
           data collection will begin.

           Randomization

           Treatment Arm #1: Administering topical fluorescent-labeled nasal spray in the LHB
           position.

           Treatment Arm #2: Administering topical fluorescent-labeled nasal spray in the HDF
           position.

           Adult patients suffering from refractory CRS symptoms post-FESS will be randomized to
           either Treatment Arm #1 or #2 in equal ratio. The sequence will be computer generated by
           the trial statistician. The sequence will be ordered random-permuted blocks to ensure
           allocation remains concealed. The sequence will be maintained in a computer located in
           the St. Paul's Sinus Centre (SPSC) with strict passwords necessary for access.
           Non-transparent sealed envelopes with treatment assignments will be kept in a secure
           environment and accessible only to study personnel at the SPSC. When study personnel are
           notified of a potential candidate, inclusion and exclusion criteria will be evaluated.
           When consent has been provided the next consecutive envelope will be taken and treatment
           group assigned. After treatment is assigned, the patient will preserve the envelope to
           ensure the Principal Investigator remains blinded to their treatment allocation.

           Blinding:

           Part 1:

           As patients will be required to orient themselves in the appropriate study positions,
           blinding will not be feasible for subjects. However, the Principal Investigator and two
           additional senior Rhinologists evaluating endoscopic images for mucosal disease severity
           will be blinded to each subject's allocated head position.

           Patients will be randomized to a head position group, either the Lying Head Back (LHB)
           or Head Down and Forward (HDF) position. Patients will remain in the allocated group and
           administer their medication in their respective head position for 12 weeks. As above,
           patients will not be blind to which position they have been randomized. However, the
           Principal Investigator and two additional senior Rhinologists will be blind to which
           position the subject had been oriented throughout the treatment period (12 weeks).
           Images of each sinus cavity will be captured at baseline and after 12 weeks and
           evaluated using the LKES and PJES scoring systems. Total scores and change in scores
           will be compared. The randomization sequence will not be broken until the final analysis
           is complete.

           Conduct of Study:

           Baseline and Intervention:

           Adult CRS patients having previously received FESS, who meet the inclusion/exclusion
           criteria and provide consent will be randomized to either the LHB or HDF positions to
           administer a budesonide topical nasal corticosteroid spray to their sinus cavities.
           Baseline characteristics will be collected from patient charts as outlined above. Each
           subject in both study groups will receive a sterile 3ml syringe fixed with a Mucosal
           Atomization Device (MAD) tip (Wolf-Tory Medical, Salt Lake City, UT). This device is
           advantageous as its produces a fine mist, increasing the surface area for absorption
           within the paranasal sinuses.4 Budesonide is a well-tolerated, glucocorticoid steroid
           that is primarily used for treatment in asthma and nasal polyposis.20 At SPSC, it is
           standard practice to prescribe budesonide to treat postoperative sinonasal inflammation
           utilizing the MAD. From discussion with senior Rhinologists at SPSC, patients are
           typically instructed to administer treatment twice a day for 6-12 weeks. However, dosage
           and frequency may be modified to suit individual circumstances.

           For the purpose of this trial, patients will be instructed to load each syringe with 2cc
           of the budesonide (1mg in 2cc saline) solution to be distributed to the right and left
           sides of the nose. A designated research assistant will collect baseline data and
           describe and demonstrate the allocated study position in a separate room from the
           Principal Investigator. To ensure that positioning has been correctly communicated,
           subjects will then orient themselves in the appropriate position with guidance from
           research staff if required. Subjects randomized to the LHB position will be instructed
           to lay supine on the clinical table, with their head hanging over the edge of the bed as
           far as possible without discomfort (Figure 1). Subjects randomized to the HDF position
           will be instructed to kneel down, placing the top of their head on the ground and
           forehead close to the knees with the nostrils facing upwards (Figure 2). Once
           positioned, subjects will insert the MAD-syringe at a 45-degree angle into the nasal
           valve, direct the tip to the lateral epicanthus of the ipsilateral orbit and depress the
           syringe plunger completely. Subjects will remain positioned for 60 seconds. At this time
           a designated research associate will be measure the angle of the subjects head in
           relation to the horizontal plane, using an analog protractor. As all subjects may not be
           able to orient themselves in a single standardized angle, the investigators will note
           the angle most comfortable to determine a range of possible orientations.

           Subjects will be instructed to administer budesonide 1mg/2cc nebules daily for 6 weeks
           using the MAD syringe, in the head position allocated to which they were randomized at
           the baseline visit. After this time, subjects will return to SPSC for endoscopic
           examination of their sinus cavities. Bilateral nasal endoscopy will be performed using a
           2.3mm Karl Storz rigid nasal endoscope. The Principal Investigator capturing images of
           the sinus cavities will be blind to which head position group the subject was
           randomized. Each sinus cavity will be assessed independently with images captured and
           stored on a password-protected, centrally located computer. Once endoscopic images are
           captured for patients returning after 12 weeks of treatment, three independent senior
           Rhinologists will score each sinus cavity according to the LKES and PJES criteria.18,19
           This will be completed twice, with a 1-week break between assessments. Responses will be
           tabulated on separate, password-protected spreadsheets with each Rhinologist receiving a
           study code to prevent identification. A blind statistician will summarize the data and
           compare the total and change in endoscopic scores between the treatment groups.
           Secondary analysis will be completed to determine the extent of correlation and
           sensitivity between the LKES and PJES responses. Inter and intra-rater reliability will
           also be computed to determine the extent of agreement between the scoring systems.

           Data collection:

           The following data will be collected at the initial clinic visit:

           - Baseline characteristics will be collected including age (years), sex (male or
           female), number of cigarettes per day (count), height (centimeters), weight (kilograms),
           handedness (right or left), number of prior sinus surgeries (count), preoperative
           disease severity (Lund-Mackay CT Score).

           The following data will be collected at the 6 and 12 week follow-up visits:

             -  PJ Endoscopic scores

             -  LK Endoscopic scores

             -  SNOT-22 scores

        6. STATISTICAL ANALYSIS:

      Sample size determination:

      From our recent trial evaluating the LHB and HDF positions in human cadavers, the incidence
      of total spray distribution was 76% and 41% in the LHB and HDF positions. Incorporating these
      findings, the investigatorsperformed a sample size calculation using a Type I error (alpha)
      of 5%, Type II error (beta) of 20% and an effect size of 73%. The effect size was calculated
      using the incidence proportions from our centre's previous trial in cadaver specimens, which
      was identified as clinically relevant and practically achievable. A two-proportion
      calculation was used to compare the average distribution of all anatomical sites between the
      head position groups. The calculation revealed a necessary sample size of 30 patients per
      group. Based on clinical experience of the Principal Investigator it is estimated that 60% of
      patients requiring sinus surgery (n=400/year) will be eligible for enrollment (n=280/year).
      Accounting for 70% enrollment of eligible subjects (n=196/year), the investigators estimate
      that 16 patients can be recruited every month. Adjusting for a dropout rate of 20%, the
      investigators will increase our total sample size (n=60) by 6 patients. the investigators
      estimated that our desired sample size adjusting for loss-to-follow-up (n = 66) will be
      achieved in 4 months (Figure 3). Patients will be recruited in equal ratio to the
      experimental and control groups (33 in each arm).

      Baseline characteristics analysis:

      Baseline characteristics of the two groups will be reported. Descriptive statistics will be
      reported included mean, median, standard deviation and range. These will be reported for age,
      height, weight, number of prior surgeries and preoperative disease severity. The proportion
      of males and females, right and left handed subjects and frequency of blood clots and
      adhesions present prior to the intervention will also be described.

      End of Study Analysis:

      Subject sinus cavities will be assessed using the LKES and PJES scales. Measurements will be
      made at baseline and 5 weeks after treatment. The LKES assesses each sinus (ethmoid,
      maxillary, sphenoid, frontal) for the presence of polyps (0=absent, 1=present in middle
      meatus only, 2=beyond middle meatus); presence of edema, scarring or crusting (each evaluated
      as 0=absent, 1=mild, 2=severe) and presence of discharge (0=absent, 1=clear and thin, 2=thick
      or purulent). A total, bilateral score is calculated for all sinuses evaluated. The PJES is a
      similar scoring system that evaluates each sinus cavity individually to yield a total
      bilateral score out of a total of 80. Additional points are awarded for the presence allergic
      mucin or purulent discharge. Two endoscopic scores will be recorded for each subject, using
      both scales for baseline and 5 weeks post treatment. The difference in baseline and 5 week
      results will be calculated for each subject and summed together to yield an average change
      for the LHB and HDF groups. Outcome data will be summarized by mean, median, standard
      deviation and interquartile range. The Students t-test will be used to test if the changes in
      endoscopic scores are significantly different between the treatment groups. Pearson's (R)
      correlation will be calculated to determine the extent of linear association between the LKES
      and PJES results. From a previous study evaluating the association between endoscopic scoring
      systems, an a priori decision has been made to categorize R < 0.49 as a weak correlation,
      0.50 < R < 0.69 as a moderate correlation and R > 0.70 as a strong correlation. Linear
      correlation will be calculated in terms of absolute score and change in score between the
      study time points.

      To determine the extent of clinical agreement between the senior Rhinologists evaluating each
      subject, intra and inter-rater kappa scores will be calculated. It has been determined a
      priori that scores < 0 will be assigned no agreement, 0.01 - 0.20 poor agreement, 0.21-0.40
      slight agreement, 0.41-0.60 fair agreement, 0.61-0.80 good agreement, 0.81-0.92 very good
      agreement and 0.93-1.00 excellent agreement.
    
  