
    
      Ears with a vestibular deficit:

      Patients referred to the tertiary ear nose and throat clinics as well otoneurological clinics
      at the Royal Hallamshire will be eligible for enrolment. The investigators aim to record data
      from 36 ears with vestibular dysfunction.

      A) Patients will receive a consultation with an ENT Consultant or Registrar as per standard
      practice.

      B) If the patient is deemed by the doctor to have an otoneurological cause for their symptoms
      then further audiovestibular testing and imaging will be arranged as per standard practice.
      The patients will then be made aware of this study and if interested will be given the
      opportunity to discuss it further with the chief investigator (CI) or the principal
      investigator (PI).

      C) If agreeable the patients will be given information packs by the PI/CI and taken through
      the study.

      D) The patients will leave the consultation with the information pack and be asked to
      consider participation in the study. They will have no obligation to take part and they can
      contact the any member of the research team to ask for further information or to have any
      questions answered.

      E) Upon their return for audiovestibular testing the patients will inform the CI/PI if they
      wish to participate in the study and if so will have an additional test at the end of test
      sequence. This will add approximately 30 minutes to their appointment time.

      F) Patients who are suitable for rehabilitation (as per standard care pathway) will go ahead
      and have the course of treatment at subsequent visit(s). The outcomes following the treatment
      will be logged and correlated with the CVEP to check for any correlation that may or may not
      be present.

      Otologically normal ears:

      Normative data will be collected from 36 normal ears from subjects that have no history of
      audiovestibular symptoms and are not being investigated for any balance disorders. Healthy
      controls will be recruited via poster advertisements and potential participants asked to
      contact the research team if they are considering taking part.
    
  