
    
      Extraction of third molars is the procedure of oral and maxillofacial surgery most commonly
      performed around the world, usually at the outpatient level. Its execution may result in the
      appearance of reversible and / or irreversible disorders, but the most observed signs and
      symptoms are pain, edema and trismus to a greater or lesser degree. Thus, there seems to be
      no consensus within the literature for a better type of post-surgical treatment that leads to
      less patient discomfort when undergoing this kind of surgery.

      The objective of this randomized, blinded trial will be to evaluate the use of therapeutic
      bandaging, Therapy Tex ©, In reducing the signs and symptoms inherent to the postoperative
      period of the third molar extracts, semi-included or included .

      The sample will consist of 32 lower third molars, semi-inclusively or included, divided into
      two groups simultaneously, namely:

      Group I (16 teeth) - without therapeutic bandaging on face. Group II (16 teeth) - with
      therapeutic bandaging on face. The therapeutic bandaging method will be applied in the
      patients of group II, according to the previous randomization.The bandage will be applied
      immediately after surgery and before the end of the anesthetic effect. The skin should be
      cleaned with 70% alcohol in order to remove residue and oiliness, and then should be dried.
      If necessary, scrape the hairs of the region in which the tape will rest. The application of
      the bandage will be in the proposed regions using the "I" cutout, in which no additional
      trimming is made on the tape. The length may vary depending on the size of the patient's
      face. After being applied the bandage should be gently wiped to activate the acrylic
      components that generate adhesiveness and should remain on the face for 3 days.

      The patient is asked to occlude, the dimension of the masseter muscle is determined by
      palpation. During palpation, point A is selected in the lower portion of the zygomatic arch
      and point B is close to the angle of the mandible. The tape will be placed along the
      direction of the muscle fibers.

      Placement of the second tape will occur from the mandibular angle to the mental symphysis,
      accompanying the entire mandibular body in its medial portion covering the milo-hyoid muscles
      and the anterior belly of the digastric.

      The results of the clinical evaluations will be submitted to descriptive statistics and
      compared by means of the statistical analysis of variance (ANOVA) and Tukey test with
      significance level of 5%.
    
  