
    
      Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) impacts more than 30 million Americans resulting in $6.9 to $9.9
      billion in annual healthcare expenditures and $12.8 billion in productivity costs. The
      prevalence of Chronic Rhinosinusitis with Nasal Polyps(CRSwNP) in Europe has been estimated
      to be 2-4.3% and is thought to be similar in the United States. Corticosteroids remain the
      mainstay of treatment although novel therapies are being developed based on an evolving
      understanding of the inflammatory pathways involved in disease pathogenesis. CRSwNP is
      characterized by the presence of edematous polypoid mucosa and predominantly eosinophilic
      inflammation. Recent evidence has focused on the sinonasal epithelial cell as a primary
      driver of the local dysregulated immune response through secretion of type 2 helper
      T-cell(Th2) promoting cytokines. While these studies suggest that epithelial cells are
      capable of orchestrating a local immune response, the mechanisms responsible for regulating
      cytokine secretion are poorly understood and may be influenced by the efflux function of
      epithelial P-glycoprotein(P-gp).

      P-gp is a 170 kiloDalton membrane protein which belongs to sub-family B of the adenosine
      triphosphate(ATP)-binding cassette(ABC) transporter superfamily. P-gp utilizes ATP hydrolysis
      to transport a wide range of substrates across the plasma membrane. P-gp mediated transport
      has been observed in the regulation of cytokine secretion in both human T-cells as well as
      sinonasal epithelial cells implicating a potential immunomodulatory role. Studies by our
      group have demonstrated that P-gp is overexpressed in the mucosa of patients with Th2 skewed
      CRS endotypes including CRSwNP and is capable of regulating the secretion of Th2 polarizing
      cytokines. Together, these findings suggest that P-gp participates in the non-canonical
      regulation of cytokine secretion within CRSwNP and may thereby represent a druggable target.

      Verapamil Hydrochloride(HCl) was one of the first inhibitors of P-gp to be identified in 1982
      and also functions as a calcium channel blocker(CCB). Verapamil has since been categorized as
      a first generation P-gp inhibitor as more potent and selective 2nd and 3rd generation
      molecules were subsequently developed for use as chemotherapy sensitizers. Several studies,
      including those by our group, have reported that Verapamil is capable of modulating
      inflammatory responses in human T-cells, animal models of asthma, and nasal polyps. Using an
      organotypic explant model, we have previously shown that Verapamil has similar effects to
      dexamethasone in its ability to abrogate Interleukin(IL)-5, IL-6, and Thymic Stromal
      Lymphopoietin secretion. While Verapamil is cardioactive, it is considered the first-line
      prophylactic drug for cluster headache and is usually well tolerated by otherwise healthy
      patients.

      In light of our prior studies demonstrating the immunomodulatory role of P-gp in promoting
      Th2 skewing cytokine secretion in CRSwNP, we hypothesized that low dose Verapamil HCl
      monotherapy would be safe and effective in the treatment of CRSwNP.
    
  