
    
      Inflammation plays a key role in the occurrence and development of atherosclerosis(.T
      lymphocytes are among the earliest cells to be recruited into the atherosclerotic plaque.The
      combination of macrophages and lymphocytes in vulnerable plaque is associated with the
      secretion of cytokines and lytic enzymes that result in thinning of the fibrous cap,
      predisposing a lesion to rupture.The neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio (NLR) is an indicator of
      systemic inflammation and a prognostic marker in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PCI).In previous studies, the NLR has been demonstrated to be related to
      in-hospital cardiovascular mortality and long-term mortality in patients with ST segment
      elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI).

      In addition to its beneficial lipid modulation effects, statins exert a variety of
      pleiotropic actions such as inflammatory inhibition, antiventricular remodeling, improving
      vascular endothelial function, and antioxidant effects. Because ofitsmultiple functions,
      atorvastatin therapy was associated with a significant reduction in cardiovascular morbidity
      and mortality both in primary and secondary prevention. The Myocardial Ischemia Reduction
      with Aggressive Cholesterol Lowering (MIRACL)study demonstrated thatatorvastatin 80 mg which
      was given during the first days after an ACS decreased the rate of major adverse
      cardiovascular events (MACE). This effect was observed as early as 6 weeks after
      randomization and was significant at 16 weeks. Atorvastatin for Reduction of MYocardial
      Damage during Angioplasty (ARMYDA) trial demonstrated a reduction in peri-procedural
      myocardial infarction (MI) in patients with stable CAD undergoing PCI preloaded by high
      potency statins atorvastatin 80 mg. The ARMYDARECAPTURE study showed a reduction in 30 days
      MACE in patients with stable angina or with non-ST elevation MI who were previously treated
      with statins and were reloaded with high potency statins.

      The prompt effect that was observed with high-potency statins is one of the cornerstones of
      the plaque stabilization hypothesis, in which a clinical effect is demonstrated well before
      the low levels of low density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-c) can affect plaque progression.

      The effect of high vs. low potency statins in ACS was examined by the Pravastatin or
      Atorvastatin. ThePCI PROVE IT, a sub-study of the PROVE IT-TIMI 22 trial, demonstrated that
      patients pretreated with high potency statins before PCI had a significantly lower rate of
      target vessel revascularization. TheIn-vitro models showed that statins given prior to PCI
      decrease distal embolization and increase circulating endothelial progenitor cells, thus
      potentially increase endothelial healing following the injury caused by PCI. In addition,
      patients undergoing elective PCI, which were pre-treated with statins, had less
      microcirculatory resistance compared to placebo.

      Conversely, the STATIN STEMI Trial did not show a significant reduction of MACEs in patients
      preloaded with high-dose (80 mg) versus low-dose (10 mg) atorvastatin before primary PCI
      (5.8% versus 0.6%, p=0.26) but showed improved immediate coronary flow after primary PCI.

      Furthermore, in the SECURE-PCI trial, the periprocedural loading doses of atorvastatin did
      not reduce the rate of MACE at 30 days in ACS patients.However, the subgroup analysis showed
      a significant reduction of MACE in STEMI patients preloaded with atorvastatin compared with
      the placebo (P=0.01), still not all patients were treated with primary PCI.
    
  