
    
      The CDSMP is an evidence-based, community-based, generic self-management program that
      consists of 6 weekly classes of two and a half hours each one, for six weeks. CDSMP classes
      are facilitated by certified peer leaders. Because the CDSMP is widely disseminated and
      available to the adult U.S. population through community centers, it may be a suitable and
      accessible option for African Americans with SLE, even though it is not specifically tailored
      to SLE or to African Americans. As the CDSMP has been primarily evaluated in predominantly
      white middle-class seniors with more common diseases (e.g. osteoarthritis, diabetes), the
      effectiveness of the CDSMP in helping African American women to self-manage SLE is unknown.

      This study will examine the effectiveness of the CDSMP to improve patient-reported outcomes
      and reduce health care utilization in African American women with lupus. Using a two-group
      longitudinal cohort design with participants sampled from a parent population-based SLE
      cohort in Georgia, investigators will examine behaviors, health and healthcare outcomes, and
      the extent to which individual characteristics modify the effectiveness of the CDSMP.

      The Georgians Organized Against Lupus (GOAL), a longitudinal cohort of patients with a
      validated diagnosis of SLE, will be used to enroll participants into the intervention. A
      random sample of African American women with SLE selected from the parent GOAL cohort will be
      recruited into the WELL (Women Empowered to Live with Lupus) cohort. WELL participants will
      attend the CDSMP classes in the community, along with people with other chronic illnesses.
      WELL participants will be asked to attend the CDSMP in the community and answer
      questionnaires at 4 select time periods before and after the program. Investigators will
      follow participant's progress for up to 18 months after they attend the CDSMP.

      African American women from the GOAL cohort non-selected to be assigned to the intervention
      will comprise the usual care group. Participants will continue their longitudinal assessments
      as part of the GOAL cohort data collection efforts. Changes in outcomes for up to 18 months
      will be compared between WELL participants and the usual care group.
    
  