
    
      Telemedicine is a modern field of clinical medicine that strives to incorporate
      telecommunication and information technology for diagnosing and managing health care at a
      distance. Interventions range from telephone reminders to remote physician consultation by
      streamed by webcam. Simple technology such as telephone and SMS texting are becoming common
      forms of communication and may improve patient adherence and engagement. Automated telephone
      appointment reminders have improved adherence with follow-up appointments in some settings,
      but have mixed results in patients discharged from the emergency department (ED). Increasing
      adherence to follow-up care has been a priority in the ED to improve patient outcomes and
      reduce unnecessary future visits.

      An electronic intervention platform has been developed by Epharmix (now HealthSignal), uses
      SMS text messaging for adherence tracking and data collection applications, to supplement
      clinical care. Specific messages include: proactively asking patients or a designated patient
      advocate if the patient has experienced a medical event; requesting specific care-related
      information; and providing health care education. Patients receiving the messages are also
      provided with key contact information for their designated health care provider to promote
      patient engagement, as well as prompt and appropriate medical follow-up care. The service
      will maintain both a dedicated SMS and phone line for recording events or adverse reactions.
      Events designated as critical prompt a phone call from nursing staff. Overall, this study
      aims to determine whether an electronic intervention system that sends SMS text messages will
      improve adherence to follow-up appointments after an ED visit.

      Patients age 18 years or older at Barnes Jewish Hospital are included in this study. We
      conducted a prospective randomized open, blinded end-point (PROBE) trial of 278 adult
      patients discharged from the ED and referred to a provider for follow-up care. Participants
      in the intervention arm received a self-scheduling text or phone message using the Epharmix
      (now HealthSignal) platform that connected them to their referral provider to schedule a
      follow-up appointment and sent them appointment reminders. Those in the control arm received
      standard-of-care written instructions to contact listed referral providers. The primary
      outcome was time to appointment. The secondary outcome was time to return visit to the ED.
    
  