
    
      Considering the low cost, benefits and applicability of auriculotherapy in the integral care
      of the individual, as well as the remaining gap regarding studies involving the practice of
      auriculotherapy in obese patients with a representative sample, this study will be conducted
      with The objective of this study was to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of auriculotherapy
      associated with dietary education in reducing weight in obese patients.

      The study will be performed at the nutrition laboratory III of the University of Pernambuco
      (UPE) Petrolina campus, with users previously diagnosed with obesity. This is a simple-blind
      Randomized Clinical Trial, with 3 groups: control group (will receive individualized dietary
      plan - alimentary reeducation and micropore containing a point made with a black gel pen that
      will be placed in the ear); auriculotherapy group (will receive individualized diet plan -
      diet reeducation and auricular therapy method with strategic points for obesity) and placebo
      group (will receive individualized diet plan - diet reeducation and sham points, points not
      indicative for the proposed treatment).

      Will be included in the study all adult patients of both sexes in the age of 20 years
      complete for 44 incomplete years, who meet the eligibility criteria.

      - Inclusion criteria: All adult patients seeking treatment for weight loss in August 2019 at
      the UPE and who agree to participate in the study by signing the Informed Consent Form (ICF).
      - Exclusion criteria: Pregnant women, patients who are treated with obesity secondary to some
      pathology and need previous treatment for hormonal control, or have not properly completed or
      signed the informed consent form.

      The sample size was estimated by the EPI INFO software, version 3.5.1. For the calculation it
      was considered that 20% of adults are obese and 30% have adequate nutritional status,
      assuming a relative risk of 1.5 to be obese, for a significance level of 95% (1-alpha) and a
      power value. 80% (1-alpha) with the ratio of unexposed / exposed being 1: 1. . The estimated
      value of the sample was 36 adults in each group, and the total sample 108, adding 10% in each
      group to compensate for any losses, resulted in a final sample of 120 individuals, with no 40
      participants per group.

      Randomization will be performed near the beginning of the intervention by a researcher not
      involved in the study using the Epitable application's random number table from the EPI-INFO
      software. The codes that will define which group the recruited obese patients (Control group,
      auriculotherapy or placebo) will belong to will be placed in opaque envelopes and sealed by
      one of the researchers who will not be involved in opening them, and upon recruitment, will
      be opened by the research assistant, who will register the patients, following the sequence
      of the drawn envelopes.

      :
    
  