
    
      Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) is a transdiagnostic approach, with empirical support
      in adapting to several chronic health conditions, such as chronic pain (CP), and its main
      purpose is to improve functioning and decrease interference of pain with valued life goals.
      Although the American Psychological Association (APA) has stated ACT as having empirical
      support in CP (http://www.div12.org/PsychologicalTreatments/treatments/chronicpain_act.html),
      with several studies showing its efficacy, there is still room for improvement. This might be
      attained by adding theoretically compatible components such as self-compassion. Although ACT
      has recently incorporated self-compassion as one of its outcomes, this has not been
      considered in any ACT intervention study for CP. Compassion-based approaches has been
      effective in targeting self-criticism, and has been effective in reducing a large array of
      psychopathological symptoms that are also common in CP (e.g. depression and anxiety). The
      current study aims to test the adding value of explicit self-compassion exercises in an ACT
      group intervention for CP.

      General study design Participants previously diagnosed with CP by a physician will be
      assigned into two different conditions/groups: a group intervention for CP that includes
      explicit self-compassion exercises (COMP.ACT); and a group intervention that does not include
      explicit self-compassion exercises (ACT). The efficacy of COMP.ACT will be assessed by
      comparing it with the ACT condition.

      Sample This study aims to focus on musculoskeletal CP as it is the most common cause of CP.
      Also, the study will recruit women with CP. Patients will be provided a study description, a
      consent form and the research team contact for further clarifications.

      The COMP.ACT protocol has the following goals: (a) promote engagement in meaningful and
      effective activities, even with pain and distress, (b) improving present-focused awareness
      and acceptance of thoughts, feelings, and physiological sensations; (c) developing a
      self-compassion stance towards personal difficulties, and (d) promote commitment and
      engagement with valued actions.
    
  