
    
      Cyst burden is an important determinant of outcomes in both autosomal dominant polycystic
      kidney disease (ADPKD) (1, 2) and autosomal dominant polycystic liver disease (ADPLD) (3, 4).
      Furthermore, mass symptoms (from liver and kidney volume) greatly impact upon quality of life
      in patients with severe disease. Cyst volume increases exponentially with age and results in
      the development of end-stage renal disease and hypertension, compromised quality of life due
      to compressive symptoms, and predisposes patients to cyst complications such as infection,
      hemorrhage, rupture, and torsion. Existing percutaneous treatments for cyst burden in ADPKD
      and ADPLD include cyst aspiration with or without sclerotherapy. Although frequently
      effective in the short-term, recurrence rates and the need for repeat procedures are high
      after these procedures (5, 6). Extrarenal disease (primarily liver disease) is the most
      important aspect of disease burden to ADPKD patients (7), and there are few effective
      treatments.

      Foam sclerotherapy (FS) with 3% Sodium Tetradecyl Sulfate (STS) a sclerosing agent.
      (Sotradecol®; Mylan, Galway, Ireland) is approved by the FDA for the management of varicose
      veins. While increasing cyst burden significantly compromises quality of life, the impact of
      FS on patient-reported outcomes has not been evaluated. In collaboration with the Center for
      Science of Healthcare delivery, we have developed a patient-reported outcome tool for
      polycystic liver disease capable of detecting symptom burden in individuals with polycystic
      liver disease that has been approved by the FDA as a patient-reported outcomes tool in
      research. Furthermore measurement of liver and kidney volumes can be performed in the
      Polycystic Kidney Disease Imaging Research Core that monitors organ volumes before and after
      interventions. At this time, patients are interested in procedures that will alleviate and
      palliate their mass symptoms but desire preliminary information on the procedural efficacy.
      We aim to report our experience with a new therapeutic advance - FS for the treatment of
      liver and kidney cysts at Mayo Clinic - and to determine the impact of this procedure on
      patient-reported quality of life measures and changes in organ volumes.
    
  