
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune, chronic, progressive, systemic inflammatory
      disease leading to substantial pain, disability, and other morbidities. In Denmark there are
      40.000 patients with RA. In RA, synovitis, effusion, eventually erosive arthritis, bone loss
      and weakening of the muscle and tendon apparatus are thought to cause clinically recognizable
      valgus heel or pes planovalgus deformity. These symptoms gradually cause irreversible joint
      deformities and changes in the locomotion of muscles3. Over 85% of patients with RA
      experience painful feet and ankles during the course of the disease. Despite medical
      developments, foot orthotics (FO) are still an important adjunct treatment and are often
      prescribed with the intention to stabilize and align the foot. This is due to a number of
      reasons: 1) persistent foot and ankle problems still occuring even after clinical remission
      is reached. 2) patients with increased disease activity may have mechanical foot impairments
      that need treatment in conjunction with systemic management. and 3) patients, who have not
      responded to or are ineligible for biologic agents, continue to have active foot impairments.
      However, the scientific research literature within FO treatment has lagged behind clinical
      practice, often leading the clinician to recommend interventions based on opinion and past
      experience rather than published evidence9.

      Production of FO is an enormous industry. Consequently, there is a great variety of products
      with different materials, design, manufacturing techniques and procedures. In the literature,
      some FO have been shown to reduce pain however there is a considerable amount for which the
      studies are either inconclusive or refute the effect of FO. This might be due to differences
      in methodology, sparse description of the orthotics and limited information on patient's
      disease type and stage. However, multidisciplinary studies are still limited and it is,
      therefore, too early to come up with guidelines about how these interventions affect the
      human body mechanically from current knowledge. Previous studies have primarily focused on
      how foot orthotics affect pain, foot function, walking speed, forefoot plantar pressure and
      gait parameters, while not considering the mechanical principles on which the rationales for
      FO were originally based. This has led to an abundance of clinical trials that are
      challenging to interpret, as FO clinical outcomes and FO gait mechanics have not been studied
      together.
    
  