
    
      This will be an operational research study using:

        -  a before and after cross-sectional design to assess the impact of decentralizing an
           innovative childhood TB diagnostic approach

        -  a cross-sectional and nested cohort design to compare two different decentralization
           strategies at DH and PHC levels.

        -  quantitative and qualitative methods The intervention will be at two levels: at patient
           care level where an innovative childhood TB diagnostic approach will be implemented, and
           at health systems level where two distinct decentralization strategies will be
           implemented. The patient care level TB diagnostic approach consists of systematic TB
           screening, clinical evaluation, NPA and stool or sputum testing using Xpert Ultra, and
           optimised CXR reading. The two decentralization strategies are the DH-focused and the
           PHC-focused implementation of the innovative childhood TB diagnostic approach. Two
           districts per participating countries will be randomly assigned to implement the DH or
           PHC-focused strategies.

      The study will also include a nested cohort at both the DH and PHC during the intervention
      phase for a selected sub-set of children with presumptive TB and all children with a
      diagnosis of TB that consent to participate. This prospective cohort will enable to further
      document study endpoints related to follow up (TB treatment outcome) and to document TB
      diagnosis by assessing spontaneous resolution or resolution under TB treatment.

      The study will comprise an observation phase followed by an intervention phase in
      participating districts. During the last month of the observation phase, each district will
      be randomly assigned to implement either DH or PHC-focused decentralisation. There will be no
      patient level randomisation.

      During this 3-month observation phase, the study will 1) describe the childhood TB diagnosis
      data and practices; 2) describe the referral processes and outcomes of referrals for TB
      diagnosis and treatment where feasible and 3) assess existing challenges in childhood TB
      diagnosis and treatment, as well as readiness (including potential challenges) for the study
      intervention implementation There will be no interference with the routine TB childhood
      diagnosis processes.

      Mixed-methods (quantitative and qualitative) will be used including the collection of
      retrospective and prospective aggregated data by study nurses from facility registers, the
      implementation of a self-administered questionnaire among all healthcare workers (HCWs), the
      observation of consultations and care provided, and the conduct of individual interviews with
      HCWs and key informants.

      At the beginning of the intervention phase, a 3-months preparation period will set up the
      health facilities for decentralization by providing equipment, materials, and reagents,
      training health workers in childhood TB care, in NPA and stool collection and testing on
      Ultra, setting up G1 (Edge) at PHC or G4 at DH if not already available and digital CXR and
      CXR quality control. Existing health care workers will be trained in childhood TB care
      according to the National Tuberculosis Program (NTP) guidelines, and also in NPA and stool
      collection and testing on Ultra for study purposes.

      Implementation of the innovative childhood TB diagnostic approach at the selected DH and PHC
      will start as soon as sites are equipped and HCWs trained in childhood TB care and NPA and
      stool collection, and will implement continued capacity building at sites, regular clinical
      mentoring visits with NTP or their representative, and continued CXR quality control.

      The 6-month prospective cohort follow-up study will be initiated immediately and will
      consecutively include every tenth child with presumptive TB and all children diagnosed with
      TB.

      Individual data collection will be initiated as soon as the innovative childhood TB
      diagnostic approach including NPA and stool sample collection and Ultra testing is
      implemented in the site and will be conducted throughout the intervention phase to document
      secondary endpoints. Aggregated data for TB screening will be collected throughout the study.

      Feasibility, acceptability, and compliance to the intervention protocol will be assessed by
      mixed methods including a repeat self-administered questionnaire among all HCWs, observations
      of consultations and care provided, and individual interviews with HCWs, National TB program
      & local health authorities representatives, and beneficiaries. i.e. parents/guardians.
    
  