
    
      Over 240,000 Veterans with disabilities use mobility devices such as manual and power
      wheelchairs and scooters, and this number continues to grow. Mobility devices have been
      described as the most enabling technology a clinician can provide to a person with a
      disability. Appropriate mobility devices improve function, independence, home and community
      integration; activity and participation; comfort; and quality of life. Yet, battery-powered
      mobility devices (BPMDs) have many drawbacks. Despite advances in technology, batteries are
      still hazardous to humans and the environment, heavy (which limits transportability), and
      incompatible with wet or highly humid environments. Repairs to electrical systems and
      replacement of batteries are frequently needed. These are costly and result in being
      stranded, missing medical appointments, missing work or school, injury, increased pain, lower
      self-perceived health, skin breakdown, higher hospitalization rates, and reduced community
      participation. Surveys conducted by the VA Center on Wheelchairs and Associated
      Rehabilitation Engineering (WARE) identified alternative power sources as a top research
      priority of Veterans and providers.

      Compressed air is a power source that has many advantages over batteries, including safety to
      both humans and the environment, lighter weight, waterproof nature, and lack of any
      electrical components which can reduce the frequency of repairs. Two novel
      pneumatically-powered mobility devices (PPMDs), a scooter and wheelchair, were developed and
      tested for feasibility with 107 users. The devices were lighter and had sufficient driving
      range per charge for the average user. There were no safety or repair issues encountered in
      the 11-week field test. Filling air tanks was also much faster than charging a typical
      battery. With pilot funds, the investigators then built two new scooters and two new power
      wheelchairs with longer driving ranges. The investigators also developed a portable backup
      tank system that allows us to refill or replace the tanks easily in the community.

      The purpose of this study is to clinically evaluate the impact of PPMDs on Veterans living in
      long-term care facilities, and to obtain feedback from key stakeholders regarding the design
      and feasibility of use of PPMDs in long-term care. Long-term care was chosen because it is an
      ideal setting for technology that is water-proof (e.g., compatible with inclement weather,
      ease of cleaning, and resistant to incontinence and requires less maintenance and upkeep. In
      Phase 1 (Technical), the investigators will build 8 pneumatically-powered scooters, 8
      pneumatically-powered wheelchairs, 2 air filling stations with flow switches that measure air
      filling time, 20 dataloggers that will measure battery charging time, and 20 dataloggers that
      will monitor activity levels. Phase 2 (clinical evaluation) will comprise two aims. First,
      the investigators will enroll 50 Veterans into a cross-over trial in which they use a BPMD
      provided to them that is the same make and model as their own BPMD, and its PPMD counterpart
      in random order, each for 6 months. The investigators will compare pneumatically-powered and
      battery-powered scooters and wheelchairs with respect to functional mobility, satisfaction,
      psychosocial impact, "charging time," maintenance and repairs. The investigators hypothesize
      that Veterans will have higher levels of mobility, satisfaction, and psychosocial impact when
      using PPMDs compared to when using BPMDs. The investigators also hypothesize that PPMDs will
      be faster to "charge" and have fewer maintenance and repair issues than BPMDs. Second, the
      investigators will conduct qualitative interviews of the 50 participants in the clinical
      evaluation and an additional 54 key stakeholders involved in PPMD and BPMD use (e.g., family
      members/caregivers, clinicians, and technical support personnel). The investigators will
      assess patient, facility, VA healthcare system, and other factors that may be barriers or
      facilitators to use of PPMDs and identify modifiable factors that may further improve the
      design.

      Results of the proposed study will pave the way for potential adoption of this technology
      within the VA. Such adoption could have a direct and positive impact on Veterans' lives. This
      research has the potential for national impact on the wheelchair provision process and
      services within the VA.
    
  