
    
      The Tinnitus Retraining Therapy Trial (TRTT), funded by the National Institute of Deafness
      and Other Communication Disorders, is a multi-center randomized clinical trial testing the
      efficacy of tinnitus retraining therapy (TRT) versus standard-of-care (SC) treatment in
      individuals who have self-perceived intolerable tinnitus. TRT is a non-medical intervention
      that uses directive counseling (DC) and low-level sound therapy (ST) achieved through sound
      generators (SGs) to habituate the patient's associated negative emotional reactions
      (annoyance) to tinnitus, its perception (awareness) and, ultimately, its impact on the
      participant's life. Study participants will include active and retired military personnel of
      the U. S. Armed Forces and their dependents who suffer from severe tinnitus. The study will
      be conducted at flagship Air Force, and Navy Medical Centers.

      This trial will evaluate the efficacy of TRT and its components (DC and ST) versus the
      standard of care (SC) as administered in the military by comparing the efficacy of:

        -  (1) TRT (DC and ST achieved using conventional sound generators) versus SC;

        -  (2) TRT versus partial TRT (DC and placebo sound generators) to evaluate the separate
           effect of sound therapy, under the assumption that placebo noise generator will not
           provide any meaningful sound therapy beyond that found in SC;

        -  (3) partial TRT versus SC to evaluate the separate effect of DC.

      Eligibility will be determined at the Baseline Eligibility Visit, which will consist of a
      medical and tinnitus history, physical examination, and baseline
      audiological/tinnitus/hyperacusis evaluation. Study participants will also complete a series
      of quality of life and psychological profile tests. Study Audiologists will administer the
      randomly assigned treatment. Follow-up visits at Clinical Centers will take place at 3, 6,
      12, and 18 months and include completion of tinnitus outcome questionnaires at all visits.
      Psychometric testing and audiological/tinnitus/hyperacusis evaluation will take place at the
      6, 12, and 18 month visits. Evaluation of audiometric pure tone and loudness discomfort level
      also will take place at treatment visits.

      The primary outcome to be measured in the TRTT will be change in scores on the Tinnitus
      Questionnaire (TQ) longitudinally assessed between baseline and follow-up (i.e., at 3, 6, 12
      and 18 months following treatment). Secondary outcomes include changes in the sub-scales of
      the TQ, change in scores from the Tinnitus Handicap Inventory (THI), Tinnitus Functional
      Index (TFI), Hearing Handicap Inventory (HHI), and TRT visual analogue scales, and change in
      the Digit Symbol Substitution Test (DSST). Psychometric secondary outcomes also include
      change in psychoacoustic variables related to the tinnitus sensation, including tinnitus
      pitch and loudness match, and loudness discomfort level.

      The TRTT is designed to have sufficient power to detect a minimal clinically important
      difference in the Tinnitus Questionnaire (TQ) i.e., a 10 point difference between TRT and SC
      groups on change in TQ global scores longitudinally assessed over the course of follow-up and
      a 7-point difference on TQ score by TRT components, DC and ST.
    
  