
    
      BACKGROUND Breastfeeding infants receiving respiratory support (nCPAP or HHFNC) is a
      controversial topic. Expert consensus has been that feeding should be delayed until
      respiratory support (including nCPAP or HHFNC) is no longer needed. Data from animal models
      suggests that nasal CPAP can affect swallowing behaviour in infant animals but the magnitude
      and clinical significance of any effect is unclear even in animals. Studies in adults are
      also lacking but some have shown that swallowing can be impaired during CPAP therapy. There
      is no research into whether HHFNC has similar effects in any of the above populations. There
      is currently no published data on the safety or efficacy of breastfeeding infants receiving
      respiratory support via nasal CPAP or HHFNC.

      nCPAP is a key intervention in the current care of many babies as it is the preferred mode of
      non-invasive respiratory support and compared to conventional mechanical ventilation it has
      been shown to reduce the incidence of bronchopulmonary dysplasia . HHFNC oxygen has emerged
      as another method of respiratory support. It has been shown that it is non-inferior to nCPAP
      following extubation although it is clear that the mechanics of flow delivery differ from
      nCPAP. There is some evidence that HHFNC use is associated with a reduction in some adverse
      effects when compared with nCPAP, such as nasal trauma.

      Some infants, especially infants born very preterm, spend prolonged periods on nasal CPAP or
      HHFNC. Normal oral feeding is often delayed in these children because respiratory support is
      needed. It has been shown that premature infants can show breastfeeding cues from a very
      early stage and if infants are given the opportunity breastfeeding can be well established.
      Recent studies have shown that early introduction of oral feeding in preterm neonates is not
      associated with adverse outcomes and leads to earlier establishment of full oral feeding and
      discharge home.

      RATIONALE FOR CURRENT STUDY There is uncertainty surrounding the safety of breastfeeding
      babies on nasal nCPAP or HHFNC. There is great disparity in clinical practice between
      neonatal units. At our department babies on respiratory support have traditionally been
      offered the chance to breastfeed. Local experience is that this is not associated with
      adverse events. When compared to other units internationally (as part of the Vermont-Oxford
      Network of neonatal units) our unit does not have an excess of complications due to this
      practice.

      Establishing the safety of breastfeeding whilst receiving nCPAP or HHFNC will provide
      clinicians with the information necessary to decide when breastfeeding should be attempted in
      infants needing ongoing respiratory support.

      In addition the study team want to use this opportunity to establish the feasibility of
      future studies. If breastfeeding on nCPAP and HHFNC is safe the study team want to prepare
      for further investigation in this field looking at:

        -  Whether infants being breastfed on nCPAP and HHFNC can show progression from immature to
           mature feeding behaviours and if this ultimately leads to earlier establishment of full
           oral feeding.

        -  What impact being breastfed on nCPAP or HHFNC has on the parents of these babies. If
           breastfeeding on nCPAP and HHFNC help bonding this would be another important factor to
           consider.

        -  To prepare to compare HHFNC and nCPAP to see if the effects they have on breastfeeding
           differ. If nCPAP or HHFNC is superior to the other this may affect clinician decision on
           which to use.

      Clarity in this field will enable clinicians to make safe decisions about when infants
      receiving respiratory support should be allowed to breastfeed aiding delivery of optimal
      care.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES The primary objective of this prospective observational study is to test the
      hypothesis that breastfeeding infants undergoing nCPAP or HHFNC is safe.

      The secondary objective is to test the feasibility of future studies:

        -  To investigate the feasibility of testing the hypothesis that breastfeeding preterm
           infants while treated with nCPAP or HHFNC leads to faster establishment of full enteral
           feeds as this could allow patients to benefit from earlier discharge home. This study
           will show whether the methods used are acceptable to parents and capture the outcome
           data required. Data gathered will give information on the standard deviation of outcomes
           to enable accurate sample size calculation.

        -  To investigate the feasibility of assessing parental perception of breastfeeding babies
           receiving respiratory support and the effect it has on bonding. Questionnaire responses
           and feedback from parents will be reviewed to investigate their feeidng issues and
           concerns.

        -  To investigate the feasibility of comparing nCPAP and HHFNC to evaluate whether they
           have different effects breastfeeding for infants.

      STUDY DESIGN Prospective, observational, single centre safety study. Recruitment will occur
      over a one-year period. Parents will initially be approached by members of the healthcare
      team. With their consent they will then be contacted by a member of the BIRRST team and
      informed about the details of the study. Written consent from the parents must be obtained in
      order to include a patient. It will be explained to parents that it is common practise to
      offer infants to be breast fed while still on respiratory support in this unit.

      No change will be made to the management of babies enrolled in this study. Babies will be
      observed during feeding episodes but the timing of these feeds, whether a baby will be fed by
      breastfeeding or NGT and all details relating to how a feed is administered are decisions
      that will be made by the nursing team looking after a baby (in conjunction with the baby's
      parents). The study team will have no influence or say in these decisions and will just
      observe standard practice for this unit.

      50 infants will be recruited, 25 infants treated with nCPAP and 25 infants treated with HHFNC
      while breast feeding attempts are made. Each child is estimated to have between 4 and 6
      observations. There will be no crossover between the respiratory support modalities. Infants
      without any respiratory support will no longer be eligible or included in the study.

      130 paired observations of breastfeeding and NGT feeding during nCPAP treatment will be made.
      In addition 130 paired observations of breastfeeding and NGT feeding while babies are on
      HHFNC will be made. Each infant will serve as its own control as feeding episodes will be
      paired so that a breastfeed and an NGT feed are both observed within a 12 hour period. This
      will minimise variation caused by changes in the infants' condition.

      It is unlikely that infants will be able to obtain sufficient volume of milk while learning
      to breastfeed and so after each breastfeeding attempt the babies will be offered a top-up via
      NGT to ensure they receive their required feed volume.

      Once a baby is enrolled in the study feeding episodes will be regularly observed (as is
      feasible with respect to staff availability and parental presence). If a baby is too unwell
      to be observed this will be documented.

      Prior to the observation the baby's stability during the preceding hour will be evaluated and
      recorded. During a feeding episode all infants will be directly observed for a 30 minute
      period during which they will either receive a breast feed with a subsequent NGT top up or
      solely an NGT feed. Subsequently the baby's stability over the following hour will be
      retrospectively assessed. All infants will receive continuous nCPAP or HHFNC throughout.

      During a feeding episode heart rate and oxygen saturation will be continuously monitored
      using pulse oximetry. Apnoea monitors will be used to assess episodes of apnoea. Axillary
      temperature will be assessed at the beginning and end of the feeding episode. The oxygen
      requirement will be measured from the CPAP/HHFNC machine.

      The stability of the neonate during each feeding episode will be compared with their
      stability over the preceding hour by reviewing the documented incidence of desaturations,
      bradycardias and apnoeas and the neonate's temperature on their observation chart.

      Quality of breastfeeding will be assessed using videos of breastfeeding episodes. These
      videos will be reviewed by trained assessors (Speech and Language Therapists with an interest
      in lactation from Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust) who will use the PIBBS tool to
      assess the quality of feeding. They will look for feeding behaviours to assess the maturity
      of feeding.

      Serial feeding episodes will be compared to assess whether there is a progression from more
      immature to mature feeding as the babies have breastfeeding opportunities on CPAP or HHFNC.
      This data will be used to assess whether future studies in this area to explore how feeding
      behaviours progress would be beneficial.

      It will also be recorded at what corrected gestational age/actual age these babies establish
      oral feeding; how they are fed at discharge (breast or bottle) and what milk they are
      discharged home on. This data will allow planning of future studies to assess whether early
      attempts at breastfeeding whilst receiving CPAP or HHFNC help the establishment of full
      breastfeeding.

      The parental perception of feeding with respiratory support will be assessed using a parental
      questionnaire. This will use a visual analogue scale to assess whether parents feel that
      breastfeeding during respiratory support is beneficial to their infants overall care and what
      impact the feeding opportunities has had on their bonding with their baby. This data will be
      used to assess the feasibility of further studies in this area by establishing the parental
      tolerance of breastfeeding babies receiving respiratory support and developing a
      questionnaire that will effectively explore the parental experience.

      The data collected for nCPAP and HHFNC separately will be used to establish the sample size
      that will be required in future studies to compare the two modalities to see if there are
      significant differences between the two (in terms of safety, efficacy and parental
      tolerance).

      STATISTICS AND DATA ANALYSIS Analysis of the pilot study data suggested that desaturation was
      the most common adverse event associated with feeding during nCPAP or HHFNC treatment. The
      sample size has been calculated to show a significant difference based on the results from
      the pilot data.

      128 feeding episodes are required to get 80% power at the 5% significance level to find a
      difference in mean duration of desaturation episodes of 1.25 minutes, based on a standard
      deviation for changes in this outcome of 5 (taken from pilot data). This is felt to be a
      clinically significant increase in desaturation episodes over a 30 minute period.

      The feeding episodes may come from around 25 babies. As each baby acts as its own control
      (because each breastfeeding episode is paired with an episode of NGT feeding occurring within
      24 hours) the sample size is dependent on the number of feeding episodes observed, not the
      number of babies.

      Analysis: paired t-test of mean duration of desaturation. McNemar's test to compared paired
      proportions between groups.

      Data and all appropriate documentation will be stored for 5 years after the completion of the
      study, including the follow-up period.
    
  