
    
      A Prospective, single center, double blind, controlled randomized trial.

      Sample Size:

      Total of 60 patients divided into three groups:

      Group 1: 20 patients will be receiving bipolar RF at six points. Group 2: 20 patients will be
      receiving monopolar RF at six points. Group 3: 20 patients will be receiving monopolar RF at
      three points.

      Sampling technique:

      Patients will be randomly divided in three groups. There will be a box with 60 closed
      envelopes, divided randomly in to three groups with 20 envelops in each group. On arrival to
      theatre one of the envelops will be opened and the assigned method will be applied.

      Timeframe of the study:

      6-12 months

      Procedure:

      After fulfilling inclusion criteria and apart from the exclusion criteria, patients will do
      either one of the three procedures according to the randomization. All patients will do the
      procedure under fluoroscopic guidance with use of Cosman RF generator G4TM, 20 gauge straight
      sharp cannula, 10 cm shaft, 10 mm tip and 10 cm electrodes (Cosman autoclavable CSK-TC10).

      Group 1 ; Six RF needles will be put between the SIJ and the lateral aspects of the
      ipsilateral dorsal sacral foramina. After sensory and motor stimulation, bipolar lesion RF at
      80oc for 90 sec will be applied between each successive pairs of needles.

      Group 2; RF needle is inserted at six levels in the area between the SIJ and the lateral
      aspects of the ipsilateral dorsal sacral foramina. after sensory and motor stimulation,
      monopolar lesion RF at 80oc for 90 sec will be applied.

      Group 3; RF needle is inserted at six levels in the upper , middle and lower part of the area
      between the SIJ and the lateral aspects of the ipsilateral dorsal sacral foramina. after
      sensory and motor stimulation, monopolar lesion RF at 80oc for 90 sec will be applied.

      Patients will be evaluated by a specialized pain nurse after 2 weeks, one month, 3 months and
      6 months for pain score using the visual analogue pain scale.

      Overall patient satisfaction with pain relief will be evaluated.
    
  