
    
      BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE

      The usual care in the United States for abscess management is generally incision and
      drainage. There have been various techniques described for incision and drainage: 1. incision
      and drainage followed by healing by secondary intention, 2. Incision and drainage followed by
      primary closure, and 3. Loop drainage (more recently, the topic of this study) with
      subsequent loop removal and healing by secondary intention. The treatment failure rate for
      traditional incision and drainage is variable, but can range from 10-30%. Costs associated
      with treatment failure are between $1,000 and $2,0005. The relatively high failure rate
      associated with traditional incision and drainage has led to research into less invasive,
      more effective techniques. In 2010, the loop drainage technique was first described. This
      technique consists of making 2 small incisions on either end of the abscess cavity followed
      by pulling a small drain through the incisions and then tying the drain in place. It remains
      in place and is removed once no further drainage is noticed (usually in 10-14 days). Original
      studies were primarily done by pediatric surgeons using vessel loops or penrose drains.

      In 2014, the concept of using the cuff from the bottom of a sterile glove was introduced.
      This allows for this technique to easily be used with materials found easily in any emergency
      department. The amount of research done with this technique on adults is limited. To date,
      only two studies with a total of 109 patients evaluated loop drainage in adults. One of these
      studies was retrospective and included only 63 patients. The other prospective study was
      limited in that it included only 46 patients. Given the demonstration of increased clinical
      cure rate in pediatric populations and the potential for increased clinical cure rates in
      adults, more study into this topic is worthwhile to determine the optimal approach to adult
      subcutaneous abscess drainage.

      STUDY DESCRIPTION

      This study will be a pilot study and multi-center prospective randomized controlled trial
      evaluating loop drainage compared to conventional incision and drainage in adults older than
      18 who have simple, purulent, cutaneous abscesses deemed amenable to outpatient incision and
      drainage by the attending clinician.

      Study participants will be randomized to investigational vs control arm in a 1:1 ratio
      (Randomization will occur via blocked randomization in blocks of 10). Enrollment will occur
      primarily when investigators are on shift (convenience sampling). This study will not be
      blinded, however, observer bias will be reduced by having an investigator blinded to
      treatment assignment determine the cosmetic healing rate at 90 days.

      Participants will receive drainage of their abscess (either conventional or loop). For
      conventional drainage, the wound will be incised with a #11 blade scalpel along the point of
      maximal fluctuance, approximately 2-3 cm, and then all loculations bluntly dissected with a
      set of Kelly clamps. After drainage of pus, the wound will be loosely packed with gauze.
      Afterwards, a dry dressing will be placed and the patient will be instructed to change the
      external dressing twice daily or every time it becomes saturated. Patients randomized to
      standard care will be instructed to remove the packing at 48 hours after incision and
      drainage.

      Loop drainage will occur via 2 small incisions, approximately 2 cm, with the cuff from the
      base of a sterile glove pulled through and then tied off3. The patient will be instructed to
      move this cuff back and forth three times daily and cover it with a dry dressing.

      Once the abscess drainage procedure is complete, the participant will complete a
      questionnaire asking about pain during procedure and satisfaction with the procedure. All
      participants will be discharged with a prescription trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX)
      160mg/800mg, two tablets by mouth twice daily for ten days. All participants will be
      instructed to return to the emergency department and contact the PI if they have any
      worsening signs of infection. Between 10 and 14 days after the initial procedure, patients
      will follow up in the emergency department for wound recheck. At this visit, the maximal
      diameter of both erythema and swelling will be measured, and a questionnaire will be
      administered regarding wound care satisfaction, repeat medical visits, fevers, and any side
      effects of either the procedure or antibiotic therapy. Loop participants will have the loop
      removed at the follow up visit. Participants will be called at 30 days for data collection on
      abscess recurrences. Patient will be asked to return for a wound recheck and submit a photo
      of the wound, to assess cosmetic appearance of wound at 90 days.
    
  