
    
      The project has two main aims:

        1. Aims of the cross-over study To assess the efficacy of intranasal OXT in reducing
           negative symptoms in patients with SZ (as evaluated with PANSS), in association with
           standard Second Generation Antipsychotics (SGA)treatment; recruited patients will be
           aged 18-45 years and will have a disorder duration of no longer than 10 years.

        2. Aims of the neuropsychological assessment To use an Emotional Priming Paradigm (EPP)
           task to assess pre- and post-treatment change in the patients general cognitive and
           emotional status.

      The investigators aim at treating a large sample size of patients with schizophrenia,
      consisting exclusively of patients with a limited disorder duration and rather young age, for
      a sufficiently long period of time. Our rationale for employing a longer treatment period
      than used in previous and on-going trials is to ascertain the possibility of a positive OXT
      dose-response relationship, which would be observable, however, with longer treatment
      exposure. Moreover, only patients with a disorder onset of 10 years or less will be enrolled.

      They will then be standardized in terms of AP treatment and randomized to OXT or placebo for
      8 months.

      OXT is a hormone that is naturally present in the human body, and recent studies have
      suggested that patients with SZ show low levels of this neuropeptide. It is therefore
      hypothesized that the treatment proposed in this project might balance apparently lower OXT
      levels in these patients.

      Finally, another innovative aspect of this project is the attention at ameliorating patients
      adherence to treatment by supporting them with a reminder program (automatic SMS will be sent
      every morning to remind patients the daily OXT self-administration) and involving a
      trustworthy caregiver who will be trained in OXT administration and will be asked to monitor
      the patient compliance by recording each self-administration on a written form.
    
  