
    
      This is a multi-center study taking place in the United States, and conducted at 3-4
      sites/locations. It is designed as an open, non-comparative study to test the safety and
      performance of Exufiber Ag+ and Exufiber in managing burn healing.

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the clinical safety and performance of all
      study dressings, separately, when used as intended in moderate to high exuding partial
      thickness burns (PTBs) through assessment of wound progression from baseline to the Subject's
      last clinical follow-up visit. The dressings are intended to promote healing through the
      management of the wound environment.

      Sixty-eight (68) subjects with partial thickness burns will be treated with either Exufiber
      Ag+ (34 subjects) or Exufiber (34 subjects) primary dressings, at the discretion of the
      Investigator. Secondary dressings should be non-adherent, non-antimicrobial dressings (local
      treatment praxis).

      Each Subject will be evaluated at five (5) planned study visits for a maximum total treatment
      period of up to 21 days, unless the burn heals.

      Visit 1 is a baseline visit to enroll Subjects and determine burn extent. Each Subject will
      be assigned to either Exufiber Ag+ or Exufiber primary dressings and treated according to the
      Instructions for Use (IFU) and the local clinical routine.

      Visit 2 is a Confirmation Visit at up to 3 days, where the Investigator will confirm the burn
      meets study eligibility, and has not progressed to a full-thickness burn.

      Visits 3, 4, and 5 are follow-up visits at days 7, 14, and 21, respectively, from the date of
      the primary dressing application.

      At each follow-up visit the Subject will return to the clinic for evaluation and primary
      dressing change. Wound progression will be determined by the Investigator at each study visit
      and measured by three outcome variables (Deteriorated, No Change, Improved). Images of the
      wound at each follow up visit will be analyzed to determine changes in wound size.

      Secondary endpoints will be collected identically at each visit at each clinical site to
      assess safety and performance of the dressings. The secondary objectives are:

        -  To evaluate time to discontinuation of study dressings from baseline to the last
           clinical follow-up visit, up to 21 days.

        -  To evaluate clinical outcomes of the study wound from baseline to the last clinical
           visit up to 21 days.

        -  To evaluate epithelization from baseline to the last clinical follow-up visit up to 21
           days based on digital photo imaging software measurements.

        -  To evaluate a change in wound size from baseline to the last clinical follow-up visit up
           to 21 days based on digital photo and imaging software measurements.

        -  To evaluate healing status, including exudate levels, infection status, and proportion
           of burn healed, by clinician's visual judgement, at Confirmation Visit (up to 72 hours)
           and at each clinic follow-up visit, up to 21 days.

        -  To evaluate Subject-reported pain at application, during wear, and at dressing changes
           through questionnaires at each clinic follow-up visit up to 21 days.

        -  To evaluate treatment and dressing selections, including type and quantity, at
           application and at each clinic follow-up visit up to 21 days.

        -  To evaluate clinician handling of the dressing at application and at every dressing
           change performed at the clinic, from baseline and at each follow-up visit up to 21 days.

        -  To evaluate clinician assessment of the dressing at application and at every dressing
           change performed at the clinic, from baseline and at each follow-up visit up to 21 days.
    
  