
    
      This is a randomized phase II, two arm, single-center study designed to compare the effect of
      LIV versus wait-list control on the clinical parameter of energetic capacity, or power
      generation, in patients with early stage breast cancer receiving aromatase inhibitor therapy
      over a 12-month period. The primary endpoint is the 12-month change in energetic capacity
      since baseline.

      Primary Objective To compare the effect of LIV delivered for 10 minutes twice daily for 12
      months on skeletal muscle function, in terms of energetic capacity measured by power
      generation on a stationary bicycle, among patients with early stage breast cancer planned to
      initiate aromatase inhibitor therapy who do not currently participate in regular exercise,
      compared to a wait- listed control

      Secondary Objectives

        1. To compare the effect of LIV versus wait-listed control upon muscle contractile
           properties including peak power, fatigue resistance, and recovery, measured by
           isokinetic knee extension

        2. To compare the effect of LIV versus wait- listed control upon body composition (lean
           mass, total adiposity) measured by DXA scan

        3. To compare the effect of LIV versus wait- listed control upon bone mineral density (T
           score) measured by DXA scan

        4. To compare the effect of LIV versus wait- listed control upon muscle adipose
           infiltration measured by muscle density on peripheral quantitative CT imaging of the
           proximal and distal tibia and radius

        5. To compare the effect of LIV versus wait-listed control on trabecular and cortical
           volumetric bone mineral density by high resolution peripheral quantitative CT of the
           distal and diaphyseal tibia and radius

        6. To compare the effect of LIV versus wait- listed control on serologic markers of bone
           turnover, including TGF-beta and NTX

        7. To compare the effect of LIV versus wait- listed controls upon patient reported outcome
           measures of fatigue (measured by the Basic Fatigue Inventory), muscle ache, and joint
           pain (measured by PRO-CTCAE)

        8. To describe the feasibility of LIV in this patient population, defined by patient
           compliance and follow up with the intervention
    
  