
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with extensive stage small
      cell lung cancer (ED-SCLC) treated with cisplatin/carboplatin and etoposide (CE) or CE with
      nivolumab (CEN) as front-line treatment.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate overall survival of patients with ED-SCLC treated with cisplatin/carboplatin
      and etoposide (CE) or CE with nivolumab (CEN) as front-line treatment.

      II. To assess best overall response rate after treatment with CE with or without nivolumab as
      first line treatment.

      III. To evaluate the toxicity profile of nivolumab with CE.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate immune biomarkers and biomarkers correlatives. II. To evaluate serial
      circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and explore whether clinical outcome is
      associated with fluctuations in DNA levels following the administration of therapy.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1, carboplatin IV
      over 30-60 minutes on day 1 or cisplatin IV over 60-120 minutes on day 1, and etoposide IV
      over 60-120 minutes on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients continue to receive
      nivolumab IV over 30 minutes every 2 weeks for up to 2 years.

      ARM B: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1 or cisplatin IV over
      60-120 minutes on day 1, and etoposide IV over 60-120 minutes on days 1-3. Treatment repeats
      every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months if the patient
      is less than 2 years from registration, every 6 months if the patient is 2-3 years from
      registration, and yearly for up to 5 years from study enrollment.
    
  