
    
      Antiplatelet therapy is the cornerstone in the management of patients with ACS. Aspirin
      interferes platelet aggregation activity by decreasing thromboxane synthesis through
      inhibition of cyclo-oxygenase (COX) enzymes. Low-dose (75-325mg/day) aspirin has been
      demonstrated to reduce the risk of cardio-and cerebro-vascular events by as much as 30%, and
      18% of all-cause mortality in the secondary prevention of cardiovascular diseases. However,
      aspirin is notorious for GI adverse effects because of inhibition of COX-mediated
      prostaglandin synthesis. Up to 60% of aspirin users develop GI mucosal lesions under
      endoscopic examination, especially stomach and duodenum. The risk of serious ulcer
      complications, including life-threatening bleeding and perforation, is two- to fourfold
      higher in patients taking low-dose aspirin than placebo. Clopidogrel, another antiplatelet
      agent, inhibits platelet function by blocking the adenosine diphosphate receptor on platelets
      rather than suppressing COX activity. The CAPRIE trial has shown that long-term clopidogrel
      monotherapy was more effective and better tolerated than aspirin in reducing combined risk of
      ischaemic stroke, myocardial infarction (MI), or vascular death. Clopidogrel seems to be
      associated with fewer GI adverse effects compared with aspirin. Nonetheless, an animal study
      revealed that clopidogrel impair the healing of gastric ulcers by suppressing the release of
      platelet-derived growth factors which are crucial for repair of mucosal defects. Clinical
      studies have also disclosed that 8-12% of clopidogrel users with a history of peptic ulcer
      bleeding develop recurrent GI bleeding within 12 months. A nationwide population-based study
      demonstrated that the use of clopidogrel increased the risk of UGI bleeding with hazard ratio
      (HR) of 3.66 [95% confidence interval (CI) 2.96-4.51], especially in elderly, chronic kidney
      disease (CKD), past history of peptic ulcer disease, and concomitant use of aspirin and
      nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). The combined use of aspirin and clopidogrel
      has become the mainstay therapy for patients who undergone percutaneous coronary intervention
      (PCI). The dual antiplatelet therapy has been shown to reduce the risk of death, MI and
      stroke as much as 27% in patients after PCI. Inevitably, GI bleeding is still a major
      complication of dual antiplatelet therapy in MI patients and is associated with longer
      hospital stay and higher mortality rates (18.5~44% vs. 2.4~13%). An investigation of 1,368 MI
      patients who underwent PCI has shown an incidence rate of in-hospital UGI bleeding about
      8.9%. In the CURE study, the overall incidence of bleeding complication was 8.5%, commonly
      occurring in GI tract (major GI tract bleeding incidence 1.3%). In patients under dual
      antiplatelet therapy, ACS carried a higher risk for UGI bleeding at early stage (≦2 weeks)
      with HR 2.67 (95%CI 1.33-5.34). GIB was strongly associated with 30-day all-cause mortality
      (hazard ratio [HR]: 4.87, p<0.0001), cardiac mortality (HR: 5.35, p<0.0001), and composite
      ischemia (HR: 1.94, p=0.014), as well as with 1-year all-cause mortality (HR: 3.97,
      p<0.0001), cardiac mortality (HR: 3.77, p<0.0001), MI (HR: 1.74, p=0.047), and composite
      ischemia (HR: 1.9, p=0.0001). Patients who experienced GIB had significantly higher rates of
      stent thrombosis compared with patients without GIB (5.8% vs. 2.4%, p=0.009). Therefore, how
      to deal with acute UGI bleeding in the setting of recent ACS is still challenging to
      gastroenterologists and cardiologists.

      Acute UGI bleeding remains a therapeutic challenge with significant morbidity and mortality.
      Pharmacological therapy with proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) and therapeutic endoscopy using
      various modalities have been clearly shown to significantly reduce re-bleeding, need for
      surgery and mortality of patients with acute UGI bleeding. Early endoscopy (within 24 hours)
      has been recommended for all medium to high risk patients with acute UGI bleeding. Early
      endoscopic intervention allows early diagnosis and early discharge of patients with low risk
      findings, provides endoscopic hemostasis, enables complete risk stratification of
      non-variceal bleeding, has resulted in less transfusion requirements and length of
      hospitalization. However, despite of many benefits from early endoscopy, no study has been
      able to demonstrate that this strategy leads to a reduction in mortality of acute UGI
      bleeding; this is probably due to that mortality from acute UGI bleeding is mainly determined
      by co-morbidity rather than control of hemorrhage. Moreover, endoscopy carries certain
      potential risk for complications, including cardiopulmonary events, infectious and
      thromboembolic events, bleeding, instrumental (perforation, penetration and impaction), and
      drug reaction.

      Whether early endoscopic intervention for hemostasis of UGI bleeding improves outcomes in
      patients with recent ACS is still debated. In patients with recent ACS, the safety and timing
      of endoscopy is not well known. Dynamic changes in infarct size may occur since the loss of
      viable myocardium is progressive after coronary artery occlusion during several hours. In
      addition, the infarcted region which itself is a critical determinant of remodeling,
      incidence of arrhythmias, sudden cardiac death and thus prognosis of ACS, may further expand
      or contract; moreover, normal collagen structure disappears during the first week even after
      the loss of viable myocardium has terminated. Therefore, endoscopy within the first week
      after MI seems to be associated with higher risk for cardiovascular events. Nonetheless, in
      several observational cohort and retrospective studies, endoscopy for post-ACS patients has
      been described as relatively acceptable with complication rates ranging from 1% to 48.4%,
      depending on the definition of complications, timing of endoscopy, and clinical condition of
      enrolled patients.A systemic review of literature has shown that overall complication rate of
      esophagogastroduodenoscopy after MI was about 1% to 8%, with a large predominance of minor
      complications. Women seem to experience more periprocedural myocardial ischemia than men (31%
      vs. 11%, p=.058),35 and ACS patients who are very ill (Acute Physiology and Chronic Health
      Evaluation [APACHE] II score ≧ 16) are more likely to develop endoscopic complications than
      those with relatively stable condition (APACHE II < 16) (21% vs. 2%). Another recent
      retrospective study has also revealed that patients with APACHE II scores >16 experienced
      more minor complications (chest pain, abnormal vital signs, or minor arrhythmias) than those
      with scores ≦15 (54.5% vs. 24.2%, p=.02). However, design of these studies is mostly
      retrospective or observational. Given the lack of guidelines and randomized control trials,
      gastroenterologists are always reluctant to perform early endoscopy for UGI bleeding in ACS
      patients in fear of potential risk of complications. In this study, investigators will
      evaluate the safety and efficacy of "early endoscopy" and "non-endoscopic treatment" for
      acute UGI bleeding in recent ACS patients.
    
  