
    
      This phase 1/2 study will evaluate the safety, pharmacokinetics, and anti-tumor activity of
      oral EGFR/HER2 Inhibitor TAK-788 in participants with NSCLC and anti-tumor activity of
      TAK-788 in participants with solid tumors other than NSCLC with EGFR or HER2 mutations. The
      trial will be conducted in three parts: a dose escalation (Part 1), including Part 1A (dose
      escalation combination component of TAK-788 in combination with Pemetrexed/Carboplatin) and
      expansion phase (Part 2), followed by an extension phase (Part 3).

      The objectives of the dose escalation phase (Part 1) and dose escalation combination phase
      (Part 1A, only for selected sites in the United States) are to determine the safety profile
      of orally administered TAK-788 and TAK-788 in combination with Pemetrexed/Carboplatin,
      including the MTD, DLTs, RP2D and pharmacokinetic profile. The primary goal of the expansion
      component of the trial is to evaluate the anti-tumor activity of TAK-788 in seven
      histologically and molecularly defined cohorts at the RP2D (determined based on dose
      escalation phase of the trial).

      The seven expansion cohorts will be:

        1. NSCLC participants with EGFR exon 20 activating insertions, who have either not received
           or not shown an objective response to an EGFR TKI, and who have no active, measurable
           CNS metastases;

        2. NSCLC participants with HER2 exon 20 activating insertions or point mutations and no
           active, measurable CNS metastases;

        3. NSCLC participants with EGFR exon 20 activating insertions or HER2 exon 20 activating
           insertions or point mutations and active, measurable CNS metastases;

        4. NSCLC participants with other targets against which TAK-788 is active (examples include
           EGFR exon 19 deletions or exon 21 substitutions [with or without T790M mutations] and
           other uncommon EGFR activating mutations), without active CNS metastases;

        5. NSCLC participants with EGFR exon 20 activating insertions, who have previously shown an
           objective response to an EGFR TKI and subsequently progressed, without active CNS
           metastases;

        6. NSCLC participants with EGFR exon 20 activating insertions, who have not received prior
           systemic anticancer treatment for locally advanced or metastatic disease, without active
           CNS metastases; and

        7. Participants with solid tumors other than NSCLC with EGFR/HER2 mutations against which
           TAK-788 is active, without active CNS metastases.

      The extension phase will evaluate efficacy of TAK-788 in participants with locally advanced
      or metastatic NSCLC whose tumors harbor EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations and who have been
      previously treated. The study will enroll approximately 331 participants.
    
  