
    
      Research Question 1:

      How central are different sources of information used to obtain knowledge about the COVID-19
      pandemic in network along with depressive and anxiety symptoms? Which sources of information
      are most strongly connected to different symptoms of depression and anxiety?

      Staying away from information will be measured in the present study. As avoidance is a type
      of safety behavior in anxiety disorders, the investigators are further eager to investigate
      the centrality of this behavior in the network. Furthermore, multiple studies using
      latent-variable paradigms have established a relationship between sum-scores of depression
      and social anxiety use in general. The investigators are further interested in examining this
      potential link more thoroughly and detailed in the present network study. The findings of
      this study, although they will be cross-sectional and require further examination in studies
      with temporal data structure, will be an important and interesting starting point giving
      initial ideas about potential mechanisms that may be involved in use of information sources
      in pandemics and mental health.

      Statistical analysis:

      The estimated network will consist of 23 items (9: PHQ-9; 7: GAD-7; 7: information sources to
      obtain information about COVID-19). The network will be estimated using the R package qgraph
      (Epskamp et al., 2012). Network stability and accuracy tests will be conducted using R
      package bootnet (Epskamp, et al., 2018). An undirected partial correlation network will be
      estimated, resulting in associations between each pair of symptoms controlling for all other
      associations among symptoms. Centrality indices will be reported. The appropriate correlation
      method will be applied following an assessment of the data (e.g., with regards to possible
      skewness).

      The network will further be regularized using Graphical Least Absolute Shrinkage and
      Selection Operator (GLASSO), with Extended Bayes Information Criterion (EBIC). The tuning
      parameter will be set to 0.5, as is recommended practice. Centrality table and plots will be
      depicted, and difference test of edges conducted.

      Additionally, the investigators will investigate differences in network structure across
      major demographic subgroups in the sample (e.g., gender). All analyses and questions
      addressed in the forthcoming paper that are not pre-specified in this pre-registered protocol
      will be defined as exploratory.

      The sources of information include: 1) National television and radio channels; 2) national
      and regional, and local newspapers; 3) Use of social media for information; 4) use of blogs,
      podcasts, forums or other Internet sources; 5) information obtained from peers (i.e., friends
      and family); 6) Other sources of information; 7) actively staying away from information.

      Inference criteria:

      p < 0.05 to determine significance.

      Sample size and power calculation:

      Following power analysis guidelines by Fried & Cramer (2017), it is recommended that the
      number of participants are three times larger than the number of estimated parameters.
      However, more conservative recommendations by Roscoe (1975) for multivariate research,
      recommends sample size that is ten times larger than the number of estimated parameters. The
      network to be constructed for this study consists of 7 anxiety items (GAD-7), 9 depression
      symptom items (PHQ-9), and the 7 pre-specified items above concerning medium of information
      and extent of use. Consequently, the network consists of 23 items. 23x(23-1)/2 x 3 = at least
      759 participants (according to guidelines by Fried & Cramer, 2017). Thus, following these two
      approaches respectively, between 759 to 2530 participants are required. Data will be
      collected for three weeks, and participants are based on a representative sample of Norwegian
      adults with equal opportunity to partake in the study following providing digital consent.

      Missing data:

      The TSD system (Services for Sensitive Data), a platform used in Norway to store
      person-sensitive data verifies participants officially through a kind of national ID number
      to give them full right to withdraw their data at any time, following the European GDPR
      (General Data Protection Regulation) laws. Accordingly, participants are allowed to withdraw
      their own data at any time. The survey includes mandatory fields of response. Participation
      is voluntarily, and withdrawal of any provided data is possible at any moment. The
      investigators do not expect participants to withdraw their data and thus expect no missing
      data. However, if participants do withdraw their data, the investigators will conduct
      state-of-art missing data analysis and investigate whether data is missing at random.
    
  