
    
      The research team as well and principal investigator will identify and verify patient
      eligibility. Patients who are unable to speak or converse via sign language will be excluded.
      All participants will need to provide informed written consent.

      For recruitment and informed consent, the expected benefits, risks, and uncertainties will be
      discussed with participants and their families. Participants will be offered enrollment in
      either the randomized trial or a concurrent observational cohort, which may be more feasible
      for families who live further away and have alternative insurance plans (Kaiser). The results
      of the concurrent observational cohort can be reported at a later time.

      Enrollment will begin in April 2015 and end in April 2016. This is to ensure that patients
      who may miss an appointment can still be recruited in the following months.

      Baseline variables will be collected prior to randomization including questionnaire and
      baseline characteristics such as age, creatinine, weight, height, BMI, urine
      protein-to-creatinine ratio, donor specific antibody levels, and blood pressure will be
      recorded. Blood draws will be done per standard of care only and blood samples will not be
      stored for research purposes. Computer-generated random treatment assignments will be made
      based on permuted blocks (randomly generated blocks of 3).

      The experimental arm will have all participants attend monthly renal transplant adolescent
      clinic where the participant will undergo a 25-question baseline questionnaire focusing on
      the participant's current knowledge of own medical condition, medications, medication dosage,
      insurance coverage, daily fluid goal, blood pressure goal, voiding schedule, etc.

      During each clinic visit, the participant will take the questionnaire and review results with
      the transplant/research coordinator. The transplant/research coordinator will also assist the
      participant in updating medication list, medication schedule, lab schedule, clinic
      appointment schedule, pharmacy refill schedule etc. using an electronic device with
      downloadable mobile apps. The included apps will be MyFitnessPal, a calorie counter and
      exercise tracker, Blood Pressure Lite (Codulis) for blood pressure recording, and Med Coach
      (GreatCall, Inc), providing medication and appointment reminders. If the participant already
      has a personal i-Phone, the study coordinator will assist the participant add schedules to
      the calendar and help set alarms and reminders. The research coordinator will also help
      download free mobile apps that will log BP, fluid intake, caloric intake, and exercise
      duration. If the participant does not have an i-Phone, an i-Pad Mini will be provided and the
      transplant coordinator will assist with all that as stated above. The participant will be
      seen by a nephrologist, social worker, and psychologist.

      The non-technological group participants will also attend monthly renal transplant adolescent
      clinic where he/she will undergo the same 25-question baseline questionnaire. During each
      clinic visit, the participant will take the questionnaire and review results with the
      research coordinator. The transplant coordinator will also assist the participant in updating
      medication list, medication schedule, lab schedule, clinic appointment schedule, pharmacy
      refill schedule etc. using paper calendar and pre-printed paper logs per the routine care
      protocol. The participant will also be seen by a nephrologist, social worker, and
      psychologist.

      The primary measure is performance on monthly medical knowledge questionnaire, used as a
      surrogate marker for readiness to transition to adult care. Secondary measures include
      medication adherence measured by immunosuppression target drug levels, clinic and laboratory
      no-show rates, markers of graft function measured by blood pressure readings, BMI, creatinine
      clearance, urine protein-to-creatinine ratio, and episodes of rejections measured by donor
      specific antibodies, and pathologic findings of allograft biopsy. The study will end after
      the one year follow up period is completed. As the paper-based strategy is to function as a
      control, the investigators do not anticipate an early termination to the study, particularly
      since both groups provide more intervention than the current standard of care.
    
  