
    
      This is a randomized study. A randomized study means you will be assigned by chance (like the
      toss of a coin) to one of four groups and receive either alpha lipoic acid (ALA or placebo
      (an inactive substance that looks like the real drug). In this study, there is a 1 out of 4
      chance you will receive placebo. Three of the groups will receive different doses of ALA and
      one group will receive placebo only. The groups are: placebo only, 600 mg ALA, 1200 mg ALA,
      and 1800 mg ALA a day. At some point all study participants will receive placebo; sometimes
      the pills will be ALA and sometimes they will be placebo. You will not know which you are
      taking on any given day.

      This study is also double-blinded, which means that you, the study doctor, and the Sponsor
      will not know until the end of the study whether you are receiving ALA or placebo only. Your
      study doctor can find out if you are receiving ALA or placebo if needed in an emergency.

      If you agree to be in this study, you will be asked to come in for up to 6 visits in 12
      weeks. You should be fasting before some of these visits. Fasting means that you should have
      nothing to eat or drink, except water with your usual morning medications, for 10 hours
      before your scheduled study visit. The study staff will go over this with you each time.

      Visit 1-Screening: (about 3 hours)

      • Please fast before this visit

      In order to find out if you qualify to take part in the study, you will have the following
      tests and procedures done during this visit including:

        -  Your health history will be taken

        -  Your height, weight, and blood pressure will be measured

        -  You will have an electrocardiogram (ECG)

        -  You will give fasting blood samples of about 3-5 tablespoons and urine samples

        -  If you are female and can have children, you will be given a urine pregnancy test

        -  You will take a glucose tolerance test (GTT) A dietitian will briefly discuss your diet
           and exercise. An ECG will be done to measure your heart function. ECG measures the
           electrical activity of your heart. You will be asked to lie down and small sticky pads
           will be placed on your arms, legs, and across your chest.

      The GTT test involves collecting 1 blood sample before, and 4 samples up to 2 hours after,
      you drink a measured amount of glucose (a sugar) in a pleasant tasting liquid. You will have
      2 tablespoons of blood drawn. An indwelling intravenous (IV) needle will be inserted into
      your vein for the 2-hour period so that individual needle sticks will not be needed.

      Depending on the results of your blood and urine tests, you may be asked to come in for a
      second visit in about 1 week. The screening blood tests may provide you with information on
      your health that could be important to you, for example diagnosing diabetes.

      VISIT 2: (about 1 hour)

      • You do not have to fast for this visit and may take your morning medications as usual

      You will have the following tests and procedures done during this visit including:

      - You will meet with a dietician for an assessment of your eating habits. The dietitian will
      advise you on how to maintain a stable diet during the study.

        -  If your blood tests indicate that you have diabetes, you will receive instructions on
           diet and exercise to improve your blood sugar levels.

        -  If your HbA1c level is high, you will be given a home glucose monitoring device
           (glucometer) with instructions on its use for daily testing. HbA1c is a measure of
           average glucose levels over the prior few weeks.

        -  You will be given a 2-week supply of study drug and asked to stop any over- the-counter
           vitamins that you are taking until you have completed this study. We will provide 3
           bottles of study medicine at a time. Each bottle will be uniquely identified for use in
           the morning, midday or evening. You will be asked to take 2 tablets from the morning
           bottle, then 2 from the midday bottle and 2 from the evening bottle. You will also be
           given a daily multivitamin to take. This will be a total of 7 tablets a day for 10
           weeks.

      All unused study drug should be returned when you come in for the next visit in 2 weeks. It
      is important that you are able to take all the study drug. If we find that you are unable to
      take most of the study drug, you will be removed from the study.

      VISIT 3: (about 6-8 hours)

      •

        -  Please be fasting and do not have alcohol or exercise for 48 hours prior to the visit.
           You may be asked to withhold some of your usual medicines on this day but bring the
           doses to the visit with you to be taken at a later time. You will have the following
           tests and procedures done during this visit including:

        -  Brachial artery ultrasound: This is a way to see how the walls of your arteries respond
           to change in blood flow. For this test, you will lie on a bed and we will take sound
           wave pictures of the artery in your elbow area. After the initial pictures, we will then
           inflate a blood pressure cuff on your upper arm for 5 minutes. As soon as the cuff is
           deflated more pictures of the same artery are taken. We will give then give you a pill
           called nitroglycerine to dissolve under your tongue. When the pill dissolves in a few
           minutes, final pictures of the same artery will be taken.

        -  The brachial test will be repeated 2 hours after a high fat meal is eaten. We will give
           the meal to you It will contain known amounts of fat,carbohydrates, and protein.

        -  Augmentation index: This is a test to see how stiff the walls of your artery may be. A
           small microphone will record the signal from the artery in your wrist for about 5
           minutes.

        -  Several samples of blood (2 tablespoons) will be taken before you eat the high fat meal
           and when the second brachial test is completed. An indwelling IV needle may be inserted
           into your vein during this period so that individual needle sticks will not be needed.

        -  DEXA scan. DEXA is a 4-5 minute x-ray body scan that provides accurate body fat mass
           measurements.If you are a woman who can have children, you will have a urine pregnancy
           test. If you are pregnant you will NOT be able to have the DEXA scan.

        -  A dietician will assist you with food questionnaire about your usual diet.

        -  A 4-week supply of study drug will be given to you with instructions on how to take it.
           Please bring any remaining study drug bottles with you to your next visit.

      Visit 4: telephone call. You will also be asked about your ability and willingness to
      continue to take the study medicine until the end of the study.

      We will also ask if you are having any new symptoms that may indicate low blood sugar such as
      hunger, shakiness, dizziness, confusion, difficulty speaking, feeling anxious or weak.

      You should notify the study team at any time by telephone to report these symptoms. You may
      be asked to come in for an extra visit if these are occurring.

      Visits 5(day 1 and 2 final visits): (about 4 hours each day for 2 days)

      • Please be fasting and do not have alcohol or exercise for 48 hours prior to these visits.
      You may be asked to withhold some of your usual medicines on both days but bring the doses to
      the visit with you to take at a later time.

      These 2 visits may be done on 2 consecutive mornings.

      Visit 5 day 1

      You will have a brachial artery ultrasound with nitroglycerine, a DEXA scan, a 2 hour GTT
      blood test with an indwelling IV needle in your vein, height, weight, blood pressure.

      - If you are a woman who can have children, you will be given a urine pregnancy test. If you
      are pregnant, you will NOT be able to have the DEXA scan that is part of this visit.

      Visit 5 day 2

      The brachial ultrasound will be repeated after a high fat meal is eaten which is provided by
      the study center.

      You will have blood samples taken before and after the test and you will also meet with a
      dietitian for a final food questionnaire.

      - You will return any unused study drug bottles.
    
  