
    
      Real-time Optimized Biofeedback Utilizing Sport Techniques (ROBUST) represents an innovative
      new approach to reduce traumatic anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries. Over the last
      four decades, these debilitating injuries have occurred at a 2 to 10-fold greater rate in
      female compared to male athletes with the highest prevalence occurring between the ages of
      16-18 years. As a consequence, there is a large population of females that endure significant
      pain, functional limitations and knee osteoarthritis (OA) as early as 5 years after the
      initial unintentional injury. To reduce the burden of OA, The National Public Health Agenda
      for Osteoarthritis recommends both expanding and refining evidence-based prevention of ACL
      injury. There currently is a gap in knowledge regarding how to maximize the effectiveness of
      injury prevention training in young female athletes. The long-term goal is to reduce ACL
      injuries in young female athletes. The objective of this application is to increase the
      efficacy of biofeedback training to reduce the risk of ACL injury. This proposal tests the
      central hypothesis that biofeedback methodology is needed to maximize the effectiveness of
      neuromuscular prophylactic interventions. The rationale supporting this proposal is that once
      the proposed research is completed, health professionals will be more successful at
      preventing devastating ACL injuries through properly optimized and targeted biofeedback
      training for young at-risk females. This research is innovative because it represents a new
      and substantive departure from the status quo by recognizing the need to optimize the
      application of biofeedback training. The work will contribute clinically relevant data in
      support of a future more robust clinical trial. The proposed research will be significant
      because it will lead to reduced rates of ACL injury in young females. Reduction of female
      injury rates to equal that of males would allow females annually to continue the health
      benefits of sports participation and avoid the long-term complications of osteoarthritis,
      which occurs with a 10 to 100-fold greater incidence in ACL-injured than in uninjured
      athletes.
    
  