
    
      Once the donor is accepted for transplantation and the recipient enrolled in the innovative
      clinical practice, donor HCV Ab status will be requested to initiate HCV RNA viral load
      testing.

      Donor data will be recorded as per our standard practice and as mandated by UNOS. Our
      University of Maryland Medical Center team will be responsible for the donor operation as per
      standard of care.

      Hep C Ab + NAT - Donor to Naïve Recipient This group will be monitored as illustrated in
      figure 1. Hep C Ab+ NAT+ Donor to Naïve Recipient HCV RNA levels, liver biochemistries, and
      renal function will be measured 3 days after transplant. HCV Genotype will be determined
      after HCV RNA is >1,000 IU/mL. HCV RNA levels will be measured weekly after transplant until
      HCV treatment is initiated.

      Due to risk of HBV reactivation with DAA therapy, Hepatitis B surface antigen, surface
      antibody and core antibody status will be determined prior to HCV therapy. In patients with a
      prior exposure to HBV (i.e. positive HBV core antibody), Hepatitis B surface antigen levels
      will be monitored throughout therapy.

      All patients will be seen in the Hepatology clinic within 4 weeks of transplant to establish
      care and follow-up.

      HCV Therapy DAA therapy will be prescribed to all patients according to AASLD and IDSA joint
      guidelines, after giving consideration to the transplanted organ, renal function, and HCV
      genotype. All regimens exclude administration of ribavirin.

      Therapy will be initiated as soon as possible (pending initiation of oral intake and
      insurance approval) following organ transplantation.

      DAAs will be prescribed, after which medications will then be delivered to the patient's home
      or to the bedside.

      If therapy is delayed beyond the 4-week appointment with Hepatology post-transplant, a
      protocol to monitor for infection, new-onset diabetes mellitus, glomerulonephritis and severe
      cholestatic hepatitis will be implemented. This protocol will include weekly blood work to
      include: CBC with differential, hepatic function panel, basic metabolic panel, and
      coagulation studies.

      Liver Transplant:

      • Combinations of choice:

        -  Mavyret (glecaprevir/pibrentasvir) - Genotype 1-6

        -  Harvoni (ledipasvir/sofosbuvir) + Ribavirin - Genotypes 1, 4, 5, 6; GFR>30

        -  Epclusa (sofosbuvir/velpatasvir) + Ribavirin - Genotypes 1-6; GFR>30

      Kidney Transplant:

      • Combinations of choice:

        -  Mavyret (glecaprevir/pibrentasvir) - genotype 1-6

        -  Harvoni (sofosbuvir/ledipasvir) - genotype 1, 4; GFR>30 HCV Follow-Up HCV RNA, complete
           blood count (CBC) and liver biochemistries will be checked 4 weeks, 8 weeks, and 12
           weeks after starting therapy. In patients previously exposed to HBV, HBV surface antigen
           will be followed qualitatively at the same intervals.

      HCV RNA will also be checked 12 weeks after completion of therapy to define cure, or
      sustained virologic response. As part of long-term follow-up, HCV RNA will be checked
      annually at routine post-transplant visits.

      If SVR is not achieved, a second, and if needed, third antiviral regimen will be provided to
      the participant at no cost.

      Transplant, Post-Operative, Immunosuppression Follow Up All will be as per UMMC standard of
      care. Unless otherwise contraindicated, tacrolimus immune suppression will be favored, due to
      drug-drug interactions associated with DATs and cyclosporine.
    
  