
    
      During prolonged sub-maximal endurance exercise, both fat and carbohydrate are readily used
      substrates. The relative contribution and regulation of either is dependent on substrate
      availability (endogenous and exogenous), the duration of exercise, and the intensity of
      exercise. For example, exercising under fasted or caffeine supplemented conditions increases
      adipose tissue lipolysis, free fatty acid availability, and thus fat utilisation, whilst
      exercising under fed or carbohydrate loaded conditions increases glucose availability from
      elevated liver and muscle glycogen stores, and thus carbohydrate utilisation. This is
      important during prolonged sub-maximal exercise because when the limited endogenous
      carbohydrate stores are depleted, the body must rely more on fat. However, it is not known
      whether this regulation is present in conditions such as MDP and FPL where there is
      essentially no adipose tissue.

      The investigators have an opportunity to study an individual with MDP who has competed in and
      won national para-cycling championships. He has approached us for advice on nutritional
      strategies to improve his cycling performance, and insight into how he uses fat during
      exercise. Intriguingly, the individual has provided anecdotal evidence that exercising under
      fasted conditions severely impairs his performance but that the use of caffeine improves his
      performance. He also states that he uses carbohydrate feeding strategies before and during
      prolonged exercise but is unsure whether it helps or not. This raises two fundamental
      questions that should be answered before any nutritional advice should be given (e.g. should
      a pre-exercise fat feeding or low glycemic index carbohydrate strategy be adopted?):

        1. Do fasting and caffeine stimulate lipolysis in lipodystrophy and, if so, where is the
           fat coming from?

        2. Does carbohydrate feeding before exercise impair lipolysis in lipodystrophy?

      In order to answer these questions, the investigators need to directly measure rates of fat
      and carbohydrate utilisation from the circulation and muscle stores during exercise in the
      individual and a control participant using a stable isotope infusion approach. As well as
      providing results of significant scientific interest to the lipodystrophy field (researchers,
      clinicians, patients) and answering fundamental exercise physiology questions on substrate
      availability, the investigators hope that the outcomes will offer a substantial platform for
      improving the participant's knowledge of exercise nutrition and exercise performance.
    
  