
    
      Numerous studies have tested whether providing incentives to encourage abstinence from drugs
      can further reduce drug abuse in a drug-treatment setting. The results are promising:
      Incentives to reduce opioid abuse increase the average duration of abstinence by 25 - 60%
      relative to medication and counseling alone. Similar effects have been demonstrated
      repeatedly across a wealth of populations, substance-abuse disorders, and payment
      methodologies.

      Despite evidence that incentives are effective and the increasing need for effective
      approaches to combat the addiction crisis, incentive programs have not been widely
      implemented. A key barrier is that while the benefits are largely borne by patients and
      taxpayers, there are large logistical costs that must be borne by clinics: most existing
      incentive programs involve manual, in-person measurement of behaviors, and prize or voucher
      purchase and delivery by clinic staff. The significant clinic-level legwork necessary to set
      up these programs, including setting up behavioral and payment tracking systems, training
      staff, etc., have prevented the programs from scaling widely. In sum, prior experience has
      consistently shown that incentives increase duration of treatment and decrease substance
      abuse, but the logistical complications remain a hurdle to implementation.

      This will be the first randomized evaluation of an innovative, scalable incentives program
      for opioid addiction delivered through a mobile application. The application, which was
      developed by our implementing partner, DynamiCare Health, provides a "turnkey" solution that
      health clinics can easily prescribe. The app enables remote monitoring of behavior; for
      example, drug tests can be administered in patients' homes, as patients submit
      "selfie-videos" showing them taking saliva drug tests, which are then verified by trained
      remote staff. Treatment adherence can similarly be checked through GPS tracking for on-site
      methadone pharmacotherapy. The efficacy of this approach has not been tested rigorously
      before.

      This study will address two key knowledge gaps in the logistics of existing incentive program
      design for opioid addiction. First, the first technology t for remote monitoring of
      abstinence behavior for opioid use will be tested. Remote monitoring of abstinence from
      cigarettes and alcohol has been integral in reducing the costs and extending the potential
      reach of incentive programs for people with nicotine/tobacco and alcohol use disorders (e.g.
      to vulnerable or rural populations), and this study promises to do the same for opioid
      addiction. The second gap is in remote delivery of incentives. After a behavior is verified,
      the app will deliver incentives to patients as cash available on a linked debit card. The
      delay between monitoring of the target behavior and the delivery of financial incentives has
      been shown to be a significant moderator of treatment effect size. This technology allows
      patients to receive incentives almost immediately following the undertaking of the
      incentivized behavior: a first in incentives for opioid addiction.

      Another novel feature of this design is that can allow assessment of a gap in the literature
      on incentive delivery: comparing both the isolated effects of incentives and of the
      monitoring needed to implement an incentive program. In addition to a control group, this
      study includes both monitoring groups and incentives groups. While existing literature on
      incentives for addiction has included either a monitoring group or a control group, this is
      the first to include both, such that a comparison can be made between incentives that are
      distal (inputs) and proximal (outcome) to the targeted abstinence behavior.

      Finally, this study will directly address two key open questions in the literature on
      incentives for drug-users. The first question is whether it is more effective to directly
      incentivize the outcome of interest - drug abstinence - or to incentivize behaviors that are
      inputs into the production of abstinence. Similarly designed studies did not detect different
      effects on abstinence from incentivizing treatment attendance and incentivizing cocaine
      abstinence among cocaine users (both were effective): however, not only was this study for a
      different substance use disorder, but because of differential rates of test submission among
      these two groups, the results were not conclusive. This study will similarly compare two
      versions of the incentive program: one that incentivizes inputs to achieving abstinence, and
      one that incentivizes the outcome of abstinence. To address differential test submission
      rates, the impacts of the intervention will be measured via urine drug-tests administered
      identically to patients in both treatments.

      The second question is how to optimize the size of incentives over time to maximize incentive
      effectiveness. This will be assessed by randomly varying the size and timing of incentives
      offered to participants in both the Inputs and Outcomes groups. The variation in incentive
      amounts across participants and time to fit a structural model of abstinence behaviors over
      time. The model will be used to describe the optimal shape of incentives over time.

      The results of this intervention will be directly relevant for potential users of this or
      similar mobile applications for incentive provision among people with opioid-use disorders,
      including insurers, treatment facilities, and governments.
    
  