
    
      This study proposes a nontoxic immunotherapeutic approach to extend overall survival in
      patients in complete remission. Most patients with ovarian cancer achieve complete clinical
      remission after optimal debulking surgery and first-line platinum-based chemotherapy.
      However, most patients, despite high response rates to first-line treatment, will relapse and
      undergo subsequent chemotherapy. Generally, the progression-free interval between treatments
      becomes shorter with each relapse, and the patient eventually dies of the disease.

      For production of Cvac, each patient's cells were enriched using cell separation techniques.
      The patient's cells were cultured for 5 days with granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating
      factor (GM-CSF) and interleukin-4 (IL-4) in AIM V® serum-free tissue culture medium (Thermo
      Fisher Scientific) to cultivate the growth of dendritic cells (DC). The culture was pulsed
      overnight with the antigen (mannosylated mucin 1 fusion protein [M-FP]) to arm the DCs to the
      specific mucin 1 antigen. After harvesting, the M-FP-pulsed DCs were formulated as a finished
      product (Cvac) in 1 mL aliquots, diluted in 5% human serum albumin (HSA) and 10% dimethyl
      sulfoxide (DMSO) at an approximate concentration of 60 × 10^6 viable DCs/mL. The vials were
      cryopreserved and stored in the vapor phase of liquid nitrogen at the manufacturing facility.

      Different participants were enrolled in the 2 parts of the study.

      Part A

      To be eligible for participation, patients were diagnosed with stage III or IV epithelial
      ovarian cancer, underwent optimal debulking surgery (≤ 1 cm of residual disease), underwent
      platinum and taxane chemotherapy, with or without bevacizumab, and had a tumor that
      overexpressed mucin 1, as well as met all other study inclusion and exclusion criteria at
      screening.

      Patients who met all study inclusion and exclusion criteria were randomized in a 1:1
      double-blinded fashion to either the Cvac (active) group or the placebo (control) group.
      After randomization, patients underwent mononuclear cell (MNC) collection for production of
      the study agent and then began first-line chemotherapy. After completion of chemotherapy and
      confirmation of complete clinical and radiological remission (Baseline), patients were
      entered into the treatment phase of the study.

      A total of 76 patients were recruited and randomized at centers in Europe, North America, and
      Australia.

      Part B

      To be eligible for participation, patients had first-line platinum-based chemotherapy with a
      complete response lasting for at least 6 months prior to relapse and achieved second
      remission following standard platinum-based second-line chemotherapy with or without a second
      bulk-reducing surgery, and had a tumor that over-expressed mucin 1, as well as met all other
      study inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Patients who met all study inclusion and exclusion criteria were randomized in a 1:1 fashion
      to either the Cvac (active) group or the observational standard of care (control) group.
      After randomization, only patients randomized to Cvac underwent MNC collection for production
      of the study agent. After confirmation of no evidence of disease at the Baseline visit,
      patients were entered into the treatment phase of the study.

      A total of 15 patients were recruited and randomized at centers in Europe.
    
  