
    
      This is a small clinical trial to test the feasibility of using APAP in children with sleep
      apnea.

      Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is commonly used to treat OSA by delivering a
      predetermined amount of positive pressure to the patient's upper airway in order to reduce
      the collapsibility of airway structures during sleep. The commonly accepted method for
      determining the appropriate pressure setting for children with OSA is through an in-hospital
      overnight CPAP titration study. Another commonly used treatment modality in adults with OSA
      is auto-adjustable positive airway pressure (APAP), in which airway patency is maintained by
      adjusting pressure delivery through the night depending on the needs of the patient as
      determined by the device. Benefits of APAP compared with CPAP include the ability to initiate
      therapy without an inpatient CPAP titration study, resulting in more prompt establishment of
      treatment and cost-savings. Patient adherence may also be significantly improved as the
      pressure delivered is appropriate for sleep stage and patient position, resulting in greater
      patient comfort. Utility and efficacy of APAP compared to CPAP have never been evaluated in
      the pediatric population.

      The aim of this study is to establish APAP as an effective means of assessing CPAP pressure
      for OSA in children, and to determine if APAP therapy confers better treatment adherence and
      quality of life compared to traditional CPAP. The investigators hypothesize that APAP can
      effectively approximate the pressure determined by CPAP titration study, that APAP is
      superior to fixed CPAP in terms of treatment success, and that adherence to therapy will be
      improved with APAP compared to CPAP.

      Forty patients aged 5-20 years will be enrolled in the study. These subjects will be
      recruited from the pediatric pulmonary or pediatric sleep clinic at Cincinnati Children's
      Hospital. Patients who are suspected of having OSA will be referred in the usual manner to
      the sleep center for diagnostic sleep study (PSG). Following the establishment of OSA
      diagnosis and subsequent enrollment in the study, the subject will begin therapy with APAP
      which will continue for 4 to 8 weeks. In that period of time the clinically ordered
      in-hospital CPAP titration study will be completed. The subject will then be randomized to
      either traditional fixed pressure CPAP at the pressure determined by in-hospital titration or
      APAP. The subject will receive 4 weeks of treatment in the randomized group (CPAP or APAP)
      then crossover to 4 weeks in the alternate group (CPAP or APAP). Both patient and researcher
      will be blinded to the randomization of pressure modality. The total study period will range
      from 12-16 weeks.
    
  