
    
      Rational for the study If fetal interventricular septum hypertrophy in pregnancies with
      gestational diabetes mellitus appears prior to either fetal abdominal circumference
      measurement > 90th percentile or the abnormal maternal glucose levels, then future management
      of women with gestational diabetes mellitus might be targeted earlier at these pregnancies to
      ensure a more favorable outcome.

      Objective To determine the thickness of fetal interventricular septum in women with and
      without gestational diabetes mellitus and correlates it with perinatal outcome.

      Methods Study design This is a prospective study at Rambam Health Care Campus. Inclusion /
      Exclusion criteria

        1. Inclusion Study group - women between 24 - 34 weeks' gestation who were diagnosed with
           gestational diabetes mellitus or known with type I or type II diabetes mellitus.

           Control group - women between 24 - 34 weeks' gestation who do not have diabetes.

        2. Exclusion (that might affect directly or indirectly the fetal cardiac function) - women
           who did not complete a glucose challenge test, smoking, underlying cardiac or
           respiratory illness, fetal growth restriction, medicated hypertension disorder of
           pregnancy, multiple pregnancy, use of steroids for lung maturation in the current
           pregnancy and known major congenital anomalies.

      Study population Women who meet the above inclusion criteria will be asked to participate in
      the study, and will be asked to provide a written informed consent. Both groups, the study
      and control group, will be recruited when attending their routine prenatal care in the
      prenatal clinics at Rambam Health Care Campus. Eligible woman will undergo ultrasound
      examination as they would normally do in each visit. This study, under no circumstances, will
      alter the participants routine care.

      Data Collection

        1. Maternal and fetal characteristics Data related to the fetomaternal antenatal,
           intrapartum and postpartum course will be recorded prospectively (Appendix 1).

        2. Ultrasound assessment Basic transabdominal two-dimensional ultrasound examination using
           B-mode (either Samsung or Voluson E8), will be carried out first to assess fetal growth
           and well-being. This is to be continued with a more detailed ultrasound, with a specific
           focus on the fetal interventricular septum. The entire length of the study, dependent on
           fetal lie, is expected to take around 15 min. The results of the assessment of fetal
           growth and well-being will be provided to the patient.

      The measurement of the fetal interventricular septum will be as follow (Figure 1 below);
      maternal suspended respiration, without fetal movement or breathing, level of the 4-chamber
      view with adequate magnification of the fetal heart (50% of the screen), midpoint of
      interventricular septum with cine loop to end-diastolic (maximum ventricular filling), and
      average of 3 measurements (Ren 2011, Garg 2014).
    
  