
    
      Recordings of periodontal probing pocket depth (PPD) and probing attachment level (PAL) are
      utilized in diagnosis of periodontal disease and monitoring of disease progression. Manual
      probing presents reproducibility and accuracy issues based on features such as probe tip
      design, force applied by the operator and inflammatory status of the periodontal tissues.
      Evidence from the literature suggests that some patients may determine periodontal probing to
      be a painful experience.

      The aims of this study are to evaluate the suitability of a new titanium probe tip for
      periodontal probing, and to evaluate pain on periodontal probing, in comparison to the
      existing probe tip used in the Florida Probe® system.

      The study will be a randomized, blinded, split-mouth controlled trial. Twenty (20)
      consecutive patients meeting the inclusion criteria will be selected to undergo full-mouth
      periodontal probing. One half (upper or lower jaw) of the mouth will be probed using the
      current, standard probe tip; the opposing jaw will be probed using the new trial tip. At a
      second visit (within 2 weeks), prior to treatment, the mouth will be probed once again,
      alternating the jaws from the first visit.

      On each occasion, patients will report on pain on probing utilizing two ungraded 100mm
      horizontal visual analogue scales (VAS) representing upper and lower jaws of the mouth.

      Periodontal probing depth measurements will be compared to assess the reproducibility of the
      two probe tips.

      Mean VAS values and standard deviations will be calculated for the test and control groups.
      Data analysis will be conducted using a non-parametric statistical model (Mann-Whitney U
      Test).

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Adult patients: age greater than 18 years.

        -  At least 4 tooth sites with periodontal probing pocket depth (PPD) greater or equal to
           4mm.

      Exclusion criteria:

      - Patients using ongoing daily chronic analgesic medications (NSAIDs etc) for over 3 months.
    
  