
    
      Although blood transfusions can be lifesaving in severe hemorrhage, they can also have
      potential complications. As anemia has also been associated with poor outcomes in critically
      ill patients, determining an optimal transfusion trigger is a real challenge for clinicians.
      This is even more important in patients with acute brain injury who were not specifically
      evaluated in previous large randomized clinical trials dealing with the optimal transfusion
      threshold. Neurological patients may be particularly sensitive to anemic brain hypoxia
      because of the exhausted cerebrovascular reserve, which adjusts cerebral blood flow to tissue
      oxygen demand.

      This prospective, multicenter, randomized, pragmatic trial will compare two different
      strategies for red blood cell transfusion in patients with acute brain injury: a "liberal"
      strategy in which the aim is to maintain hemoglobin (Hb) concentrations greater than 9 g/dL
      and a "restrictive" approach in which the aim is to maintain Hb concentrations greater than 7
      g/dL. The target population is patients suffering from traumatic brain injury (TBI),
      subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) or intracranial hemorrhage (ICH). The primary outcome is
      neurological outcome, evaluated using the extended Glasgow Outcome Scale (eGOS), at 180 days
      after the initial injury. Secondary outcomes include, amongst others, 28-day survival,
      intensive care unit (ICU) and hospital lengths of stay, the occurrence of extra-cerebral
      organ dysfunction/failure and the development of any infection or thromboembolic events
      (venous or arterial). The estimated sample size is 1000 patients to demonstrate a reduction
      in the primary outcome from 50% to 40% between groups (500 patients in each arm). The study
      will be initiated in September 2016 in several European ICUs and is expected at least 6
      years.

      The results of this trial will help to improve blood product and transfusion use in this
      specific patient population and will provide additional data in some sub-groups of patients
      at high-risk of brain ischemia, such as those with intracranial hypertension or cerebral
      vasospasm.
    
  