
    
      This R34 pilot study proposes to conduct feasibility and exploratory intervention outcome
      research that will lead to the development of a personalized intervention framework for early
      stage adolescent drug users. The study will explore putative moderators representing two
      theoretically distinct frameworks and determine whether they are suitable candidates for a
      subsequent R01 study. One moderation framework is based on risk severity (RS) as reflected by
      individual differences in delay discounting (DD), a form of impulsive decision making that is
      positively associated with escalation to more serious levels of abuse and addiction. A second
      more exploratory framework is based on differential sensitivity (DS) theory. The DS framework
      stipulates that individuals, due to specific sensitivity factors, vary in their
      responsiveness to environmental influence such as the influence provided by an intervention.
      The study will explore DS markers associated with the reward motivational system, including
      dopaminergic genes, the post-auricular physiological reflex and a high sensory-processing
      sensitivity trait. An agency-university partnership will collaborate in providing services to
      120 adolescents (ages 12-17) who were referred to a community counseling center because of a
      recent alcohol and/or marijuana incident. Recruitment will select mild/moderate drug users.
      Participants will be randomized to one of two evidence-based drug abuse interventions. The
      two interventions offer the same delivery dosage but differ in terms of their mechanism of
      therapeutic change (i.e., degree of environmental influence). The Teen Intervene program (TI;
      Winters & Leitten, 2007) is a youth-focused intervention that uses motivational interviewing,
      goal setting, and skills training to foster the internal development of responsible
      decision-making with the goal of choosing attitudes and behaviors that are healthier
      alternatives to drug use behaviors. The Everyday Parenting program (EP; Dishion et al., 2003;
      2010) is a family focused-intervention that works with parents to provide environmental
      scaffolding necessary to help teens gradually internalize decision-making skills that
      reinforce and promote healthy lifestyle alternatives to drug use. The aims of this R34 are to
      (1) assess feasibility of recruiting, assessing, and following-up enrolled youth in an
      intervention trial, (2) assess the ability of staff to implement TI and EP with fidelity, and
      (3) obtain promising data on moderator and outcome variables that will help answer the
      question of "what intervention works best for which youth" in a subsequent R01 study.
    
  