
    
      Background:

      Adult T-Cell Leukemia is a lymphoproliferative disorder characterized by the presence of
      CD4/CD25 expressing T cells (IL-2R expressing) in the peripheral blood, in lymphoid and other
      tissues.

      Denileukin diftitox is a genetically engineered fusion protein combining the enzymatically
      active domains of diphtheria toxin (DT) and the full length sequence of interleukin-2 (IL-2)
      that targets IL-2 expressing malignancies.

      Denileukin diftitox interacts with the IL-2 R on the cell surface, is internalized via
      endocytosis, and inhibits cellular protein synthesis resulting in cell death within hours to
      days.

      Objective:

      Determine the clinical response to Denileukin diftitox (Ontak) of patients with adult T-cell
      leukemia (ATL).

      Define the safety of Denileukin diftitox in patients who have ATL.

      Eligibility:

      Patients with chronic, lymphomatous and acute forms of ATL.

      Patients must be human T-cell lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV1) positive.

      Design:

      Patients will be treated with 9mcg/kg/d of Denileukin diftitox for five days, on an every two
      week schedule.

      Tumor response will be evaluated after two cycles of treatment. Stable or responding patients
      will continue treatment with evaluations every four cycles of treatment. Patients will be
      treated for two cycles beyond a complete remission.

      The trial uses an optimal 2 stage design targeting for a true response proportion greater
      than 30%. Nine patients will be treated initially with expansion to 29 patients if a response
      is seen in one of the initial nine patients treated. If no response is seen at the 9 mcg/kg/d
      dose an additional 9 patients will be treated at a dose of 18 mcg/kg/d with expansion to 29
      patients at this dose level if a response is seen. A stopping rule for excessive toxicity
      will be incorporated.
    
  