
    
      This is a single-center, single-blinded, 2x2 factorial randomized controlled trial to test
      both automated order set inclusion and evidence-based order set design with end user testing
      on order set use and clinical outcomes for adult patients admitted to the hospital with acute
      exacerbations of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD).

      First, the investigators will develop a predictive model to identify patients admitted to the
      hospital with COPD exacerbations based on retrospective data, but limited to data that is
      available in real-time at admission.

      Second, 1,000 admissions to UCSF Medical Center of adults predicted to have COPD by the
      predictive algorithm will be prospectively block randomized by encounter to automatic
      inclusion of a COPD order set in the admission orders or usual care. Providers caring for
      patients in both arms of the trial can independently search for and use a COPD order set. Any
      provider using a COPD order set in either arm will also be randomized to see two versions of
      the order set. The first is a static list of orders, and the second is dynamic, meaning that
      orders will display only when appropriate. For example, a patient who just had a chest x-ray
      does not need a routine repeat test. The dynamic order set will show the provider that the
      x-ray was completed at a specific time and will not display a prompt for a repeat test.
      Providers can, of course, still order anything they deem clinically appropriate, and may
      choose to order a repeat x-ray for a patient with a change in clinical status.

      The components of the order set are based on international guidelines from the Global
      Initiative for Chronic Lung Disease (GOLD initiative, a collaboration between the National
      Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute and the World Health Organization) and a multi-stakeholder
      working group at UCSF including two hospitalists, two pulmonologists, two transitional care
      nurse specialists, one advanced practice nurse, one pharmacist, one respiratory therapist,
      one physical therapist, and one nurse.
    
  