
    
      Introduction Subacromial injection is a useful procedure to counteract shoulder impingement
      syndrome. With the aid of high-resolution ultrasound, the needle can be introduced precisely
      into the subacromial/subdeltoid bursa located between the acromion above and the
      supraspinatus tendon below. The standardized method allows the injectate to distribute along
      the subdeltoid bursa, further reliving pain from subacromial/subdeltoid impingement. In a
      substantial part of shoulder pain patients, it is common to accompany pain along the
      bicipital groove, which the biceps long head tendon courses through. The biceps long head
      tendon is attached to the superior labrum of the glenoid cavity and acts as the second
      important structure to prevent upward migration of the humeral head, following the
      supraspinatus tendon. Overuse injury of the biceps tendon is a likely cause of anterior
      shoulder pain. Concomitant administration of medication into the subacromial bursa and biceps
      tendon sheath is theoretically more effective than injection to the subacromial bursa only
      because the formal procedure targets two vulnerable structures in shoulder impingement
      syndrome at once. Regarding the standard ultrasound-guided subacromial injection. Therefore,
      we will conduct a randomized controlled trial investigating the effectiveness of standard
      subacromial injection in comparison with a novel approach simultaneously injecting the
      subacromial bursa and biceps tendon sheath.

      Material and methods:

      Participants: adult patients (>20 year old) with shoulder impingement syndrome Inclusion
      criteria: shoulder pain>3 weeks; no contraindication for local injection; Visual analogue
      scale of pain>4 Participant number: at least 30 at each treatment arm Exclusion criteria:
      systemic rheumatologic disease, Ankylosing spondylitis, malignancy, major trauma or recent
      injections on the affected shoulder Study design: single center double blind randomized
      controlled trial Randomization method: block randomization (block size: 4), computerized
      random sequence generation, allocation concealment (+) Detail of the intervention

        1. Control group: ultrasound guided injection into the subacromial bursa with 40 mg
           triamcinolone acetonide plus 3 mL of lidocaine

        2. Experimental group: ultrasound guided injection into the subacromial bursa and biceps
           tendon sheath with 40 mg triamcinolone acetonide plus 3 mL of lidocaine

      Outcome measurement:

      Visual analogue scale of pain, physical examination(bicipital groove compression test,
      Speed's test, Yergason's test, empty can test, Neer's impingement test, Hawkins-Kennedy
      impingement test, painful arc test), range of motion, shoulder pain and disability index
      (SPADI), shoulder sonography (gray-scale/elastography)

      Statistical analysis:

      Continuous variables

        1. Student's t test: fit assumption of normal distribution

        2. Mann-Whitney test: does not fit the assumption of normal distribution Categorical
           variables

      (1) Chi-square test (2) Fisher exact test: sparse data

      Multivariate analysis:

        1. Linear regression

        2. Logistic regression Keywords: ultrasonography, corticosteroid, subacromial impingement
           syndrome, shoulder pain
    
  