
    
      Sodium Pyruvate, an intermediate metabolite, has been investigated as a therapeutic agent to
      reduce reactive oxygen species in the lung. Evaluation of FEV1 as a safety parameter and
      sequela of reactive oxygen species reduction identified inhaled Sodium Pyruvate as a
      potential bronchodilator.

      A number of lung diseases are typically characterized by marked inflammation at the site of
      the lung injury. This inflammatory process leads to further destruction of surrounding
      healthy lung tissue, and a continuation and expansion of the sites of inflammation. This
      inflammatory process results in the production of reactive oxygen species, including
      superoxide anions and hydrogen peroxide, at the site of inflammation.

      Nitric oxide is a known bronchodilator, as well as a vasodilator. It has been used
      successfully used to treat patients with various pulmonary disorders. 1 When endogenous
      nitric oxide is exposed to oxygen radicals, however, it is converted to the toxic oxidant
      nitrogen dioxide, and its bronchodilating effect is mitigated. Conversely, nitrogen dioxide
      is a known deep lung irritant. Its adverse consequences include the following: pulmonary
      inflammation; reduced levels of lung antioxidants 2; impairment of respiratory defense
      mechanisms leading to increased susceptibility to respiratory pathogens 3 and increased
      incidence and severity of respiratory infections; reduced lung function, and increased asthma
      and COPD symptoms.

      Reactive oxygen species, especially superoxide anions, are known to compromise lung function
      by increasing bronchoconstriction. As a result of the increasing inflammation and the
      production of reactive oxygen species, and the decrease in nitric oxide that is believed to
      occur with the interstitial lung diseases, healthy tissue is damaged and lung function is
      compromised.

      Based on our present understanding of the disease process involved with these lung diseases,
      it appears that an intervention in the inflammatory process that would result in a reduction
      in reactive oxygen species and a subsequent increase in nitric oxide could be an effective
      way to intervene in the disease process. This intervention would prevent the further spread
      of inflammation and lung damage caused by the production of reactive oxygen species, such as
      superoxide anions and hydrogen peroxide, and increase lung function by increasing
      bronchodilation.

      Sodium pyruvate is a reactive oxygen species antagonist that has been shown to neutralize
      oxygen radicals, specifically lowering the overproduction of superoxide anions, regulate the
      production and level of other inflammatory mediators, and increase the synthesis of nitric
      oxide. 4 Sodium pyruvate also increases cellular levels of glutathione, a major cellular
      antioxidant, which is reduced dramatically in antigen-induced lung disease patients. 5

      In pilot studies in mild asthmatic subjects, it was demonstrated that inhalation of low doses
      (0.5 mM) of nebulized sodium pyruvate decreased expired hydrogen peroxide by 30% at four
      hours compared to inhalation of a nebulized saline control. These subjects also experienced
      increased pulmonary function as determined by FEV1 (+12.8%) and PEF (+34.5%) measurements
      after four hours (referenced in Cellular Sciences IND #50,089). It is theorized that the
      reactive oxygen species antagonist properties of sodium pyruvate reduced the production of
      oxygen radicals, including hydrogen peroxide, and increased the levels of nitric oxide.
      Together, this led to reduced inflammation and lung damage, and increased lung function
      through improved bronchodilation.

      In summary, it is believed that inhalation of sodium pyruvate will reduce the lung damage
      resulting from the increase in reactive oxygen species associated with the inflammation
      component of the disease, and will enhances the availability of nitric oxide to produce
      bronchodilation by enhancing its synthesis and protecting it from destruction by reactive
      oxygen species.

      Experimental Clinical Protocol Hypothesis: Sodium Pyruvate delivered by nebulization to the
      lungs produces bronchodilation in asthmatics as measured by FEV1

      Intent: Provide support for further drug development of nebulized Sodium Pyruvate as a
      therapeutic agent in asthma

      Design Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over study of 52 completed subjects

      Treatment 1: 0.5 mM sodium pyruvate in 0.9% saline solution, (5ml) (Cellular Sciences, CA)
      nebulized via a Pari LC Plus(R) reusable nebulizer powered by a ProNeb(R) compressor
      (Midlothian, VA) Treatment 2: Saline 0.9%, (5ml) (Baxter) nebulized using the same nebulizer
      system as above A randomization algorithm using random permuted blocks (4-8 subjects) will be
      used to generate treatment order assignments. An unblinded statistician will generate this
      list of treatment order assignments.

      Patient Recruitment and Selection The large cohort of potential subjects who have previously
      participated in asthma studies through our clinical research laboratory will be apprised of
      the study. Patients attending the UCLA Asthma and Cough Center will also be informed of the
      study. Advertisements will be sent by regular mail and by e-mail to physicians participating
      in the UCLA Healthcare System and to local pulmonologists practicing throughout the Los
      Angeles area. Local Allergists who collaborate with us in common clinical trial protocols
      will be informed of the study by personalized letter and e-mail. Advertisements will be
      placed in the classified and/or health sections of local newspapers. A description of the
      study will be posted on internet sites featuring clinical research trials.

      Subjects will be recruited until a total of 52 complete the study. Assuming a 5% drop-out and
      non-compliance rate, we expect a total of 55 subjects recruited Patient Eligibility Criteria
    
  