
    
      PURPOSE OF PROJECT: To study the effect expressed by persons with TBI through assessment of
      buspirone effectiveness for post-traumatic irritability and aggression and development of an
      irritability/aggression impact measure.

      SUMMARY OF PROJECT: It is anticipated that 74 subjects with 74 corresponding subject
      observers will be recruited for the treatment study. Subjects will be recruited from
      community and self-referrals.

      Interested potential participants will be scheduled for an in-person screening visit.
      Subjects who consent and qualify will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio, buspirone or placebo.
      Stratification to randomization group will occur based on the presence of major or minor
      depression (defined by PHQ-9 total score >5). Randomized subjects will receive active
      treatment or placebo. There will be 4 clinic visits. Visits will occur at baseline, for
      consenting and screening, day 35, day 63 and day 91. At all 4 clinic visits, both the subject
      and the observer will be given questionnaires regarding the subject's behavior and mood. Day
      91 ends the period of the randomized clinical trial phase of the study and the subjects will
      begin the 1 month continuation phase of the study in which all participants receive active
      buspirone.

      The following questionnaires will be used as measures of irritability and aggression for the
      subject and the observer: Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI & NPI-Distress), Aggression &
      Irritability Impact Measure (AIIM) and Global Impression of Change.

      The following questionnaires will be dispensed to the subject only: TBI-Quality of
      Life-Anger, Personal Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9), Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD-7), PTSD
      Checklist Civilian (PCL-C), and Glasgow Outcome Scale Extended (GOS-E) The Investigator will
      complete the Clinical Global Impression of change at Visits 1, 2, 3, and 4. History and
      Physical Exam, creatinine level (kidney function) and liver function tests will be obtained
      for eligibility. Serum pregnancy tests will be drawn at screening for females of childbearing
      potential.
    
  