
    
      Various interceptive and therapeutic modalities are available comprising of non-surgical and
      surgical therapies. But, these therapies are not available for everyone, due to various
      reasons such as low socio-economic conditions of the majority of the population including
      poverty, illiteracy, and malnutrition etc. along with low dentist: population ratio.
      Moreover, the availability of a dentist and/or periodontist is limited in rural and remote
      areas, whereas the prevalence rate of periodontal disease is comparatively higher in these
      areas than that of urban areas.

      Looking to these difficulties, the investigators have to think and explore the beneficial
      effects by conducting research work on various home care measures which are being used since
      many generations, especially in our country and thus people were/are enjoying the benefits
      with almost all or many natural teeth, up to last span of their lives.Though, the scientific
      evidences of beneficial effects of home care measures for cleaning and massaging of teeth and
      gums, respectively are not yet evident significantly. But, traditional uses of various
      dentifrices those are still in practices and thus need scientific attentions. Now, the
      investigators are in the evidence based era, especially in the field of medical sciences.
      Therefore, the number of research studies should be planned and carried out at various
      centres in different parts of the country, to ascertain the beneficial effects of traditional
      oral hygiene practices such as: Datoons (Neem, Babool etc), leaves of various plants like
      Mango, Charcoal powder, Meswak, salt, Mustard oil with Salt, and Turmeric powder and other
      such home care dental cleansing materials. After getting the beneficial
      information's/evidences accordingly, the uses of specific traditional materials and methods
      for the cleansing of the teeth and massaging of the gums can be advocated. And thus,
      specifically the developing and underdeveloped countries may be benefitted.

      Out of various home care dental cleansing materials the Turmeric powder is not only being
      used as one of important condiments of our kitchen, and at the same time as a medicinal use
      since ages.

      The 'Turmeric' is known for its anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, antimicrobial, immune
      stimulant, antiseptic, anti-carcinogenic, and anti-mutagenic properties [1]. Drake [2] and
      Han et al [3], observed anti- microbial activity of Turmeric. Roobal Bahal et al [4] stated
      that on use of 2% Turmeric gel, significant reduction in the mean plaque index, gingival
      index, sulcus bleeding index, probing pocket depth and significant reduction in trypsin like
      enzymatic activity of "Red-Complex" microorganisms. Ruchika Jaswal et al [5] conducted a
      pilot study to evaluate and compare the clinical effects of topical subgingival application
      of 2% whole turmeric gel and 1% chlorhexidine gel as an adjunct to scaling and root planing
      (SRP) in patients suffering from chronic periodontitis.

      Very few studies, which can be counted on fingers, have been conducted worldwide in this
      direction. Hence, this study is being taken to evaluate the efficacy of whole Turmeric Powder
      in Gingival Massaging and as an adjunct to Scaling and Root Planing in Patients with Chronic
      Periodontitis.
    
  