
    
      Chronic suppurative otitis media (CSOM) remains one of the most common chronic infectious
      diseases worldwide, affecting diverse racial and cultural groups both in developing and
      industrialized countries. It involves considerable morbidity and can cause extra- and
      intracranial complications .

      CSOM in all its clinical presentations (acute, serous and chronic) develops with varying
      degrees of lesions in the inner ear, which showing a higher prevalence of disabling hearing
      loss, tinnitus and balance and vestibular alterations.

      In recent years, authors have raised the hypothesis that the vestibular system could also be
      subject to inflammatory lesions secondary to CSOM. These hypotheses were supported by
      clinical studies, which disclosed a high prevalence of vestibular symptoms in patients with
      CSOM (40% -60%), in addition to changes in several vestibular function tests (caloric
      testing, rotary chair, vestibular evoked myogenic potentials, vHIT and posturography) .

      Over the years, several studies have analyzed the potential clinical impact of CSOM on
      vestibular function (Monsanto et al, 2018). However, a recent systematic review showed that
      these studies are mostly have had several biases identified (selection, attrition,
      performance and detection) .

      Also, there are a number of difficulties regarding changes in vestibular function secondary
      to CSOM, mainly because several vestibular function tests (caloric testing, vestibular evoked
      myogenic potentials) do not have validated results for patients with middle ear disorders
      inherent to CSOM (tympanic perforation, ossicular erosion, fibrosis or secretion in the
      middle ear, and conductive hearing loss), and therefore are not directly comparable to those
      of patients without middle ear diseases.

      Furthermore, CSOM is more prevalent in the elderly, who have several other possible causal
      factors for vestibular symptoms, therefore, directly correlating CSOM with changes in
      vestibular function is a challenging task .

      One of the vestibular function tests of that is not significantly influenced by CSOM is the
      video head impulse test, this test can objectively assess the function of each one of the
      semicircular canals alone, providing important information regarding changes in the
      vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR), despite these advantages, the literature on the use of the
      video head impulse test in patients with COM is very scarce. Considering the role of the head
      impulse test in the diagnosis of VOR alterations, the identification of alterations in this
      test can help in the topographic characterization of vestibular alterations secondary to COM
      .

      Evaluation of vestibular function in patients with safe type chronic suppurative otitis media
      provide many strategies aimed to prevent the sequelae and give idea about selection of
      adequate treatment and rehabilitation .
    
  