
    
      The investigative team has completed recent studies showing that essential amino acid (EAA)
      supplementation attenuates quadriceps atrophy and accelerates the return of functional
      mobility following TKA. For patients on EAA, quadriceps atrophy was only -6% and -3% in the
      operative and non-operative quadriceps, respectively, 6 wks after TKA, but -18% and -10%,
      respectively, in patients on Placebo, a threefold difference. Of clinical relevance, the
      patients on EAA were able to maintain strength and demonstrated an accelerated return of
      functional mobility vs. Placebo 6 wks post-TKA. Positive changes at the cellular level are
      likely responsible for the reduction in muscle loss and preservation of strength, and to
      explain the acceleration of the return of functional mobility. As such, we hypothesize that
      twice-daily ingestion of 23 g of EAA from 1 wk before to 6 wks after TKA will increase basal
      rates of muscle protein synthesis via inactivation of catabolic signaling (FoxO3a), and
      up-regulation of anabolic and cyto-protective proteins. We also propose that short-term
      atrophy prevention and accelerated return of functional mobility will translate into
      long-term (6 mo and 1 yr post-TKA) structural and functional adaptations, leading to improved
      quality of life in TKA patients with EAA supplementation vs. Placebo.

      The study will use a two-arm parallel design to determine the effect of EAA supplementation
      on post-TKA muscle cell structure and function, and quality of life in the shorter term (6
      months post-TKA) and long term (1 yr post-TKA) vs. Placebo. Subjects will be 80 older male
      and female adults having primary TKA at the Slocum Center for Orthopedics and Sports
      Medicine, Eugene, Oregon. Slocum study staff will pre-screen/identify potential subjects for
      recruitment based on inclusion/exclusion criteria. Eligible patients will be invited to join
      the study. After the completion of informed consent procedures, participants will be assigned
      a unique patient identification number, and randomly assigned to either EAA or Placebo on a
      1:1 allocation ratio, with blinding of treatment condition to subject and research
      staff/statisticians collecting data. Twice-daily ingestion of 23 g of supplement will begin 7
      days prior to TKA and end at 6 wks post. EAA subjects will receive EAA and Placebo subjects
      will receive the non-essential amino acid Alinine. Subjects will document compliance with the
      supplement protocol in a log book and will return empty vials. Subjects will be followed for
      1 yr.

      Key research questions are: (a) Does EAA prevent shorter-term (6 wks post-TKA) bilateral
      muscle atrophy, preserve quadriceps strength, and accelerate the return of functional
      mobility vs. Placebo? (b) Are there shorter-term sex differences on outcome measures? (c)
      Will EAA increase longer-term (6 mo post-TKA) quadriceps strength and functional mobility vs.
      Placebo? (d) Does EAA improve long-term (1 yr post-TKA) functional mobility and measures of
      quality of life vs. Placebo? (e) Are there long-term sex differences in functional mobility
      or measures of quality of life? Assessment points will be at 6 wks, 4 wks, and 1 wk prior to
      surgery, and 1 wk, 2 wks, 6 wks, 6 mos, and 1 yr post-TKA. At different assessment points, we
      will collect demographic, medical (e.g., length of hospital stay, tourniquet use),
      physiological (e.g., muscle biopsy, MRI, DEXA, strength; blood tests), pharmacologic,
      functional mobility, physical activity (accelerometer), psychometric (e.g., quality of life;
      Veterans RAND 12-item Health Survey [VR-12]), food intake (3-day diary), physical therapy,
      and perceived pain data. The following schedule of assessments will be followed: no more than
      6 mo pre-TKA (enrollment and screening), 6 wks pre-TKA (screening, surveys, DEXA scan, MRI
      test, physical activity and food recording), 4 weeks pre-TKA (blood draw, strength and
      functional mobility testing, muscle and fat biopsy); 1 wk pre-TKA and in hospital (physical
      activity and food recording); 1 wk post-TKA (physical activity and food recording); 2 wks
      post-TKA (blood draw, physical activity and food recording); 6 wks post-TKA (blood draw, MRI
      test, strength and functional mobility testing, physical activity and food recording, muscle
      and fat biopsy); 3 mos post-TKA (surveys, strength and functional mobility testing, physical
      activity and food recording); 6 mos post-TKA (surveys, DEXA scan, MRI test, strength and
      functional mobility testing, physical activity and food recording, muscle and fat biopsy),
      and 1 yr (surveys, DEXA scan, MRI test, strength and functional mobility testing, physical
      activity and food recording, muscle and fat biopsy).

      Data will be collected from a variety of sources, including surveys, electronic medical
      records, medical and functional tests, and staff reports. Data will be entered and
      double-verified in password-protected spreadsheets sand databases stored behind a firewall.
      Any electronic medical records data captured will use secure data transfer and
      HIPAA-compliant protocols approved by the University of Oregon IRB. Staff reports will be
      forwarded directly to project data managers. All personal data will be identified by numbers
      rather than names. Interim reports of project results will be made to the Data and Safety
      Monitoring Board.

      Power analyses indicated that a sample size of 80 subjects would be sufficient to detect
      anticipated effects on primary outcomes: operative leg quadriceps volume (MRI), non-operative
      leg quadriceps volume (MRI), isometric strength, Get Up And Go test, stair climb up test,
      stair climb down test, and six-minute walk test. The mean effect size across these outcomes,
      based on baseline- to 6-week percent change in pilot data) was d = 1.01, reflecting large
      effects. For a sample size of 30/group, this study can detect ESs of d > .79 with 85% power,
      and the minimally detectable ES drops to 0.68 or 0.52 with pretest covariates of r = .50 or
      .75. Every effort will be made to reduce attrition and obtain data on all participants at all
      assessment points. However, attrition is expected. Because this study will have power to
      detect anticipated physiological and functional effects with 30 subjects per condition, we
      will enroll 80 total subjects (40/condition) to account for possible attrition.

      The EAA intervention is designed to attenuate muscle loss, improve functional outcomes, and
      enhance quality of life. Data analyses will focus on shorter-term, longer-term results, and
      change over time. Preliminary analyses will employ descriptive statistics to understand the
      nature of the data and ensure that data distributions are appropriate for the statistical
      tests employed. Chi-square tests and analyses of variance, as appropriate, will be conducted
      to evaluate the equivalence of continuing participants vs. dropouts on demographic, medical
      history, and recent levels of dependent variables.

      We will conduct random coefficients analysis (RCA) to model muscle and functional mobility
      across time, as well as covariates that could affect outcomes, such as age, sex, physical
      activity, and dietary intake. RCA models trajectories from assessments nested within
      subjects; test of condition are represented by the interaction between a time factor and
      treatment condition. The RCA avoids the many pitfalls associated with traditional repeated
      measures ANOVA: It adjusts for within-individual dependence or autocorrelation in the data,
      can model nonlinear growth, does not require fixed spacing among assessments, and
      accommodates missing values over time. By using any available data across time, the RCA will
      limit the effects of missing data, reducing bias and increasing power. Based on our
      preliminary data, we estimate that we will be able to collect >92% of all data points.

      Expected study outcomes are as follows:

        1. With successful completion of this research, we expect to demonstrate that EAA prevents
           muscle atrophy bilaterally, as our preliminary data suggest. To date, it is not known if
           EAA can prevent atrophy.

        2. We expect to show that atrophy prevention will lead to strength gains and accelerated
           return of functional mobility. We further expect to show that EAA may have positive
           effects on central activation deficits, as our preliminary data suggest that strength is
           increased by 6 wks with EAA. To date, it is not known if preserving muscle following TKA
           will increase strength and augment the return of functional mobility.

        3. We expect to document that EAA will increase muscle cell size (CSA) bilaterally, in the
           vastus lateralis of the operative and non-operative quadriceps. It is not known if
           atrophy prevention and early return of functional mobility will stimulate positive gains
           in muscle cell structure.

        4. We expect to demonstrate that EAA increases mitochondrial mass bilaterally and increases
           mitochondrial respiration at rest. By sampling from the non-operative (control leg) and
           operative leg, we expect to show that EAA normalizes mitochondrial function over time (6
           mo and/or 1 yr post-TKA). It is not known if early gains in functional mobility will
           positively impact muscle cell function.

        5. We expect to show that quality of life (as measured by instruments such as VR-12) will
           be significantly increased with EAA. It is not known to what extent the above positive
           gains will have on longer-term (6 mo and 1 yr) quality of life.

      We expect each of the above to stimulate and be transformative. EAA supplements are
      inexpensive ($800/patient or $16/day), are well tolerated, and can be implemented
      immediately.
    
  