
    
      Detailed Description:

      The treatment of the oncological diseases are significantly destroyed the physical health of
      the patients, negatively affecting the cardiovascular, respiratory and musculoskeletal
      systems. In the absence of a targeted rehabilitation measures, the toxic effect of the
      treatment increases with time and leads to the development of disabling diseases. Physical
      therapy and motor activity are recognized as the most effective for the maximum
      rehabilitation of people who have been through the oncological disease and the prevention of
      chronic diseases and repeated tumors. Motor activity should be regular, controlled, adapted
      to the needs and capabilities of a particular person. The main role in maintaining of the
      level and quality of motor activity is assigned to the patient and his inner circle.
      Specialists are assigned the role of consultants and supervisors.

      The methods, means and intensity of the motor loads should be selected on the basis of a
      detailed analysis of physical health and existing limitations. To do this, it is proposed to
      create a qualification model of physical health, in which many indicators will be reduced to
      a limited number of variables: the response of the cardiovascular and respiratory systems to
      stress, vegetative and neuromuscular physical activity, the state of motor functions and
      motor skills, the general resistance to physical loads, etc. To create a model, mathematical
      modeling methods will be applied.

      To create personal program of physical activity, the rules for the selection and adaptation
      of the methods and means and a database of methods and means that provide a choice
      considering goals and existing limitations will be developed. The interactive forms for
      self-analysis and monitoring of the patient's motor activity, available for viewing by
      specialists will be developed.

      The software product, within which the interaction between patients and specialists will be
      realized, is supposed to be created in the Splunk system. The system allows to search both
      the real-time data and the archived data, based on the results of the search Splunk gives you
      the opportunity to: analyze the results with the visualization tools, generate reports and
      warnings, create a monitoring and notification systems in real time. These can be expanded -
      you can create new applications using the specialized development platform that comes with
      Splunk. The study will be attended by at least 1000 patients and their families who have
      concluded an agreement with the Medical-Rehabilitation Scientific Center "Russe pole", and
      come to the examination at least 2 times a year.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

        1. To develop a model of a detailed qualification of the health status and physical
           limitations for children treated for cancer.

        2. To develop the rules for choosing methods and means of physical therapy, dosing sessions
           for duration and intensity, depending on the qualification of the health status and the
           identified physical limitations.

        3. To create a bank of methods and means of physical therapy available for use both in a
           rehabilitation organization and at home.

        4. To develop a software product for Clinical Decision Expert System for corporate
           management of physical therapy of children treated for cancer and evaluate its
           effectiveness.
    
  