
    
      During the study period, participants will be asked to maintain their routine dietary and
      social habits to avoid changes in body weight. In addition volunteers will be asked to record
      their weights first thing in the morning on the same set of scales every week. Any changes
      can be documented in a food frequency questionnaire. Volunteers without diabetes will be
      recruited for baseline data and will not be involved in the 16-week intervention study.
      Diabetic volunteers will be randomized by BioSS in batches of ~20 people into the diabetic
      control or the diabetic fish intervention group that will be matched for gender, age and BMI.
      The diabetic control group will be asked to continue with their routine dietary habits while
      the diabetic fish intervention group will be asked to substitute poultry or red meat with 2
      tins of mackerels each week. Study kits will be posted two weeks before the study initiates
      to consenting volunteers.

      All volunteers will be asked to provide finger prick blood spots on filter paper at week 0,
      while subjects allocated to diabetic control and diabetic fish intervention groups will be
      asked to provide blood spots again at week 8 and 16. A dried blood spot (DBS) sampling kit
      containing two Whatman 903 filter papers, two lancets, alcohol pads, bandaids, guidelines on
      spotting blood on filter paper, prepaid envelope, FFQ, tinned mackerel and a fish recipe
      book. Every volunteer will be asked to prick the inside tip of a non-dominant finger and
      gently spot a total of ten circles in the filter papers. A volunteer might experience slight
      discomfort when the lancet goes into the finger. The volunteers will then allow the filter
      paper to dry for about an hour before closing the flap over the filter paper. All information
      and tools to help with obtaining the dried blood spots, as well as guidelines on how to spot
      blood on filter paper will be included with the DBS kit. Volunteers are required to spot 2
      filter papers at one collection point and post them in a pre-paid envelope complete with a
      return address.

      The DBS samples will be analyzed for omega 3 index, glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c),
      triglycerides, Vitamin D status, genetic (TCF7L2 7903146) and epigenetic marker (FADS 174546)
      of lipid and glucose control.
    
  