
    
      In this trial, the investigators propose to evaluate the role of VEGFR blockade with the
      tyrosine kinase inhibitor pazopanib in combination with nonsteroidal aromatase inhibitors
      (NSAI) in patients who are progressing or have relapsed on the same NSAI hormone therapy
      given for advanced or early stage breast cancer. If this trial demonstrates clinical benefit,
      this all oral combination could be tested in both the neoadjuvant and metastatic settings in
      a randomized phase II design.

      In order to investigate potential factors predicting response or resistance to pazopanib and
      NSAIs, several translational studies have been incorporated into this trial.

      The prognostic value of circulating tumor cells (CTC) has been demonstrated in several
      studies in breast cancer, especially in advanced stage [35-38]. At University of California,
      San Francisco (UCSF) in the laboratory of Dr. John Park, the investigators have demonstrated
      expertise in the measurement of CTC in patients with advanced stage breast cancer by IC/FC
      assay. CTC are first enriched with immunomagnetic beads coated with EpCAM, then EpCAM+,
      CD45-, nucleic acid+ cells are detected by flow cytometry. This technique is highly sensitive
      and reproducable, and allows sorting of cells for molecular analysis as well as analysis of
      cell surface markers[39]. In this trial, the investigators will collect patient's peripheral
      blood samples every 4 weeks while on treatment and follow any reduction of CTC.

      The mechanisms of hormonal resistance includes intrinsic and acquired pathways: decreased ER
      expression accounts for intrinsic resistance and the increased receptor tyrosine kinase
      pathway relates to acquired resistance [40-42]. The investigators plan to analyze the
      mutation of PI3K/Akt and deletion of PTEN by sequencing in CTC (depending on numbers of
      cells, which in turn determines feasibility), in order to make a preliminary assessment of
      potential markers of response to pazopanib.

      The tumor microenvironment plays an important role in cancer development and progression.
      Clinical studies have revealed that the increased T regulatory cells (Treg), high ratios of
      CD4/CD8 T lymphocytes, and extra follicular B cells in primary tumors correlated with worse
      overall survival [43-45]. Recently, studies from preclinical models have shown that tumor
      associated macrophages (TAM) can promote pulmonary metastases in breast cancer animal models,
      and in both the preclinical and clinical settings are associated with worse clinical outcome
      [46-48]. TGFβ has been linked to hormonal resistance in breast cancer. The activation of TGFβ
      leads to increased regulatory CD4+ T cells and decreased cytotoxic CD8+ T cells in the tumor
      microenvironment [49]. A recent study in non-small cell lung cancer suggests that baseline
      and post-treatment levels of cytokines, particularly IL-4 and IL-12 correlated with response
      to pazopanib[50]. In this study, the investigators will collect patient's serum to monitor
      the level of cytokines at baseline and during treatment, the investigators will compare the
      change of cytokine level with pazopanib in each patient, and also compare between responders
      and non-responders. This information may help us to identify biomarkers that would predict
      response to antiangiogenic therapy and to identify possible mechanisms of resistance.
    
  