
    
      Each subject will receive as part of their standard of care a spinal with sedation for
      intraoperative anesthesia.

      Subjects will be randomly assigned using computer generated allotment. The group designation
      will be placed in sealed envelopes. The group listed will determine whether or not they will
      receive dextromethorphan as part of their preoperative preincisional analgesic regimen. Only
      the pharmacist dispensing the medication will be unblinded. The drug and placebo will then be
      concealed by the pharmacist and delivered to the patient to ingest in the preoperative area.

      Group A: standard preop meds

      Group B: standard preop meds + dextromethorphan

      The standard preoperative analgesic regimen will include placement of an adductor canal
      catheter nerve block, acetaminophen 1000mg PO, oxycodone extended release 10mg PO, celecoxib
      400mg PO (held if elevated creatinine), and pantoprazole 40mg PO

      All blocks will be performed by resident trainees under the supervision of anesthesia
      regional and acute pain attendings. The continuous adductor canal nerve block will be placed
      using B-Braun "Contiplex Continuous Peripheral Nerve Block Tray", using 20g catheters.

      Intraoperative anesthesia will be performed with spinal injection using local anesthestic
      only. No opioid will be given intrathecally. Intraoperative sedation will include standard
      sedation with propofol infusion. Postoperative nausea and vomiting prophylaxis will include
      ondansetron, propofol infusion, and dexamethasone 0.1mg/kg if not contraindicated. The
      postoperative recovery room pain protocol will include the following: starting the adductor
      canal catheter infusion with "On-Q" pump dispensing ropivicaine 0.1% at 4ml/hr, oxycodone 5
      10mg po for moderate to severe pain, dilaudid 0.2mg IV q5min up to 2 mg, ketorolac 30mg
      intravenous (IV) once, and acetaminophen 1000mg intravenous once if greater than 6 hours has
      elapsed since initial preoperative dose.

      Assessments of pain using the VAS pain score will be performed in postanesthesia care unit
      (PACU) at the time of spinal block cessation by a blinded observer (recovery room nurse), and
      then subsequently every 4 hours by a registered nurse and documented in the electronic
      medical record. Initial evaluation for resolution of the spinal blockade will be performed at
      the 1 hour timepoint in the PACU.

      Assessments of opioid administration, will include all medications given and documented in
      the electronic medical record. The various time points analyzed will include intraoperative,
      PACU, and daily postoperative morphine equivalents administered to each patient.

      Postoperative followup will be done by research personnel blinded to the group distribution.
      Visual Analog Scale for Pain (VAS Pain) will be performed every 4 hours until discharge.

      On postoperative day (POD) #1, all patients will be given the Quality of Recovery (QoR)
      Questionnaire. This is recovery specific, patient rated questionnaire containing 40 items
      measuring 5 dimensions. The QoR 40 was specifically designed to measure a patient's health
      status after surgery and anesthesia, and its completion time generally ranges from 3 to 10
      min. The five dimensions measured include: the physical comfort (12 items), emotional state
      (nine items), physical independence (five items), psychological support (seven items) and
      pain (seven items). The total score and subscales of the QoR 40 are measured using a five
      point Likert scale (for positive items: 1 = none of the time, 5 = all of the time; for
      negative items, the scoring was reversed) and individual scores are then added together, with
      the minimum score being 40 points and the maximum score being 200 points.

      In addition, the study will require home follow up phone calls assessing the occurrence of
      any possible side effects or complications, pain, and postoperative opioid use. These phone
      calls will occur at POD#3 after discharge, POD #7, POD #14, and POD#28. Each of these phone
      assessments will require about 5 minutes of time. Authorized research personnel of the study
      project will be making the phone calls.
    
  