
    
      Study design We will recruit until we have 70 current smokers who want to quit at two sites
      (Univ of Vermont and Dartmouth Medical School). We will also recruit a comparison group of 70
      long-time former smokers to assist in interpretation of the results. In the first week,
      smokers will smoke their usual number of cigs/day. They will then quit and are to remain
      abstinent for 4 weeks. We will use a schedule of escalating monetary contingencies based on
      breath and saliva and/or urine samples to encourage abstinence. We will obtain dependent
      measures twice/week. The primary measures of reward responsivity will be the percent choosing
      the hard task and the amount of responding for a monetary reward on the EEfRT task and the
      score on our Rewarding Events scale. Other outcomes will be delay discounting results and
      self-reports of anhedonia and apathy.

      The study will run for 1 week pre-cessation (2 visits) and then for 4 weeks post-cessation.
      Measures and biochemical verifications will occur twice/wk. Former smokers will attend once a
      wee for four weeks.

      For the first week of abstinence, the cutoff for nonsmoking will be CO <8 ppm. For the
      remaining weeks, abstinence will be verified with a score of 0 (<10 ng/ml of cotinine) on a
      test strip in a saliva or urine sample plus a CO <8 ppm.

      At the initial session, completion of baseline surveys will describe the sample and also
      measure plausible moderators such as depression.

      We believe the most direct test of reward sensitivity is an evaluation of the influence of
      abstinence on operant responding for a reward. Thus, we have chosen performance on the Effort
      Expenditure for Rewards Task (EEfRT), which examines responding as a function of response
      cost, reward magnitude and probability of reward, as one of our primary outcomes.

      For a self-report measure we will use our Rewarding Events (RE) scale that asks both about
      occurrence of presumed rewarding events and their anticipated pleasantness. Our RE scale will
      ask participants to rate 58 items on frequency in the last week as well perceived/expected
      pleasantness of events.

      Secondary measures include the 18-item Apathy Evaluation Scale (AES), the Temporal Experience
      of Pleasure (TEPS), Minnesota Nicotine Withdrawal Scale-Revised (MNWS), and a measure of
      delay discounting (DD).
    
  