
    
      AD affects over 9 million children in the U.S. and ranks first among all skin conditions in
      global disability burden. AD often heralds the development of several comorbidities including
      asthma, food allergy, skin infections and neurodevelopmental disorders. Because of the
      significant socioeconomic impact of atopic dermatitis and its effect on the quality of life
      of children and families, there have been decades of research focused on prevention with
      limited success. Recent advances in cutaneous biology identify epidermal defects and skin
      barrier dysfunction to be the key initiators of atopic dermatitis and possibly allergic
      sensitization. Our central hypothesis is that emollient therapy from birth can prevent the
      development of AD. The findings of this trial will support the development of evidence-based
      skin care clinical guidelines for infants that currently do not exist. Recently, our
      international multi-centered clinical trial found enhancing early skin barrier function with
      daily emollient use from birth significantly reduces the risk of AD development in high-risk
      populations by 50%. With CASCADE, we extend this work into the community setting and into
      newborns unselected for risk, so results will be immediately applicable to the population at
      large and will establish a new standard of care for all newborns.

      The specific aims are as follows:

        1. Perform a community-based pragmatic randomized controlled trial investigating whether
           daily full-body emollient application starting in the first 2 months of life prevents
           atopic dermatitis in a real-world setting. The population for this trial consists of
           newborns between 0-2monthsof age, not selected for risk. Recruitment of families will
           occur during the course of routine care within primary care offices that are members of
           practice-based research networks(PBRNs).The intervention includes general skin care
           recommendations plus full-body daily lipid-rich emollient use. The control population
           will receive general skin care advice only and refrain from daily emollient use. The
           primary outcome will be the cumulative incidence of atopic dermatitis at age 24 months
           as determined by blinded clinicians trained in the diagnosis of AD. Key secondary
           clinical outcomes include time to disease onset and incidence of self-reported food
           allergy and wheeze using parental questionnaires.

        2. As an exploratory aim, determine whether a family history of allergic disease and key
           early life exposures such as pet ownership modify the preventive effect of emollient
           therapy on atopic dermatitis. While the primary objective of this clinical trial is to
           determine the effectiveness of an emollient intervention in a real-world setting, data
           will be gathered on allergy history in the family and pet ownership-variables that may
           modify the effect of emollient therapy. Future implementation studies may target
           subpopulations found most likely to benefit from emollient intervention.

      Twenty-five primary care clinics that participate in PBRNs from Oregon, Colorado, Wisconsin
      and North Carolina are the setting for the study protocol. The expected results from this
      project would represent a major public health breakthrough with the potential for reducing
      the atopic disease burden on a global scale.
    
  