
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the feasibility of conducting a randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial
           for cognitive symptoms in female breast cancer survivors.

      Secondary

        -  Estimate the variability of the clinical outcomes (FACT-Cognition Perceived Cognitive
           Impairment subscale, neurocognitive battery, FACIT-Fatigue, FACT Cog Total Score, PROMIS
           Fatigue, Epworth Sleepiness Scale, Beck Depression Inventory, Beck Anxiety Inventory,
           and RAND Short Form-36).

        -  Estimate the within patient correlation over time of the clinical outcomes.

        -  Obtain preliminary estimates of the effect of donepezil on the primary and secondary
           outcome variables.

        -  Correlate the reports of fatigue, sleep disturbance, and mood with measures of cognitive
           symptoms and neurocognitive test performance.

        -  Document the severity of cognitive symptoms and functional impairment in female breast
           cancer survivors who enroll on this pilot study.

        -  Correlate cognitive symptoms with cognitive test performance.

        -  Document the toxicities associated with donepezil hydrochloride use.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to menopausal status (pre- vs peri-/post-menopausal) and time since
      end of chemotherapy (12-36 months vs 36.01-60 months).

      Arm I: Patients receive donepezil hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD).

      Arm II: Patients receive placebo PO QD.

      In both arms treatment continues for 24 weeks.

      Patients complete the entire battery of neurocognitive tests and questionnaires
      (FACT-Cognition Perceived Cognitive Impairment subscale, neurocognitive battery,
      FACIT-Fatigue, FACT Cog Total Score, PROMIS Fatigue, Epworth Sleepiness Scale, Beck
      Depression Inventory, Beck Anxiety Inventory, and RAND Short Form-36) at baseline
      (pre-treatment), 24 weeks (end of medication), and 36 weeks (end of wash-out).

      After completion of therapy, patients are followed at 12 weeks.
    
  