
    
      <Health Coach Intervention > The investigators connected participants at enrollment (median
      gestation of 12.5 weeks, IQR: 11-15) with a trained health coach who called participants
      every 2-3 weeks until 36 weeks of gestation. During these phone calls, health coaches helped
      participants adopt and maintain new healthful lifestyle behaviors that were evidence-based,
      simple, and easy to track. Goals aimed to promote appropriate gestational weight gain and
      covered several domains including diet, physical activity, screen time, and sleep.

      During the first call, health coaches invited participants to prioritize these goals
      according to their level of self-efficacy, readiness to change, preferences, and values.
      Throughout the intervention, health coaches used principles of motivational interviewing that
      relied on a patient-centered approach to enhance readiness to change by exploring ambivalence
      and resistance to change. In addition to setting personal goals, health coaches also
      presented optimal goals for ideal cardiovascular health.

      During follow-up calls, health coaches monitored progress and helped adjust goals when
      necessary (e.g. too many goals, or the goal was too ambitious). Health coaches also addressed
      barriers and potential solutions with participants, and helped them target higher goal
      settings or select novel goals when participants attained them. Health coaches sent emails or
      text messages depending on participant preferences to check-in about progress toward goals or
      clinical appointments between calls. Research staff (including an MD) met weekly with health
      coaches to review their conversations with participants, and to address any medical issues to
      ensure that it would be reported to the primary care provider obstetric team if appropriate.

      <Study Design and Sample> Participants completed baseline (N=30) and follow-up (N=26) surveys
      at the end of the intervention as well as follow-up phone interviews (N=18). Surveys
      collected information on demographics, attitudes related to weight status and pregnancy,
      opinions about the intervention, and included food frequency questions . Interviews followed
      a guide of open-ended questions to determine insights on what helped achieve goals,
      motivation, opinions of the health coach intervention, and areas for improvement. One study
      staff member, who has experience with qualitative data collection, conducted all of the
      individual interviews. This study was approved by the Harvard Pilgrim Health Care Human
      Studies Committee.
    
  