
    
      Currently the number of SARS-CoV-2 positive patients are increasing worldwide and healthcare
      systems are attempting to cope with the massive pressure that this pandemic results in. Given
      the highly infectious virus and the relatively high mortality, this pandemic will likely
      result in many thousand casualties. Interventions are direly needed.

      During the early reports of the pandemic it quickly became apparent that mortality was
      primarily attributed to the elderly population. Indeed, the mortality rate of young adults
      was around 0.2% while elderly Covid-19 patients displayed a mortality rate of ~20%. Thus,
      fatality rates increase ~100 fold when comparing young adults to elderly individuals.

      A major event in aging is the loss of the central metabolite nicotinamide adenine
      dinucleotide (NAD+) that appear to be important in the proinflammatory environment that occur
      during aging. Notably, recent work from our and other groups suggest that aging can be
      ameliorated by even a short-term treatment of the NAD+ precursor nicotinamide riboside.
      Nicotinamide riboside has recently been shown to be able to return aging tissues to a younger
      state even after short term treatment. This vitamin B3- analog is naturally occurring, is
      readily taken up through oral administration and has been tested in human trials with few
      side effects. The purpose of this aim is to investigate if nicotinamide riboside can reduce
      the severity of COVID-19 in patients aged 70 or older.

      The elderly population is particularly problematic because long term respirator use for these
      patients is connected with a substantial mortality risk. Interventions that can keep them
      from fulminant respiratory failure is therefore of critical importance.

      1.2 Study treatment: Nicotinamide riboside Nicotinamide riboside (NR-E, supplied by Elysium
      Health) is a naturally occurring vitamin B3 analog produced by yeast and found in multiple
      food products at low concentration. Many organisms including humans cannot produce
      nicotinamide riboside but have evolved methods to convert this into the central redox
      modulator NAD+.

      The efficacy and safety of nicotinamide riboside has been tested in a number of studies in
      both healthy controls and in patients suffering from metabolic disease, a risk factor for an
      adverse outcome of COVID-19 patients. Since this is a natural compound widely found in nature
      no subjects have yet developed allergic responses to the molecule, and repeated doses of up
      to 2 g orally per day have demonstrated an acceptable safety profile.

      No treatment-emergent adverse events have so far been reported for nicotinamide riboside

      1.3 Rationale NAD+ is emerging as a central metabolic molecule involved in multiple
      age-related pathways including inflammation and metabolic control. Notably, 2 weeks
      nicotinamide riboside treatment increases metabolic output, normalizes muscle function and
      reverses hypoxic responses in old mice. Recently, NAD+ has been shown to positively activate
      the inflammatory response in various tissue and may be involved in polarizing macrophages
      towards the M1 lineage and facilitate resolution of inflammation. Previously it was shown
      that SARS-CoV-1 evades activation of the immune response and exogenous activation of
      macrophages leads to a better outcome of SARS-CoV-1 infection. Thus, activation of elderly
      macrophages via NAD+ replenishment could be an efficacious strategy in COVID-19 patients. In
      addition, NAD+ replenishment may facilitate overall greater resilience of elderly patients
      considering the anti-aging effects of nicotinamide riboside allowing these patients to better
      cope with infections.

      1.4 Rationale for study design and doses The purpose of this study is to investigate whether
      nicotinamide riboside supplementation can attenuate the severity of SARS-CoV-2 infections.
      The chosen dosage is 1 g per day given orally. This is lower than 2 g previously given to
      healthy elderly individuals, however, this particular patient population have not been
      treated with nicotinamide riboside previously so a slightly lower dose was chosen. In
      addition, there is data suggesting that NAD+ regulates circadian rhythm and the dose is
      therefore given in the morning.

      The study design is as follows: Elderly patients (>70 years old) seen with suspected COVID-19
      at Bispebjerg hospital that are not requiring oxygen therapy are subjected to a COVID-19
      test. The patients will be asked if they want to participate in this trial. If the patients
      agree and if the COVID-19 test is positive the patients will be randomized to either placebo
      or 1g nicotinamide riboside daily. Previous work has shown an efficacious increase in NAD+
      levels combined with better physiological outcomes after 2 weeks treatment in preclinical
      trials. The investigators will therefore treat patients for 2 weeks total with a primary
      outcome of the study being hypoxic respiratory failure as defined by needing oxygen therapy.
      The patients will be evaluated in the ambulatory at day 7 and after the treatment ends at day
      14. Follow up in the ambulatory will occur three months after enrollment. If a patient is
      admitted to the hospital during the treatment period the treatment continues for the full two
      weeks. To evaluate outcomes, untargeted metabolomics and the NAD-ome will be measured in
      peripheral blood mononucleated cells (PBMCs) upon enrolment, at day 7 and immediately after
      the study as well as at follow up three months later. Changes in the epigenetic landscape is
      a strong biomarker of age and is affected by NAD+ and epigenetic evaluation will be performed
      in the PBMCs. Next generation machine learning data analysis will be applied to identify
      predictors of clinical outcome.
    
  