
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the efficacy of cisplatin, etoposide, and thoracic radiotherapy followed by
           cisplatin, etoposide, monoclonal antibody 11D10 anti-idiotype vaccine (TriAb), and
           monoclonal antibody GD2 anti-idiotype vaccine (TriGem), in terms of overall and
           progression-free survival of patients with limited stage small cell lung cancer.

        -  Determine the immune response to each of the 2 anti-idiotype vaccines when used in this
           regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the qualitative and quantitative toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the response rates (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial) in
           patients with measurable disease treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, 29, and 36
           and etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 1-5 and 29-33. Thoracic radiotherapy is
           administered 5 days a week, beginning on day 1 of chemotherapy, for 5 weeks. Patients
           then undergo radiotherapy boost for 1.5 weeks.

      Patients with stable disease or at least partial response proceed to consolidation therapy.

        -  Consolidation therapy (begins within 3-5 weeks of the last dose of induction
           chemotherapy or radiotherapy): Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1 and
           etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 1-3 of weeks 11 and 14. Patients also receive
           monoclonal antibody 11D10 anti-idiotype vaccine (TriAb) and monoclonal antibody GD2
           anti-idiotype vaccine (TriGem) intradermally on day 1 of weeks 11, 13, 15, and 17 (4
           injections) and then monthly subcutaneously for 2 years. Treatment continues in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients who achieve complete response after consolidation chemotherapy undergo cranial
      radiotherapy 5 days a week for 3 weeks.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 90 patients will be accrued for this study within 18 months.
    
  