
    
      This is an open label, multicenter, 6 week study of the conversion from oral selegiline to
      orally disintegrating selegiline in PD patients with or without motor fluctuations, and
      currently taking levodopa. The study consists of the substitution of the oral selegiline with
      1.25 mg of orally disintegrating selegiline for 10 days, and up titration of orally
      disintegrating selegiline to 2.5 mg per day for the next 30 days. The study will consist of 2
      study visits in the clinic: Baseline and Day 40, and a telephone visit at Day 10.

      Inclusion Criteria:

      1. Idiopathic PD confirmed by at least two of the following signs: resting tremor,
      bradykinesia, rigidity 2. Male or female outpatients 3. Age 30-90 years 4. Current use of
      levodopa and oral selegiline (5-10 mg /day), stable for at least 1 month and well tolerated
      5. Positive treatment response to current anti-parkinsonian medications in the opinion of the
      investigator 6. Acceptable contraception for females of child bearing potential 7. Willing
      and able to comply with study procedures. 8. Willing and able to give written informed
      consent prior to beginning any study procedures.

      Exclusion Criteria:

      1. Atypical parkinsonism due to drugs, metabolic disorders, encephalitis, trauma, or other
      neurodegenerative diseases. 2. Significant cognitive or psychiatric impairment which, in the
      opinion of the investigator, would interfere with the ability to complete all the tests
      required in the protocol. 3. Participation in another clinical drug trial within the previous
      four weeks. 4. Patients on any medications contraindicated with Zelapar (including
      meperidine/Demerol, tramadol, methadone, propoxyphene, dextromethorphan, other selegiline
      products) 5. Patients with a known hypersensitivity to any formulation of selegiline or any
      of the inactive ingredients of Zelapar, or previous exposure to orally disintegrating
      selegiline 6. History of melanoma 7. Unstable/uncontrolled medical problems 8. History of
      drug/alcohol abuse 9. Patients currently taking rasagiline

      The primary efficacy point is number of subjects who prefer Zydis selegiline vs. the number
      who prefer oral selegiline, or have no preference. Descriptive statistics will be used to
      present the percentages of persons and adverse event resolutions. The secondary endpoints
      will include changes in the UPDRS, PDQ-8, BDI, FSS, ESS, ratings of global improvement and
      change in dyskinesia from Baseline to the Day 40 visit. Appropriate parametric (t-tests) and
      non-parametric analyses (Wilcoxon signed rank comparisons) will be conducted based on the
      scale being analyzed. An intent to treat approach will be used in which all subjects
      receiving at least one dose of study medication will be included in the analyses.
    
  