
    
      Main objective :

      The main objective of the study was to determine in patients with morbid obesity waiting for
      bariatric surgery, the accuracy of non-invasive tests for diagnosis of severe steatosis and /
      or NASH.

      The gold standard is liver biopsy with a morphometric study.

      Non-invasive tests will be used:

        -  Serum tests: the FibroMax (which includes the NASH test, FibroTest and SteatoTest) and
           FibroMeter.

        -  Radiological examinations: MRI and FibroScan / CAP

      Secondary objectives :

      The secondary objectives are:

        1. to determine the accuracy of these non-invasive tests for the diagnosis of severe
           steatosis alone, steatohepatitis (NASH or) and hepatic fibrosis

        2. to determine the best combination of these tests to better evaluate the presence of
           severe steatosis, NASH and a hepatic fibrosis.

        3. to quantify MRI visceral and subcutaneous fat in morbidly obese patients

      Research Design :

        1. Judging Criteria

           Primary endpoint To validate the use of serum tests, FibroScan / CAP abdominal MRI for
           the diagnosis of severe steatosis and / or NASH (specificity, sensitivity, positive and
           negative predictive values). The gold standard is the result of histology on liver
           biopsy, with a morphometric study. For each diagnostic test, a ROC curve is used to
           determine the best compromise between sensitivity and specificity.

           The histological diagnosis of severe steatosis is defined by the presence of hepatic
           steatosis grade 3 or higher. The diagnosis of NASH is defined by the presence of lobular
           inflammation with neutrophils and hepatocytes ballooning.

           Secondary endpoints

           - Histological lesions of liver fibrosis Quantification of abdominal fat by MRI (in the
           form of three variables of interest: quantification of the surface of the visceral fat
           from the surface of the subcutaneous fat and the amount of intrahepatic fat assessed by
           the percentage loss of signal).

        2. Methodology and expected number of patients in research

           This is a prospective study evaluating the value of noninvasive tests for the diagnosis
           of hepatic lesions in morbid obese patients. The MRI system "open" allows access to
           obese patients. Three such systems are available in France and liver pathology is
           supported only on the system of Louis Mourier.

           The reference method is liver histology; tests studied are MRI abdominal Fibroscan /
           CAP, and serum tests (FibroTest, FibroMeter, SteatoTest, NASH test).

           The study will be conducted in 200 obese patients who will have a liver biopsy performed
           during bariatric surgery:

             -  Tests for the detection of steatosis (fat quantification of intrahepatic MRI
                measurement of steatosis by CAP, serum tests) and evaluating histological steatosis
                (main objective)

             -  Tests for the detection of NASH (test serum) and histology

             -  Tests of fibrosis (serum tests; FibroScan) and histological data assessing
                fibrosis.

           The duration and extent of obesity (BMI) and biological data (HOMA-test) will be taken
           into account.

        3. Examinations required specifically for research

           Liver biopsy is routinely performed intraoperatively in the routine monitoring of
           patients for bariatric surgery, examinations specific to the research are:

             -  Serum tests

             -  FibroScan / CAP

             -  Abdominal MRI

           Risk / risk absences The sting at blood sampling can cause the formation of a small
           hematoma without gravity, which will subside spontaneously within a few days.

           FibroScan ® / CAP presents no risk of side effects. Liver MRI shows no risk if the
           cons-indications are respected. Wearing a stack (pacemaker) or any element that contains
           the iron near the eyes or head are contra-indications as are a major risk factor (risk
           of death, blindness). The presence of a heart valve or a stent (also called metal
           prosthesis) is not an absolute contra-indication-and their compatibility with MRI will
           be verified before completion of the examination, as is the case in practice clinic ..

           Liver biopsy, which is part of the examinations carried out in a systematic way without
           any protocol adds no additional risk to the surgical

        4. Study site

           The study will be conducted at Louis Mourier, a reference center for the treatment of
           obesity, which has an open system allowing access to obese.

        5. Indications for bariatric surgery

      Indications for bariatric surgery at Louis Mourier, a reference center for the treatment of
      obesity, are consistent with the recommendations of the HAS in 2009, based on professional
      consensus.

      Surgery is indicated in patients with all of the following criteria:

        1. BMI ≥ 40 or BMI ≥ 35 with comorbid

        2. failure (s) prior (s) of the conventional treatment of obesity combined dietary,
           physical activity and behavioral therapy

        3. appraisal nutritionally: global, personal and non-surgical

        4. considered only after medical treatment for a minimum of 1 year

        5. well-informed and motivated patients, with acceptable surgical risks

        6. obesity stable (or worsening) for five years

        7. absence of endocrine pathology (adrenal, thyroid) may be due to obesity
    
  