
    
      Data was collected between June 2015 and April 2016. The data set included 4 parts;
      introducing interviews, participant observation, concluding interviews and questionnaires.

      The introducing interview is conducted as a semi-structured interview with an interview
      guide. An informal approach is chosen to help along the report needed for the participant
      observation. The interview is recorded.

      During participant observations, the participant is accompanied by the researcher, as he goes
      about his daily life. The researcher is participating in his activities to the extend it is
      possible, carrying out spontaneous informal interviews along the way taking cues from the
      situation, as is inherent to the participation of the researcher during participant
      observations. Field jottings are done discretely, during breaks in the observation or
      afterwards, on dictaphone or computer, in order to keep the relation informal, and not
      redirect the attention to the fact that they were being observed.

      The concluding interview is performed as a natural ending of the collaboration between
      researcher and participant. It is performed as a semi-structured interview with an interview
      guide, and the central point is to confirm and elaborate on findings of the observation. The
      interview is recorded.

      Pictures are taken of relevant artefacts or sceneries through all visits between participant
      and researcher, with the consent of the participants. Pictures are a part of the dataset on
      equal terms with observational notes and interview transcriptions.

      In the questionnaire, baseline information such as educational level and self-rated health is
      gathered along with measurement of eHealth literacy (eHLQ) and health literacy (HLQ), both
      multidimensional validated psychometric instruments with seven and nine dimensions
      respectively, in order to relate the demography of this first study to the later studies of
      the emil project. The questionnaire is not used in the analysis of this study.

      All data is collected before beginning familiarization and analysis of data.

      Data analysis and interpretation The data set is analyzed using an inductive thematic
      analysis as described by Braun and Clarke (2006). All interviews and observations are
      conducted by the first author. Interviews, both introducing and concluding, are transcribed
      verbatim except for parts not included in the dataset, such as parts where the formal
      information about the study is given and written consent obtained or parts where practical
      arrangements are made.

      All observational data are written together in one document from each visit. All pictures are
      included in the dataset. Familiarization with the data will be by listening and relistenning,
      reading and rereading through the dataset.

      The thematic analysis will be performed by coding, processing and interpretation of data
      using the qualitative research software Nvivo11. Codes are re-read, discussed in the research
      group, re-coded and themed as outlined by the phases of Braun and Clarke, ending up with a
      thematic map.
    
  