
    
      This was a single-site, randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, parallel-group clinical
      trial. Potential patients were identified in the pre-natal period by staff of the Thomas
      Jefferson University Family center. Mothers who provided consent were contacted upon
      admission to TJUH. Inclusion and exclusion criteria were reassessed during the peri-partum
      period and study details reviewed again with the mother, and where possible, the father of
      the child. Women admitted to TJUH with in utero exposure to opioids who are not in the Family
      Center present were screened and approached for consent during their inpatient stay.

      Infants at risk for NAS had abstinence assessed using the MOTHER scoring instrument, which is
      based upon Finnegan Score and will hereafter be called the "NAS score". This is the standard
      instrument used at TJUH. A need for initiation of treatment was defined as any consecutive 3
      scores adding up to ≥ 24 or any single score ≥12, and the clinical decision of the attending
      physician that the infant requires pharmacologic therapy. Randomization took place following
      reaching of the threshold for initiation of treatment and a re-review of inclusion and
      exclusion criteria. Patients were randomized to treatment groups of 1) oral
      morphine/sublingual placebo for buprenorphine or 2) oral placebo for morphine/sublingual
      buprenorphine. Randomization was stratified according to in utero exposure to methadone or
      buprenorphine. Oral morphine or placebo for morphine was administered by mouth every 4 hours,
      while buprenorphine or placebo for buprenorphine was administered every 8 hours. NAS scores
      were obtained every 4 hours. Dose assessment took place on a daily basis. If the three
      previous NAS scores are greater than 24, a dose advancement took place (at the discretion of
      the neonatologist). Morphine/placebo will be increased by 20% and buprenorphine/placebo will
      be increased by 25%. NNNS scoring took place for all infants who provide consent at day 2-3
      of life, or earlier if pharmacologic treatment is required before this time, on day 10 of
      life, and in the post therapy period (but no later than corrected post gestational age of 46
      weeks).
    
  