
    
      The purpose of this protocol is to advance the understanding of the behavioral neurobiology
      underlying substance dependency by exploring regional brain activity in response to
      appetitive and aversive stimuli in human subjects. In this protocol, brain activation is the
      dependent measure, as measured by blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) signal acquired
      during functional magnetic resonance (fMRI) imaging. Previous work in this laboratory has
      found that cues of anticipated monetary reward versus threat of negative reinforcement causes
      increased BOLD signal in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) and other parts of the ventral
      striatum. This protocol is intended to extend these findings by exploring whether the
      recently reported BOLD activation (a hemodynamic response) in certain brain regions in
      response to motivational cues can be perturbed by dopaminergic pharmacological manipulations.

      In a series of two, repeated-measures, within-subject experiments, we propose to temporarily
      alter subjects' brain monoamine neurotransmitter systems with pharmacological interventions
      prior to presenting the subjects with appetitive and aversive visual stimuli as well as cues
      signaling potential punishment and reward. In the first experiment, brain catecholamine
      systems will be deactivated by dietary restrictions of amino acid precursors Tyrosine (Tyr)
      and Phenylalanine (Phe), respectively. In the second experiment, the brain dopamine (DA)
      release will be transiently increased with administration of dextroamphetamine (Amph). Based
      on a wealth of existent findings, we predict that acutely enhancing synaptic DA by Amph will
      augment reward-elicited activation in the ventral striatum. Conversely, acute dietary
      restriction of the DA precursor Tyr, (along with Tyr precursor Phe) will blunt this
      activation. Since substance use disorders (SUD) such as alcoholism may result from disordered
      neural systems regulating approach and avoidance behavior (with respect to the substance),
      this experiment can yield useful knowledge relevant to SUD.
    
  