
    
      Introduction:

      The measurement of regional distribution of breath sound intensity within the human thorax
      during respiration using computerized lung sound analysis has generated interest as a
      possible diagnostic modality. Using normal breath sound distribution as a reference, abnormal
      distributions of sound energy can be used to identify potential pathological states.
      Vibration Response Imaging (VRI) utilizes such technology.

      VRI processes lung sound recordings and generates a dynamic representation of this sound
      energy distribution on a computer screen using a grey-scale coding. Air turbulence within the
      airways and the consequent vibrations that are generated are captured by multiple
      piezoelectric contact sensors, which have been placed on the skin of the patient. The signals
      are processed by band-pass (150-250 Hz) filtering to eliminate heart sounds and chest wall
      movements. These filtered signals are then combined, sliced over 0.17 second intervals, and
      converted into a sequence of dynamic images that reflect regional sound vibration energies
      against a time axis. Lung vibration energy is presented on the screen in various grey shades
      from black in maximum energy areas to white in zero energy areas. Pilot data suggest that VRI
      can distinguish breath sounds in normal patients from those with intra-thoracic pathology
      based on distinctive patterns of vibration energy. Reproducibility of VRI recordings and
      consistency of inter-observer interpretation have also been documented.

      Aim:

      To assess the diagnostic capability of Vibration Response Imaging (VRI) in the evaluation of
      pulmonary disease (Subjects presenting as pulmonary inpatients and outpatients). Chest
      auscultation and other diagnostic modalities that have been used as part of standard of care
      (eg. chest radiograph, CT scans and thoracic ultrasound) will be used as the reference gold
      standard to compare against.

      Methods:

      All adult (≥ 21 years old) patients (inpatients and outpatients) under the care of the
      Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine between 1/07/2008 and 31/05/2009 will be
      considered eligible. Children may have too small body sizes for the current standard sensors
      and will not be recruited. Other inclusion criteria will be ability to provide informed
      consent.

      Exclusion criteria: Conditions that will prevent the placement of sensors oh the patients
      back such as bony/chest wall deformity and contagious skin conditions. The presence of a
      pacemakers and pregnancy are also considered contraindications because of the yet undefined
      safety issues associated with these conditions.

      Patients who have signed informed consent will be asked to sit upright with their back
      exposed. Those unable to sit up will have the sensors slid under them while in the supine
      position.

      Recordings will be then performed using the VRI device (Deep Breeze™, Or Akiva, Israel).
      Forty-two sensors that are assembled on 2 planar arrays will be placed on subject's back.
      Each row of 3 sensors is held in place by silicone cups that are coupled to the patient's
      back by a computer-controlled low vacuum seal. Prior to the application of the sensors, the
      patient's back will be wiped clean with an alcohol-free wet wipe to remove perspiration and
      dirt debris.

      Patients will be recorded for 12 seconds while asked to breathe deeply in and out. Forced
      exhalations are discouraged. Each 12-second recording usually include 3-4 respiratory cycles.
      Most patients need to be coached on the breathing technique for 1-2 minutes by the recording
      physician. An average of 2-3 recordings will be made at each setting to ensure that a
      reproducible image could be attained.

      The principal investigator was trained in the recording and interpretation at Harvard
      University. The co-investigators have been trained by the principal investigator and are
      familiar with the machine because it has been on trial with the department.

      The VRI recordings will be interpreted by the study doctors and by the Deep Breeze (Company
      manufacturing VRI equipment) scientist. None of the patient's personal or clinical
      information will be released to Deep Breeze Pte Ltd.

      No additional tests or investigations will be performed on the patients. They will receive
      management as per standard of care. The VRI recordings will be compared against standard
      physical examination and diagnostic investigations that the patients would have had anyway.
      Therefore, patients will not be paid any monetary compensation for their participation in the
      trial.

      Data management

      Information that will be collected is described in the Case Report Form (Appendix A). All
      clinical data will be stored in the locked department office of the Principal Investigator
      for a period of 2 years after the completion of the trial for the purpose of data analysis.
      The patient's VRI recordings will remain on the VRI machine which is also password protected.
      For the purpose of analysis, the recordings may be downloaded on to CDs and sent to Deep
      Breeze. These recordings will contain no personal information except de-identified subject
      code numbers.

      Statistics

      As this is an exploratory trial to test the feasibility of a novel technology, there is no
      basis for sample size collection. An arbitrary figure of 200 was chosen because this was felt
      to be achievable within the trial period. We will attempt to correlate the VRI findings with
      the physical examination and other diagnostic modalities for individual disease states
      depending on the clinical diagnosis (e.g. asthma, bronchiectasis, pneumonia, emphysema, heart
      failure, effusion, pneumothorax) with the hope of finding reliable patterns that will enable
      a diagnosis solely based on VRI. Sensitivity and specificity will be calculated for each
      condition
    
  