
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To evaluate the response rate in patients with previously untreated stage II-IV
           follicular non-Hodgkin lymphoma treated with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin
           hydrochloride, vincristine sulfate, and prednisone (R-CHOP) in combination with iodine I
           131 tositumomab.

        -  To evaluate the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  To estimate the 3-year progression-free survival rate in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  To estimate the 5-year progression-free and overall survival rate in patients treated
           with this regimen.

        -  To assess the safety profile of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive R-CHOP* comprising rituximab IV, cyclophosphamide
           IV, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, and vincristine sulfate IV on day 1 and oral
           prednisone once daily on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses
           in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with at least
           stable disease then proceed to consolidation therapy.

      NOTE: *Patients receive R-CHOP in courses 1-4 and CHOP alone in courses 5 and 6.

        -  Consolidation therapy: Within 12 weeks after completion of induction therapy, patients
           receive tositumomab IV over 1 hour followed by a dosimetric dose of iodine I 131
           tositumomab IV over 20 minutes. Patients then undergo whole body gamma camera scans over
           a 1-week period to determine the rate of total body clearance of radioactivity and the
           therapeutic dose of iodine I 131 tositumomab. Within 7-14 days after the dosimetric
           dose, patients receive tositumomab IV over 1 hour followed by a therapeutic dose of
           iodine I 131 tositumomab IV over 20 minutes. Patients with at least stable disease then
           proceed to maintenance therapy.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Beginning approximately 1 year after study entry and no more than
           28 days after restaging, patients receive rituximab IV every 3 months for up to 4 years
           (16 courses) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of maintenance therapy, patients are followed annually for up to 7 years.
      Patients who do not complete maintenance therapy are followed every 6 months for 2 years and
      then annually for up to 7 years.
    
  