
    
      Aim 1- Pilot: In the 1-year initial pilot period, the investigators will identify the
      contextual factors, facilitators and barriers that may impact the implementation of a
      preschool-based health promotion educational program in Harlem, using qualitative research
      methods: 1) focus group discussions among teachers; 2) focus group discussions among
      community leaders; and 3) focus group discussions among parents of preschool-aged children.

      Subsidiary Aim 1.1: To use identified facilitators and barriers to develop a contextually and
      culturally appropriate model for a preschool-based health promotion educational program.

      Subsidiary Aim 1.2: To implement a pilot intervention of the contextually and culturally
      adapted program at two preschools in Harlem. The investigators will assess for acceptability
      and feasibility, and make any necessary modifications prior to the implementation of the
      cluster-randomized trial.

      Aim 2- Randomization: To evaluate the effectiveness of the preschool-based health promotion
      educational program on KAH-BEA: knowledge (K), attitudes (A), habits (H), BMI Z score (B),
      exercise (E) and Alimentation (A)(KAH-BEA) of approximately 600 preschool children, using a
      composite questionnaire-based score (KAH score) measuring the parameters related to the
      domains of diet, physical activity, health of the body and heart, and management of emotions,
      and weight and physical activity.

      The investigators hypothesize that preschool children receiving the health promotion
      educational program will demonstrate a higher composite KAH score than controls.

      The investigators hypothesize that a higher proportion of preschool children receiving the
      health promotion educational program will be eutrophic (B) than controls.

      The investigators hypothesize that preschool children receiving the health promotion
      educational program will show higher levels of exercise and physical activity (E) and
      healthier diets (A) than controls.

      For Aim 2, approximately 600 preschool children will be recruited from 15 schools in Harlem,
      NY, and perform a 3:2 (3 intervention: 2 control) cluster randomization of the schools. The
      preschool children will receive the intensive educational program for a period of four
      months. The primary assessments mentioned in Aim 2 will occur at approximately five months.
      At that time, the control schools will crossover to receive the educational program over the
      next four months.

      Saliva will be collected from all children with assent. Saliva will be used to isolate DNA.
      The investigators will integrate this information with the one obtained from pre- and
      post-intervention blood adult samples to identify network models and predictors of primary
      prevention outcomes.

      Aim 3-Sustainability: To evaluate the sustainability of the impact of a preschool-based
      health promotion educational program on the KAH-BEA of preschool children.

      The investigators hypothesize the impact of an up to 4-month health promotion education
      program on the knowledge, attitudes, health, BMI, exercise level and diet of preschool
      children will be sustained out to 24 months.

      For Aim 3, the preschool children will continue to be follow after all of them have received
      the educational intervention, up to approximately 24 months. The completion of this project
      will allow the assessment of effectiveness of multilevel approaches that intervene on
      children's environments and that aim to alter early life systems will prove to be effective
      in improving health habits in children and caregivers. The long-term expectation for these
      interventions is that they will reduce adolescent and adult obesity in these children and
      lead to improved CVD outcomes.
    
  