
    
      Patients will be stratified by the molecular and histologic characteristics of their tumor to
      one of three treatment strata.

      STRATUM A:

        -  Combination Treatment: ribociclib and gemcitabine.

        -  Patient Population: Participants with a diagnosis of refractory or recurrent
           medulloblastoma (Group 3/4) or refractory or recurrent ependymoma (including:
           ependymoma, not otherwise specified (NOS), WHO Grade III; ependymoma, RELA fusion
           positive; anaplastic ependymoma; ependymoma, NOS, WHO grade II).

      STRATUM B:

        -  Combination Treatment: ribociclib and trametinib.

        -  Patient Population: Participants with a diagnosis of one of the following refractory or
           recurrent CNS diseases: medulloblastoma [sonic hedgehog (SHH)], medulloblastoma (WNT),
           high grade glioma (including: high grade glioma, (NOS), WHO Grade III or IV; anaplastic
           astrocytoma, IDH mutant; glioblastoma, IDH-wildtype; glioblastoma, IDH-mutant; diffuse
           midline glioma, H3K27-mutant; anaplastic oligodendroglioma, IDH mutant and
           1p/19q-codeleted; anaplastic pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma) or select central nervous
           system (CNS) embryonal tumors (including: embryonal tumors with multilayered rosettes,
           C19MC-altered; embryonal tumors with multilayered rosettes, not otherwise specified
           (NOS); medulloepithelioma; CNS neuroblastoma; CNS ganglioneuroblastoma; CNS embryonal
           tumor, NOS; atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor; CNS embryonal tumor with rhabdoid
           features).

      STRATUM C:

        -  Combination Treatment: ribociclib and sonidegib.

        -  Patient Populations: Participants with refractory or recurrent medulloblastoma (SHH) >6
           months off smoothened inhibitor, presence of 9q loss or PTCH1 mutant, skeletally mature.

      The rolling 6 design will be used separately in each stratum to estimate the MTD or RP2D and
      determine the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) of the combination of escalating doses. Therapy
      will be administered in cycles of 28 days and may be continued for up to 24 months (26
      cycles) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Stratum A
      participants may continue therapy past 24 months in absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients will receive doublet therapy in cycles of 28 days. The dose-limiting toxicity
      (DLT)-evaluation period will consist of the first cycle (i.e. first 4 weeks of therapy).
      Research participants will be evaluated at least once a week during the DLT-evaluation period
      and at regular intervals thereafter. Standard (e.g., physical exam, blood tests, and disease
      evaluations) tests will be obtained at regular intervals. Research-associated evaluations
      (e.g., pharmacokinetic studies, etc.) will also be obtained during therapy. Treatment may be
      continued for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Stratum A participants may continue past 2 years in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.
    
  