
    
      Dental implants have become in the past ten years a popular and promising treatment in the
      rehabilitation of missing teeth. However, using implants depends on adequate alveolar bone
      volume. Anatomical restrictions are mostly present in posterior mandibular and maxillary
      regions. Alveolar bone loss usually occurs because of active periodontal disease, trauma or
      teeth extractions.

      Teeth extractions are associated with some loss of alveolar bone in the horizontal and
      vertical dimensions. This loss is more pronounced when teeth are extracted because of
      periodontal disease. Bone grafts from different origins (autogenic, allogenic, xenogenic or
      alloplastic) can partly reduce the alveolar bone loss. Different ridge preservation
      techniques were succesfully used in clinical trials, using membranes only or as a combination
      of membranes and bone substitutes.

      Synthetic bone grafts have been proven successfully for ridge preservation. Calcium sulfate
      is the oldest material, being in use in dentistry for more than 30 years , and in orthopedics
      for more than 100 years . Calcium sulfate is completely absorbed and constitutes a matrix on
      wich bone is able to grow (osteoconductive). It does not induce inflammation and doesn't
      alter calcium levels in the blood flow.Previous studies has shown that calcium sulfate is
      completely replaced by bone. On the other hand, fast absorption of calcium sulfates can alter
      the dimensional stability of the graft. Adding Hydroxy Appatite may improve stability during
      bone remodeling.

      This study includes patients who need extractions of incisors, canines or premolars. The
      extraction sockets must be mostly intact with a maximum 4 mm of one wall missing in the
      vertical dimension.

      30 patients who need extractions from region of interest, with no extended bony defects, will
      be enrolled from the department of Periodontology, school of graduate dentistry, Rambam
      Health Care Campus
    
  