
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. The primary objective is to determine the maximally tolerated dose (MTD) of AUY922 (Hsp90
      inhibitor AUY922) as a single agent when administered intravenously (IV) on a once-weekly
      schedule to adult patients 75 years of age or older with advanced solid tumors whose disease
      has progressed despite standard therapy or for whom no standard therapy exists.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize the safety and tolerability of treatment with AUY922. II. To characterize
      the pharmacokinetic profiles of AUY922, including the parent drug and any potential
      metabolites.

      III. To determine the efficacy of AUY922 in elderly patients with measurable disease.

      IV. To evaluate of effect of geriatric-focused assessment of comorbidity and functional
      status on the toxicity and response to AUY922.

      V. To assess the ethical constraints to enrollment of elderly patients in phase I trials.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the effect of therapy with AUY922 on the number of circulating tumor cells
      (CTC).

      II. To assess changes HSP70 induction as a measure of pharmacodynamic effect in pre- and
      post-AUY922 samples in peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMCs) to explore age-related
      differences in HSP90 inhibition by AUY922 compared with the previous phase I trial.

      III. To assess changes in cellular response markers of apoptosis in pre- and post-AUY922
      dosing in peripheral blood including measurement of M30 and M65 to explore age-related
      differences in pharmacodynamics compared to patients enrolled in the previous phase I trial.

      IV. To determine associations between pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD)
      parameters.

      V. To determine the relationship between geriatric-focused assessment of comorbidity and
      functional ability and toxicity and response.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive Hsp90 inhibitor AUY922 IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses
      repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 28 days.
    
  