
    
      Reovirus Serotype 3 - Dearing Strain (REOLYSIN®) is a naturally occurring, ubiquitous,
      non-enveloped human reovirus. Reovirus has been shown to replicate selectively in
      Ras-transformed cells causing cell lysis. Activating mutations in ras or mutation in
      oncogenes signaling through the ras pathway may occur in as many as 80% of human tumors. The
      specificity of the reovirus for Ras-transformed cells, coupled with its relatively
      nonpathogenic nature in humans, makes it an attractive anti-cancer therapy candidate.

      Given the ability of reovirus to replicate and cause oncolysis in Ras-activated cells, the
      high incidence of K-ras mutations in lung cancers, and the Ras-mediated activation often
      encountered in EGFR-addicted tumors, the administration of REOLYSIN® in combination with
      chemotherapy is expected to result in enhanced clinical benefit in non-small cell lung cancer
      (NSCLC) patients with K-ras mutations and/or EGFR aberrant activation in their tumors.
      Patients with de novo or acquired EGFR mutations in their tumors that confer resistance to
      EGFR TKIs (e.g. T790) are expected to benefit as well. This is a single arm, open-label,
      Phase 2 study of REOLYSIN® given intravenously with paclitaxel and carboplatin every 3 weeks
      (21 days is defined as a cycle) in NSCLC patients with tumors driven by these pathways.

      Paclitaxel at a dose of 175 mg/m2 will be given i.v. as a 3 hour infusion on Day 1 followed
      by carboplatin given i.v. AUC 5 mg/mL•minute. REOLYSIN® will be given over 60 min on Day 1
      (starting after completion of the carboplatin infusion), and on Days 2 - 5. The treatment
      cycle will be repeated every 21 days.

      Patients will receive 4 to 6 cycles of paclitaxel and carboplatin, at the treating
      physician's discretion according to standard of practice, in conjunction with REOLYSIN®.
      After completion of the 4 to 6 cycles of paclitaxel and carboplatin, REOLYSIN® may be
      continued as monotherapy Days 1-5 of each 21 day cycle until there is evidence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may continue to receive therapy under this
      protocol, provided they have not experienced either progressive disease or unacceptable
      drug-related toxicity that does not respond to either supportive care or dose reduction.
    
  