
    
      Obesity is an important public health problem worldwide. There are large regional differences
      in the prevalence of overweight and obesity. Obesity is a growing problem in both developed
      and low-income countries. Obesity is a common condition characterized by excessive fat
      accumulation in adipose tissue. It is associated with metabolic, hematological and
      musculoskeletal complications, increased risk of dyslipidemia, heart disease, diabetes and
      some malignancies, leading to a shortened life span. Inflammation from adipose tissue has
      been identified as the main source of systemic inflammation and may also be associated with
      insulin resistance. Adipocytes and adipose tissue-related macrophages from obese individuals
      are an important source of inflammatory mediators such as TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1 and MCP-1. It has
      also been shown that decreased levels of IL-10, an anti-inflammatory cytokine, are associated
      with obesity and metabolic syndrome.There are many studies examining the changes in the
      weight and blood values of patients after bariatric surgery. Among these blood values,
      cytokines, which are inflammation mediators, were evaluated. However, in these studies,
      either sleeve gastrectomy or gastric bypass was evaluated separately and generally focused on
      TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1, IL10, and MCP-1 cytokines. There are conflicting results regarding the
      parameters examined in these studies. In some studies, no difference was found in the
      cytokines examined, while some regression was observed in proinflammatory cytokines. The
      situation is similar for IL10, which is one of the anti-inflammatory cytokines. An increase
      in IL10 values was observed in a study evaluating patients who underwent gastritic bypass,
      whereas no difference was found in a study evaluating sleeve gastrectomy patients.We aimed to
      evaluate changes in 13 different proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines before and 6
      month after the surgery in patients who underwent sleeve gastrectomy or gastric bypass
    
  