
    
      The Study Drug:

      Lenalidomide is designed to change the body's immune system and may also interfere with the
      development of tiny blood vessels that help support tumor growth. Therefore, in theory, it
      may decrease or prevent the growth of cancer cells.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take lenalidomide by
      mouth every night each day for up to 12 months. You should swallow lenalidomide capsules
      whole, with water, at the same time each day. Do not break, chew, or open the capsules. If
      you miss a dose of lenalidomide, take it as soon as you remember on the same day. If you miss
      a dose, it should not be made up on another day.

      The dose and schedule of lenalidomide may be changed, depending on the side effects you may
      experience.

      Study Visits:

      Once a week during the first 4 weeks, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine
      tests. Blood may be drawn more often if the dose of lenalidomide needs to be changed or if
      you experience side effects.

      After the first 4 weeks, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests every 2
      weeks until the doctor thinks your dose of lenalidomide will not change. After this, blood
      (about 1 tablespoon) will then be drawn every 4 weeks for routine tests.

      On Month 4 and 12 (+14 days), you will have a physical exam and blood (about 2-3 teaspoons)
      will be drawn to check the status of the disease.

      On Month 4 and 12 (+14 days), and then every 3 months after that (unless your study doctor
      does not think it is necessary), you will have a bone marrow biopsy and aspirate to check the
      status of the disease.

      Length of Study:

      You will continue receiving the study drug for up to 12 months. You will continue having
      study visits for as long as the disease remains stable. You will be taken off study early if
      the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.
    
  