
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the progression-free survival and response of patients with stage III or IV or
           recurrent endometrial cancer treated with doxorubicin, cisplatin, paclitaxel, and
           filgrastim (G-CSF) vs tamoxifen and megestrol.

        -  Compare the survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine if progesterone receptor status provides information on whether patients are
           more likely to benefit from chemotherapy.

        -  Compare the toxicity profiles of these treatment regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, cross-over, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to progesterone receptor status (negative vs positive). Patients are randomized to
      1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I:Patients receive chemotherapy comprising doxorubicin IV over 15-30 minutes
           followed by cisplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1; paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 2; and
           filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously beginning on day 3 and continuing for 10 days.
           Chemotherapy repeats every 21 days for up to 7 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  At time of disease progression, patients cross-over to hormonal therapy as in arm II.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive hormonal therapy comprising oral megestrol twice daily on weeks
           1-3 followed by oral tamoxifen twice daily on weeks 4-6. Hormonal therapy repeats every
           6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      At time of disease progression, if patients have not previously been enrolled on arm I,
      patients cross-over to receive chemotherapy as in arm I.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, 6 weeks, time of progression, and then after 6 weeks
      on cross-over therapy.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 630 patients will be accrued for this study within 42
      months.
    
  