
    
      Overall objective For cervical cancer patients with confirmed lymph node metastasis by
      intraoperative frozen pathology, the overall treatment effect of radical hysterectomy and
      selective enlarged lymph node dissection is not inferior to systematic pelvic lymphadenectomy
      and can reduce postoperative lower limb lymphedema incidence and severity.

      1. The purpose of this study

        1. to assess whether the progression free survival of patients with selective enlarged
           pelvic lymph node resection is better than patients with systematic pelvic lymph node
           dissection.

        2. to evaluate differences of the incidence and severity of lymphedema between the two
           group patients using Lymphedema Staging standards (Stage 0-3) according to the"consensus
           document"of the International Society of Lymphology.

      2. Preoperative evaluation LEEP, conization or biopsy Vagino-recto-abdominal examination +
      Vaginal / vaginal colposcopy examination History of Medical, surgical and childbearing
      Complications Physical condition Height and weight History of smoking Pregnancy test Chest
      X-ray or chest CT or general PET/CT Abdominal CT or general PET/CT Pelvic MRI/CT or general
      PET/CT

      3.Protocol Patients with stage IB-IIa cervical cancer were randomly divided into two
      groups(Control group and Experimental group).Frozen pathological examination will be
      performed during the operation, and patients with positive lymph node metastasis will undergo
      radical hysterectomy and systematic pelvic lymphadenectomy or radical hysterectomy and
      selective enlarged lymph node dissection according to the patient's group.

      4. Postoperative adjuvant therapy All patients with pelvic lymph node metastasis are required
      to receive DDP based concurrent chemoradiotherapy.

      5.Efficacy evaluation Overall survival (OS): The period from randomization to death for any
      cause (for patients who have been loss to follow-up prior to death, the last follow-up time
      is calculated as the time of death).

      Progression free survival (PFS): The duration from randomization to the earliest date of the
      date of tumor progression or the date of death for any cause. If the above standards are not
      met, the final evaluation date should be used for analysis.

      Assessment of lymphedema in lower extremities: Lymphedema Staging standards (Stage 0-3)
      according to the"consensus document"of the International Society of Lymphology were used :

      Stage 0 Subclinical with possible clinical evolution Stage I Edema regressing with treatments
      with positive pitting test Stage II Edema partially regressing with treatments with negative
      pitting test Stage III Elephantiasis with cutaneous complications and recurrent infections.

      6. Follow up The patients were followed up every 3 months for the first year, every 4 months
      for the second year and every 6 months from the third year.

      In addition to routine oncologic follow-up, the stage of patients̛ lower extremity lymphedema
      should also be evaluated.
    
  