
    
      Airway management can be a life saving therapy. One major complication that may occur during
      airway management is a lack of oxygen in the blood, especially in peadiatric population, due
      to anatomical and physiological considerations. If severe or prolonged, this lack of oxygen
      can result in permanent brain damage, damage to other vital organs or even death.
      Pre-oxygenation prior to induction of anaesthesia is standard practice to prevent
      desaturation and hypoxemia. Apnoeic oxygenation in adults is effective and prolongs the time
      to desaturation. Apneic oxygenation is a novel method of delivering oxygen to a patient
      despite a lack of active respiration (i.e. the patient is not breathing on their own and the
      investigators are not providing the patient an artificial breath). The simplest and least
      invasive method to provide apneic oxygenation is the application of oxygen through nasal
      cannula during airway management. The effectiveness of apnoeic oxygenation in the adult is
      well document, especially in bariatric population or ICU, however only few study are
      interesting about pediatric population. Recent studies suggest that high flow is similar to
      low flow oxygenotherapy. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the
      effectiveness of apnoeic oxygenation during airway management in infants.

      This is a randomized clinical trial investigating the utility of apneic oxygenation via high
      flow nasal cannula during airway management for infant's general anesthesia. Three groups
      will be compared, a control group at 0 L/min, a 0,2L/Kg/min and a 1L/Kg/min group. The
      primary outcome will be the time (in seconds) between onset of apnea and one of these
      end-points : desaturation (SPO2 <95%) or Airway management completed.

      All infants included will receive french actual standard of care concerning general
      anesthesia and peri-operative medicine.
    
  