
    
      Patients identified by the nursing team with seroma and with indication of aspiration
      puncture, will be evaluated for eligibility criteria. Those who agree to participate in the
      study will be assessed and submitted to the intervention on the same day, they will remain
      with four days approximately for nursing and physiotherapy revaluation for intervention
      suspension. The neuromuscular bandage will be applied after skin antisepsis with 70% alcohol.
      A 5 cm width Vitaltape® neuromuscular bandage will be used. For the bandage application, a
      distal base (anchor) with two centimeters of diameter will be maintained with maximum
      stretching on the fluctuation region (seroma) and finalized with another base without
      stretching, of 2 centimeters, in the proximal region. How many bundles of bandages are
      required according to the patient's body characteristics and aspect of the flotation region.
      The bandage will not be applied on the scar. If there are any complications such as itching,
      redness, discomfort and / or others, the patients will remove the material at home and
      communicate on return to the institution. The interview will be conducted at the entrance to
      the study, prior to the intervention and the end of the study. In the initial interview will
      be collected sociodemographic data and life habits. They will be evaluated by questionnaire
      as the local symptoms caused by the use of the bandages, the tolerance and feeling / referred
      sensation during and at the end of intervention period, the percentage of seroma volume
      alteration before and after the use of the bandage, the number of days of use and bandage
      detachment. All reviews will be carried out by another professional who will not make the
      interventions. From the hospital record, information will be collected regarding the oncology
      treatment, histopathological report and clinical data on curative care.
    
  