
    
      Colon cancer occurs in 5% of the US population. Currently colon cancer screening is
      recommended at the age of 50 years old for all patients who are at average risk. Colonoscopy
      is considered the gold standard test for colon cancer screening. This is partly because
      colonoscopy not only can detect polyps which are cancer precursors but also can remove them,
      and thereby detecting cancer and its precursors and preventing cancer. Unfortunately recent
      data suggest that colonoscopy can miss a significant percentage of polyps, especially on the
      right side of the colon. It is thought that one of the major reasons for missing polyps in
      the right side of the colon is the fact that they are flat or sessile serrated adenoma, both
      of which are more difficult than protruding polyps to identify with ordinary colon
      preparation and colonoscopes. Chromoendoscopy is the application of dye during colonoscopy to
      enhance detection of polyps. It has been shown that it improves the detection of polyps and
      thus has the potential of improving the performance of colonoscopy and increasing the
      detection of these difficult to detect polyps. It is however cumbersome and time consuming,
      which has discouraged its use. Indigo carmine, one commonly used dye, is actually FDA
      approved as a food colorant and can be consumed orally. It is minimally absorbed. In addition
      it is used intravenously for diagnosis of injuries of the urinary system because it is very
      rapidly excreted by the kidneys. The investigators believe that taking it orally will be well
      tolerated, and that any of the dye that is absorbed will be rapidly excreted by the kidneys
      and thus quickly eliminated without any side effects. Effective staining of the colon with
      indigo carmine and increased detection of polyps could change the current standard of care
      for screening for colon cancer.
    
  