
    
      About 1.3 million Americans aged 40 and older are legally blind, a majority because of
      diseases with onset later in life, such as glaucoma and age-related macular degeneration.
      Second Sight Medical Products (SSMP) has developed the world's first FDA approved retinal
      implant, Argus II, intended to restore some functional vision for people suffering from
      retinitis pigmentosa (RP). In this era of smart devices, generic navigation technology, such
      as GPS mapping apps for smartphones, can provide directions to help guide a blind user from
      point A to point B. However, these navigational aids do little to enable blind users to form
      an egocentric understanding of the surroundings, are not suited to navigation indoors, and do
      nothing to assist in avoiding obstacles to mobility. The Argus II, on the other hand,
      provides blind users with a limited visual representation of their surroundings that improves
      users' ability to orient themselves and traverse obstacles, yet lacks features for high-level
      navigation and semantic interpretation of the surroundings. The proposed study aims to
      address these limitations of the Argus II through a synergy of state-of-the-art simultaneous
      localization and mapping (SLAM) and object recognition technologies.

      This study is driven by the hypothesis that navigation for users of retinal prosthetics can
      be greatly improved by incorporating SLAM and object recognition technology conveying
      environmental information via a retinal prosthesis and auditory feedback. SLAM enables the
      visual prosthesis system to construct a map of the user's environment and locate the user
      within that map. The system then provides object location and navigational cues via
      appropriate sensory modalities enabling the user to mentally form an egocentric map of the
      environment. Investigators will develop and test a visual prosthesis system which 1)
      constructs a map of unfamiliar environments and localizes the user using SLAM technology 2)
      automatically identifies navigationally-relevant objects and landmarks using object
      recognition and 3) provides sensory feedback for navigation, obstacle avoidance, and
      object/landmark identification.
    
  