
    
      PFM supports the bowel, bladder, and uterus. Pelvic floor dysfunction can lead to
      gynecological problems like POP and UI. POP is the downward displacement of uterus from its
      normal anatomical position and UI is the involuntary leakage of urine.

      In Nepal, the prevalence of POP is 10% in women of reproductive age and reported UI is 60%
      and 50.6% from two studies. POP risk factors include early marriage, high parity, squatting
      during delivery, prolonged labor, increasing age, menopause, hysterectomy, smoking, obesity,
      heavy lifting, and early return to work after parturition. High reports of POP and UI could
      be due to the exposure to these potential risks factors in Nepalese women. Women in Nepal
      play a significant role in agricultural and household work and are exposed to these risks
      factors daily. Studies have shown that besides longer days with work, women have less time
      for sleep and leisure. One of the main work-related health problems for Nepalese women is the
      physical effect of chronic overwork due to women's triple roles and subordinate position in
      the family.

      The government of Nepal created a fund to provide free surgery to women with POP in 2008.
      Surgery is a common treatment for POP, however, 58% report an occurrence of recurrent
      prolapse after surgery and 29% report re-operations. PFM exercise has Level I evidence for
      treatment (Stage 1 & 2) or prevention of POP. Women diagnosed with POP in Nepal, have 69.1%
      first-degree prolapse while the remaining 30.9% suffer from second and third-degree prolapse.
      Women's reluctance to seek treatment might be lack of family support, high costs for travel,
      food and lodging and ineffective treatment. Moreover, the health facilities are poor in rural
      areas as the infrastructure is weak, with few roads and commonly in poor condition which
      makes it more difficult. The PFM exercise does not need an instrument and can be done at
      home/workplace. PFM exercise for the treatment of POP (stage 1 & 2) and UI was popularized by
      Kegel exercise. The use of PFM exercise is based on two functions of the PFM, support of the
      pelvic organs and a contribution to the sphincter closure mechanism of the urethra.

      This project will investigate the feasibility of a cost-effective physiotherapy program based
      on information, education, and PFMT, hopefully, to help improve the health outcome of
      Nepalese women. The feasibility study will be essential for a future cluster randomized
      controlled study.

      Hence, the aim is to assess the feasibility of performing PFMT in pregnant women to help
      prevent or reduce POP and UI in Nepal.
    
  