
    
      Subjects will be randomized in blocks of twenty (20) for either Aer-O-Scope or conventional
      colonoscopy as the first procedure. Physicians will be notified of the procedural order
      immediately prior to first colonoscopy. Up to the first ten (10) cases for each physician
      (system operation training cases) will all begin with the Aer-O-Scope colonoscopy as the
      first procedure.

      The primary endpoint of AMR was chosen as this measure appears to be related to the
      performance of colonoscopy and reduction in colorectal cancer incidence. During the course of
      the last decade, several major visualizations studies have been performed and it has become
      common practice to use the "second-pass" method for measuring colonoscopy visualization
      methods, iii, iv. In the "second-pass" method, during the course of the first colonoscopy,
      all visualized lesions are removed (or tattooed in the event that they cannot be removed for
      any reason.). Any unmarked abnormalities discovered during the second pass colonoscopy are
      considered to be missed pathologies for the first pass colonoscopy.

      All endpoints related to timing will be measured using a stopwatch and overall time stamp
      from the Aer-O-Scope or conventional colonoscope. Time to perform therapeutic interventions
      with Aer-O-Scope as well as a description of said interventions will also be recorded. The
      same instruments will be used to measure all procedures and will be calibrated as dictated by
      the manufacturer.

      All equipment used during the course of this clinical investigation will undergo calibration
      and testing as per the manufacturing instructions. The Aer-O-Scope Colonoscope System has an
      automated calibration system and diagnostic test that run daily. Conventional colonoscopes
      will be maintained as per hospital/manufacturer protocol.

      Recruited subjects who are withdrawn as a result of poor bowel prep or any other medical
      determination leading to the inability to undergo colonoscopy and/or tandem colonoscopy will
      be replaced. A poor prep is defined as having a score of score of 0 or 1 in the Boston Bowel
      Preparation Scale (BBPS). The BBPS scores are as follows:

      0 = Unprepared colon segment with mucosa not seen due to solid stool that cannot be cleared.

        1. = Portion of mucosa of the colon segment seen, but other areas of the colon segment not
           well seen due to staining, residual stool and/or opaque liquid.

        2. = Minor amount of residual staining, small fragments of stool and/or opaque liquid, but
           mucosa of colon segment seen well.

        3. = Entire mucosa of colon segment seen well with no residual staining, small fragments of
           stool or opaque liquid.

      Any subject withdrawn as a result of physician discretion due to concomitant medical issues
      will be withdrawn prior to the actual colonoscopic procedures. Patients with a large polyp
      (>20mm) removed during the first pass with a conventional colonoscope will be withdrawn.
      Patients who receive treatment during the first pass with clips (no other option available)
      will be withdrawn.

      Coagulation therapy should be performed either with Argon Plasma Coagulation (APC) or another
      cautery tool or contact thermal device as per clinical protocol. For the purpose of this
      clinical investigation, clips should not be used unless there is no alternative. Patients
      treated with clips prior to their final pass colonoscopy, will be withdrawn from the
      investigation.

      Physicians may also withdraw any patient due to medical causes if deemed appropriate,
      including patients that have undergone at least one (1) procedure.
    
  