
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if treatment with a combination of metformin and doxycycline can increase the
      percentage of cells that express Caveolin-1 in the cancer associated fibroblasts of patients
      with breast, or uterine, and cervical cancers.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the effect of metformin and doxycycline treatment on the percentage of cells
      that express monocarboxylate transporter (MCT)4 in cancer associated fibroblasts and MCT1 and
      transporter of outer mitochondrial membrane (TOMM)20 in the cancer cells of breast and
      uterine cancer patients.

      II. To assess safety and tolerability of metformin and doxycycline treatment in subjects with
      breast and uterine cancer.

      III. To determine the relationship of the percentage of stromal cells expressing caveolin
      (CAV)1 or MCT4 and tumor cells that express MCT1 and TOMM20 at baseline and after treatment
      with metformin and doxycycline with the percentage of cells expressing estrogen receptor (ER)
      and progesterone receptor (PR) for breast and uterine samples and human epidermal growth
      factor (HER)2 in breast cancer samples.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the effect of combined metformin and doxycycline therapy on the metabolic
      profile of cancer cells and stroma using mass spectroscopy imaging (MSI) on paired samples,
      comparing metabolite profiles in the pre-metformin and post-metformin tumor sample.

      II. To assess, when possible, the impact of a patient's nutritional status, estimated using 3
      day dietary recall versus caloric needs as calculated by the Harris-Benedict equation on the
      baseline and net change in CAV1 III. To assess the effect of combined metformin and
      doxycycline therapy on oncomiR micro ribonucleic acid (RNA) (miR-21) after intervention.

      IV. To assess the effect of combined metformin and doxycycline therapy on adipokines and the
      insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1/insulin signaling pathways through assessment of serum
      triglycerides, IGF-1, IGF-binding protein (BP)3, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR),
      adiponectin, leptin, IGF-1 receptor (R), exosome evaluation, metabolomics profile, and
      microRNA expression profile.
    
  