
    
      In emergency and critical care medicine, one of the most common incidences of severe
      hypoxemia occurs during the process of endotracheal intubations. Endotracheal intubations,
      also known as insertion of a breathing tube, is a life saving technique used in medicine to
      help maintain oxygen delivery, to protect lungs from injury, for patients to safely undergo
      anesthesia for surgeries, as well as to help rest critically ill patients to allow their
      bodies time to recover. Despite advances in the field of medicine, the process of placing a
      breathing tube in emergency situations is still associated with an increase risk of hypoxemia
      up to 26.7%. This places patients at significant risk for cardiac dysrhythmia, brain damage
      and hemodynamic decompensation which may ultimately result in death. A UK national review of
      emergency intubations identified hypoxemia as a cause of death in 50% of intensive care
      intubations and 27% of Emergency Department intubations. Therefore, it is imperative to
      improve and develop methods to minimize hypoxemia during airway management.

      A vital component used to minimize the risk of hypoxemia during endotracheal intubations is
      preoxygenation. Preoxygenation is a method to to prolong the time to oxygen desaturation by
      replacing the lung volume with 100% oxygen compared to 21% oxygen (room air) through the
      administration of supplemental oxygen. This increases the reservoir of oxygen in the lungs
      that the body can use to prolong their time to desaturation. Studies have shown a good
      preoxygenation technique can increase the time to oxygen desaturation from 0.6 min to 8 min
      in a non obese patient. This remarkable impact at preventing hypoxemia has made
      preoxygenation the gold standard to minimize hypoxemia during airway management.

      Historically preoxygenation with bag-valve-mask ventilation (BVM) and an oxygen
      non-rebreather mask has been the standard for preoxygenation. Recently, the use of high flow
      nasal cannulaes have been used for preoxygenation however it is unclear in the literature if
      one provides a superior preoxygenation compared to another. In an effort to determine the
      best preoxygenation modality for airway management, the investigators will conduct a 3 arm
      interventional crossover designed study to compare preoxygenation using a non-rebreather
      mask, BVM and HFNC in 150 patients. To determine which modality provides the best
      preoxygenation, arterial blood gases will be taken after each intervention and compared
      against each other.

      Given the high propensity for hypoxemia during airway management in the obese and disease
      lung population, this protocol will have specific groups based on their BMI (<30, 30-35 and
      >35) as well as the presence of lung disease based upon their PaO2/FiO2 ratio (< 300 lung
      disease or >300 no lung disease).
    
  