
    
      Background:

      -The PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway is an important target in cancer because it promotes

      chemotherapeutic resistance and confers a poor prognosis for many types of cancers.

        -  Several inhibitors of the pathway are being developed as cancer therapeutics. However,
           the process of de novo drug development takes years, and is often curtailed due to
           diminished activity and/or unforeseen toxicities in clinical trials.

        -  One approach to expedite the development of new cancer therapies is to test drugs that
           are already approved for other indications.

        -  Our group has shown that nelfinavir, an orally available FDA-approved HIV-1 protease

      inhibitor used to treat HIV/AIDS, can inhibit endogenous Akt and growth factor receptor

      induced Akt activity in cancer cells.

      -Importantly, nelfinavir demonstrates dose-dependent cytotoxicity in every cell line in the

      NCI 60 cell line panel at plasma concentrations attainable in human plasma, is profoundly

      effective in cancer cell lines that have been selected to become resistant to standard
      therapies, and inhibits tumor growth in-vivo.

      Objectives:

      -Because an MTD with nelfinavir has not been observed in prior phase I studies with HIV

      patients, the objectives of the Phase I design will be:

      -To establish the MTD and dose limiting toxicity for this drug in patients with solid

      Tumors.

      -To correlate nelfinavir pharmacokinetics with baseline activity of CYP3A4 as

      assessed by measuring midazolam clearance.

      -To preliminarily explore the biological and clinical effects through a series of

      correlative studies involving analysis of blood and tissue across patients throughout

      the study.

      Eligibility:

      -Adults with solid tumors who are refractory to, or have relapsed after receiving, standard

      front-line chemotherapies are eligible.

      Design:

        -  Patients will receive nelfinavir beginning at the FDA-approved dose for HIV patients
           (1250 mg po bid).

        -  Dose escalations will occur for 6 dose levels i.e. cohorts, or until the MTD is reached.

        -  Up to 45 patients are expected to be enrolled.

        -  Staging CT scans will be performed every two cycles.
    
  