
    
      This primary objective of this project is to assess, in early psychosis clients, the IPS
      vocational support model that is the "gold standard" for patients with chronic illness.
      Specifically, the investigators aim to maximize the chances of employment after recovery from
      the first acute episode, and provide work experience that will help prevent development of
      the "chronic mental patient" role. Our primary objective is to assess the degree to which EPI
      clients randomized to the IPS model will procure competitive work more quickly, and work more
      days during one year of IPS support, compared to control group patients who continue to
      receive "treatment-as-usual" vocational services.

      There are also several secondary objectives:

        1. understand fixed and dynamic predictors of vocational success, which may help tailor the
           IPS model to subpopulations. Predictors that are fixed, but may help in client selection
           or IPS implementation, include premorbid IQ (intelligence quotient) and previous
           schooling or employment (respectively). More malleable predictors, where IPS might be
           offered in conjunction with other interventions, include various neurocognitive
           abilities and recreational alcohol/drug use;

        2. assess changes in health service utilization and related costs as a consequence of
           improved occupational functioning; and

        3. lay the groundwork for a later project that would assess the longer-term durability of
           employment and related benefits.

      As part of routine clinical care, EPI staff (i.e. case manager or psychiatrist) often query
      readiness to return to or seek work. For this project, those staff will also query openness
      to employment support. If the client so wishes, the staff will describe the project, provide
      a blank copy of the consent form, and gain consent for the RA to contact them after 1-3 days.
      Since the clients are already well-engaged with our program, the investigators expect
      substantial success in recruitment and low attrition rates. As noted in the IPS principles,
      there are minimal restrictions: all clients assigned to the IPS group who interested in
      working will have access, regardless of job-readiness factors, substance use, symptom
      severity, cognitive impairments, treatment (non)adherence, or personal presentation.

      The measurement strategy includes three sets of assessment interviews from both IPS and TAU
      clients. The Master's-level RA (research assistant), who will have clinical experience, will
      collect all data in the first two years. In the third year, a new RA with health economics
      skills will collect the utilization and social/recreational data, while an unpaid practicum
      student in Clinical Psychology completes the clinical interviews. Data collection will be
      blinded, i.e. the RA's will not know whether the client is in the IPS or
      vocational-service-as-usual group.
    
  