
    
      Background. Influenza infection causes an estimated 1 million deaths worldwide yearly. Severe
      influenza respiratory disease is increasingly recognized in children. Influenza
      hospitalization rates in high-risk infants, such as premature infants, are increased some
      five-fold over rates in other children. Influenza vaccine immunogenicity is generally modest
      even in healthy children, and influenza vaccines have been incompletely studied in premature
      infants. The recently-licensed live attenuated influenza vaccine (LAIV) is more immunogenic
      than the trivalent inactivated vaccine, but its use in infants and high risk children is
      limited by side effects. The risk/benefit ratio of LAIV in extremely premature infants, who
      may be at increased risk for both influenza disease and vaccine side effects, is unknown.

      Aim. The specific aim of this project is to compare the immunogenicity and reactogenicity of
      trivalent, inactivated influenza vaccine (TIV) and live, attenuated, intranasal influenza
      vaccine (LAIV) in groups of former premature (PT), very low birth weight (VLBW) and former
      full-term (FT) infants aged 24-35 months.

      Hypotheses.

        1. The humoral immunogenicity of LAIV, as measured by hemagglutination inhibition (HI),
           will be greater than that of TIV. This will be the co-primary outcome for this study.

        2. Vaccine reactogenicity, as measured by medically-attended wheezing episodes, will be no
           more than twice as frequent in LAIV as in TIV recipients. This will be the co-primary
           outcome for this study.

        3. Functional B-cell responses, as measured by antibody secreting cell (ASC) enzyme linked
           immunospot (ELISPOT), will be greater in LAIV-immunized infants than TIV-immunized
           infants.

        4. Peak T-cell cytokine responses, as measured by interferon gamma (IFNγ), interleukin
           (IL)-2 and IL-4 ELISPOT, will be greater in LAIV-immunized infants than TIV-immunized
           infants.

        5. Hemagglutinin-specific nasal immunoglobulin A (IgA) will be measureable following LAIV
           immunization.

        6. Former premature infants will have similar adaptive immune responses, but elevated
           reactogenicity to both vaccines, when compared to former full-term infants.

      Design. The study will enroll 14 former premature, VLBW infants and 14 former full-term
      infants. Subjects, who will be eligible to receive either TIV or LAIV as part of routine
      care, will be randomized to receive one dose either TIV or LAIV, according to prevailing
      recommendations for influenza immunization. Randomization will be stratified by prematurity
      status. Vaccine reactogenicity will be measured by using parent diaries following
      immunization and questionnaires at each visit. Five to 10 mL of blood will be drawn at 0 and
      7-14 days from immunization for isolation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), and 1
      mL of blood will be drawn for serum separation for antibody determination at 0 and 28-42
      days. Antibody levels and T- and B-cell responses to vaccine will be measured.

      Potential Impact. This study is designed to assess the immunogenicity and reactogenicity of
      two current influenza vaccines in premature infants. The data will be used to estimate the
      sample size for a definitive trial in younger premature infants.
    
  