
    
      The lacking adherence to guidelines on prevention and treatment of different chemotherapy,
      targeted therapy, and immunotherapy induced toxicities is the reason why there are a
      potential incidence and duration increase of adverse events. It is clear the need of a
      collateral effect early recognition for an adequate clinical management and for limiting
      their intensity and duration.

      A better toxicity management can have a positive impact on a correct treatments
      dose-intensity. Scientific community debate on toxicity assessment ways and means is still
      open. The most debated questions concern:

        -  Physician and/or patient reporting adverse events;

        -  Nurse role in the adverse events assessment;

        -  How much assessment methods (assessment frequency, who's involved in adverse events
           monitoring) means for:

             -  Time spent with toxicity and intensity reduction;

             -  Treatment adherence. Some literature evidence is avaiable and support the need of
                intensive monitoring of patients in terms of adverse events. However, there is the
                need for a multicentre randomized clinical study in specific therapeutical settings
                (chemotherapy, target therapy, immunotherapy) assessing the impact of planned and
                ongoing patients' monitoring by nurses.

      This is a multi-centric, randomized, open comparative study design, between a planned and
      consecutive monitoring nurse intervention in addition to the chemotherapy toxicity prevention
      and cure standard therapy package insert (chemotherapy, target therapy, immunotherapy), and
      the only use of the cancer therapy toxicity prevention and cure standard therapy package
      insert (chemotherapy, target therapy, immunotherapy).

      The study involves All the patients with a solid tumor on treatment with adjuvant
      chemotherapy or receiving target therapy or immunotherapy for the first time in their cancer
      history.

      This study design will last 24 months. Patient recruitment will last 18 months from the
      beginning of the study. The study period will be 4 months for the group on treatment with
      immunotherapy and target therapy and at least 6 months for the group on treatment with
      adjuvant chemotherapy. The study could be interrupted when there is a therapy withdrawal
      because of cancer progression, severe toxicity or for the informed consent for withdrawal, or
      because of death. If there is a temporary interruption or a treatment withdrawal period,
      patients still are in under monitoring, according to their group. The study will end with the
      end of the planned period monitoring, which is the last call to the enlisted patients.
    
  