
    
      Schizophrenia is a chronic, severe, and disabling brain disorder. People with schizophrenia
      sometimes hear voices others don't hear, believe that others are broadcasting their thoughts
      to the world, or become convinced that others are plotting to harm them. These symptoms make
      it difficult for people with schizophrenia to interact normally and establish healthy social
      relationships with others. Cognitive Behavioral Social Skills Training (CBSST) is a group
      behavioral therapy intervention that focuses on improving cognitive and metacognitive
      impairments and social skills deficits that interfere with normal functioning in people with
      schizophrenia. Goal-focused supportive contact (GFSC) is a group therapy intervention that
      focuses on helping people with schizophrenia to verbalize their problems or worries and to
      seek advice from fellow group members. This study evaluated the effectiveness of CBSST versus
      GFSC in improving social functioning in people with schizophrenia. The study will assessed
      changes in cognition, psychotic symptoms, and use of psychiatric healthcare services.

      Participants in this open label study were randomly assigned to one of the following
      treatment groups: treatment as usual (TAU) plus CBSST or TAU plus GFSC. Both interventions
      consist of 2-hour therapy sessions weekly for 36 weeks. Groups receiving each intervention do
      not exceed ten people. CBSST integrates cognitive therapy, social skills training, and
      neurocognitive compensatory aids. Cognitive therapy helps participants challenge unhelpful
      thoughts and build communication and problem-solving skills. Participants receive workbooks
      that describe the skills and contain homework assignments. GFSC focuses on empowering
      participants to share problems, worries, or concerns with others who face similar issues.
      Participants share advice with each other, but therapists do not teach skills. Outcomes were
      be assessed at Months 4.5, 9, 15, and 21 for all participants.
    
  