
    
      This is a Double-blinded randomized placebo-controlled trial based at Eastern Virginia
      Medical School. Subjects who are identified in clinic having menorrhagia or abnormal Uterine
      bleeding (AUB) due to uterine fibroids and meet inclusion criteria based on the ultrasound
      (US) or Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), aged 18-45 undergoing laparoscopic or Robotic
      assisted myomectomies. These subjects will be then approached for consent during their pre-op
      visit 1-2 weeks prior to their surgery. The setting for consent will be in a patient
      consultation room. A total of 50 women in each arm of the study with symptomatic fibroids
      meeting any of the following criteria will be included in the study:

        1. At least one fibroid greater than or equal to 6 cm

        2. Any intramural or broad ligament fibroid greater than or equal to 4 cm

        3. At least 3 total fibroids based on preoperative imaging. Randomization will be performed
           using an automated randomization website Patients will be randomized to receive a single
           IV bolus injection of TXA 30mg/kg in 50ml of normal saline (intervention group) versus
           an IV bolus injection of normal saline of equivalent volume (placebo group) 15 minutes
           prior to initial surgical incision. This dosage will not be adjusted for patients with
           renal insufficiency as they will be excluded from the study. Preparation of the
           medications will be performed by anesthesia who have both medication and normal saline
           available to them on short notice. No prior preparation by pharmacy will be required.
           Tranexamic acid is readily available in a 10 ml vial, which does not need a pharmacist
           to prepare for administration. The vial is mixed with 50 ml of saline in the operating
           room. This is the same process that occurs outside of any study with any medication that
           is administered intra-operatively. This will in no way impact the patient's safety
           during the surgery, especially since it is administered 15 minutes prior to the start of
           the procedure.

      Both surgeon and patient will be blinded to the treatment arm. This dosage has been used
      previously in both obstetric and gynecological procedures and is the same dose recommended by
      the WHO for preventing post-partum hemorrhage The surgery itself will be scheduled at either
      Sentara Norfolk General, Sentara Leigh hospital, and Sentara Princess Anne hospital. These
      are the three sites that the investigators already perform Minimally invasive myomectomies.

      An envelope will be given to the anesthesiologist prior to the procedure informing whether
      they are to receives TXA or the placebo. Blood loss will be estimated by the surgeon
      performing the procedure. Hemoglobin and hematocrit will be obtained 24 hours post procedure.
      The patient will be assessed for reported side effects from the medication given will be
      assessed by a questionnaire that will be given at their post-op appointment at the 2 week and
      6-week mark. During these two visits a physical exam is performed, checking incision sites,
      and patient symptoms, all of which are standard of care for any minimally invasive procedure.
      The patients will be seen at the EVMS outpatient clinic for Gynecology, or depending with the
      physician who performed the surgery. Data will be collected from both Allscripts and EPIC
      charts.
    
  