
    
      The objective of our study is to compare perioperative changes in blood glucose levels
      following insulin administration (Novolin R human insulin, Novo Nordisk Inc. Plainsboro, NJ)
      for preoperative hyperglycemia (as defined by blood glucose over 150 mg/dL) in diabetic ESRD
      patients on hemodialysis vs. diabetic non-ESRD patients without CKD. The investigators
      hypothesize that diabetic ESRD patients on hemodialysis with preoperative hyperglycemia will
      demonstrate a more rapid decrease in blood glucose following insulin administration compared
      to diabetic non-ESRD patients without CKD.

      The study will take place at SUNY Downstate Medical Center at the University Hospital of
      Brooklyn. Following enrollment of eligible patients, the following data will be collected:
      age, gender, height, weight, BMI, indicated procedure, medical record number, past medical
      history (including liver dysfunction and EtOH abuse), ASA, and initial blood glucose. All
      patient data associated with renal function and dialysis will be obtained and recorded for
      ESRD patients. Relevant kidney function data, such as GFR, will also be obtained, if
      available. The surgical procedures will include but are not limited to the following elective
      surgeries: major abdominal surgery, major GU/GYN surgeries, vascular surgery, renal
      transplantation, neurosurgery, vascular and orthopedic surgery . The investigators expect
      patients in both groups to undergo similar surgical procedures. All medications prescribed to
      the patient will be noted, as will the type of diabetes the patient has, type 1 or type 2. If
      the patient takes insulin or oral diabetic medications, the time and amount of their last
      dose will be recorded. The interval between the last dialysis and insulin testing will not be
      similar and the extent of uremia will not be equivalent among participants.

      All consented patients with hyperglycemia (blood glucose > 150 mg/dL) will be administered an
      IV bolus of Novolin R human insulin based on a sliding scale according to the table below.
      The anesthesiologist that is taking care of the patient for that specific surgery will
      administer the insulin based on the sliding scale, will measure and record blood glucose at
      30 minute intervals, and will be responsible to adjust treatment as per the study's sliding
      scale. Prior to initiating the protocol, the particular anesthesiologist that is responsible
      for the case will be explained exactly how to follow the protocol. He/she will also be given
      a supplemental form with written instructions. He/she will also be given contact information
      for the principle investigator if they should have any questions or issues. The investigators
      developed a dosing protocol based on guidelines in previous studies, determined as safe and
      effective for perioperative hyperglycemic patients. The treatment protocol will be
      administered as follows:

        1. Patients with preoperative blood glucose > 150 and < 200 mg/dL will be given a bolus of
           2 insulin units.

        2. Patients with preoperative blood glucose > 200 and < 250 mg/dL will be given a bolus of
           3 insulin units.

        3. Patients with preoperative blood glucose > 250 and < 350 mg/dL will be given a bolus of
           4 insulin units.

      Point-of-care blood glucose testing will be measured at 30-minute intervals using a
      glucometer (Nova Biomedical, Waltham, MA. USA), and the investigators will adjust treatment
      to maintain a safe glucose window. Plasma insulin levels will not be tested. ESRD patients
      will be administered normal saline and non-ESRD patients will be administered lactate ringers
      during study protocol. Glucose readings collected at each interval will be recorded, as will
      changes in insulin administration. Treatment will be adjusted as per the sliding scale given
      above. For the purpose of the study and statistical analysis, blood glucose sampling will be
      performed 3 times, one as baseline, second after ½ hour after the first dose of IV insulin,
      and the second after 30 additional minutes. Descriptive statistics (mean, standard deviation)
      for each group at each time point will be used to determine the difference between the ESRD
      and non-ESRD groups in the pilot study. Any additional blood glucose estimations will be
      strictly for clinical reasons to treat hyperglycemia and ascertain that no hypoglycemia has
      occurred. For patient safety, the investigators will not give insulin for blood glucose
      levels less than 150 mg/dL, but will continue to monitor blood glucose at 30-minute intervals
      for 2 hours after the last dose of insulin and will not administer insulin if the blood
      glucose levels fall below 150 mg/dL. Regular insulin when given intravenously has a rapid
      onset and a short duration of action; intravenously the half- life of regular insulin is 0.5
      to 1 hour and the peak effect is 0.8 to 2 hours. The investigators will therefore monitor
      blood glucose levels until the expected peak effect of 2 hours where they expect the lowest
      blood glucose levels. Hypoglycemia is highly unlikely in renal patients at discharge. It is
      customary for patients to stay in the PACU for 2 hours post-surgery. During the 2-hour window
      from the patient's last dose of insulin, the patients will be required to remain NPO except
      water.

      If blood glucose drops below 100 mg/dL, a 25 cc bolus of 50% dextrose in water (Hospira Inc.,
      Lake Forest, IL, USA) will be administered and blood glucose will be checked after 15
      minutes. The investigators will give another dextrose bolus if necessary to restore blood
      glucose above 100 mg/dL. Once blood glucose has reached a level above 100 mg/dL, blood
      glucose will continue to be checked every 30 minutes for 2 hours after the last dose of
      insulin given.

      Of note, this treatment protocol is based on standard practice and designed for patient
      safety. If the patient is discharged before 2 hours, the investigators will terminate the
      study at that point. The patients will not be at increased risk of harm as insulin peak
      effect occurs within 30 minutes. With study termination, the patient will return to their
      normal anti-hyperglycemic regimen. No additional patient participation will be required after
      this point. Blood samples collected for glucose readings will be discarded immediately after
      use. Data will be entered into a password protected Microsoft Excel data sheet.

      This will be pilot study to compare the response to insulin in diabetic patients with ESRD
      vs. diabetic patients without renal disease. The investigators will generate insulin response
      curves for each patient, with blood glucose level as a function of time. Then they will
      compute average drop in glucose in the two groups. Using these data the investigators will be
      able to observe the obtained effect size, determine whether it is clinically significant, and
      if so, determine sample size that would be required to obtain statistical significance for a
      larger study analysis. Based on the outcome of the pilot study, they will determine the
      sample size and the analysis plan for the main study.
    
  