
    
      -Preoperative: Evaluation of patients will be carried out through proper history taking,
      clinical examination and routine laboratory investigation and patients will be trained to use
      the Numerical Rating Scale (NRS 0= no pain, 10= intolerable pain) used for evaluation of pain
      intensity.

      The patient is allowed to fast for 8 hours for solids and 2h for clear fluid. Before the
      study, all patients will be interviewed and will be briefed on the wake-up test procedure.
      They will be informed that they will be asked to open their eyes, move their fingers (hold
      the anesthesiologist's hand), move their toes, and finally, to remember a given color.

      -Intraoperative: On arrival to operating roome, a 20 G peripheral IV cannula will be
      inserted. Electrocardiogram (ECG), noninvasive mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) and
      peripheral oxygen saturation will be attached and baseline data will be monitored and
      documented. Sedation will be given intravenously in the form of midazolam 0.02 mg/kg and IV
      fliud according to calculation of deficit and maintaince calculation.

      After preoxygenation, anesthesia with IV propofol 2 mg/ kg and fentanyl 2 µg/kg will be
      administered for analgesia and cisatracurium 0.5 mg/ kg will be given intravenously to
      facilitate endotracheal intubation.

      Central venous catheter will be inserted and attached for monitoring of CVP. Also, enotropy
      will be connected on the patientꞌs forehead and maintained between 40-60.

      40 patients will be equally divided to two equal groups (20 patients for each group) Group 1:
      will receive sham bilateral ultrasounded guided erector spinae block using 1 mg /kg normal
      saline in a total volume of 20 ml for each side after induction of anaesthesia in prone
      position after induction of anaesthesia in prone position.

      Group 2: will receive real bilateral ultrasounded guided erector spinae block by bupivacaine
      at 1 mg /kg in a total volume of 20 ml for each side after induction of anaesthesia in prone
      position.

      Maintaince of anaesthesia will be 50 : 50 % O2 to air and sevoflurane 2% and cisatracurium
      incremental every 30 min at dose of 0.1 mg/kg. I.V analgesia in form of incremental fentanyl
      1 ug /kg when entropy increases more than 60 during surgery and 30 min before the wake-up
      test.

      Wake up test: Before continuation of anesthesia, patients will be given a color to remember.
      After finishing the wake-up test, anesthesia will be induced using 3 mg/kg propofol and 0.1
      mg/kg cisatracurium, whereas anesthesia will be maintained as described previously.

      At the end of surgery, inhalational anesthetic agent will be turned off, residual
      neuromuscular block will be reversed with neostigmine 0.05 mg/kg and atropine 0.01 mg/kg then
      patients will be extubated and will be transferred to post anesthesia care unit (PACU).

      Postoperative multimodal analgesia: will received paracetamol 10 mg/kg every 6 hours and
      intravenous diclofenac 1.5 mg/kg every 8 hours regularly.

      All observations will be carried out by a single investigator, who is blinded to the study
      groups.

      -In all groups, the following will be measured: -

        1. Demographic data.

        2. Total doses of postoperative morphine consumption.

        3. Time of the first dose of rescue analgesia (morphine at dose of 0.1 mg/kg).

        4. Number of patients received rescue analgesia.

        5. Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) for pain that ranged from (0 = no pain) to (10 =
           intolerable pain). If score is >3 will need analgesia in the form of morphine 0.1 mg/kg
           will be given till NRS decreases to ≤3. NRS will be assessed and recorded on arrival to
           the Recovery Unit, 2, 4, 8, 12, 18, 24 h after the operation, by an anesthesiologist,
           who is blinded to the study groups.

        6. Total doses intraoperative consumption of fentanyl.

        7. Wake-up profile: On the surgeons' request for the intraoperative wake-up test,
           administration of sevoflurane will be stopped. (the quality of wake-up, return of
           spontaneous breathing, ability to open eyes on command, and ability to move hands and
           feet) and postoperative amnesia. Patients will be asked repeatedly during the wake-up
           test, at least every 15 s, to open their eyes and to move their hands and feet. The time
           elapsed from the interruption of anesthesia to the start of spontaneous breathing (T1),
           from the return of spontaneous breathing to eye opening on command (T2), and from eye
           opening to movement of hands and feet (T3) will be recorded in seconds using a
           stopwatch. The quality of the wake-up test will be evaluated on a three-point rank scale
           (8).

        8. First time of postoperative mobilization.
    
  