
    
      This study aims to identify polymorphisms in SPM-related genes in a South Asian population
      and assess whether these lead to alterations in the functions of enzymes and proteins encoded
      by these genes. This information will then be used to identify those SNP (Single nucleotide
      polymorphism) that lead to loss of function. We will then evaluate whether these SNP are
      linked with altered white blood cell function and increased incidence of chronic inflammatory
      disorders by assessing data from the Gene & Health program and other databases such as UK
      Biobank. We expect that this approach will provide new insights into molecular mechanisms and
      the identification of new mediators/enzyme/receptors families that are dysregulated in
      inflammatory conditions.

      To achieve this aim, we will identify volunteers from the Gene & Health program. The Gene &
      Health program has sequenced around 40,000 volunteers and identified around 500 gene variants
      that are predicted to lead to complete loss of gene function; among these SNP, 68 are
      presented in enzymes and receptors related with SPM including ALOX15, GPR18 and FPR2/ALX. As
      part of their recruitment to Gene & Health program, participants have consented to be
      contacted about future research studies such as this.

      In order to study the differences in the lipid mediator profiles between the groups, we will
      use peripheral blood obtained from consented Gene & Health individuals that present the SNP
      of interest (cases) and individuals without the mutation (controls). For the lipid mediator
      profiling a liquid chromatography in tandem mass spectrometry strategy (LC-MS/MS) will be
      used. Cell biology assays (phagocytosis, platelet activation, etc.) will be conducted using
      peripheral blood phagocytes cells. In addition, volunteers will be consented for access to
      their centralised health records so we can identify associations between different
      polymorphisms and the development of inflammatory conditions through a candidate-gene
      association study.

      The risks of this study to participants are low and relate to the sharing of confidential
      data and blood sample donation. Access to confidential clinical information with
      person-identifiable data will be restricted to the Chief Investigator and Principal
      Investigator, who are aware of their responsibilities under the Data Protection Act 2018 and
      all the obligations related to data management enforced by Gene & Health program. As for the
      blood donation, we believe that there is minimal risk to participants as they will only be
      asked to donate up to 60 ml of blood per sitting and donors will not be recalled more than 3
      separate occasions.
    
  