
    
      During the orientation, informed consent will be obtained, questionnaires about your thoughts
      and feelings will be completed, and height and weight will be measured to calculate BMI.
      Next, for the remaining eligible participants, both meal sessions will be scheduled within a
      two-week period, with the sessions scheduled within one hour of being at the same time of
      day. These sessions will be scheduled at dinnertime, between four pm and seven pm, with each
      session lasting approximately 75 minutes. Before leaving the orientation session, you will be
      instructed to not exercise on either of the days of the sessions. You will also be instructed
      to not eat four hours before either of your sessions, but to eat in a similar manner earlier
      in the day for each session.

      You will be randomized to one of two groups in which you will be asked to think about
      different things during your meal.

      Group 1: If you are randomized to this group, you will be asked to think about your feelings
      of hunger, fullness, and the sensory qualities of the food (such as texture, smell, flavor)
      as you eat your meal.

      Group 2: If you are randomized to this group, you will be asked to think about how hot or
      cold you feel, and how tired you are feeling as you eat your meal.

      At the start of each meal session, you will complete a food recall to record what you have
      consumed that day prior to the scheduled session. Also, a seven-day physical activity recall
      will be collected prior to beginning the meal. If you have not followed directions regarding
      eating and exercise, the session will be rescheduled.

      Next you will rate your hunger, fullness, and liking of each food in the meal on a scale.
      Then you will be instructed to consume a bowl of chocolate pudding within five minutes. When
      you have completed the pudding, there will be a 30-minute rest period in which you will be
      allowed to read or study. After the rest period and before the meal begins, you will again
      rate on the scale your hunger, fullness, and liking of each food in the meal. Then you will
      be asked to silence or turn off any electronic devices, after which the researcher will
      facilitate a brief raisin eating exercise. After the raisin eating exercise, the researcher
      will bring in your meal. The meal will last for 30 minutes and will be videotaped, and you
      will eat until pleasantly full. At the end of the thirty minutes, the researcher will come in
      and remove the food and you will rate your feelings of hunger, fullness, and liking of the
      foods in the meal, and then you will be done with the session.

      At the second session, the procedure will be exactly the same. In addition, you will complete
      several questionnaires about your thoughts and feelings after completion of the meal.

      Please call Dr. Hollie Raynor at (865) 974-6259 if you have any questions about these
      procedures for the study.
    
  