
    
      Settings:

      The data collection will be obtained from the data base available at the department of Oral
      and Maxillofacial Radiology, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo University, Cairo, Egypt.

      CBCT images will be obtained from Egyptian patients who had CBCT examination as part of their
      dental examination, diagnosis or treatment planning.

      Variables:

        1. Angulation of the third molar according to Winter's classification
           (vertical/mesio-angular/disto-angular/horizontal).

        2. Position of impacted mandibular third molar according to Pell and Gregory21
           classification. (Position A, position B, position C)

        3. Age.

        4. Gender.

      3. Data Sources / Measurements:

        -  Retrospective Data Analysis will be performed after the CBCT images are pooled from the
           computer database.

        -  All the CBCT examinations will be scanned using CBCT Software (Planmeca Romexis Viewer).

        -  CBCT images will be analysed in the 3 planes; the sagittal, coronal and axial sections
           in the 3D module, and in the cross-sectional cuts in the dental volume reformatting
           module for detection of ERR and/or caries.

        -  A carious lesion will be considered present when radiolucency can be seen in enamel
           and/or dentine in any of the cuts.

        -  Caries will be graded according to severity into:

             -  Incipient (less than halfway through the enamel)

             -  Moderate (more than halfway through enamel but does not involve the dentino-enamel
                junction (DEJ)

             -  Advanced (to the DEJ but does not extend more than half the distance to the pulp)

             -  Severe (more than half the distance to the pulp)

        -  ERR will be diagnosed as clear loss of substance in the root of adjacent second molar
           teeth due to direct contact between it and impacted third molar.

        -  ERR will be graded according to severity into:

             -  ERR involving less than half the dentine thickness (slight)

             -  ERR involving at least half the dentine (moderate)

             -  ERR involving the pulp cavity (severe)

        -  Severity of caries and ERR will be correlated to the study variables.

        -  CBCT images will be interpreted by two dental radiologists with more than 7 years
           experience independently; blinded from demographic data of the patients and from the
           results of each other.

        -  One of the radiologists will evaluate the images twice with a period of two weeks
           between the two reading sessions.

        -  Then inter-observational and intra-observational variability between the observers will
           be evaluated.

      Bias:

      No source of bias.

      Study Size:

      Based on the previous paper by Tassoker et al.1 2018, conducted in Turkey, the prevalence of
      ERR was 21%. Using a precision of 5, a design effect set at 1 with 95% CI (confidence
      interval), a total sample size of 255 will be sufficient. The sample size was calculated by
      Epi info.

      Quantitative Variables:

      The number of CBCT scans of Egyptian individuals with ERR and/or distal caries in mandibular
      2nd molars associated with mandibular 3rd molars will be counted to estimate their frequency
      in the Egyptian population.

      Statistical methods:

      Data will be analysed using IBM SPSS advanced statistics (Statistical Package for Social
      Sciences), version 21 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL). Numerical data will be described as mean and
      standard deviation or median and range. Categorical data will be described as numbers and
      percentages. Comparisons between male and females for normally distributed numeric variables
      will be done using the Student's t-test while for non-normally distributed numeric variables
      will be done by Mann-Whitney test. Comparisons between categorical variables will be
      performed using the chi square test. A p-value less than or equal to 0.05 will be considered
      statistically significant. All tests will be two tailed.
    
  