
    
      Child Participant:

      Study Participation:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will complete questionnaires about your quality
      of life. If you do not want to participate in this study, your parent or caregiver may still
      participate and complete the parent/caregiver questionnaires if he/she chooses.

      The questionnaires will ask about your experiences with pain, nausea, anxiety, worry,
      thinking and reasoning ability, physical appearance, communication, and your emotional,
      social, school, and physical functioning. Both questionnaires should take about 10 minutes to
      complete in total, or longer if you need more time. You will also be asked about whether you
      worry about the surgery being effective.

      If you are 4 years old or younger, your parent/caregiver will fill out the questionnaires for
      you.

      If you are between 5 and 7 years old, the interviewer will go over the questionnaires with
      you.

      If you are between 8 and 18 years old, you will fill out the questionnaires on your own.

      The questionnaires will be filled out in the week before the surgery, 1 month after the
      surgery, 3 months and 6 months after the surgery.

      You will only come in if you already have a scheduled visit because of the study you are
      presently on. However, if you are no longer on that study then you will still be asked to
      complete the questionnaires at the 1, 3 and 6-month time points. This can be done by
      telephone or at other regularly scheduled visits at those time points.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation in this study will be over after you finish the 6-month questionnaires.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 20 parents and 20 children will participate in this
      study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.

      Parent/Caregiver Participant:

      Parent Participation:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will complete questionnaires about your
      perception of your child's quality of life. If your child does not want to participate in
      this study, you may still participate and complete the parent/caregiver questionnaire, if you
      so choose. If your child is too ill to participate in this study, you will not be asked to
      complete his/her questionnaires on his/her behalf.

      The questionnaires will ask about your child's quality of life regarding pain, nausea,
      anxiety, worry, cognitive functioning (thinking and reasoning), physical appearance,
      communication, and his or her emotional, social, school, and physical functioning. Both
      questionnaires should take about 10 minutes to complete in total.

      You will also be asked a surgery-specific question about whether your child worries about the
      effectiveness of the surgery.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation in this study will be over after completion of the 6-month questionnaires.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 20 parents and 20 children will participate in this
      study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  