
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES: I. To compare the changes in renal function (post-operative compared to
      pre-operative) in patients undergoing unclamped partial nephrectomy with or without
      controlled hypotension (Arm A) vs. those undergoing partial nephrectomy with hilar clamping
      (Arm B), as measured by change in estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). SECONDARY
      OBJECTIVES: I. To compare the changes in renal function (post-operative compared to
      pre-operative) in patients undergoing unclamped partial nephrectomy with or without
      controlled hypotension (Arm A) vs. those undergoing partial nephrectomy with hilar clamping
      (Arm B), as measured by change in MAG3 (% of function attributed to affected kidney) and
      change in serum creatinine. II. To evaluate the safety of the unclamped procedure by
      estimating the differences in complication rates in patients undergoing unclamped partial
      nephrectomy with or without controlled hypotension (Arm A) vs. patients undergoing partial
      nephrectomy with hilar clamping (Arm B) in terms of intra-operative complications and
      post-operative complications. III. To evaluate the surgical effectiveness of the unclamped
      procedure by estimating the differences between patients undergoing unclamped partial
      nephrectomy with or without controlled hypotension (Arm A) vs. patients undergoing partial
      nephrectomy with hilar clamping (Arm B) in terms of surgical margin status, estimated blood
      loss, and transfusion rate (intraoperative and post-operative). TERTIARY OBJECTIVES: I. To
      record and compare the intrarenal blood flow and resistive index measurements in order to
      determine if a relationship exists between intraoperative findings and postoperative renal
      function. II. To quantify the amount of acute kidney injury (AKI) and compare the differences
      between patients undergoing unclamped partial nephrectomy with or without controlled
      hypotension (Arm A) vs. patients undergoing partial nephrectomy with hilar clamping (Arm B)
      as measured by urinary and serum biomarkers. III. To compare the effects of the unclamped
      procedure (Arm A) to the clamped procedure (Arm B) in patients with baseline eGFR < 60, and
      in patients with age >= 75 (exploratory subset analyses). OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to
      1 of 2 treatment arms. ARM A: Patients undergo unclamped partial nephrectomy. Some patients
      may undergo unclamped partial nephrectomy with controlled hypotension. ARM B: Patients
      undergo clamped partial nephrectomy. After completion of study treatment, patients are
      followed up at 1 week and then at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months.
    
  