
    
      This is a prospective open label study, all Gaucher disease pediatric patients (6-18 years),
      diagnosed at or referred to the HCV Egyptian treatment site, Mansoura University Children's
      Hospital Gastroenterology and hepatology unit, after positive HCV screen results by Anti HCV
      antibodies and confirmatory positive quantitative HCV polymerase chain reaction (PCR) are
      going to be enrolled. Study protocol had been approved by the Mansoura faculty of Medicine
      Institutional Review Board (IRB).

      Study design: In this prospective study, patients will receive ledipasvir-sofosbuvir fixed
      dose combination tablet (90 mg ledipasvir, 400 mg sofosbuvir) once daily for 12 weeks for
      those 12-18 years and half the dose (45 mg ledipasvir, 200 mg sofosbuvir) once daily for 12
      weeks for those 6-11 years. After the period of treatment, follow up visit are arranged at 4,
      12 and 24 weeks post-treatment.

      Methods:

      Every patient will be subjected to the following:

      A. History taking: time and route of acquisition, medications including previous antiviral
      therapy B. Comprehensive medical examination before study entry will be carried out for all
      participants and symptom-directed examination in every visit.

      C. In every visit, adverse events and concurrent medication will be reported for safety
      issue.

      D. Tanner staging for pubertal assessment will be done for all patients prior to enrollment
      then at the end of therapy and end of post-treatment follow up.

      E. Laboratory tests: All patients had positive (Anti-HCV Ab) and HCV-RNA PCR for more than 6
      months. HCV-RNA will be measured Basal pretreatment at week 12 on treatment then at week 12,
      24 post-treatment. Complete blood count (CBC),liver function tests (LFTs), international
      normalized ratio (INR), and serum creatinine will be done in the same time frame. Lab
      investigations are going to be done as a part of the routine work, using commercially
      available kits.

      F. Percutaneous liver biopsy: Histological examination of liver biopsy will be done for all
      patients when feasible (Hemoglobin more than 10gm/dl, Platlet count more than 100 x103/mm2,
      Prothrombin time (PT) less than 3 seconds prolongation) and agreed by the patients and legal
      guardians. Liver fibrosis and necroinflammatory injury are going to be reported by a single
      expert pathologist according to the Modified Knodell score by Ishak, in which inflammatory
      activity is graded from 0-18 and fibrosis is graded from 0-6. Alternatively transient hepatic
      elastography by fibroscan is going to be done for those patients with contraindication or
      refusing liver biopsy.
    
  