
    
      Investigators did not found scientific evidences neither evidence-based research, which
      support the idea that stable kidney recipients have increased risk for delayed socket repair
      and wound healing after exodontia or that infections resulted by oral surgery are more common
      in these patients, despite the drug-induced immunosuppression which they use.

      Since there is no scientific evidence about the increased risk of post-exodontic infection,
      not even about a disorder on the alveolar repair chronology, after exodontia performed in
      kidney recipients, the aim of our study will be prospectively observe kidney recipients who
      are undergoing dental extractions.

      This prospective cohort study will involve 45 adult kidney recipients for at least 6 months,
      and 61 non-transplanted and healthy control adults, who need simple extraction of an erupted
      tooth.

      All the patients must be evaluated in the preoperative phase through anamnesis (e.g.
      collecting data concerning on base diseases, personal history, presence of drug allergy,
      medications in use, habits and addictions), extra-oral and intra-oral physical examinations
      and laboratory tests.

      Participants must sign the Inform and Clarified Consent Term to participate. Will be
      disqualified participants that: used antibiotics in the month preceding the extraction, made
      bisphosphonate therapy, user of illicit drugs, chronic alcoholics, who present with dental
      emergencies, acute dental or periodontal infections, and patients with cognitive impairment.

      One week before the dental extraction will be collected 15ml of blood from participants of
      both group to perform complete blood count, coagulation tests, urea and creatinine
      measurements. The serum measurement of the immunosuppressed drug will be performed only in
      the individuals of study group.

      Dental extractions, from one to three erupted teeth, will be performed by the same dentist,
      specialist in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, enabled by the Federal Council of Dentistry, on
      the ambulatory of CAPE (special care center) , under local anesthesia following the standards
      described by Peterson et al (2003). The local anesthetic used in all individuals will be
      prilocaine with epinephrine as vasoconstrictor. After the anesthetic blockade, incision and
      mucosal detachment, luxation with elevators and tooth removal with forceps will be performed.
      The surgical technique will be modified according the condition of the tooth on the socket;
      when necessary tooth sectioning and/or ostectomy will be performed. By the end, curettage of
      the socket, post-extraction alveolar compression to reduce the width of the same and simple
      suture with 4.0 silk thread will be carried out.

      Each tooth characteristics and each surgery data will be recorded and will include: surgical
      duration (from the anesthesia to the suture), surgical technique variations, such the use of
      elevators, forceps, mucoperiosteal flaps, tooth sectioning and/or ostectomy and
      intraligamentary anesthesia, and number of anesthetics cartridges used.

      After the surgery, the patient will press a gauze for 30 minutes in the extraction's region
      in order to control bleeding. It will be prescribed 750 mg of Acetominophen, up to 3 times a
      day, for 24 hours. In case of necessity of change in the postoperative therapeutic due to
      surgical technique variations, data will be recorded and included.

      Clinical assessment of healing will be performed by a blinded examiner on 3, 7, 21 and 60
      days after surgery. In these periods, the region will always be examined by the same
      examiner.

      Radiographic evaluation will be done with standardized periapical radiographs, with
      individualized positioners, made in the immediately and 60 days postoperative, which bone
      density and alveolar crest remodeling will be evaluated by a blinded examiner.

      With 21 days postoperative, the socket will be classified as: 1) without complication; or 2)
      with complications. According to Cheung et al (2001), the following situations will be
      considered as post-exodontics complications:

      Acute alveolar infection (dry socket, fibrinolytic osteitis, alveolar osteitis) or
      surrounding tissue infection Acute alveolar inflammation.

      In case of postoperatively infection, copious irrigation with sodium chloride solution (NaCl
      0,9%) will be performed and will be prescribed amoxicilline 500 mg every 8 hours for 7 days
      and anti-inflammatory nimesulide 100 mg every 12 hours for 5 days. In case of allergy to
      penicillin, clindamycin will be prescribed at a dose of 300 mg every 8 hours for 7 days.

      The second outcome of interest in this study will be observe the total alveolar
      epithelialization. According to the literature, at 3 days postoperative, the socket is filled
      with blood clot and fibrin; at 7 days, the socket is filled with granulation tissue; and from
      21 days the surgical wound is fully epithelialized. Delayed epithelialization will be
      considered in case at on the day 21, the socket would not yet fully covered by epithelialized
      mucosa.

      Finally, the third point will be the bone deposition in the socket, at 60 days postoperative.

      All data will be transferred to an Excel spreadsheet and analyzed descriptively and
      associated with each other. Complications will be compared between the two groups. In
      addition, in the study group, researchers will investigate the occurrence of complications
      associated with transplantation time, immunosuppressive dose, and presence of comorbidity,
      such as diabetes.

      Exact Fisher's test or Fisher's exact test will be applied, Mann-Whitney's test or Student's
      T-test and binomial test using the R software, version 2.15.3 (R Development Core Team,
      2012). The significance level will be set at 5%. Adjustments to modifying factors such as
      smoking and presence of diabetes will be analyzed by logistic regression.
    
  