
    
      Golimumab is a fully human protein (antibody) which binds to tumor necrosis factor (TNFa).
      TNFa is increased in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and plays a major role in
      causing the joint pain, swelling, and damage from RA. Other marketed drugs that target TNFa
      (anti-TNFa drugs) have been shown to be effective in reducing the symptoms, signs, and joint
      damage of RA, but have limitations with respect to safety and ease of use. This is a
      randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of the efficacy and safety of a new
      anti-TNFa drug, golimumab, at 2 doses, injected under the skin every 4 weeks, alone or in
      combination with methotrexate, compared with methotrexate alone, in subjects with active RA
      who have not been previously treated with methotrexate. The study hypothesis is that
      golimumab, alone or in combination with methotrexate, will be more effective in treatment of
      RA than methotrexate alone, as measured by the American College of Rheumatology (ACR)
      response criteria and change from baseline in van der Heide Modified Sharp (vdH-S) score,
      without causing unacceptable significant adverse effects. The ACR response criteria were
      designed to determine the percentage of subjects who have achieved a certain level of
      improvement in their signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis. The vdH-S score is a
      measurement of the amount of joint damage in a subject as seen by x-ray. Other secondary
      measures of effectiveness include the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ), which is a
      series of questions that measure a subject's impairment in physical function caused by RA.
      Golimumab 50 mg or 100 mg, or placebo injections under the skin every 4 weeks until Week52.
      Methotrexate (MTX) or placebo capsules will be given in addition. At Week52, subjects on MTX
      alone with joint pain or swelling get golimumab 50mg, and all subjects receive golimumab for
      about 4 more years.
    
  