
    
      This developmental and exploratory study develops and tests a scalable model for the
      diagnosis and treatment of depression among HIV-infected patients initiating antiretroviral
      therapy (ART) in resource-poor settings. The investigators conduct a pilot test of the
      measurement-based care (MBC) approach to intervening, task shifting, and managing depression,
      which was adapted for use with auxiliary personnel who support HIV physicians in
      algorithm-guided antidepressant treatment. This intervention is based on the MBC approach
      developed by Pence, and conducted in HIV clinical sites in the US and Africa. The
      investigators adapted and tested an auxiliary-driven model, MBC-Aux, which is the first study
      of this approach with auxiliary personnel in a resource- poor country and its ART system. The
      study was conducted at the GHESKIO Centers in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, which is responsible for
      50% of the ART population in Haiti. The investigators conducted a formative study of
      psychosocial factors related to depression and antidepressant medication in Aim 1, adapted
      the MBC depression medication and monitoring algorithm for use by auxiliary personnel at
      GHESKIO in Aim 2 and conducted a pre-test of procedures, and piloted the resulting MBC-Aux
      adaptation in Aim 3 compared to Enhanced Usual Care. The investigators also evaluated
      feasibility and cost. Although they are very safe medications, use of antidepressants in
      MBC-Aux, like use of all pharmacologic agents, incurs some measurable risk of mild, moderate
      and rare but severe side effects. Risks were explained to participants receiving
      antidepressant treatment and MBC-Aux includes systematic monitoring of participants taking
      these medications. This R21 developmental and exploratory study will produce the first
      systematic formative work of psychosocial factors related to depression in Haiti, and is the
      first to apply and test the MBC approach with auxiliary personnel.
    
  