
    
      Participants will be recruited nationally utilizing internet-based strategies, including
      social media (i.e., Facebook, Twitter), social networking sites, online and email listervs,
      and by contacting MPN patients that were not included in prior feasibility work but expressed
      their interest in future work. The research team will provide flyers to recruitment contacts
      to provide a description of the study.

      MPN patients that expressed interest in future studies will be contacted via email to be
      asked of their interest in the current study. A flyer will be provided in the email.
      Prospective organizations will be contacted via email and/or phone and asked to advertise the
      study by posting the provided recruitment information (e.g., flyers, blurbs) to social media
      sites and/or websites, emailing listservs, or displaying flyers at location. National
      organizations agreeing to advertise for the study will be sent recruitment information (e.g.,
      flyers, blurbs) via email, and local organizations will have the option for hand delivery or
      email. Interested MPN patients will complete an eligibility screening using a Qualtrics link.
      The eligibility screening takes 5-10 minutes to complete.

      If ineligible, the participant will be sent an email notification and will be offered a
      discounted monthly membership to online yoga streaming (Udaya.com). If eligible, the
      potential participant will be emailed to schedule a time for an intake appointment. The
      intake appointment will provide greater details pertaining to the study, review of the
      consent process, and address participant questions.

      After completing the intake appointment, the participant will be directed to an informed
      consent page (individual link using Qualtrics) with details concerning the requirements of
      the study, as well as potential risks and benefits. There will be a place for the participant
      to type in their electronic signature, which will constitute their consent to participate in
      the study. After receipt of the signed consent form, the participant will be mailed a Fitbit.
      They will be instructed to wear the Fitbit for one week to collect baseline physical
      activity. After one week of wear, the participant will be directed to a Qualtrics link to
      complete baseline self-report measures. At this point, the participant will be randomized
      into either the wait-list control group or the yoga group via a web-based randomization tool.

      Yoga Group: The intervention will be 12-weeks in duration and will consist of a series of
      pre-approved online yoga classes. MPN patients will be asked to complete a minimum of 60
      minutes per week of yoga practice with encouragement to do more if they can. All Udaya.com
      videos will include a proper warm-up, cool down, and closing mindfulness activity (i.e.,
      message from yoga therapist, brief meditation, final relaxation). A 12-week yoga prescription
      utilized in prior feasibility work will be improved and modified for this study. The 12-week
      yoga prescription was designed to be safe and progressive for this specific population.
      Modifications to the prescription will be made based on qualitative feedback received from
      patients that participated in prior feasibility work. During the intervention, all classes
      will offer alternative poses, modifications, and use of props (i.e., yoga blocks and straps)
      in the instance poses are difficult for the participant (i.e., painful, irregular, uneven
      breath) and to ensure safety. In addition to specific instruction regarding form and safety,
      the yoga therapist will provide descriptions of each video that includes tips and
      modifications to poses (e.g., set the knee on your yoga mat if this feels more comfortable
      for you). Additionally, patients will also receive a yoga modifications handout outlining the
      contraindicated yoga poses with modifications. This handout will include an exercise warning
      for patients that experience dizziness, lightheadedness or faintness, excessive shortness of
      breath, chest pain, and that they need to stop the activity and contact their health care
      professional immediately if these symptoms are experienced.

      Wait-List Control Group: The control group will be asked to maintain their usual level of
      activity for 16 weeks before being given access to the yoga intervention. Once study
      participants in the yoga group have completed all outcome measures up through the 4-week
      follow-up (week 16), participants in the control group will be allowed to participate in the
      same online yoga prescription that was provided to the yoga group.
    
  