
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Confirm that the outcome for infants with newly diagnosed stage IV or IVS neuroblastoma
           without MYCN amplification is not altered by treatment with etoposide and carboplatin
           followed by cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and vincristine.

        -  Determine whether deletion of chromosome 1p or diploidy/tetraploidy are prognostic
           factors in these patients.

        -  Determine whether there are other prognostic criteria that could be used in future
           therapeutic stratification of these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age (under 1 month
      vs over 1 month).

      Infants less than 1 month of age are further stratified according to Philadelphia score (less
      than 1 vs at least 1). Infants over 1 month of age are also further stratified according to
      Philadelphia score (less than 2 vs at least 2).

      Infants under 1 month of age with Philadelphia score of less than 1 and infants over 1 month
      of age with Philadelphia score of less than 2 undergo observation only. Infants under 1 month
      of age with Philadelphia score of at least 1 and infants over 1 month of age with
      Philadelphia score of at least 2 receive VP-CARBO chemotherapy.

        -  VP-CARBO chemotherapy: Patients receive etoposide IV over 2 hours and carboplatin IV
           over 1 hour on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 courses. Patients with no
           response receive CADO chemotherapy.

        -  CADO chemotherapy: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days 1-5,
           doxorubicin IV over 6 hours on days 4 and 5, and vincristine IV on days 1 and 5.
           Treatment repeats every 21 days for a maximum of 4 courses.

      Patients are followed within 6 months and then annually for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 130 patients will be accrued for this study within 4 years.
    
  