
    
      1. Rationale and purpose of research Cerebral palsy (CP) is the most frequent cause of
           motor disability worldwide, with a prevalence of 2-2.5 per 1000 live births. Several
           comorbidities characterize the clinical picture of children with CP, such as
           communication impairment, feeding difficulties, intellectual disability, vision and
           hearing impairment and epilepsy. Children with CP may experience a variety of
           difficulties with communication including speech, the development of gesture and facial
           expression, or receptive and expressive language, including voice production and
           intelligibility. Communication impairment has been identified in at least 40% of
           children with CP, with 36-90% of CP children experiencing motor speech impairment. Also,
           it has also been suggested that some children who do not present explicit dysarthria may
           have underlying speech motor control deficits. Intelligibility due to motor speech
           impairments affects activity and participation within various environments, reduces
           quality of life and increases daily care needs. Dysarthria may also be associated with
           excessive drooling and swallowing difficulties. Several studies consider compromised
           speech abilities as an indicator of the need for augmentative and alternative
           communication to supplement or replace communication. Conversely, CP and early acquired
           brain injury remain two of the most common medical causes of referral to speech and
           language therapy. However, little effort has been made in systematically improving
           speech motor abilities of children with CP by using early, reproducible and targeted
           intervention strategies. Furthermore, a poor relationship between the motor command and
           perceptual consequence of the speech movement has been hypothesized as a possible
           mechanism of speech dysfunction in CP, suggesting a potential therapeutic value of
           enhancing tactile-kinesthetic input to motor speech abilities of CP children.

        2. Review of literature There are few papers reporting trials on targeted standardized
           intervention for speech motor deficit in infants or children with CP, with little
           evidences on treatment effectiveness. In a small group of children aged 3-11 years, it
           has been suggested that the effect of a speech motor treatment was aligned with the core
           principles of dynamic systems theory such as PROMPT (Prompts for Restructuring Oral
           Muscular Phonetic Targets) in changing speech motor patterns of children with CP with
           proven benefits in intelligibility, documented by kinematic analyses. Several types of
           CP were included (dyskinetic, spastic unilateral and bilateral). In a group of 7
           children with spastic quadriplegia, some outcome of a motor speech treatment originally
           developed for adults with Parkinson disease were validated, the Lee Silverman Voice
           Treatment (LSVT LOUD). They also showed changes in white matter integrity supporting
           behavioral changes.

        3. Research questions/Hypothesis Aim 1: To test the effectiveness of intensive PROMPT
           treatment in a group of preschool children with CP and motor speech disorders
           (dysarthria/apraxia of speech).

           Aim 2: To evaluate differences to the intervention response according to CP type, brain
           lesion severity and white matter integrity of corticospinal tract.

           Primary Hypothesis: children with CP and motor speech disorders will benefit from 3
           weeks of daily administration of PROMPT treatment and show measurable improvement of
           speech intelligibility on clinical and kinematic assessments, with 3 months stability.

           Secondary hypotheses: children with dyskynetic CP will show more improvement induced by
           the PROMPT treatment as compared to children with spastic CP. Investigators also
           hypothesize that children with less severe brain lesions will have a higher level of
           improvement compared to children with more severe brain lesions. Investigators finally
           hypothesize that corticospinal microstructural integrity positively impact on
           intelligibility recovery, with children with better integrity having bigger
           improvements.

        4. Method Investigators plan a randomized trial of PROMPT in children with CP using a
           wait-list control group. Eligible children will be randomized into either immediate
           treatment or wait-list-control groups. This design allows every child meeting inclusion
           criteria to eventually receive the treatment and avoids issues of equipoise. For CP
           wait-listed controls, the study continues for 3 weeks longer and results into an
           additional assessment.

      Because PROMPT has been shown to be beneficial in several older children with CP,
      investigators' rational for the design allows for achievement of the RCT data collection and
      analysis, as well as allow all identified and consented children to receive the intervention.

      The participants will include children between 3 and 9 years of age, with a diagnosis of CP
      and speech motor disorders. Parents will be asked to consent for the children for the
      participation in the study. All study activities will be carried out in our clinical center
      setting with a PROMPT trained therapist with appropriate knowledge of clinical research
      process.

      In investigators' studies of rehabilitation with the CP population consent to participate in
      studies approaches 90%. From investigators' experience and clinical demographics of the
      center, they were expected 30 patients diagnosed CP with speech difficulties in the requisite
      age group per year, making possible a design of staggered enrollment of intervention and
      wait-list-control groups in the RCT. Recruitment will be completed according to the standards
      of research consent, followed by group randomization, by a team member other than the
      treating therapist. The assessments will be completed by an experiences SLP, different from
      the treating therapist.
    
  