
    
      Protein malnutrition is prevalent among critically ill children and associated with poor
      clinical outcomes. Current guidelines for provision of protein in daily management of
      critically ill children in pediatric intensive care units (PICUs) are based on limited and
      not high-quality evidence. The current protein supplementation approach, "one-size-fits-all"
      nutrition prescription, may not be appropriate for every critically ill child. Given the
      heterogeneity of the patients admitted to the PICU, a targeted approach based on individuals'
      needs represents a potential advancement in PICU care.

      The central hypothesis is that protein supplementation in PICU care leads to improved
      clinical outcomes in subgroups of patients only. The investigators propose a dual-centre
      pilot randomized controlled trial in Singapore with two major aims:

        1. To obtain key information for planning and conducting a large-scale multicentre study in
           Asia; and

        2. to evaluate the benefit of protein supplementation to critically ill children with body
           mass index (BMI) z-scores on PICU ≤ -2.

      The main clinical outcome of interest is total number of days of hospital stay (from PICU
      admission to hospital discharge). Two protein supplementation regimes (≥ 1.5g/kg/day vs.
      standard care) will be randomly allocated to PICU patients with body mass index (BMI)
      z-scores ≤ -2. The investigators will determine the effect of protein supplementation on
      total length of hospital stay and other clinical outcomes, and assess the impact of protein
      supplementation on acquired functional impairment of PICU survivors 6 months after hospital
      discharge. In addition, the investigators will explore whether muscle ultrasound is a
      biomarker for protein balance in pediatric critical illness.

      Upon completion of this study, the investigators will have strong preliminary data to plan,
      refine their study approach, and execute a future large multi-centre study across Asia. These
      data will ultimately guide protein provision and nutritional management of patients in PICU
      setting.
    
  