
    
      Background

      Despite the well documented cardio-protective effects of aerobic exercise of moderate
      intensity, short- and long-term consequences of strenuous exercise are less clear. There is
      increasing evidence that maintaining a high cardiac workload over a prolonged duration may
      result in transient impairment of cardiac function. Recent studies have also reported a
      transient increase in cardiac biomarkers after prolonged strenuous exercise. While in
      patients with cardiac disease the presence of cardiac dysfunction and increased cardiac
      biomarkers generally reflects myocardial damage, the impact of these observations in athletes
      is ill defined. It is a matter of concern whether in athletes such findings simply reflect a
      reversible response or whether repetitive events may lead to an accumulative cardiac damage.
      Traditional echocardiographic methods used to determine potential cardiac changes in
      morphology or function are investigator-dependent and may be subject to interference by
      cardiac pre- and afterload. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging provides an
      investigator-independent and objective method to quantify cardiac dimensions and function.
      Delayed contrast enhancement MR imaging is a highly reproducible cardiovascular magnetic
      resonance imaging technique to directly visualize myocardial edema, necrosis and fibrosis.

      Objective

      To use cardiac and delayed contrast enhancement magnetic resonance imaging in combination
      with echocardiographic methods to quantify cardiac dysfunction after a single competitive PSE
      event and to study post-exercise changes in morphology and function as well as the
      post-exercise dynamics of specific markers of myocardial damage.

      Methods

      Cardiac and delayed contrast enhancement magnetic resonance imaging will be used in
      combination with echocardiographic methods to repetitively investigate post-exercise cardiac
      function and morphology in 10 elite athletes finishing the "Jungfrau Marathon". Biomarkers of
      myocardial damage are assessed simultaneously.

      Post-exercise dynamics of the outcome parameters are followed over a minimum of 7 days after
      the exercise.
    
  