
    
      The two reasons why dacarbazine was eliminated from treatment options for patients with
      metastatic sarcoma included inability to effectively address the drug's major toxicities
      (emesis and neutropenia) and the prevailing opinion that the drug was less effective than
      other chemotherapeutic agents.

      Specific Aim #1: The primary endpoint of this study is to determine the overall best tumor
      anatomic response rate (CR- complete response, PR - partial response, SD - stable disease, or
      PD - progressive disease) to dacarbazine given until disease progression as assessed by
      RECIST criteria using CT and clinical examination in patients with metastatic sarcoma.

      The prevailing opinion that dacarbazine was less effective than other chemotherapeutic agents
      in this setting was not based on data from controlled randomized clinical trials. Indeed, we
      are not aware of a single randomized trial that was conducted and reported which compared the
      anti-tumor activity of single agent dacarbazine to that of other active single agents in this
      patient population. However, phase two trials clearly established that dacarbazine had
      anti-tumor activity in the treatment of metastatic sarcoma, and our personal experience at
      this institution has confirmed that this is true. In addition, randomized trials demonstrated
      that the addition of dacarbazine to doxorubicin increased tumor response rates over
      doxorubicin alone.12 The literature supports the conclusion that dacarbazine has anti-tumor
      activity in the treatment of metastatic sarcoma.

      Historically, in most studies, tumor response to dacarbazine was assessed by WHO criteria.
      However, current assessment of tumor response usually is based on RECIST criteria, which
      differ from the WHO criteria, as shown:

      Studies have not been performed to determine the tumor anatomic response rate of single agent
      dacarbazine using RECIST criteria. This study will determine the tumor anatomic response rate
      as assessed by RECIST criteria to dacarbazine in patients with metastatic sarcoma. Modern
      methods of CT scans will be used to assess tumor response which contrasts with the earlier
      methods to assess tumor response to dacarbazine used in most of the published reports. These
      methods included physical examination and conventional X-ray or first generation, lower
      resolution CT scans. The current methods of radiologic assessment of tumor response are
      superior to those used over 15 years ago. The latest generation of CT scans more accurately
      measure and image a tumor mass, which may better assess tumor response to therapy.

      Specific Aim #2: To determine the overall risk of nausea/emesis (any grade) and neutropenia
      (grade 3 or 4) with dacarbazine when given with current antiemetic agents
      (5-hydroxytryptamine-3 serotonin antagonist, dexamethasone, and aprepitant) and with
      pegfilgrastim.

      Historically, dacarbazine-induced toxicities such as emesis and myelosuppression were common
      and led to significant dose reductions and delays which could have negatively impacted the
      drug's anti-tumor activity. When dacarbazine was initially identified as a potentially
      effective agent for the treatment of sarcoma, the anti-emetic drugs available had limited
      efficacy. Also, there were no measures available to prevent chemotherapy-induced neutropenia.
      Today, there are very effective drugs that can prevent and reduce the frequency of both
      chemotherapy-induced emesis and neutropenia.

      Dacarbazine carries the risk of emesis (all grades) of >90% of cases when administered
      without antiemetics13. A three-drug anti-emetic combination of a 5-hydroxytryptamine-3
      serotonin antagonist, dexamethasone, and aprepitant is the current recommendation from ASCO
      when administering highly emetogenic chemotherapy drugs13. Hesketh, et al reported that the
      risk of emesis (all grades) following highly emetogenic chemotherapy (cisplatin) and
      pre-medication with this three drug anti-emetic regimen was 27% compared to a two drug
      regimen of ondansetron and dexamethasone in which the risk was 48% (p< 0.001)14.

      Prior studies showed that the risk of grade 3 or 4 neutropenia following dacarbazine given
      without granulocyte- colony stimulating factors was 36%15. Granulocyte- colony stimulating
      factors (pegfilgrastim or neupogen) are effective agents in preventing chemotherapy-induced
      neutropenia. Crawford, et al showed in a randomized trial that risk of chemotherapy- induced
      grade four neutropenia was one day with G-CSF compared to six days with placebo15. Subsequent
      randomized trials showed equivalent efficacy of pegfilgrastim compared with neupogen16.
      Vogel, et al reported in a phase three double blinded randomized trial of patients with
      breast cancer receiving docetaxel 100 mg/m2 that pegfilgrastim compared to placebo reduced
      the incidence of febrile neutropenia ( 1% vs 17%, p< 0.001) and febrile neutropenia-related
      hospitalization (1% vs 14%, p< 0.001)17.

      In this trial, we hypothesize that the implementation of these newer anti-nausea agents
      (5-hydroxytryptamine-3 serotonin antagonist, dexamethasone, and aprepitant) and
      granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (pegfilgrastim) as a primary prophylactic strategy will
      reduce the frequency of dacarbazine-induced nausea/emesis (any grade) and neutropenia (grade
      3 or 4).

      Specific Aim #3: To compare the SUV at up to three target tumor sites and to determine the
      overall tumor metabolic response (complete metabolic response, partial metabolic response,
      stable metabolic disease or progressive metabolic disease (CMR, PMR, SMD, or PMD) as assessed
      by FDG-PET/CT performed at baseline and then after every three cycles of treatment with
      dacarbazine.

      Studies have not been performed to determine the changes in FDG uptake by PET imaging
      following dacarbazine in patients with metastatic sarcoma. There is limited published data
      about changes in FDG uptake by PET imaging following other chemotherapy agents in patients
      with metastatic sarcoma. However, there is an emerging body of data showing the prognostic
      impact of early tumor response to targeted agents (imatinib or sunitinib) as assessed by
      FDG-PET in patients with metastatic GIST18. In this trial, we will determine the tumor
      metabolic response to dacarbazine as assessed by FDG-PET/CT and correlate this to the tumor
      anatomic response as assessed by CT scans.
    
  