
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) of
           escalating doses of erlotinib hydrochloride in combination with sirolimus in adult
           patients with malignant glioma, who are not receiving enzyme-inducing anti-epileptic
           drugs (EIAED). (Phase I)

        -  Evaluate preliminary efficacy (response rate [RR], progression-free survival [PFS], and
           overall survival [OS]) of erlotinib hydrochloride and sirolimus combination therapy in
           glioblastoma multiforme (GMB)/gliosarcoma (GS) patients who are not undergoing surgery
           at the time of recurrence or relapse (dose-expansion arm). (Phase II)

        -  Evaluate molecular determinants of response to the combination of erlotinib
           hydrochloride and sirolimus, especially the roles of the mutation of EGFR (e.g., vIII
           mutant, other somatic mutations of vIII, and mutation/deletion of PTEN).

      Secondary

        -  To characterize the safety and tolerability of erlotinib hydrochloride and sirolimus
           combination therapy in these patient populations.

        -  To characterize the single-dose and repeated-dose pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of
           erlotinib hydrochloride (in serum) and sirolimus (in whole blood) combination therapy in
           these patient populations.

        -  To characterize, in pre- and/or post-treatment tumor samples, when available, expression
           levels of total and activated phosphorylated proteins relevant to the EGFR, VEGFR, and
           PI3K/mTOR signaling pathways, relevant downstream signaling network components, EGFR and
           VEGFR-related ligands, apoptosis (TUNEL), cell cycle control, and proliferation.

        -  To assess pre- and/or post-treatment tumor samples, when available, for DNA-based
           changes (e.g., EGFR [DNA] amplification, EGFR and EGFRvIII mutations, and
           mutations/deletions in the PTEN gene) relevant to the molecular biology in GBM.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride and sirolimus once daily on days 1-28.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Patients undergo tumor tissue and blood sample collection periodically for pharmacological
      and biological studies. Samples are analyzed for concentrations of erlotinib hydrochloride
      and trough serum levels of sirolimus via HPLC, EGFR, EGFRvIII, PTEN and the phospho-specific
      antibodies associated with the MAPK and PI3K pathways via IHC, and EGFRvIII and sequencing of
      EGFR, PTEN and other critical genes via PCR, gene expression, and SNP analysis. Germline DNA
      will also be used to distinguish polymorphisms from somatic mutations in gene sequenced.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.
    
  