
    
      Detection of patient deterioration is a major healthcare problem. Indeed, acute clinical
      deterioration of the patient is often preceded by changes of several physiological parameters
      within 6 to 24h before the event occurs. The combination of i) early detection ii) rapid
      response and iii) efficient clinical management influences the patient's prognosis. Education
      of nurses, who are frontline healthcare providers, is therefore essential.

      Serious games might represent an interesting immersive educational tool to train a large
      number of healthcare professionals with high flexibility but assessment of their learning
      efficacy should be demonstrated. The investigators are interested to explore the relative
      benefits of gaming over other methods of training and how can non-technical skills be
      improved by gaming. A serious game named LabforGames Warning has been developed by the
      investigators with the aims of improving nursing students' capacity to detect patient
      deterioration and to promote adequate interprofessional communication. It includes four
      different scenarios in various clinical conditions (postoperative hemorrhage, pediatric
      diarrhea and hypovolemia, brain trauma in an elderly patient, abdominal occlusion in a
      psychiatric patient) but in all of them deterioration of the patient status occurs in three
      consecutive steps (minimal, moderate and severe). Each scenario can be used separately but
      all can also be played sequentially. The game can be used in a dedicated room with several
      computers allowing several students to play at the same time (multiplayer format). It can
      also be played alone by accessing the university website with each student being given a
      login and a password (single player format). The game conception emphasizes the fact the each
      student can play the game several times until his (her) score reaches an excellent result.
      When the game is played in a room of the medical/nursing school with 15-20 students
      performing at the same time, a common interactive debriefing is provided by an instructor at
      the end of each scenario in addition to the feedback included in the game itself. A
      pre-formatted feedback is indeed provided on the screen of the computer at the end of each
      step of the scenario and emphasizes the major lessons to be understood and retained for this
      part of the game. When the player uses the serious game alone during an internet-based
      session, the debriefing is limited to the pre-formatted feedback.

      The nursing student is seated in front of the screen of the computer and uses a mouse to move
      objects and respond to questions. Initially, the player is informed on the clinical
      environment of the game and technical information (how to manipulate the items on the screen)
      is provided. Responses provided by the student in the consecutive stages of the scenario are
      scored (a scoring system has been previously established by the instructors who developed the
      game) and a feedback explaining the main issues (errors or imperfect responses) is also
      provided on the computer screen. At each clinical step during a given scenario, the player
      has the possibility to call a physician but the content of the information provided and the
      details of the request are examined and scored.

      In the present study, the objective will be to compare the respective educational value of
      the above mentioned serious game and a traditional teaching method to improve the clinical
      reasoning skills necessary to detect patient deterioration.

      This randomized study will be performed in the simulation center of Paris Sud University
      (LabForSIMS). After informed consent, 2nd year nursing students from nursing schools will be
      included and randomized into two groups: simulation by gaming group and traditional teaching
      group (control group).

      In the simulation by gaming group, students will individually play with two scenarios of
      LabforGames Warning (postoperative hemorrhage after hip replacement and brain trauma in an
      elderly patient).

      In the traditional teaching group, an instructor will present and discuss the same two
      vignettes with a similar number of students (i.e. 15 students). Information is presented
      using paper and a PowerPoint slide kit. The duration of the course will be similar to that of
      the serious game session.

      The student's clinical reasoning skills will be measured by script concordance tests (SCT) to
      assess the retention of the clinical reasoning skills. A series of 80 SCT related to the
      learning objectives of the session will be presented to each group immediately after the
      session and one month thereafter. In addition, the perceived satisfaction and the
      effectiveness of the instructional design will be assessed using a questionnaire at the end
      of the session.
    
  