
    
      English speaking women ≥21 years old with idiopathic refractory urgency urinary incontinence
      who have failed first and second line treatment (life style modifications and antispasmodic
      medications) who are undergoing a first injection of intra-detrusor Botox will be recruited
      to participate in this study. Failure of first and second line treatment will be defined as
      no improvement in urgency urinary incontinence episodes after trial of lifestyle
      modifications and use of at least one antispasmodic agent.

      Patients who are planning to undergo her first intra-detrusor Botox procedure for refractory
      idiopathic urgency urinary incontinence at the University of Virginia Pelvic Medicine and
      Reconstructive Surgery clinic will be approached for inclusion into the study. A study
      overview, as well as risks and benefits, will be reviewed with the patients. The patient will
      be screened for inclusion/exclusion criteria. If she meets criteria and agrees to study
      participation, she will be consented for study participation and the Botox injection
      procedure.

      Prior to receiving treatment, patients will complete a 3-day voiding diary and the following
      questionnaires: Incontinence Impact Questionnaire short form (IIQ-7) and Urogenital Distress
      Inventory short form (UDI-6) at the time of consent. As part of usual care, patients in both
      arms will receive prophylactic antibiotics (oral nitrofurantoin or cephalexin) to complete
      prior to the procedure date. On the day of treatment, patients will have a clean catch urine
      specimen obtained and urine dip completed. Patients who have a positive urine dip will have
      her procedure rescheduled to another day. A positive urine dip is defined as + leukocytes and
      + blood in the presence of symptoms of urinary tract infection (dysuria, increased
      urgency/frequency above baseline or hematuria). In this study, we will not offer patients
      pre-procedure oral Valium as it may affect reporting of pain scores. Patients in both arms
      will be prepared for the procedure in the same fashion: 50 cc of 1% lidocaine will be
      instilled into the bladder at least 20 minutes prior to the procedure. Patients will then be
      prepped and draped in the standard fashion. A 70-degree cystoscope will be inserted through
      the urethra and into the bladder until the trigone is identified; the bladder will be
      distended with approximately 200 mL sterile saline.

      100 units of Botox will be mixed with 10 mL of Normal Saline for sterile injection into the
      bladder. In the reduced protocol arm, a single row of 5 injections will be administered into
      the detrusor muscle. In the standard protocol arm, 3 rows of 5 injections will be
      administered into the detrusor muscle. In both arms, a final injection with 1 mL of normal
      saline flush will be injected to remove any residual Botox from the injection needle. The
      patient will be monitored for 20 minutes post procedure to ensure adequate ability to void
      after treatment. Approximately 5 minutes post-procedure, patients will rate their pain
      experienced during the procedure using a 100-point visual analog pain scale.

      If the patient is unable to void post-procedure, she will be taught how to perform clean
      intermittent self-catheterization (CISC) and provided with a log to record void and catheter
      volumes. She will be called on a weekly basis by the study team to review
      void/catheterization volumes and encouraged to discontinue when she has 2 successive
      catheterization volumes of <150 ml. This is in accordance with standard clinical care in our
      practice.

      At 2 weeks post procedure, patients in both treatment arms will be interviewed by phone to
      report results of a 3-day voiding diary (Aim 1), complete the IIQ-7 and UDI-6 again, as well
      as the OAB Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (OAB-SATq), Client Satisfaction Questionnaire
      (CSQ-8)10, Patient Global Impression of Improvement (PGI-I) questionnaire and evaluate for
      complications (Aim 2, Aim 3). The same evaluation process will be repeated at 3 months and 6
      months post procedure.

      After completion of all questionnaires at the 4 timepoints (Pre-procedure, 2 weeks, 3 months,
      6 months), patients will receive a $50 incentive for their time and participation.
    
  