
    
      This project will elucidate deficits in learning semantic information in developmental
      language disorder (DLD, formerly referred to as specific language impairment) by combining
      behavioral and neural measures to examine differences in the semantic learning process
      between school-age children with and without DLD. Vocabulary knowledge, particularly semantic
      knowledge, has a critical influence on reading comprehension and academic success. Despite
      the strong association between vocabulary knowledge and academic success, vocabulary is an
      under-recognized area of deficit in school-age children with DLD. Younger children with DLD
      have well-established deficits in vocabulary and word learning and weaknesses in semantic
      knowledge. Additionally, the rate of vocabulary growth in children with DLD decreases
      compared to typically developing peers around age 10 and semantic representations of known
      vocabulary items are sparse. Even with this knowledge, the field's ability to make progress
      toward improved semantic learning in school age DLD is hindered by the lack of basic
      information on the underlying nature of the semantic learning deficits in this population.
      This project establishes how and why semantic learning differs between school-age children
      with and without DLD, providing a much-needed theoretical foundation for clinical research.

      Storkel, expanding on an adult word learning model by Leach and Samuel, provides a clearly
      testable account of word learning that has been used with children with DLD. This account
      involves three processes: 1) triggering, in which a new lexical encounter is compared to
      existing lexical representations, 2) configuration, which adds information to the expanding
      lexical representation, and 3) engagement, which examines how the new lexical representation
      behaves dynamically with existing representations. The configuration process is arguably the
      most critical for semantic development. Successful configuration requires the simultaneous
      engagement of cognitive and linguistic processes, such as attention, inhibition, working
      memory, and semantic and syntactic processing. While it is widely accepted that configuration
      is the most affected word learning process in DLD, what is unknown is what underlies deficits
      in configuration and whether these deficits vary across the DLD profile. These questions are
      further compounded by difficulty measuring configuration and associated processes, given that
      they are largely internal, and therefore invisible. Electroencephalography (EEG) addresses
      this invisibility problem by allowing for a real-time examination of unconscious levels of
      semantic learning and cognitive and linguistic processes. A combined EEG-behavioral methods
      approach can illustrate how children with DLD are approaching configuration in terms of the
      relative contribution of these processes. The central hypothesis of this research is that
      children with DLD engage cognitive and linguistic processes at different points during
      configuration compared to their typical peers, resulting in poorer semantic learning
      outcomes.

      To test the central hypothesis, the investigators will record behavioral and EEG data from
      10-12 year old children with DLD and typical-language peers as they complete a semantic
      learning task. This age aligns with the point where vocabulary growth rates in DLD further
      diverge from typical peers [6]. In the semantic learning task, children listen to sets of
      three sentences that all end with the same nonword: half of the sentence triplets support
      learning meaning of the nonword, half do not. The investigators will analyze EEG data for
      event-related potentials (ERPs) as well as changes in neural oscillations (time frequency
      analysis). The investigators will combine EEG and behavioral measures to examine the
      following aims:

      Aim 1. To investigate the cognitive and linguistic processes underlying configuration in
      children with DLD and typical language (TL) peers. This aim will include data from the
      semantic learning task. Based on the assessment of behavioral outcomes, the investigators
      predict that the TL group will be more accurate in semantic learning than the DLD group. ERP
      analyses will focus on the N400 component, associated with semantic processing. Time
      frequency analysis will focus on changes in the theta (4-8 Hz) and alpha (8-12 Hz) frequency
      bands, typically associated with lexical retrieval and attention/inhibition, respectively.
      For both neural measures, the investigators predict engagement of the same components (N400,
      theta, alpha) across groups but different patterns of change in those components during
      configuration between groups.

      Aim 2. To investigate individual differences in configuration in children with DLD and TL
      peers. This aim will include data from the semantic learning task and a behavioral assessment
      battery. Assessment of behavioral data will focus the types of errors children make during
      semantic learning. The investigators expect that children with DLD will provide incorrect
      meanings for the nonword that best fit with the first sentence in the triplet and that TL
      children will provide incorrect meanings that best fit with the last sentence. The
      investigators will also examine individual differences related to semantic learning outcomes
      and fine-grained differences in N400 learning effects across groups. Here, the investigators
      expect that individual differences in general language ability and semantic knowledge,
      measured via the behavioral assessment battery, will be most predictive of both behavioral
      semantic learning and N400 change during learning.
    
  