
    
      This research study will address critical gaps in our understanding and management of chronic
      musculoskeletal pain in Veterans with serious mental illness (SMI), addressing the following
      aims:

      Aim 1: Complete a pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) with 45 Veterans with co-occurring
      SMI and chronic musculoskeletal pain to examine feasibility and acceptability of CBT-CP and
      preliminarily evaluate participant responses to intervention.

      Aim 1a (Primary): Determine feasibility by demonstrating adequate rates of recruitment and
      completion of and fidelity to the CBT-CP intervention as well as quality and acceptability of
      chosen assessments.

      Aim 1b (Primary): Determine acceptability by obtaining favorable ratings from satisfaction
      questionnaires and interviews.

      Aim 1c (Exploratory): Preliminarily evaluate participant responses to intervention by
      exploring changes in functioning and quality of life among Veterans randomized to the CBT-CP
      condition (n=30).

      Aim 2: Determine the feasibility of collecting EMA data to examine the temporal relationships
      among mental health symptoms, pain severity, and health-related functioning. Data will be
      collected at baseline from the 45 Veterans in the Aim 1 RCT.

      Aim 2b (Primary): Determine feasibility of this approach through adherence to the EMA call
      schedule and overall response rates.

      Aim 2a (Exploratory): Explore relationships among mental health symptoms, pain severity, and
      health-related functioning captured in real time.

      Aim 3: Complete a well-specified process evaluation to explore how to optimize CBT-CP for use
      in Veterans with SMI and chronic musculoskeletal pain in future clinical trials. This
      evaluation will integrate qualitative data from 15 interviews with Veterans in the CBT-CP
      condition, CBT-CP interventionist notes, and quantitative data from Aims 1 and 2.
    
  