
    
      Background: Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), a potentially severe and persistent
      condition that affects social, occupational and family functioning, is prevalent among
      returning OIF/OEF veterans. PTSD has a powerful impact on family functioning. Because good
      family relationships appear to moderate its impact, while stressful relationships may reduce
      the benefits of treatment, a program that enhances family functioning by assisting both
      veteran and family in coping with the veteran's PTSD could directly improve the veteran's
      adjustment and well-being, and indirectly improve his/her social and occupational
      functioning. Effective programs for OIF/OEF veterans are urgently needed. This study will
      address critical gaps in knowledge about relevant needs and preferences of OIF/OEF veterans
      and families, and how best to involve families in treatment.

      Objectives: The specific aim of this project is to describe the needs and preferences of
      OIF/OEF service-era veterans with PTSD and their families relevant to family involvement in
      care.

      Methods: This two-site study was conducted at the Central Arkansas Veterans Healthcare System
      (CAVHS, Little Rock, AR) and Oklahoma City (OKC) VAMCs. Qualitative (focus-group or
      individual) interviews were conducted with 47 Veterans (33 CAVHS, 14 OKC) and 36
      Veteran-designated family members (19 CAVHS/17 OKC). Veterans were eligible if they were
      18-65 years of age, had served in Iraq or Afghanistan since October 2001, had received
      treatment for PTSD at the CAVHS or OKC VAMCs in the previous 12 months, and had an adult
      family member who might be willing to participate in an interview. Family was defined broadly
      to include relatives, significant others, and friends the Veteran considered "as close as
      family." Interviews addressed perceived needs related to the Veteran's readjustment to
      civilian life, desires for family involvement in treatment, types of services that were/would
      have been helpful and attractive during readjustment, as well as logistic considerations
      (e.g., frequency of meetings). Qualitative data were analyzed using the techniques of
      constant comparison and content analysis. Demographic data, deployment data, and data on
      preferred program structure and format were collected via an anonymous paper-and-pencil
      questionnaire administered following the qualitative interview.

      Status: Data collection and analysis of main themes are complete. In depth analysis of
      additional themes is ongoing.
    
  