
    
      Procedures Patients will be approached at the pre admission clinic or in the general ward
      before the operation. The analgesic modalities will be explained and the patient will be
      recruited into the study if s/he agrees. The patient will subsequently be randomized into one
      of two groups. Patients in the first group (M) will receive intraoperative morphine, local
      wound infiltration with local anaesthetic, paracetamol, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor
      and postoperative patient controlled analgesic (PCA) morphine. Patients in the second group
      (E) will receive postoperative electroacupuncture in addition to intraoperative morphine,
      local wound infiltration with local anaesthetic, COX-2 inhibitor, paracetamol and
      postoperative PCA morphine.

      Randomization and blinding Patients recruited for laparoscopic colonic and rectal surgery
      will be stratified in randomization. To ensure all groups have equal sample size, each
      randomization will be based on using 10 blocks of 10 patients for each type of operation
      (colonic and rectal). A computer generated random sequence will be used to select the
      allocation order.

      This is a single blinded randomized control trial. Blinding will not be done for the
      patients. The investigator assessing the patients for data collection after the operation
      will be blinded.

      Analgesic modalities and pain assessment Group E In addition to the standard protocol applied
      to patients in group M, patients in the electroacupuncture group (E) will receive 4 sessions
      of electroacupuncture after surgery over four days, with each session lasting 30 minutes. The
      first session will start 3 hours after surgery on post op day 0. Subsequently, patients will
      receive 1 sessions each morning on post op days 1, 2, and 3. The acupoints that will be
      stimulated are: daheng, tianshu, zhongwan, xiawan, qihai, guanyuan, hegu, quchi, zusanli,
      sanyinjiao, gongsun. An alternating fast-slow frequency of 20Hz/6Hz will be used with an
      interval of 250msec. The intensity (mA) will be adjusted to a level tolerated by each
      individual patient. Electroacupuncture will be performed by qualified acupuncturists from the
      School of Chinese Medicine, The University of Hong Kong.

      Group M Patients in group M will receive intravenous morphine, paracetamol, COX-2 inhibitor,
      local wound infiltration with local anaesthetic and post operative PCA morphine only as
      mentioned above. Neither electroacupuncture nor sham acupuncture will be given.

      Postoperative care and assessment Early mobilization is encouraged after operation. Patients
      will be put on fluid diet on postoperative day 0.

      Postoperative assessments such as gastrointestinal function (bowel sound, flatus, bowel
      opening), occurrences of postoperative complications, and suitability for discharge (good
      pain control, ambulation, normal bowel function, ability to eat properly without vomiting or
      abdominal distention) would be performed by the surgical team.

      Pain control using the numerical rating scale (NRS) scale from 0-10 and patient satisfaction
      with analgesia will be assessed upon discharge.

      Blood sampling In order to determine the plasma concentrations of adenosine, encephalin,
      beta-endorphin, dynorphin and alpha-endomorphin, and methylation status and gene expression
      of mu-, delta- and kappa-opioid receptors, 10 mls of blood will be drawn (4 mls into
      Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) and 6 mls into heparinised blood collection tubes) at
      the following time-points in all subjects: Prior to first acupuncture session, prior to
      second acupuncture session, prior to 4th acupuncture session and prior to 6th acupuncture
      session.
    
  