
    
      Bronchiolitis is an infection of the bronchiolar epithelium. It is associated with profound
      submucosal and adventitial edema, increased secretion of mucus, and obstructed flow in the
      small airways, leading to hyperinflation, atelectasis, and wheezing. Respiratory syncytial
      virus (RSV) is responsible for the majority of cases .Bronchiolitis is the most frequent
      lower respiratory tract infection with high morbidity, and the leading cause of
      hospitalization in young children. Studies from developed countries report an incidence
      hospitalization of 30 per 1000 children in the first year of life and an annual mortality
      rate of 1.82-2 per 100,000 live births. The cost of treatment is about $2.5 billion yearly.
      One group from the United States estimated the annual hospital costs for bronchiolitis at
      $365-$691 million.

      Of children who develop bronchiolitis during the first 2 year of life, approximately 1 in 10
      ( 3% of all infants in the USA) will be hospitalized furthermore, a substantial proportion of
      infants remain in the hospital to receive oxygen until their hypoxia has improved.

      The current in hospital treatment for acute viral bronchiolitis is mainly supportive,
      consisting of supplemental oxygen, suction and hydration . Airway edema and sloughing of
      respiratory epithelia cell cause mismatching of ventilation and perfusion and subsequently
      reduction in oxygenation (PaO2 and Spo2). Emergency Department referral (ED) and Hospital
      admission (HA) admission, have increased secondary to increase sensitivity of pulse oximetry
      for detection of hypoxia ( compared with clinical observation. The therapeutic role of
      bronchodilators although of questionable clinical importance is commonly used A recent review
      reported has shown short-term improvement in clinical scores, but no improvement in
      oxygenation or rate of hospitalization. Neither systemic glucocorticoids nor antibiotics
      appear to have any clinically significant effect on the disease course. Antiviral agents
      (Ribavirin) are indicated only in children with a serious underlying disorder. Trials with
      chest physiotherapy using vibration and percussion techniques failed to reduce the severity
      of the illness, length of hospitalization, or oxygen requirements, and treatment with
      nebulized furosemide ,inhaled interferon alpha-2a (Roferon A) ,and rhDNase proved
      ineffective.

      Clinicians are now influenced significantly in their decision for Emergency Department
      referral and hospitalization of patient with respiratory disease. We hypothesized that adding
      short term home intermittent oxygen therapy for 7 days to other treatment modalities will
      reduce hypoxias and Emergency Ward referral. The aim of the present study was to compare the
      outcome of this combined treatment with oxygen with other medical modalities to oxygen alone
      and with placebo in children with RSV bronchiolitis.
    
  