
    
      Inclusion Criteria 1) Patients who have voluntarily signed the instruction and consent form
      for the use of personal information 2) Adults over 19 years of age 3) Patients diagnosed with
      depression according to the DSM-5 criteria 4) Patients with a HAM-A score of 18 or higher on
      the date of enrollment 5) Patients taking an SSRI antidepressant at an effective dose or
      higher for 4 weeks or longer whose symptoms of anxiety are being additionally treated with
      Buspar® Tab (Buspirone) 6) Patients with the ability to read and understand self-rated scales
      Exclusion Criteria

        1. Patients listed in the contraindication group for Buspar® Tab (Buspirone)

        2. Patients administered an azapirone class of anxiolytics including buspirone during the
           last 4 weeks

        3. Patients administered a benzodiazepine class of anxiolytics for the first time or with a
           dose change during the last 4 weeks

        4. Patients administered a psychostimulant or medication for attention deficit
           hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) during the last 4 weeks

        5. Pregnant or lactating women

        6. Subjects participating in another clinical trial or taking an investigational product
           for another clinical trial within 12 weeks after the screening visit (Visit 1)

        7. Patients determined by the Investigator to be at risk of suicide, self-harm, or hurting
           others

        8. Other subjects determined to be unsuitable by the Investigator Study Methodology In this
           study, necessary data will be collected by history taking and medical record review of
           patients who are taking an SSRI antidepressant in the clinical practice and at the same
           time being additionally administered Buspar® Tab (Buspirone) for the treatment of
           symptoms of anxiety.

      Encourage outpatients with depression accompanied by symptoms of anxiety visiting medical
      centers in Korea to participate in this study and obtain voluntary consent from them. Have
      the patients sign the instruction and informed consent form for the use of personal
      information and enroll them if they meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria. Collect the
      following data in the case report form (CRF) during the 12-week follow-up observation period.

      <Follow-up observation period and data collected> As this study is non-interventional and
      performed as a part of clinical practice, the number of visits, intervals, and prescriptions
      are determined by the investigator's judgment. The follow-up observation period mentioned
      below means the data collection period. Aside from the follow-up observation period stated in
      this protocol, the visit schedule is flexible and may be determined by the investigator based
      on the medical condition of the patient. Also, data obtained during the study period may be
      collected in the CRF if they are considered to be necessary for this study.

      The HAM-A, HAM-D, and CGI-S are measured at the baseline and at 4, 8, and 12 weeks. The CGI-I
      is measured at 4, 8, and 12 weeks, and the SDS and WHO-5 are measured at the baseline and at
      12 weeks. The following data regarding all the subjects enrolled in this study are collected
      in the CRF during the 12-week follow-up observation period.

        1. Each subject is observed for 12 weeks and the data are collected at four time points:
           Visit 1 (baseline), Visit 2 (week 4±2W), Visit 3 (week 8±2W), and Visit 4 (week 12±4W)

        2. Demographic information: Sex, age (date of birth), and education level

        3. Medical history and concurrent disease related to psychiatric disorders: Age (year) of
           onset of major depressive disorder, number of past major depressive episodes, duration
           (months) of the current major depressive episode, number of past suicide attempts, if
           any, family history related to psychiatric disorders, family history related to
           depressive disorders, and current psychiatric diagnosis other than major depressive
           disorders, if any

        4. Concurrent disease other than psychiatric disorder: Diagnosis and onset of concurrent
           disease other than psychiatric disorder, if any

        5. Record of administration of psychiatric drug(s) before enrollment and during the study
           period: Name of drug (ingredient name), purpose, dose, number of daily administrations,
           route of administration, and duration of administration of psychiatric drug(s)
           administered within 12 weeks before the date of enrollment or during the study period.

        6. Record of administration of antidepressant(s) and buspirone before enrollment or during
           the study period: Name of drug (ingredient name), purpose, dose, number of daily
           administrations, route of administration, and duration of administration (start date and
           end date) of antidepressant(s) and buspirone administered within 4 weeks before the date
           of enrollment or during the study period

        7. Height and weight: Record the height (cm) and weight (kg).

        8. Physical examination: Check for abnormalities of organs by means of inspection, history
           taking, auscultation, percussion, and palpation. Record abnormalities identified through
           examination on the corresponding page of the CRF.

        9. Confirmation of inclusion/exclusion criteria

       10. Clinical assessment scale

             -  Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAM-A): Baseline, Week 4, Week 8, and Week 12

             -  Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D): Baseline, Week 4, Week 8, and Week 12

             -  Clinical Global Impression Scale-Severity (CGI-S): Baseline, Week 4, Week 8, and
                Week 12

             -  Clinical Global Impression Scale-Improvement (CGI-I): Week 4, Week 8, and Week 12

             -  Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS): Baseline and Week 12

             -  Five-item World Health Organization Well-Being Index (WHO-5): Baseline and Week 12

       11. Adverse event information: Information regarding all adverse drug reactions (ADRs),
           serious adverse events (SAEs), and serious adverse drug reactions (SADRs) occurring
           after the administration of Buspar® Tab (Buspirone)

       12. Concomitant medication: Name of drug (ingredient name), purpose, dose, number of daily
           administrations, route of administration, and duration of administration of the
           concomitant medication (s) Efficacy Endpoints

      Efficacy Endpoints

        1. Primary endpoint The HAM-A score change at 12 weeks from the baseline

        2. Secondary endpoints 1) The HAM-A score changes at 4 and 8 weeks from the baseline 2) The
           HAM-D score changes at 4, 8, and 12 weeks from the baseline 3) The CGI-S score changes
           at 4, 8, and 12 weeks from the baseline 4) The CGI-I scores at 4, 8, and 12 weeks after
           the administration 5) The SDS score change at 12 weeks from the baseline 6) The WHO-5
           score change at 12 weeks from the baseline

        3. Subgroup analysis of the primary and secondary endpoints 1) Buspar® Tab (Buspirone) dose
           2) Concomitant administration of a benzodiazepine class drug 3) Reduction of the dose of
           benzodiazepine class drug with reasons after the administration of Buspar® Tab
           (Buspirone) 4) Dose of benzodiazepine class drug after the administration of Buspar® Tab
           (Buspirone)
    
  