
    
      Intestinal microbial overgrowth is associated with multiple gastrointestinal symptoms. Most
      prevalent are gas-related symptoms (i.e. bloating, distention, increased flatus,
      constipation)

      . Intestinal microbial overgrowth can currently be divided into two main subcategories: small
      intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) and intestinal methanogenic overgrowth (IMO). Both are
      most commonly detected via breath testing-a simple non-invasive study

        -  Despite the increasing prevalence of this disorder few evidence-based therapeutics
           currently exist. SIBO, identified by elevations in breath hydrogen, has been shown to
           respond to treatment with antibiotics including rifaximin and doxycycline in clinical
           trials

        -  However, IMO, detected by elevations in breath methane is a different disorder
           attributed to overgrowth of archaea which reside predominately in the colon

        -  Currently, there are no evidence-based treatments for IMO, and the American College of
           Gastroenterology guideline on the diagnosis and treatment of SIBO makes no specific
           recommendations regarding the treatment of this disorder.

      Atrantil is a medical food composed of peppermint, quebracho tree bark, and horse chestnut.

      These components are purported to reduce methane production, scavenge hydrogen (thus reducing
      the building blocks for methane), and potentially act as a cidal agent for methanogenic
      archaea. In a small randomized controlled-trial, Atrantil reduced bloating and constipation
      in a population of individuals with irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS-C)

      Given these initial results the investigators hypothesize that Atrantil may represent an
      inexpensive and safe treatment for patients with excessive methane production. Thus, the
      purpose of this study is to determine whether the holistic treatment, Atrantil, is beneficial
      for the treatment of IMO.
    
  