
    
      Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a ubiquitous herpesvirus that represent a major cause of morbidity
      in haematopoietic stem cell transplants (HSCT) recipients, mostly through reactivation of the
      recipient's virus.

      If left untreated, 40 to 80% of patients will develop CMV infection, leading to CMV disease
      in 30 to 35 % patients, and associated with considerable morbi-mortality. Interstitial
      pneumonia is the most severe and specific manifestation, although CMV replication by itself
      has also indirect effects such as triggering graft versus host disease and increasing
      immunosuppression. The current burden of CMV infection increases by 25 to 30% the cost of the
      graft in France. This also includes the burden for refractory - infections, that represent up
      to 13% of recipients with CMV infection, including 3% of cases with virological resistance in
      France (data from the Reference Center cohorts).

      Ganciclovir, or valganciclovir preemptive treatment, guided by CMV viral load follow-up
      allowed significant reduction of CMV disease to 2-6% but did not prevent CMV indirect
      effects. In addition, hematotoxicity can compromise post-transplant haematological
      reconstitution, thus preventing its use as prophylaxis in France. Foscarnet, iv-administered
      and nephrotoxic, remains less used. There is thus a high expectation from less toxic
      molecules for prophylaxis The development letermovir recently available for prophylaxis of
      CMV infection in high risk patients will modify the patients care and follow-up. This new
      molecule targeting CMV terminases (developed by Merck) was recently marketed in France (Jan
      2020). However, the analysis of the letermovir phase III study and further publications show
      that the risk of emergence of resistance is low, but may occur in case of breakthrough and
      thus post AMM monitoring is required.

      A "real-life" evaluation of these new molecules in terms of efficacy, emergence of
      resistance, tolerance and morbimortality related to CMV infection, is useful, to propose
      recommendations on management strategies, in particular for the most at-risk patients i.e.
      CMV-seropositive recipients. To this purpose, the National Reference Center in collaboration
      with the French Society for marrow graft and cell therapy (SFGMTC) set up a cohort of
      surveillance of allografted patients, receiving, in prevention or treatment, old and new
      molecules.
    
  