
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Everolimus is designed to stop cancer cells from multiplying. It may also stop the growth of
      new blood vessels that help tumor growth, which may cause the tumor cells to die.

      You will receive everolimus with 2 different chemotherapy combinations during alternating
      cycles. This means that you will receive 1 combination on Cycles 1, 3, 5, and 7 and the other
      combination during Cycles 2, 4, 6, and 8.

      The first chemotherapy regimen is called hyper-CVAD. Hyper-CVAD includes cyclophosphamide,
      vincristine, Adriamycin (doxorubicin), and dexamethasone. This combination is designed to
      kill leukemia cells.

      The other chemotherapy regimen includes the drugs methotrexate and ara-C (cytarabine). This
      combination is also designed to kill leukemia cells.

      Study Groups and Everolimus Dose Levels:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a study
      group based on when you joined this study. Up to 3 groups of 3-6 participants will be
      enrolled in the Phase I portion of the study, and up to 30 participants will be enrolled in
      Phase II.

      If you are enrolled in the Phase I portion, the dose of everolimus you receive will depend on
      when you joined this study. The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose
      level of everolimus. Each new group will receive a higher dose of everolimus than the group
      before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen. This will continue until the highest
      tolerable dose of everolimus is found.

      If you are enrolled in Phase II, you will receive everolimus at the highest dose that was
      tolerated in the Phase I portion.

      In this study, everolimus is the only study drug where different dose levels are being tested
      and compared. All other drugs will be given at the same dose level.

      Central Venous Catheter (CVC):

      If you do not already have a CVC, you will have a CVC placed. A CVC is a plastic tube usually
      placed under the collarbone. You will sign a separate consent for this procedure. Some of the
      study drugs will be given through the CVC.

      Everolimus Administration:

      During all cycles, you will take everolimus once a day followed by a big glass of water. The
      tablets must not be chewed, broken or crushed. You may either take everolimus on an empty
      stomach or after a low fat meal. Taking everolimus after large, fatty meals is not advised
      because it will lower the amount of everolimus your body absorbs. Some examples of a low fat
      meal include: cereal with fat free milk, muffin/bagel with fat free spread, fruit salad, and
      so on. Always follow the instructions for use of everolimus given to you by your study
      doctor. Your first dose of everolimus will occur 1 day before you begin receiving
      chemotherapy.

      Do not miss any tablets/capsules. You should take everolimus about the same time each day
      preferably in the morning.

      If your study doctor thinks it is needed or if you experience severe side effects, everolimus
      may be stopped and then started again with a lower dose or may be stopped completely.

      Chemotherapy Administration:

      Each cycle will last about 21 days. The timing of each new cycle will depend on when your
      blood counts recover.

      Cycles 1, 3, 5, and 7:

      During Cycles 1, 3, 5, and 7, you will receive hyper-CVAD. The drugs will be given at the
      following times:

        -  On Days 1-3, you will receive cyclophosphamide by vein over 2-3 hours every 12 hours.

        -  On Days 1-4 and 11-14, you will receive dexamethasone by mouth or by vein. If by vein,
           the infusion will take a few seconds.

        -  On Day 4, you will receive doxorubicin over 24 hours through a CVC.

        -  On Days 4 and 11, you will receive vincristine by vein over 2-3 hours.

      Cycles 2, 4, 6, and 8:

      During Cycles 2, 4, 6, and 8, you will receive the methotrexate and cytarabine by vein as
      follows:

        -  On Day 1, you will receive methotrexate by vein over 24 hours.

        -  On Day 1, you may receive leucovorin (citrovorum) by vein (over 15 minutes) for 2-3
           days. Leucovorin is given to help prevent methotrexate side effects.

        -  On Days 2-3, you will receive cytarabine by vein over 2 hours every 12 hours.

        -  On Days 1-3, you will receive methylprednisone over 2 hours every 12 hours for 6 doses.

      Cycles 1-8:

      You will also receive either Neupogen (filgrastim) or pegfilgrastim to help your bone marrow
      recover from chemotherapy. Filgrastim or pegfilgrastim will be injected under the skin within
      72 hours after each cycle of chemotherapy. If you receive filgrastim, it will be given daily
      until your counts recover. If you receive pegfilgrastim, it will be given 1 time.

      You will also receive small doses of methotrexate and Ara-C, one after the other, by a spinal
      tap to help prevent the disease from coming back in the fluid surrounding your brain during
      each cycle. During a spinal tap, a doctor or technician inserts a needle through the skin and
      the soft tissues of the lower back to reach a pocket of fluid that is part of the fluid space
      that surrounds the brain and the spinal cord. Once the fluid space is reached, chemotherapy
      drugs can be administered. The procedure is done under local anesthesia. An Ommaya reservoir
      (which holds the drugs being given) may also be implanted surgically if you have difficulty
      with the spinal treatments. An Ommaya reservoir is a tube inserted under the skin of the
      scalp that enters into the spinal fluid cavity of the brain. You will be asked to sign a
      separate consent form for this procedure. The number of doses you receive will depend on how
      many doses the study doctor thinks are needed. If you start with leukemia in the brain, it
      will be given 2 times a week until there is no leukemia present and then 1 time a week for 4
      weeks. Sometimes, a sample of the spinal fluid collected from the spinal taps may be tested
      to look for leukemia cells.

      Maintenance Chemotherapy:

      After you have completed 8 cycles, you will begin monthly (about every 28 days, depending on
      your blood cell count recovery) maintenance chemotherapy for about the next 24 months. You
      will take the following drugs:

        -  You will take 6-mercaptopurine by mouth with water every day.

        -  You will receive methotrexate by vein (over 2 hours) or mouth every week.

        -  You will receive vincristine by vein over 30 minutes every 28 days.

        -  You will take prednisone by mouth for 5 days every month.

      Study Visits:

      During Cycle 1, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests 1-3 times every
      week. During Cycles 2-8, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests every 1-4
      weeks.

      During Cycles 1 and 2, you will have physical exam every week. After Cycle 2, you will have a
      physical exam every 3-4 weeks.

      At Weeks 2 and 3 of Cycle 1, you will have a bone marrow aspirate to check for response.
      Depending on the results of the sample, this will be repeated every 1-2 weeks.

      At Week 4-6 of Cycle 1, you will have a chest x-ray.

      After Cycle 2 is over, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 8 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  You will have a bone marrow aspirate.

        -  You will have a chest X-ray or computed tomography (CT) scan if needed.

      If you had a positive hepatitis B test at screening, every month, blood (about 1 tablespoon)
      will be drawn to test the level of hepatitis B virus in your blood.

      If your have risk factors and/or a positive Hepatitis C test results at screening, every
      month, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn to test the level of Hepatitis C virus in
      your blood.

      Length of Study:

      You may receive up to 32 cycles of study drugs. You will be taken off study early if the
      disease gets worse, your doctor decides it is in your best interest to stop, or you have
      intolerable side effects.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      After your last dose of study drugs, you will have an end-of-study visit. At this visit, the
      following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 8 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have a bone marrow aspirate.

        -  If your doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a chest x-ray or CT scan.

      Follow-up Visits:

      You will have follow-up visits every 3 to 6 months. At these visits, the following tests and
      procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will have a bone marrow aspirate.

        -  Blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If your doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a chest x-ray.

      This is an investigational study. All the chemotherapy drugs used on this study are FDA
      approved and commercially available for treating ALL. Everolimus is FDA approved and
      commercially available for the treatment of certain types of breast cancer. At this time, the
      combination is only being used in research.

      Up to 42 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  