
    
      Older adults are a growing segment of our population, and this period of life presents a
      variety of physical, emotional, environmental, and cognitive changes, even for healthy
      individuals. The current study aims to explore the impact of a two-session group Acceptance
      and Commitment Therapy (ACT) intervention compared to an assessment-only control on
      psychological outcomes in healthy, community-dwelling older adults.

      Participants will be randomly assigned (stratified by sex) to the ACT group condition or to
      an assessment-only control group. After randomization, those in the assessment-only control
      group will be asked to complete four assessments via mail (baseline, one-month, three-month,
      and six-month). The intervention group will participate in a brief group ACT intervention
      occurring over two sessions (90 minutes each, approximately one week apart). Intervention
      participants will also complete assessments at baseline and at one-month, three-months, and
      six-months post-intervention.

      The specific aims and hypotheses of the current study are:

      Specific Aim #1: To examine longitudinal between-group differences in targeted ACT processes
      including psychological flexibility (openness to experience, behavioral awareness, and valued
      action) and satisfaction with social roles and activities from baseline to follow-up. We
      hypothesize that there will be significant time by group interaction, such that psychological
      flexibility and satisfaction with social roles and activities will increase significantly
      more in the intervention group relative to the assessment-only control group.

      Specific Aim #2: To examine longitudinal between-group differences in eudaimonic well-being
      (purpose in life and personal growth) from baseline to follow-up. We hypothesize that there
      will be significant time by group interactions, such that purpose in life and personal growth
      will increase significantly more in the intervention group relative to the assessment-only
      control group.
    
  