
    
      In the U.S, 91.8 million adults have PreD. Preventing progression of PreD to type 2 diabetes
      (T2D) is vital. Odds of cardiovascular disease are higher among those with T2D, with $327
      billion/year spent treating T2D. Major scientific organizations have thus called for studies
      of novel intermediates connecting health behaviors to pre-clinical cardiometabolic disease
      (CMD; e.g., PreD) to lower future clinical disease risk. Physical activity (PA) is key
      modifiable determinant of good health. PA recommendation adherence is associated with a
      25-35% dose-dependent reduction in all-cause mortality, with as little as 75 min/week of
      regular moderate-intensity PA beneficial. In fact, an intervention within the Diabetes
      Prevention Program emphasizing PA participation at recommended levels was as successful as
      Metformin in preventing incident T2D-likely partially due to a 5kg-reduction in body weight
      during this trial. Yet, PA's impact on disease risk reduction is not explained entirely by
      CMD risk factors or weight loss, with mechanistic pathways still unclear and crucial to
      examine. The gut microbiota and microbiome have been posited as mechanistic intermediates
      linking PA to attenuated CMD development. However, there is no known research which has
      examined exercise-related changes in the human gut microbiome or SCFA-producing taxa in a
      population with a pre-clinical CMD such as PreD and how these changes mediate changes in CMD
      indices and body weight.

      The proposed project is therefore innovative for a least two reasons. First, as stated, the
      investigators know of no study in individuals with PreD which examined how a
      moderate-intensity walking program may modify the gut microbiome and SCFA-producing taxa.
      Second, the investigators will use formal mediation analyses to examine the degree to which
      exercise-related changes in the gut microbiome and SCFA-producing taxa explain changes
      observed in CMD indices and body weight. These exploratory analyses will allow for a deeper
      interpretation of the physiological mechanisms by which exercise may improve health and
      inform future trial construction. Indeed, this study will provide critical preliminary
      evidence for a larger NIH R01-funded trial submitted to the NIDDK, NHLBI, or NCI, with the
      NIH committed to funding innovative scientific proposals involving the microbiome. The
      investigators will use this trial's observations to determine: 1) which taxa within the gut
      microbiome are most impacted by moderate-intensity walking; 2) the intra- and inter-person
      variability of gut microbiota changes due to moderate-intensity walking; and 3) whether the
      fixed frequency, intensity, and duration of the walking implemented results in meaningful
      changes. Observations in relation to these points will inform the design and implementation
      of future interventions to reduce pre-clinical disease states like PreD in a
      mechanistically-informed manner.
    
  