
    
      Background: Fall-related injuries account for significant morbidity and mortality,
      particularly in the elderly where multiple comorbidities and age-related changes in bone
      density increase the risk of fall-related fractures Indeed use of psychotropic medications in
      elderly persons is associated with a 2 to 29 fold increase in the risk of falls and a 2 to 5
      fold increase in the risk of hip fracture. At particular risk are individuals over the age of
      70, those with a prior history of falls, cognitive impairment, stroke, Parkinson's disease,
      or other conditions that would impair balance or gait. In our particular study population,
      67.5% of persons with a psychotropic drug prescribing problem had at least one additional
      risk factor for fall-related injuries. This was particularly true for women who not only were
      more likely to have a psychotropic drug prescribing alerts than men but were also more likely
      to have other risk factors. 70.3% of women who had a psychotropic prescribing alert had other
      risk factors in comparison to 62.1% of men, particularly as it related to older age and a
      history of a fall-related fracture or soft-tissue injury in the past 12 months. A recent
      in-hospital study showed that providing physicians with patient-specific recommendations for
      changes in high risk psychotropic therapy through a computerized order-entry system reduced
      the prescription of non-recommended drugs and doses by 10%, which in turn was associated with
      a significant two-fold reduction in the in-hospital fall rate{5007}. If even a 5% reduction
      (annual prevalence 16.1% to 11.1%) could be achieved in primary care through targeted
      recommendations for high risk patients with psychotropic drug prescribing alerts, we would
      expect that it could conservatively reduce the number of falls among Canadian elderly
      (assuming the lowest risk of RR=1.66) from 116,064 to 82,212 and the number of fall-related
      injuries from 11,606 to 8,221. Based on the average costs of treating fall-related injuries
      of $20,000/injury{5006}, a reduction in adverse events of this magnitude would be associated
      with an annual savings of $67,708,000 in direct care costs. The research question is the
      following: Can medication-related fall injuries be reduced by using computerized electronic
      prescribing and drug management systems to identify high risk patients and provide physicians
      with patient-specific recommendations for modifying psychotropic medication use to reduce
      this risk?

      Objective: To determine the extent to which a targeted psychotropic drug alert and
      recommendation system will reduce

      a) the rate of potentially inappropriate psychotropic medication for patients at risk of
      fall-related injuries, and b) fall-related injury risk, fall-related injuries and
      hospitalizations.

      Research Plan : A single blind, cluster randomized controlled trial will be conducted to test
      the hypothesized benefits of the targeted psychotropic drug alert and recommendation system
      versus the standard automated generic drug alert system within a fixed cohort of primary care
      physicians and an open cohort of patients seen by study physicians in the 16 month follow-up
      period for the assessment of reductions in potentially inappropriate psychotropic
      prescriptions and fall-related injuries. A single blind trial was planned because
      intervention status cannot be blinded for physicians in the study. However, study
      participants are blinded to the outcomes assessed, because the data required to assess these
      outcomes can be predominantly collected and assessed using data sources that are independent
      of the intervention status. Patients, clustered within physicians, is the unit of analysis
      because patient level information provides the most precise, non-ecological, method of the
      study outcomes as well as potential confounders, and because hierarchical multivariate
      analytic methods are now available to model clustering in the assessment of treatment
      effect{Chuang, 2000 4339 /id}. The benefit of the intervention will be assessed by comparing
      patients of physicians who received the psychotropic drug alert and recommendation system and
      patients of physicians who received automated drug decision support. This approach minimizes
      Hawthorne effects, arising from the intensive nature of practice intervention required to
      support computer-based systems in primary care that would likely result in over-estimation of
      benefit if computer-based decision support for drug management were compared to physicians
      with no computerized intervention. Further, it provides a means by which information on
      prescriptions, drug and disease profile can be assessed in an equivalent way between patients
      of physicians with automated control or targeted alert experimental decision-support,
      reducing biases related to differences in measurement sources.
    
  