
    
      Escalation of both drugs will occur as tolerated. Treatment will be arbitrarily divided into
      3-week cycles, with dose limiting toxicity (DLT) determined by Cycle 2 Day 0. Dose levels
      will be evaluated one at a time beginning with 3 patients. If 1/3 patients demonstrate DLT
      (as defined in section Complete), then enrollment will proceed to the next dose level. 1/3
      patients develops a DLT, then 3 more patients will be accrued to this dose level. If 0-1/6
      patients demonstrate DLT, then enrollment will proceed to the next dose level. However, if 2
      or more patients out of 6 demonstrate DLT at a dose level, then enrollment will proceed at
      the next lowest dose level. The highest dose level not resulting in greater than 1/6 DLT will
      be considered the MTD. Dose expansion will then proceed at this dose level.

      Once the maximum tolerated dose has been established for this regimen a dose expansion of 20
      patients with metastatic RCC will be undertaken. Up to 10 patients with a positive FDG- PET
      scan at baseline (defined by 1 or more target lesions demonstrating an SUV > 5.0) will begin
      treatment per Figure 2B. Patients 1-10 will begin Sunitinib on Day 0 and begin RAD001 on Day
      14 after repeat FDG-PET scan. Patients 11-20, will have a 2 week lead-in period of RAD001 and
      will begin Sunitinib 2 weeks later on Day 0. After repeat FDG-PET scan. Both groups of
      patients will repeat PET scan at Day 14 of cycle 2. Patients with negative FDG PET scans (SUV
      < 5.0 in all lesions) will not undergo repeat scanning. Patients will undergo evaluations for
      tumor response every 12 weeks with appropriate measurement studies (CT, MRI, bone scan). In
      the setting of a mixed response (progressive disease in 1 or more lesions but continued
      regression or stable disease below baseline in other lesions) patients may continue on study
      if it is determined by the PI, treating physician and patient that there is ongoing clinical
      benefit to the patient.
    
  