
    
      This project proposes to answer the following questions: Is partial body weight supported
      treadmill gait training (PBWSTT) effective in improving ambulation abilities, neuromuscular
      impairments, functional mobility, disability, and quality of life in marginally ambulatory
      children with cerebral palsy.

      Specific Aim 1: Assess the effect of a PBWSTT locomotor training intervention on quality of
      life, treatment expectations, self-efficacy, and activity and participation of children with
      CP with limited ambulation skills. We hypothesize that in comparison to a control group,
      after a 12 week locomotor intervention, children with CP (intervention group) with limited
      ambulation skills will demonstrate greater improvements in scores from common questionnaires
      compared to the control group.

      Specific Aim 2: Assess the effect of a PBWSTT locomotor training intervention on gross motor
      skills; physical function; biomechanics and coordination dynamics of ambulation; and physical
      activity in ambulatory children with CP. We hypothesize that in comparison to a control
      group, after a 12 week PBWSTT locomotor training intervention children with CP with limited
      ambulation skills will demonstrate greater improvements in functional test scores compared to
      the control group.

      Specific Aim 3: Assess the effect of a PBWSTT locomotor training intervention on measures of
      body structure and function including: spasticity; muscle strength; and joint-specific motor
      control. We hypothesize that in comparison to a control group, after a 12 week PBWSTT
      locomotor training intervention children with CP with limited ambulation skills will
      demonstrate greater improvements in: muscle strength, spasticity and joint specific motor
      control compared to the control group.

      This is a single blinded, randomized, controlled pre-test/post-test study design. Sixty six
      ambulatory children between the ages of 6-12 years of age with cerebral palsy will undergo a
      12-week training program. Thirty three of these children will undergo a Supported Speed
      Treadmill Training Exercise Program (SSTTEP), and the remaining 33 children will receive the
      same amount of conventional physical therapy in the form of a personalized home exercise
      program and serve as a control group. Three sets of measures will be obtained: A1) at
      baseline prior to intervention; A2) at the end of the 12-week intervention period; and A3) 4
      weeks after the intervention has ended.

      The two primary aims of our study are to assess the efficacy of SSTTEP in improving quality
      of life, functional ambulation, energy expenditure, gross motor skills, and muscle strength
      and tone; and to assess the efficacy of SSTTEP in improving the coordination of stepping and
      ambulation in children with CP.

      The intervention group will undergo a program of 10 hours of intensive SSTTEP training over a
      14 day period. After the initial training, the subjects will participate in a home program of
      30 minutes/5 times per week for an additional 10 weeks.

      The control group with undergo a personalized exercise program consisting of 10 hours of
      intensive training over a 14 day period. After the initial training, the subjects will
      participate in a home program of 30 minutes/5 times per week for an additional 10 weeks.
    
  