
    
      Adults with both osteopenia and sarcopenia (osteosarcopenia) have greater risk of falls and
      fractures than those with osteopenia or sarcopenia alone. Drugs are available to reduce
      fracture risk but currently exercise is the only effective strategy to combat muscle loss.
      Unfortunately, the majority of adults who start a self-monitored exercise program drop out
      after 6 months and other options are needed. Ghrelin receptor agonists have been under
      development to treat anorexia and weight loss in patients with cancer cachexia. The agonist
      anamorelin has significantly increased weight and lean tissue mass in these patients.
      Anamorelin mimics the hormone ghrelin which not only increases appetite, but also acts on the
      pituitary to increase pulsatile growth hormone (GH) secretion. Pulsatile GH stimulates the
      production of insulin-like growth factor 1 which is anabolic to both muscle and bone. GH
      levels decline with age and this is thought to contribute to the age-related muscle and bone
      losses in adults. The central hypothesis is that anamorelin will increase muscle mass,
      improve muscle function, and increase bone formation in adults with osteosarcopenia. To test
      this hypothesis, the investigators will conduct a randomized, double-blind, 2-armed,
      parallel-group intervention trial in 32 osteosarcopenic men and postmenopausal women age 50
      and older. Participants will be randomized to anamorelin (100 mg per day) or placebo and
      treated for 12 months. The primary endpoint is change from baseline in muscle mass by
      D3-creatine dilution. Secondary endpoints are:appendicular lean tissue mass/ht2 (ALM/ht2)
      measured by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA); the bone formation biomarker,
      amino-terminal propeptide (P1NP), total body lean mass by DXA. Exploratory outcomes are
      changes in isokinetic leg strength, grip strength, and muscle performance (Health
      ABC-Physical Performance Battery (HABC-PPB), serum IGF-1 and C-telopeptide (CTX), and spine
      and hip bone mineral density (BMD). The proposed treatment supplies the anabolic stimulus to
      build both muscle and bone. Anamorelin has not been tested in adults with osteosarcopenia.
      The investigators propose to evaluate this treatment in osteosarcopenic adults who are most
      in need of treatment and who are also most likely to benefit. Data obtained from this pilot
      study are critical to determine the feasibility and guide the design of a definitive trial to
      evaluate this ghrelin receptor agonist as potential therapy to mitigate the dual hazards of
      osteopenia and sarcopenia.
    
  