
    
      The First Twenty (TF20) is an innovative computer based firefighter training program that
      provides foundational educational principles around firefighter physical fitness, mental
      wellness, and nutrition and is much more cost effective than other fitness program options.
      The current Fire Academy at Johnson County Community College (JCCC) does little to address
      the physical fitness of its firefighter recruits other than the physical skills taught in
      class. The recruits are required to either have previously taken or be concurrently enrolled
      in a 1 credit hour fitness class offered through the community college. HPER 240, Lifetime
      Fitness, introduces the student to basic fitness principles, physical activity and the
      relationship to a healthy lifestyle. The course is graded based on an initial
      assessment/orientation and participation; the student must log so many hours at the JCCC Gym
      (JCCC, 2015). This course may be waived at the discretion of the Fire Academy Director if the
      student can prove they have an active gym membership at a local gym facility. The recruits
      participate in highly physically demanding tasks as they learn the job of a firefighter. Part
      of the class is spent indoors for lecture. The remainder of the class is spent on the drill
      ground learning basic firefighter skills such as donning bunker gear (personal protective
      equipment) and self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA), navigating through dark search
      quarters, searching and removing a victim in a fire room, climbing ladders, cutting
      ventilation holes on flat and pitched roofs, and fighting live fire in a propane burn
      facility. The recruits are also required to take the Candidate Physical Ability Test (CPAT)
      during the Fire Academy. The CPAT is a timed physical ability test designed to assess the
      fitness of firefighter candidates and is used as a screening tool for hiring new
      firefighters. In addition to completing the current requirements for the Fire Academy, this
      study included a baseline assessment, 14- weeks of group exercise training, and a post-test
      assessment. Fire Academy recruits were required to have taken or be concurrently enrolled in
      a one credit hour gym class; this study took the place of that one credit hour physical
      requirement. Participants were randomly assigned to one of two exercise groups: TF20 or the
      Comparison Group (CG). TF20 group exercised five days per week for 14 weeks, similar to the
      requirements of the Lifetime Fitness (HPER 240) course; the Comparison Group were asked to
      continue their current exercise regimen (ie: HPER 240 course). Travel workout options were
      available for TF20 group. It was hypothesized that TF20 group would see greater fitness
      improvements than the comparison group, TF20 group would find the training program acceptable
      and feasible, and TF20 group would report higher levels of group cohesion than the
      comparison/control group.
    
  