
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is one of the most common chronic health conditions and a leading cause
      of pain and disability in the world, with a substantial proportion of adults affected. It is
      estimated that symptomatic OA affects one in eight men and women in the US (27-31 million),
      In a global study of health conditions, osteoarthritis and musculoskeletal pain ranked in the
      top 4 percent of worldwide disabilities. OA is a complex, multifactorial disease, with much
      still to learn regarding mechanisms and progression. . The most commonly affected joints
      include the hip , knee , hand and foot , and spine. although OA can affect any joint. OA is
      linked to substantial economic costs estimated in developed countries to be between 1% and
      2.5% of GDP. With the rise in life expectancy, the prevalence of osteoarthritis is projected
      to increase further, resulting in a greater healthcare burden.

      Diagnosis is commonly accomplished via clinical examinations and subjective symptoms coupled
      with a variety of imaging protocols. These are an intrinsic portion of the protocols of this
      Trial, measuring both the safety and outcomes resulting from three basic approaches to
      provide both cellular and biocellular therapeutic approaches.

      The Trial consists of three separate approaches: 1). Use of guided biocellular therapy (tSVF
      + Platelet Rich Plasma); 2). Use of guided biocellular and cellular therapy (tSVF + Platelet
      Rich Plasma + cSVF concentrates); and, 3). Use of cSVF only via systemic deployment suspended
      in sterile Normal Saline IV solution. Patient's will be enrolled based on the approach
      considered the most likely to safely attain clinical improvement and compared to others of
      similar findings in the same musculoskeletal indications.

      Follow up and tracking to be extended over a two year period (minimum) following each
      treatment delivery. Those who do more than one site, or have a repeat treatment, will be
      followed on separate tracks to maintain the outcomes resulting from single versus double
      treatments. Management and voluntary enrollment will follow existing HIPPA (confidentiality)
      rules and regulations in place.

      Participants will be requested to report any and all Adverse Events or Severe Adverse Events
      (complications not anticipated within parameters of usual and customary side effects
      resulting from such therapies) as may potentially result from any treatment provided (not
      including the normal "sequelae" of procedures utilized.

      Cartilage loss remains the main pathologic features of OA, however OA is recognized to
      involve aging, inflammation and degenerative changes within the musculoskeletal joint,
      components, including pathologic changes in the bone, cartilage, and supportive soft tissues,
      As a natural process within aging and mechanical stresses, the ability of our homeostatic
      system to maintain a fully functional, pain free system, Weight bearing and repetitive trauma
      contribute to the demand for attempted repairs after use, it is common for OA to be found in
      multiple joints within the same individual over time and use.

      Another aspect of OA is that it has been shown to be present in multiple joints in the same
      individual, suggesting a systemic bone response to mechanical stresses. When OA is severe,
      the bone involvement can be detected on plain radiographs, but radiographs may not detect
      milder cases. And while radiographs remain the standard means of diagnosing OA severity ,
      these provide no information about the non-bone aspects of OA pathophysiology. Studies
      demonstrate that diagnostic musculoskeletal ultrasound as a complementary imaging tool, along
      with radiography, may enable more accurate diagnostics for osteoarthritis.

      Treatments consist of harvesting (with microcannula) a small volume of tSVF to provide the
      needed stem/stromal cells found in large numbers around the small capillaries and blood
      vessels (needs typically 5-15 teaspoons). This tSVF is mixed with the patient's own
      concentrated platelets and guided for placement with use of a high resolution ultrasound for
      accurate placement. These elements are what are normally used in our bodies for maintaining
      (homeostasis) and repair (regenerative healing), with the advantage of accurate placement
      into the bone, soft tissues and joints involved in inflammatory or degenerative breakdown
      with pain and loss of function.

      Each patient will be carefully followed to measure progress and imaging which documents
      structural changes that may be realized with these treatments. Of most note, the avoidance or
      postponement of invasive and often difficult rehabilitation is realized.

      These procedures have been safely and successfully provided for approximately 15 years,
      however, without a large series and tracking over a period of years. We are seeking
      validation of the processes and elements which have been performed and reported in case
      reporting or small case series.
    
  