
    
      A. Primary research question

      In patients with early stage papillary thyroid cancer, does the administration of a
      computerized decision aid improve the score on a test of knowledge about early stage PTC and
      adjuvant RAI treatment, when compared to usual care? (The knowledge score is a sum of
      positive responses from a total of 10 true/false questions in a self-administered
      questionnaire, to be administered at the study visit, Q2A).

      B. Secondary research questions

        1. In patients with early stage PTC, does the administration of a computerized decision aid
           reduce overall decisional conflict (as well as the following respective subscales -
           informed subscale, uncertainty subscale, and effective decision subscale), when compared
           to usual care? (Decisional Conflict questionnaire, DCS).

        2. In patients with early stage PTC, does the administration of a computerized decision
           aid, improve reduce decisional regret relating to RAI decision making after the final
           decision has been made? (Decision Regret Questionnaire, DRQ)

        3. In patients with early stage PTC, does the administration of a computerized decision
           aid, reduce the number of participants receiving adjuvant radioactive iodine treatment
           (analysis for all participants, as well as those who are not already on a waiting list
           for radioactive iodine treatment at the time of recruitment, respectively)?

        4. Do the respective monitoring or blunting scores on the Miller Behavioral Style Scale
           (MBSS) correlate with the number of clicks for information performed by participants
           reviewing the decision aid? (subgroup analysis in the decision aid intervention group)

        5. Do the respective monitoring or blunting scores on the Miller Behavioral Style Scale
           (MBSS) correlate with the score on a test of knowledge about early stage PTC and
           adjuvant RAI treatment? (Respective analyses planned for entire study population, as
           well as the intervention and control groups)

        6. What are the main reasons why RAI treatment is selected or not selected (after the
           decision has been finalized), grouping descriptions according to exposure or
           non-exposure to a computerized decision aid? (See Follow-up questionnaire [administered
           by telephone], question 2, qualitative description, with reasons to be coded and
           quantified using mixed methods).

      NOTE: In the original design of this study, we hoped to utilize a modified Client
      Satisfaction Questionnaire for assessment of satisfaction of patient participants and
      physicians as secondary trial outcomes. However, we are unable to utilize any modified Client
      Satisfaction Questionnaires in this study, because of lack of permission from the original
      developer of the Client Satisfaction Questionnaire-8, who has copyrighted and trademarked the
      questionnaire and prohibits such modifications. No modified client satisfaction questionnaire
      results have been analyzed in this study and will not be analyzed.

      Study design The project design will be a single-centre randomized controlled trial conducted
      at University Health Network. The participants will be randomized to a) the decision aid
      group (in addition to usual care [counseling by his or her physician, called usual care]) or
      b) usual care. The DA will be available only to participants during the study (not the public
      or treating physicians). The decision aid testing will be performed at the Toronto General
      Hospital.

      15-23 Month Extended Follow-up Study: After initiation of the primary study above, we were
      subsequently awarded funding to contact the enrolled study participants about 15 and 23
      months post-randomization to inquire for permission to participate in an extended follow-up
      study. The extended follow-up study was approved by the University Health Network Research
      Ethics Board. Participants from the original randomized controlled trial (above) are
      contacted by telephone for consent to participate in the extended follow-up study, which is
      considered exploratory (secondary).

      The extended follow-up study includes a quantitative questionnaire telephone interview
      component and a qualitative component. For the quantitative questionnaire component, a single
      telephone interview is performed updating demographics, thyroid cancer outcomes/treatments
      (with confirmatory medical record review and administering quantitative questionnaires
      verbally. A participants consenting to the extended follow-up study are also offered the
      opportunity to participate in an in-depth qualitative study, involving a one-on in-person
      interview (which is audio-recorded, transcribed, and analyzed using qualitative methods). A
      representative subgroup of about 15-30 participants are invited in the qualitative interview
      and sampling continued until saturation of themes is achieved.

      The following exploratory questions are to be addressed in the quantitative component of the
      extended follow-up study (about 15-23 months post-randomization):

        1. To what degree do participants in the study (decision aid and control groups) perceive
           themselves to be respectively informed and satisfied with the original radioactive
           iodine treatment decision? The results in respective study arms are compared.

        2. To what degree do participants in the study (decision aid and control groups) perceive
           themselves to regret their original radioactive iodine treatment decision? The results
           in respective study arms are compared.

        3. To what degree do participants in the study (decision aid and control groups) perceive
           current cancer-related worry (Assessment of Survivor Concerns Questionnaires)? The
           results in respective study arms are compared.

        4. To what degree do participants in the study (decision aid and control groups) perceive
           trust in their treating physician (Trust in Physician Scale)? The results in respective
           study arms are compared.

        5. How do participants in the study (decision aid and control groups) perceive their mood
           (PHQ-4 questionnaire)? The results in respective study arms are compared.

      The qualitative subgroup study includes semi-structured questions on the experiences of
      radioactive iodine treatment decision-making, overall thyroid cancer treatment satisfaction,
      and study participation.

      Exploratory Telephone Survey Study - 24 months or longer after randomization:

      After initiation of the primary study above, we were subsequently awarded pilot study funding
      to contact the study participants on one occasion, two or more years post-randomization to
      inquire for permission to participate in an exploratory telephone survey study, intended to
      guide future research directions, and generate data for possible use in sample size
      calculations for potential future studies. The 24 month or longer post-randomization
      exploratory telephone survey study was approved by the University Health Network Research
      Ethics Board. Participants from the original randomized controlled trial (above) are
      contacted by telephone for consent to participate in the study, which is considered
      exploratory (secondary) and is thus, hypothesis-generating.

      The telephone survey exploratory study (2 or more years post-randomization) consists of
      quantitative telephone questionnaires. A single telephone interview is performed updating
      demographics, thyroid cancer outcomes/treatments (with confirmatory medical record review and
      administering quantitative questionnaires verbally.

      The following exploratory questions are to be addressed in the exploratory 24 month (or
      longer) post-randomization study. For all of the analyses below, descriptive data will be
      described for the entire study population, and if sample size permits, subgroup analyses
      according to decision aid status, radioactive iodine status, and age (<45 years at time of
      original surgery or 45 years or older at time of original surgery), and recurrence status,
      will be considered.

        1. To describe the Cancer Impact in consenting participants, 2 or more years
           post-randomization. For participants in whom a negative financial impact of cancer is
           reported, an additional question is posed requesting explanation of this impact.

        2. To describe the Information Needs of consenting participants, 2 or more years
           post-randomization.

        3. To describe the General Concerns of consenting participants, 2 or more years
           post-randomization.

        4. To describe cancer-related worry (Assessment of Survivor Concerns Questionnaires) two or
           more years following randomization.
    
  