
    
      Identification of foods that promote childhood cognitive function has the potential to have a
      lasting impact on children's long-term cognitive well-being. The nutrient profile in egg
      yolks, particularly the xanthophyll lutein, may be uniquely suitable for supporting important
      cognitive processes including attention, memory, and academic achievement. Lutein is the
      predominant carotenoid in the brain, comprising up to 77% of carotenoids in the brain.
      Further, lutein is among three xanthophylls that accumulate as macular pigment and protect
      the eye against photooxidative damage.

      Accordingly, this work aims to: 1) assess the correlational relationship between habitual egg
      consumption, macular pigment optical density (MPOD), neurocognitive function and achievement
      among 7-12-years-olds; and 2) conduct a 4-week egg intake randomized controlled intervention
      (7 whole eggs/week vs 7 egg whites/week) to investigate the effects of regular egg
      consumption on changes in MPOD and behavioral and neuroelectric measures of cognitive control
      and relational memory, and academic achievement among school-aged children. Male and female
      children between 7-12 years (n=240) will be recruited. All children will be allowed (i.e.,
      regardless of level of MPOD) to participate to address aim 1. A subsample of participants
      (n=80 [40 per group]) with lower MPOD (i.e., ≤0.40) will be invited to enroll in a 4-week egg
      intake randomized controlled trial. Following baseline testing, participants will be randomly
      assigned to one of two intervention groups (7 whole eggs/week vs 7 egg whites/week) for a 4-
      week period.

      The investigators hypothesize that greater habitual egg consumption will be positively
      associated with MPOD and attention and memory and neural efficiency, and academic
      achievement. Further, the investigators anticipate that consuming whole eggs - via a 4-week
      intervention - will result in greater gains in behavioral and ERP cognitive measures and
      academic achievement, relative to egg white consumption. Finally, it is expected that
      cognitive benefits will correlate with change in MPOD, thereby establishing the importance of
      whole eggs for cognitive function and academic achievement in childhood.

      The successful completion of the proposed work is expected to generate new knowledge
      establishing the importance of regular whole egg consumption, specifically lutein induced
      changes in macular carotenoids, for improving performance in cognitive processes vital for
      learning and long-term scholastic success among school-aged children.
    
  