
    
      Despite intensive research, the pathophysiology of functional dyspepsia remains unknown. The
      investigators recently demonstrated that functional dyspepsia patients display impaired
      duodenal mucosal integrity and low-grade mucosal inflammation. As studies have also shown
      that functional dyspepsia patients present with an increased spontaneous duodenal acid
      exposure, the hypothesis of this study is that increased duodenal acid exposure results in
      increased duodenal permeability via mast cell activation. This will also induce activation of
      the duodenogastric reflex, resulting in gastric relaxation, eventually leading to the
      generation of dyspeptic symptoms. The general aim of this project is to assess the effect of
      mast cell inhibition on duodenal mucosal integrity and intragastric pressure of healthy
      volunteers after acid infusion in the duodenum.

      The study will be a randomized, double-blind, cross-over study in 20 healthy volunteers and
      consists of 2 parts. (1) In the first part, 10 healthy volunteers will be perfused with acid
      (0.1N HCl) or 0.9% saline during 30 minutes at a rate of 5 mL/min with an interval of at
      least one month. During acid/saline perfusion, intragastric pressure will be measured with a
      high resolution manometry system to evaluate activation of the duodenogastric reflex.
      Dyspeptic symptoms will be scored 1 minute before and every 5 minutes during the infusion.
      After perfusion, endoscopy will be performed and duodenal biopsies will be obtained to
      evaluate mucosal integrity using Ussing chambers and by assessing the expression of
      cell-to-cell adhesion proteins (real-time PCR, immunofluorescence and western blot). (2) In
      the second part, 10 healthy volunteers will be perfused with acid after a placebo treatment
      and after treatment with the mast cell stabilizer disodium cromoglycate 100mg 4x2/day (with
      an interval of at least one month). The rest of the study continues as described in part 1.
    
  