
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To evaluate the effects of a standardized mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR)
           intervention versus a diet and physical activity program on psychosocial well-being
           (e.g., perceived stress and quality of life) at post-intervention and subsequent
           follow-up time points.

        -  To evaluate the effects of an MBSR intervention versus a diet and physical activity
           program on specific immune response to HPV (i.e., T-cell proliferative response to HPV16
           and intracellular cytokine expression of HPV-stimulated T-cells) at post-intervention
           and follow-up time points.

        -  To examine the extent to which changes in psychosocial well-being mediate the effects of
           the intervention on HPV-specific immune response.

        -  To explore potential mechanisms of action (e.g., self-regulation, expectancies) that are
           proposed to be responsible for producing intervention effects on psychosocial
           well-being.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo a mindfulness-based stress reduction intervention (including
           meditation techniques, body scan, awareness of breathing, mindful yoga, eating
           meditation, and walking meditation) for 2 hours, once weekly for 8 weeks.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo a diet and physical activity program for 2 hours, once weekly
           for 8 weeks.

      In both arms, questionnaires measuring psychosocial factors, demographics, and behavioral
      risk factors are administered to patients at baseline, within 2 weeks of completing the
      8-week programs, and then at 6 and 12 months. Treatment continues in the absence of
      developing cervical cancer.

      Blood is collected for immunologic assays. HPV status and subtype is evaluated in cervical
      specimens using standard and real-time PCR techniques. Quality of Life is evaluated at
      baseline, post-intervention, and at 6 and 12 months.
    
  