
    
      This is a prospective, double-arm, multi-center study conducted through 11 centers across
      China. Consecutive 450 mothers who are eligible for the study will be enrolled during
      gestational weeks 24-28 to receive TDF or TAF based on the patients' preference, and the
      treatment will be discontinued right after the delivery. All infants will receive HBV
      vaccination plus HBIg within 12 hours after birth and the additional HBV vaccination at the
      age of 4 weeks and 24 weeks. Primary outcome assessment will be performed at the infants' age
      of 28 will be collected to evaluate non-inferiority in the safety and efficacy of TAF therapy
      versus TDF therapy. These parameters will be extracted from test results of serum
      biochemistries, hematology, and virology, including but not limited to aspartate
      aminotransferase (AST), ALT, HBV DNA levels, and serological status of HBV (HBsAg, HBeAb,
      HBcAb, HBeAg, and HBsAg).

      All aforementioned clinical parameters will be extracted from mothers at the following
      timepoints for assessment: the baseline, i.e. the start of TAF/TDF treatment, gestational
      weeks 28, 32, 36, on delivery, and at postpartum weeks 24-28. For the infant, information
      from two timepoints, at birth and at infant age of 28 weeks, will be collected. This
      information regarding the infant will include the physical parameters weight, height, head
      circumference, HBV DNA levels, HBV serological status, if they received hepatitis B
      immunoglobin (HBIg), if they received the complete series of HBV vaccine. All relevant
      information regarding the patient will be logged into a password-protected computer for
      primary and secondary analysis.

      Group A: 225 participating mothers will receive TAF (oral 25 mg tablet daily) starting at
      gestational week 24-28 of pregnancy and continue until delivery. The mothers will be followed
      together with their infants until postpartum week 28.Infants will receive hepatitis B vaccine
      plus HBIg at birth (within 12 hours) and additional hepatitis B vaccine at the age of week 4
      and week 24. Group B: 225 participating mothers will receive TDF (oral 300 mg tablet daily)
      starting at gestational week 24-28 of pregnancy and continue until delivery. Patients in
      group B will have similar follow-up schedules as those in the Group A. Infants will receive
      hepatitis B vaccine plus HBIg at birth (within 12 hours) and additional hepatitis B vaccine
      at the age of week 4 and week 24.
    
  