
    
      The Study Drug:

      Nab-paclitaxel is designed to block cancer cells from dividing, which may cause them to die.

      Study Drug Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a dose
      level of nab-paclitaxel based on when you joined this study. Up to 4 dose levels of
      nab-paclitaxel will be tested. The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose
      level. Each new group will receive a higher dose than the group before it, if no intolerable
      side effects were seen. This will continue until the highest tolerable dose of nab-paclitaxel
      is found.

      Study Drug Administration:

      During Cycles 1-6, you will admitted to the hospital the day before each time you are
      scheduled to receive the study drug. On the day after you are admitted (Day 1), you will have
      a catheter inserted into the hepatic artery (the major blood vessel that carries blood to the
      liver). You will be separately consented for this procedure, which will describe the
      procedure and its risks in detail. If the melanoma has spread to your skin, you may also be
      asked to take part in a separate laboratory study. In that study, you will have a tumor
      biopsy to check the concentration of a protein called SPARC in the tumor. Earlier clinical
      trials have shown that patients with tumors containing high levels of SPARC have better
      chance of the tumor shrinking with nab-paclitaxel treatment. You do not have to agree to the
      laboratory study in order to take part in this main study.

      On Day 1 of Cycles 1-6, you will then receive nab-paclitaxel through the arterial catheter
      over 30 minutes. The catheter will be removed after you receive the study drug.

      Your vital signs will be measured before and after you receive the study drug. You will be
      sent home from the hospital the next day if your vital signs are stable.

      On Day 1 of Cycle 7 and beyond, you will receive the study drug through a catheter in your
      vein over 30 minutes. You will not need to stay in the hospital when you receive the study
      drug by vein.

      On Day 1 of all cycles, before you receive the study drug, you will receive drugs to help to
      prevent for nausea and vomiting.

      Each cycle is 3 weeks.

      Study Visits:

      On Days 1 and 21 (+ or - 4 days) of every cycle, the following tests and procedures will be
      performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight.

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked if you have experienced any side effects.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have a performance status evaluation.

      On Days 8 and 15 all cycles, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

      Before each cycle of therapy, you will have a physical exam. Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will
      be drawn for routine tests.

      Before every other cycle beginning with Cycle 3 (Cycles 3, 5, 7 and so on), you will have CT
      scans to check the status of the disease.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue to receive the study drug for as long as you are benefitting. You will be
      taken off study early if you experience intolerable side effects or the disease gets worse.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      Within 28 days after the last dose of study drug, you will have an end-of-study visit. The
      following tests and procedures performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will be asked if you have experienced any side effects.

        -  You will have a chest x-ray, CT scans, and an ECG to check the status of the disease.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  You will be asked about any new symptoms that you may have experienced after you stopped
           receiving the study drug.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is necessary, you will have an MRI to check the status of the
           disease.

      This is an investigational study. Nab-paclitaxel is FDA approved and commercially available
      for the treatment of breast cancer when given by vein. Its use in liver cancer patients, as
      well as its administration into the hepatic artery, is investigational.

      Up to 40 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  