
    
      In this study, the investigators intend to assess the ability of the combination of Herceptin
      and NeuVax vaccine (HER2 protein E75 peptide administered with the immunoadjuvant GM-CSF)
      given in the adjuvant setting to prevent recurrences in NP (or NN if negative for both
      estrogen (ER) and progesterone (PR) receptors) breast cancer patients with tumors that
      express low (1+) or intermediate (2+) levels of HER2. Enrolled patients will be randomized to
      receive Herceptin and NeuVax vaccine or Herceptin with GM-CSF alone (no NeuVax vaccine). The
      safety of the combination therapy will be documented, specifically to ensure that no additive
      cardiac toxicity results from combination HER2-directed therapy. Efficacy will be documented
      by comparing the DFS and immunological responses between treatment groups.

      The primary efficacy endpoint is to compare DFS at 24 months between treatment groups. The
      primary safety issue is to prove there is no additive cardiac toxicity with combination
      HER2-directed therapy. A secondary endpoint of the trial is to compare DFS at 36 months.
      Immunologic responses to the vaccine will also be documented and correlated to clinical
      benefit.

      The study will be a multi-center, prospective, randomized, single-blinded, placebo-controlled
      Phase II trial of Herceptin + NeuVax vaccine versus Herceptin + GM-CSF alone. The target
      study population is NP (or NN if negative for both ER and PR) breast cancer patients with
      HER2 1+ and 2+ expressing tumors who are disease-free after standard of care therapy.
      Disease-free subjects after standard of care multi-modality therapy will be screened and
      HLA-typed. E75 is a CD8-eliciting peptide vaccine that is restricted to HLA-A2+ or HLA-A3+
      patients (approximately two-thirds of the US population), and has been extended to HLA-A24+
      and HLA-A26+ as well.

      HLA-A2+/A3+/A24+/or A26+ patients who meet all other eligibility criteria will be randomized
      to receive Herceptin + NeuVax vaccine or Herceptin + GM-CSF alone. For both groups, Herceptin
      will be given every three weeks as monotherapy for one year, to be given upon completion of
      standard of care chemotherapy/radiotherapy. The first Herceptin infusion must be given no
      sooner than three weeks and no later than 12 weeks after completion of
      chemotherapy/radiotherapy. Herceptin will be dosed at the recommended initial loading dose of
      8 mg/kg and at recommended maintenance doses of 6 mg/kg q3wk. Herceptin will be administered
      as described in Section 4.3. Patients randomized to the NeuVax vaccine arm will receive
      vaccinations of E75 peptide (1000 mcg) and GM-CSF (250 mcg) administered intradermally every
      three weeks for six total vaccinations, 30-120 minutes after completion of Herceptin
      infusion. The NeuVax vaccine series will begin immediately after completion of the third
      Herceptin infusion. In extenuating circumstances, the first vaccination may be delayed to the
      fourth or fifth Herceptin infusion with prior approval from the Principal Investigator. Those
      patients randomized to the GM-CSF alone arm will receive vaccinations of GM-CSF (250 mcg)
      administered in an identical manner to those receiving NeuVax vaccine. Patients will be
      blinded as to whether they are receiving NeuVax vaccine or GM-CSF alone.

      Upon completion of the vaccination series, booster inoculations (same dose and route) will be
      administered every six months x4 for total combination (Herceptin and vaccine) treatment
      duration of 30 months. The first booster inoculation will occur with the final Herceptin
      infusion, with subsequent boosters timed every six months from the first booster. Booster
      inoculations will occur for patients randomized to receive E75/GM-CSF as well as patients
      randomized to receive GM-CSF alone, and will consist of the same treatment drugs and dosing
      (i.e. E75/GM-CSF patients will be boosted with E75/GM-CSF while GM-CSF alone patients will be
      boosted with GM-CSF alone). Patient blinding will be maintained throughout the study.

      Subjects will be followed for safety issues, immunologic response and clinical recurrence.
      Patients will be monitored 48-72 hours after each inoculation for reaction to the inoculation
      as well as documentation of any adverse effects experienced. Immunologic response will be
      documented with both in vitro phenotypic and functional assays as well as in vivo delayed
      type hypersensitivity (DTH) reactions. All patients will be followed for a total of 36 months
      to document disease-free status.

      The investigators plan to enroll 300 patients (150 in each treatment arm) at a planned
      accrual rate of 12 patients per month (approximately one per study site per month). With
      accrual beginning in April, 2013, enrollment of the last patient would be expected in August
      2017 followed by a three-year follow-up period. The duration of the trial is expected to be
      seven years.
    
  