
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is characterized by progressive loss of lung
      function and recurrent exacerbations. COPD exacerbation is a major cause of physician visits
      and hospital admissions associated with acute respiratory failure, causing increased
      morbidity and premature mortality and thus it can significantly affect HRQoL.

      Previous studies suggested that patients who have experienced frequent exacerbation present
      worse HRQoL compared to patients with infrequent exacerbations. However, there are still
      questions regarding the relationship between HRQoL and exacerbations. Only few studies which
      are not an integral part of a clinical trial investigated the relationship between
      exacerbations and long-term impairment of HRQoL. Furthermore, a recent study failed to show
      that exacerbations remain a significant determinant of HRQoL when several other prognostic
      factors were taken into account. In addition, there is luck of data regarding differences in
      HRQoL between patients with different phenotypes (i.e., emphysema or chronic bronchitis
      predominance).

      In this respect we prospectively study the long term effect of exacerbations on the quality
      of life of patients with COPD and we aim to investigate further the relationship between
      exacerbations and HRQoL.

      The investigators hypothesize that the extend of emphysema is positively correlated with
      worsen Health related quality of life (HRQoL).

      Consecutive sampling will be used to recruit patients with a diagnosis of COPD according to
      the GOLD definition.Exacerbations will be identified as worsening of patient's respiratory
      signs as recorded on diary cards. HQoL will be assessed using the Saint George Respiratory
      Questionaire (SGRQ). Patients will undergo high resolution computed tomography of the
      chest(HRCT). Multiple linear regression analysis will be used to identify factors which
      explain SGRQ deterioration over the study period for the entire population and for smokers
      and ex-smokers separately.
    
  