
    
      VA Central Office recently opened back research study after suspension from March to Sept
      2020 with COVID 19

      Severe delayed post-polypectomy induced ulcer (PPIU) bleeding has become a much more common
      problem with the increased numbers of colonoscopies being performed and with more patients
      taking anti-coagulants or anti-platelet drugs. Current medical guidelines may reduce bleeding
      during polypectomy, but are not effective for prevention of delayed bleeding. Empiric closure
      of PPIU's with clips is not effective because ulcers > 15 mm cannot be closed, does not treat
      the underlying artery in the ulcer base, and when the clips often fall off within 7 the
      underlying artery is exposed. As preliminary results, the investigators studied delayed PPIU
      bleeds and their prevention, used a Doppler endoscopic probe (DEP) to localize arteries in
      PPIU's, reported the prevalence which rises significantly as ulcer size increases, and
      successfully obliterated blood flow with focal treatment. These studies form the basis for
      this new RCT. The primary specific aim is to perform a RCT to compare rates of delayed
      hemorrhage after DEP detection of arterial blood flow and focal treatment in PPIU's
      (treatment arm) with standard treatment using medical guidelines alone (controls) for
      prevention of delayed bleeding in high risk patients (on anti-coagulants or anti-platelet
      drugs or with large ulcers) after snare resection of benign colon polyps. Secondary specific
      aims are to evaluate the natural history and risk factors for delayed PPIU bleeding using
      univariate and multivariable analyses. This is a RCT performed by the CURE Hemostasis
      Research Group for high risk patients - those with PPIU's 15 mm in size or greater but not on
      drugs associated with bleeding; or patients who require anti-coagulants or anti-platelet
      drugs for treatment of co-morbid conditions and have PPIU's 10 mm or larger. Outpatients,
      scheduled for screening or surveillance colonoscopies, who give written informed consent and
      meet entry criteria will be randomized to control/no DEP (medical treatment without PPIU
      closure) or DEP (as a guide to arterial blood flow detection and focal obliteration of it
      with hemoclips and/or low power multipolar electrocautery [MPEC] probe). Patients will be
      prospectively followed at 7, 14, and 30 days for bleeding, complications, or unscheduled
      visits for healthcare after polypectomies.
    
  