
    
      This study will require 10 visits for all participants. Both groups will participate in
      baseline and follow-up gait assessments involving walking on a treadmill at 1.34 m/s.
      Follow-up visits will be conducted within 72 hours of the participant's final rehabilitation
      session. Using a rigid cluster marker setup, reflective markers will be placed on the upper
      back, sacrum, and bilaterally on the thigh, shank, rearfoot, and forefoot. A 5-minute
      familiarization period will be completed to ensure participants are comfortable and walking
      as normally as possible. Following the familiarization period, 1-minute of continuous gait
      data will be collected. The data collected during baseline and follow-up gait assessments
      will be used to analyze the primary and secondary outcome measures for kinematics.
      Participants will also complete the patient reported outcomes (FAAM ADL & Sport Subscale) at
      the baseline and follow-up visits.

      Impairment-based Rehabilitation:

      Four weeks of supervised rehabilitation (8 sessions) will be provided to both groups. This
      rehabilitation paradigm has been previously reported by Donovan and Hertel. Impairment-based
      rehabilitation involves identifying and treating deficits in 4 broad domains including range
      of motion (ROM), strength, balance, and functional exercises by using an "asses, treat,
      re-assess" approach. Previously reported intervention methods will be used in this study. The
      clinician administering the rehabilitation will be blinded to the subjects' intervention
      group status.

      Intervention:

      Gait training using visual feedback for frontal plane ankle position at initial contact (IC)
      will be projected onto a screen in front of the treadmill.

      Gait Training Protocol:

      The goal of this protocol is to improve the position of the ankle at IC using visual feedback
      gait training over the course of 4 weeks. The intervention group will participate in 2
      sessions of gait training per week for 4 weeks using intermittent feedback described by
      Noehren et al. The Motion Monitor is a software system uses body movements to provide visual
      feedback to the participant by using information from retroreflective markers on the body
      that are captured by the cameras. The software will use the position of the rearfoot marker
      cluster in relation to the shank marker cluster to determine the rearfoot inversion angle at
      IC and provide visual biofeedback information for the next step. Visual feedback in the shape
      of a line will be displayed as an image projected onto a screen in front of the treadmill
      representing frontal plane inversion angle. The line will adjust (similar to a teeter-totter)
      according to the position of the foot and will change color accordingly. When the ankle
      position is too inverted, the line will turn red and an audio tone will be heard by the
      participant. When the ankle position is in a good position, the line will turn green and the
      tone will not be heard.
    
  