
    
      The intimal lining of a synovial joint consists of unique cells called fibroblast-like
      synoviocytes (FLS cells) with interspersed macrophage-like synoviocytes. In the healthy joint
      macrophage-like synoviocytes are implicated in the innate immune defence and support adaptive
      immunity, while FLS cells function to regulate the release of nutrients and molecules,
      including hyaluronan, into the joint cavity.

      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic systemic disease with autoimmune traits, which
      primarily affects synovial joints. The intimal lining of the synovium expands and exhibits
      characteristics of unregulated growth and loss of contact inhibition. The expanding synovium
      degrades cartilage and erodes into the bone at the cartilage-bone interface, creating the
      hallmark of RA, the joint erosion.

      The RA FLS cell, has a markedly different phenotype than the healthy cell, and plays a key
      role in the destructive process by the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines and matrix
      destructive enzymes. FLS cells expand during the joint destructive process, however, there is
      minimal mitotic activity. The origin of the expanding FLS population is therefore uncertain.

      Possible explanations to this phenomenon could be decreased senescence, migration of
      mesenchymal stem cells from the circulation, epithelial to mesenchymal cell-transition or
      expansion of a stem cell pool in the synovium. FLS precursors could also migrate to the
      synovium through pores in cortical bone, as has been demonstrated in mice with
      collagen-induced arthritis. In a murine model, it has further been shown that RA FLS cells
      can spread via the systemic circulation from one joint and attack previously unaffected
      joints.

      A possible FLS cell precursor has been identified in peripheral blood and called fibrocytes.
      Fibrocytes are spindle-shaped cells that express surface receptors of both stromal and
      hematopoietic cells. The fibrocytes are a rare (~0.5% of leukocytes) population of bone
      marrow derived mesenchymal progenitor cells. A combination of markers that distinguish
      fibrocytes from monocytes, macrophages and fibroblasts has been described. In vitro
      circulating human peripheral blood mononuclear cells and monocytes (CD14+) can differentiate
      into fibrocytes. Fibrocytes can differentiate in vitro along multiple mesenchymal lineages
      into adipocytes, chondrocytes, myofibroblasts and osteoblasts. It is unknown which
      differentiation pathway occurs in vivo or if multiple differentiation profiles can occur .

      Increased numbers of circulating fibrocytes have been found in murine RA models. In a small
      sample of RA patients (six patients, ten controls), peripheral blood fibrocytes had elevated
      phosphorylation activation compared to controls, and cells were demonstrated in the synovium.
      Here fibrocyte activation was correlated with arthritis disease activity (DAS28). In a murine
      model, activated circulating fibrocytes where found to migrate to arthritis joints in the
      preclinical phase of the disease, and to accumulate in the FLS cell layer of the synovium.
      Adoptive transfer of circulating fibrocytes in this murine model, led to worsening of joint
      disease indicating that circulating fibrocytes are involved in RA joint pathology, possibly
      as a FLS-cell precursor. Further, fibrocytes have also been implicated in extra articular
      manifestations of RA, e.g. pericarditis (murine model), atherosclerosis, and interstitial
      lung disease.

      Studies on synovial biopsies have been critical in the understanding of RA pathogenesis. A
      new method of collecting synovial tissue, ultrasound-guided synovial biopsy is safe and well
      tolerated by patients and reliable for collecting high quality synovial tissue from large and
      small joints.
    
  