
    
      Inclusion Criteria for Allocated groups :

      Patients with localized marginal deficiencies (Bravo Ryge Criterial) of composite
      restorations that were clinically judged to be suitable for sealing according to USPHS
      criteria.

      Patients with more than 20 teeth. Restorations in functional occlusions with an opposing
      natural tooth. Asymptomatic restored tooth. At least one proximal contact area with a
      neighbouring tooth. Patients are older than 18 years. Patients who agreed and signed a
      consent form for participating in the study. Area out of the restoration´s failure is in good
      condition.

      Inclusion Criteria for Positive Control group :

      Composite resins with alpha value in adaptation marginal criterial

      Exclusion criteria:

      Patients with contra-indications for regular dental treatment based on their medical history.

      Patients with xerostomia or taking medication that significantly decreased salivary flow.

      Patients with a high risk of caries. Patients with psychiatric or physical diseases, which
      interfered with oral hygiene.

      Patients with localized marginal deficiencies > 1 mm. and/or secondary caries adjacent to
      composite restorations , or major defects 2.2 Treatment Group Criteria Initially, 356
      restorations (28 patients) were evaluated and assigned in accordance with the modified USPHS
      criteria, from which 80 were selected in accordance with the inclusion criteria. Restorations
      with marginal defects (>0.5mm and <1mm) and/or marginal staining (Bravo) were randomly
      assigned to the Sealing (n = 20) or no treatment (n = 20) group. The randomization was
      performed by the Power Analysis and Sample Size System (Excel 2000,Microsoft,SEA, USA).

      2.3 Restoration Assessment The quality of the restorations was scored according to the
      modified USPHS criteria. Two examiners underwent calibration exercises each year (JM and EF).
      The Cohen's Kappa inter-examiner coefficient was 0.74 at the baseline and 0.87 at ten years.
      Immediately after the treatment (baseline) and 10 years later, the examiners assessed the
      restorations independently by direct visual and tactile examination with mouth mirror number
      5 and explorer number 23 (Hu Friedy Mfg. Co. Inc., Chicago, IL, USA) and indirectly by
      radiographic examination (bite wing). The four parameters examined were anatomic form,
      secondary caries, marginal staining and marginal adaptation. If the difference was recorded
      between the two examiners, and if they could not reach an agreement, a third clinician, who
      also underwent the calibration exercises (GM), made the final decision.

      2.4 Treatment Groups 2.4.1 Sealing For this group, defective areas were acid etched with 35%
      phosphoric acid for 15 seconds. A resin-based sealant (Clinpro Sealant, 3M ESPE) was applied
      over the defective area. The sealant was polymerized with a photocuring unit (Curing Light
      2500, 3M ESPE) for 40 seconds. Rubber dam isolation was used for this procedure.

      2.4.2 No treatment The composite resin restorations had marginal defects, but were clinically
      acceptable, did not receive treatment.

      2.4.3 Positive control Composite resins with alpha value in marginal adaptation criteria
    
  