
    
      Cerebral Palsy (CP) is the leading cause of childhood motor impairment with 1 in 323 American
      children affected. The resulting impaired motor function in individuals with CP limits their
      ability to independently perform many functional activities, and participate in academic,
      social, and leisure activities. Children with CP are referred to physical, occupational, and
      speech therapy at varying intensities (1-3x week) for years, depending on individual needs.
      While these therapeutic services are offered regularly, the clinical efficacy and optimal
      dosing parameters are being challenged. In a meta-analysis of all available therapeutic
      interventions for CP, just 5 had strong enough evidence to recommend implementation into
      clinical practice for children with unilateral CP (Novak et al. 2013) and no therapies had
      sufficient evidence of efficacy for treatment of upper (UE) or lower extremities (LE) in
      children with bilateral CP (BCP). The key features of interventions with proven evidence of
      clinical efficacy include: a motor learning approach involving active movement, an
      environment to shape desired movements, and a much higher treatment intensity than provided
      in weekly therapies. Despite BCP being the most prevalent subtype, the majority of the
      research evaluating the clinical efficacy and dosing parameters of therapeutic interventions
      has been determined in children with UCP with upper extremity approaches such as Constraint
      Induced Movement Therapy (CIMT) and Hand-Arm Bimanual Intensive Therapy (HABIT) demonstrating
      efficacy.

      One promising therapy gaining interest and support for children with BCP is Hand-Arm Bimanual
      Intensive Therapy Including the Lower Extremities (HABIT-ILE). HABIT-ILE aims to improve
      upper and lower movement control by engaging the UE and LE during combined activities for
      many hours every day for 3 weeks. Preliminary investigation has demonstrated that children
      with BCP participating in a 90-hour HABIT-ILE day camp achieve improvement within the body
      function and structure, activity and participation levels of the International Classification
      of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF). While intensive therapies, such as HABIT-ILE,
      are typically provided in a day camp setting over several weeks, implementing the dosing
      schedule of this promising intensive approach in a hospital setting requires innovative
      resource allocation (space and staff). In order to establish the efficacy of this approach
      for children with BCP, it is essential to further examine the efficacy of the 3-week
      HABIT-ILE camp format of delivery in a larger, multisite trial, in addition to examining
      whether an alternative model of intensity and resource allocation can demonstrate similar
      efficacy. The overall aim of the proposed work is to determine the effectiveness of two
      different dosing schedules of an intensive therapeutic intervention that applies motor
      learning to upper and lower extremity movement and postural control to improve functional
      motor skills, activity, and self-mastery in children with BCP. The specific aims are:

      Specific Aim 1: To determine if there are significant gains and retention in functional motor
      skills, activity, and self-mastery in children with BCP receiving 90 hours of HABIT-ILE dosed
      in a camp format for 6-hours per day, 5 days per week for three weeks and for 6-hours a day,
      one day per week for 15 weeks.

      Specific Aim 2: To determine whether the degree of involvement, age and self-mastery predict
      the magnitude and maintenance of change seen in children with BCP receiving 90 hours of
      HABIT-ILE dosed in a camp format for 6-hours per day, 5 days per week for three weeks and for
      6-hours a day, one day per week for 15 weeks.
    
  