
    
      A prospective cohort study to compare the outcomes of transferring the early compacting and
      the cleavage day 3 embryos.

      All participants were treated with a gonadotropin-releasing antagonist protocol according to
      local protocol. Recombinant follicle stimulating hormone was given for five days starting on
      the second or third day of the menstrual cycle at a starting dose individualized for each
      participant as follows: 150, 225 or 300 IU/day, respectively, in participants with
      anti-Müllerian hormone levels of <2.1 ng/mL, 0.7-2.1 ng/mL or <0.7 ng/mL. This dosage could
      then be titrated based on clinical judgement of the investigator. Follicular development was
      monitored using ultrasound scanning and measurement of estradiol and progesterone levels,
      starting on day five of stimulation; scanning and hormonal measurements were repeated every
      two to three days, depending on follicle size. An antagonist was routinely used on day five
      until the day of human chorionic gonadotropin administration. Criteria for administration of
      recombinant human chorionic gonadotropin (5,000 IU) was the presence of at least two leading
      follicles of 17 mm in diameter. Oocyte retrieval was performed 36 hours after recombinant
      human chorionic gonadotropin administration.

      Insemination was performed using intra-cytoplasmic sperm injection at three to four hours
      after oocyte retrieval; only matured oocytes were inseminated. Fertilization check was
      performed under inverted microscope at 16-18 hours after insemination. Embryo evaluation was
      performed on day 3 at fixed time point after fertilization (66±2 hours) using the Istanbul
      consensus. As a rule, two useful embryos are transferred in patients if having either early
      compaction or still on cleavage stage.

      Early compaction embryo transfer group: transfer of 2 utilizable compacting embryos.

      Cleavage stage embryo transfer group: transfer of 2 utilizable non-compacting embryos have
      7-9 cells with under 20% fragmentation.

      Embryo transfer was performed using a soft catheter by a standard technique under ultrasound
      guidance. Intensive luteal phase support was provided using progesterone gel and estradiol.
      At least 18 days after OPU, a urinary pregnancy test is performed. If the pregnancy test is
      positive, vaginal and/or abdominal ultrasonographic investigation is performed between 35 and
      42 days (5 to 6 weeks) after ET to confirm a clinical pregnancy and at least 70 days (≥10
      weeks) after ET to confirm an ongoing pregnancy.

      Other clinical parameters will also be evaluated: serum hormone levels, fertilization rate,
      number and quality of day 3 embryos, implantation rate, ectopic pregnancy rate and
      miscarriage rate.
    
  