
    
      Preoperatively:

      Subjects will be recruited up to 21days prior to the day of surgery. After informed consent
      is obtained, subjects will be randomly assigned to one of two groups:

      Group A: Saline group Group B: 1% Ketamine group

      A verbal rating scale (VRS) will be used to assess pain preoperatively. The patient will be
      asked to identify the severity of pain by indicating on a scale of 0-10 where 0 is "no pain"
      and 10 is "the worst pain imaginable".

      Baseline Quality of Recovery will be obtained. (Appendix F)

      Subjects will be randomized prior to surgery to either Group A or Group B. The randomization
      table is computer generated. There is a 50% allocation to each group.

      Intraoperatively:

      Standard anesthetic monitoring will be used including monitoring of processed EEG including
      either the bi-spectral index (BIS) or similar standard of care ASA monitor. A standardized
      intraoperative anesthetic plan will be utilized by the anesthesia personnel. (Appendix A).
      Study drug will be prepared and labeled in 10mL syringes by research personnel who will not
      be involved in the study assessments. Study drug will be administered on initial insertion of
      Novasure® device (Appendix B).

      Postoperatively:

      Pain scores in the PACU will be assessed using the VRS upon admission and every 30 minutes
      thereafter until discharge criteria are met.

      Additionally, nausea, vomiting and retching episodes will be recorded using a VRS.

      Postoperative analgesic and antiemetic therapy will be standardized and total amounts of
      these agents will be recorded Assessment of psychomimetic effects including sedation and
      agitation will be assess postoperatively prior to discharge using the Richmond
      Agitation/Sedation Scale (Appendix D).

      Acute recovery will be assessed using the Modified Post Anesthesia Discharge Scoring System
      (MPADSS) (Appendix E). A score of 8 or greater will indicate discharge readiness. Time to
      fulfill discharge criteria will be recorded.

      Any other adverse events and medications required will be recorded. These data will be
      recorded by research personnel who will be blinded to the study group assignments.

      Subjects will be contacted by telephone 24 hours after surgery to assess post-discharge
      quality of recovery (Appendix F).
    
  