
    
      The rate of preterm birth in the United States is nearly 10%. Up to one-third of these births
      are the result of a medically-indicated delivery. While induction of labor in women at term
      gestation has been extensively studied, the same is not true for preterm gestations.
      Consequently, the same methods of labor induction are used in term and preterm gestations,
      although preterm gestations may have different responses to induction agents compared to term
      gestations.

      At our institution, a standard induction of labor - for term or preterm women - is performed
      using a cervical Foley catheter or misoprostol for cervical ripening with the addition of
      intravenous oxytocin for labor augmentation. As membranes do not typically spontaneously
      rupture during the induction process, amniotomy is commonly utilized by providers to help
      augment labor. Amniotomy releases prostaglandin-rich amniotic fluid. These prostaglandins are
      important mediators of uterine contractility and ultimately active labor. It has been shown
      to reduce the duration of spontaneous and induced labor in term patients.

      The timing of amniotomy is left up to the discretion of the treating providers, as there are
      no randomized controlled trials to support early versus late amniotomy at preterm gestations.
      However, a retrospective cohort of nulliparous and multiparous women at our institution
      undergoing induction at 23-34 weeks, and evaluating early amniotomy at <4cm cervical dilation
      versus late amniotomy at ≥4cm dilation, showed an increased risk of cesarean delivery and
      increased time from start of induction to delivery for early amniotomy, although only the
      cesarean delivery outcome was significant after adjusting for confounders.

      We will conduct an intention-to-treat randomized controlled trial comparing early amniotomy
      versus late amniotomy during medically-indicated induction of labor between 23.0 and 35.6
      weeks gestation. Women will be randomized to early or late amniotomy after the attending
      obstetrician has decided to induce labor for a medical indication. Early amniotomy will be
      performed prior to 4cm cervical dilation being reached. Late amniotomy will be performed at
      greater than or equal to 4cm cervical dilation.

      The purpose of this study is to determine whether timing of amniotomy during
      medically-indicated preterm induction of labor affects labor outcomes. We will specifically
      be looking at risk of cesarean delivery, duration of labor, maternal morbidity, and neonatal
      morbidity. We hypothesize that more women in the early amniotomy group will require cesarean
      delivery and that the duration of labor will increase in the early amniotomy group.
    
  