
    
      This is an open-label, multi-center, Phase II study of atezolizumab in patients with NSCLC or
      advanced solid tumors that have had prior treatment with a PD-1 inhibitor (e.g. nivolumab or
      pembrolizumab). Arm A consists of patients with advanced NSCLC who received first-line
      PD-1-monotherapy, who have subsequent disease progression. In Arm A, patients with NSCLC will
      be randomized 1:1 to either chemotherapy plus atezolizumab at a flat dose of 1200 mg IV every
      3 weeks or chemotherapy alone until progression or unacceptable toxicity. Platinum-based
      standard of care doublet chemotherapy (or triplet if bevacizumab is used) will be given by IV
      every 3 weeks. Platinum chemotherapy may be cisplatin or carboplatin chosen based on
      histology and at the discretion of the treating investigator. It should be administered
      according to the directions in the approved labeling.

      Arm B consists of approximately 10-15 patients per disease type (renal cell carcinoma [RCC],
      triple negative breast cancer [TNBC], small cell lung cancer [SCLC], squamous cell carcinoma
      of the head and neck [SCCHN], melanoma, microsatellite instability-high [MSI-high] solid
      tumors {as determined by local testing for MSI/mismatch repair (MMR)}), as well as patients
      with NSCLC who were treated with a PD-1 antibody in ≥ second-line setting and who have had
      subsequent disease progression and NSCLC patients who have progressed after pembrolizumab
      plus chemotherapy in the first-line setting. In Arm B, patients with advanced solid tumors
      will be treated with an atezolizumab flat dose of 1200 mg IV every 3 weeks until progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      Primary Objective

      The primary objectives of this study are to:

        -  Assess the efficacy (overall response rate [ORR]) of combining atezolizumab with
           standard of care chemotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients who have
           progressed after prior exposure to anti-PD-1 monotherapy treatment.

        -  Assess the efficacy (ORR) of atezolizumab in patients with advanced solid tumors who
           have progressed after prior exposure to anti-PD-1 treatment.

      Secondary Objectives

      The secondary objectives of this study are to:

        -  Determine the safety of atezolizumab in patients with NSCLC and other advanced solid
           tumors.

        -  Estimate the 6-month disease control rate, progression-free survival (PFS), overall
           survival (OS) in patients with NSCLC and other advanced solid tumors.

      Exploratory Objectives

      The exploratory objectives of this study are:

        -  Correlation of programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression by immunohistochemistry
           (IHC) with response to therapy.

        -  Characterization of the tumor microenvironment by IHC, ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing
           and/or reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and correlation of
           immune gene signatures with response to therapy.

        -  In selected patients with paired biopsy samples (pre-anti-PD-1 and pre-atezolizumab; or
           pre and post-atezolizumab tissue):

             -  Assessment of immune escape mechanisms, that may include but is not limited to
                neoantigen profiling and T cell receptor (TCR) sequencing.

             -  Assessment of tumor mutation burden (TMB) by next-generation sequencing (NGS) and
                correlation with response to therapy.
    
  