
    
      Detailed Description:

      Vitamin K antagonists (VKAs) are commonly used for their role in hemostasis by interfering
      with vitamin K cycle decreasing the bioavailability of the vitamin K active form. In addition
      to a role in blood coagulation, vitamin K participates in brain health and function by
      regulating the synthesis of sphingolipids, a constituent of the myelins sheath and the
      neurons membrane, and through the biological activation of vitamin K-dependent proteins
      (VKDPs) involved in neuron survival. Epidemiological studies have reported a positive
      association between higher serum vitamin K concentration and better verbal episodic memory
      performance in older adults, and an inverse association between dietary vitamin K intakes and
      behavioural disorders and cognitive complaint. The clinical implication is that the use of
      VKAs, which deplete the active form of vitamin K, may be responsible for Central Nervous
      System (CNS) disorders.

      CNS abnormalities were observed in newborns exposed in utero to VKA. Similarly, the
      investigators and other researchers reported that the use of VKAs (especially fluindione) was
      directly associated with cognitive decline (notably executive dysfunction) and hippocampal
      atrophy in older adults, even while taking into account the history of atrial fibrillation,
      stroke and vascular brain changes. These cross-sectional and longitudinal studies were yet
      limited by their observational design. Clinical trials are now warranted to explore the
      effect on cognition of VKAs against direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs), whose indications are
      similar but whose mechanism does not interfere with vitamin K. The favorable impact of the
      use of DOACs compared to VKA in the incidence of dementia was also observed in a US
      retrospective population-based study of patients managed per routine clinical care.

      The investigators hypothesize that VKAs have a deleterious impact on cognition and brain
      morphology compared to DOACs, due to the decrease in vitamin K bioavailability. A review of
      the published clinical trials comparing the effects of VKAs and DOACs, especially
      rivaroxaban, shows that cognition and brain volume were not assessed as outcomes in these
      trials.
    
  