
    
      This is a Phase Ib, open-label, multiple ascending dose, pilot study in patients with PNH who
      have not received eculizumab (Soliris)® in the past. Two cohorts of 3 subjects are planned
      for evaluation.

      Safety will be assessed throughout the study; serial blood and urine samples will be
      collected for these assessments. Blood samples will be collected for the assessment of
      pegcetacoplan PK. Additional samples for assessment of PD will also be collected.

      The study will consist of four parts;

        -  Part 1: subjects will receive pegcetacoplan for 28 days.

        -  Part 2A: subjects may continue to receive pegcetacoplan for a further 56 days if there
           is evidence of perceived clinical benefit following review of available safety, PK and
           PD data by the investigator and sponsor

        -  Part 2B/Part 2C: subjects may continue to receive daily pegcetacoplan treatment for up
           to 364 days if there is ongoing evidence of clinical benefit following review of the
           available safety, PK and PD data. After completion of Part 2B, subjects could continue
           treatment with pegcetacoplan by transitioning to an open-label extension study or Part
           2C, if enrollment into the extension study was not yet available. Subjects entering Part
           2C continued their pegcetacoplan dose and regimen until enrollment in the open-label
           extension study was available.

        -  Part 3: Safety follow up Screening will take place within 30 days prior to the start of
           dosing on Day 1. If needed (see inclusion criteria), Neisseria menigitides types A, C,
           W, Y and B (administered as two separate vaccinations), Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine
           or Pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine 23 (PCV13 or PPSV23, respectively), and
           Haemophilus influenzae Type B (Hib) vaccinations will be administered at least 14 days
           prior to dosing on Day 1.

      Subjects will be entered into Part 1 of the study on Day 1 at a time designated by the PI.
      During Part 1, the first 3 daily SC doses of pegcetacoplan (Day 1 to 3) as well as doses on
      Day 8, 15 and 22 will be administered at the clinical site. From Day 4 to Day 28 daily doses
      of pegcetacoplan will be administered off-site by a trained study nurse at the subject's
      home, workplace, or other location convenient to the subject with the exception of those days
      where dosing is at the clinical site. Following ongoing review of available safety, PK and PD
      data by the investigator and sponsor, subjects showing evidence of perceived clinical benefit
      may progress to Part 2A and then to Part 2B of the study and continue to receive daily doses
      of pegcetacoplan until Day 84 and then until Day 364.

      Cohort 2 will not be initiated until all subjects in Cohort 1 have reached the Day 29 visit
      and the SMC has reviewed emerging safety and efficacy data and determined that, at the
      initial dose, pegcetacoplan has an acceptable safety and tolerability profile.

      The planned length of participation in the study for each subject in Cohort 2 is
      approximately 444 days (14.5 months) from Day 30 through completion of the Day 414 Exit visit
      procedures).

      The study is planned to take place over approximately 24 months (from screening of Cohort 1
      through completion of Cohort 2).

      This time period may change in the event that the study is terminated early, additional
      cohorts are enrolled, additional time is required to review safety between cohorts, or
      extended safety and PK sampling is added for a cohort.
    
  