
    
      It is known that cancer patients use antioxidants at greater rates than their healthy peers
      and these patients generally do not tell their physicians. This use has not been adequately
      evaluated. This pilot trial is a Phase II study designed to assess safety of high-dose
      antioxidants in gynecologic malignancies. Secondarily, we will evaluate efficacy of
      antioxidant use. These goals will be accomplished by monitoring adverse events by clinical
      evaluation, metabolic functions such as but not limited to tumor markers, blood counts,
      hepatic, and renal enzymes, and tumor response rates secondarily. The study will be conducted
      at the University of Kansas Medical Center. Oversight partnership is established with the
      FDA-CDER, Kansas Masonic Cancer Research Institute, and the University of Kansas Medical
      Center - IRB.

      The study is an open label prospective investigational study in 50 gynecologic cancer
      patients with a Primary Hypothesis: To assess safety of adding high-dose antioxidants to
      chemotherapy in the treatment of gynecologic malignancies (uterine, cervical, or epithelial
      ovarian). Qualitative and quantitative toxicities will be assessed by monitoring clinical
      status by National Cancer Institute common toxicity criteria version 3.0, quality of life
      measures (FACT-G), and evaluating metabolic functions including but not limited to hepatic
      and renal function.

      Secondary Hypothesis: To assess efficacy by tumor response rates in patients with gynecologic
      malignancies treated with antioxidants to include intravenous and oral ascorbic acid,
      intravenous glutathione, oral mixed carotenoids, mixed tocopherols, and vitamin A. Secondary
      endpoints will be time to progression and survival.

      Patients with newly diagnosed or recurrent gynecologic cancer will be invited to participate
      and these subjects will be limited to those who present with cervical, uterine, or ovarian of
      epithelial origin. Fifty patients will be enrolled. The study subjects will be treated with
      antioxidants added to their usual oncologic care for 12 months. This population was chosen
      because of anecdotal and case report evidence for benefit when high-dose antioxidants are
      added to their care.
    
  