
    
      Oncogenic osteomalacia, or tumor-induced osteomalacia, is a rare, serious paraneoplastic
      syndrome. It is predominantly driven by a small, benign mesenchymal tumor. The disease is
      readily prompted by the clinical features such as hyperphosphaturia, hypophosphatemia, low
      serum vitamin D3 levels, elevated serum fibroblast growth factor 23 levels, and osteomalacia.
      However, the causative tumor is frequently hidden in an unusual anatomical site and often
      goes undetected by conventional imaging, such as computed tomography (CT), while a permanent
      cure of the disease will only rely on exact localization and completely removal of the tumor.

      Since mesenchymal tumors express somatostatin receptors (SSR), molecular imaging using
      radiolabeled somatostatin analogs may be one of the best ways to detect the small, occult
      tumors. 111In- and 99mTc-labeled octreotide and analogs have been proved useful to detect
      mesenchymal tumor and other SSR-positive tumors. However, the scintigraphy is insufficient to
      provide high-resolution images and precise anatomical information. In this study, a novel
      approach was proposed for exact localization of mesenchymal tumors through positron emission
      tomography (PET) imaging with 68Ga-DOTATATE and co-registration with CT. 68Ga-DOTATATE PET/CT
      is a novel method that might have improved sensitivity and resolution specifically for
      SSR-positive tumors, including the causative tumor of oncogenic osteomalacia.

      The investigators will scan the patients in suspicion of oncogenic osteomalacia and the
      confirmed oncogenic osteomalacia patients in suspicion of relapse or with residual tumor
      after surgery, and compare it to 99mTc-HYNIC-TOC SPECT/CT and 18F-FDG PET/CT of the same
      patients. The aim of the study was to see if 68Ga-DOTATATE PET/CT can detect more tumors with
      higher resolution and more exact localization, and then help to develop optimal treatment
      strategy and improves patient care.
    
  