
    
      -  Principal Objective : 1)To quantify postoperative pain by the ECGs technique. 2) To
           compare the ECGs parameters with the visual analog pain scale (VAS) results.

        -  Secondary Objective : To determine the influence of preoperative chronic pain and
           pathophysiological profiles on the correlation between postoperative ECGs and VAS.

        -  Study design : An observational, prospective, single arm, single center study.

        -  Inclusion criteria : ¨Patients over 18 years old scheduled for surgery under general
           anesthesia. Patients capable of using the visual analog pain scale.

        -  Exclusion criteria : Pregnancy or breast feeding, impossibility to obtain an informed
           consent, incapacity to follow all the study schedule. Patient not protected by social
           security, patient likely to present hypovolemia or severe hemodynamic instability.
           Patient with a dysautonomia characterized by orthostatic hypotension, patients with
           cardiac disarrhythmias, likely to interfere with the ECG and/or the spectral analysis of
           ECG.

        -  Study plan: Patients will sign their informed consent during the V0 visit
           (preoperative). During V0, HF and LF (ECGs parameters) will be measured as well as the
           VAS-estimated pain. These results, medical history, concomitant diseases and medications
           will be reported in a case report form (CRF). The second and last visit, V1, takes place
           1 hour after the patient wakes up, in the postoperative period. ECGs and VAS evaluation
           will be achieved in the same manner as the V0 visit. The only difference is that the
           measurements will be repeated to obtain a total of 5 data couples over 2 hours. These
           Intrapatient estimations will be used to improve statistical ECGs vs VAS correlation
           analysis.

        -  Number of subjects : 100
    
  