
    
      Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) has been proven to be effective in helping people with
      distressing psychotic symptoms such as auditory hallucinations or upsetting delusional
      beliefs. While the majority of hallucinations reported in psychotic disorders are auditory,
      visual hallucinations (VH) have been reported in 16%-72% of people with psychotic disorders
      like schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder. VH appear to be associated with particularly
      high levels of distress, and impairment. The global severity of illness was significantly
      higher in people with schizophrenia and VH, as compared to those people without VH. Whilst
      antipsychotic medication is the first line of treatment for psychotic symptoms like VH, there
      is evidence that many service users choose to refuse or discontinue their pharmacological
      treatment. For example, the largest trial to compare atypical antipsychotics found that 74%
      of patients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia discontinued their medication over 18 months.
      Hence, there is a need to develop a range of effective treatments. Despite its value in
      treating auditory hallucinations, at present there is no specific CBT treatment for VH.

      We developed a cognitive behavioural model for visual hallucinations. This model has been
      tested in a recent study of 15 people with psychosis and distressing visual hallucinations
      which found that it was not the presence of the visual experience per se that led to the
      distress but the appraisal of it (as being a threat to psychological or physical wellbeing).
      Such appraisals are targeted in CBT for auditory hallucinations.

      The aim of this research is to assess the value of a manualised cognitive behavioural
      intervention for distressing visual hallucinations by establishing if it reduces distress and
      disability. The aim is to determine the acceptability of the treatment package, feasibility
      of recruitment, the ability to deliver the treatment manual as intended, retention in the
      treatment, a preliminary estimate of effect size and maintenance of any gains at a brief
      follow up.
    
  