
    
      Lung cancer is the most prevalent neoplasm and the major cause of tumor-related mortality
      worldwide. Despite recent advances in the management of resected lung cancers (i.e., the use
      of adjuvant therapy) and more effective treatments of metastatic tumors (i.e., molecular
      targeted agents), the cure rate of patients with lung cancer remains low (. Histological
      classification of lung tumors distinguishes small (SCLC) and non-small cell lung cancers
      (NSCLC). Most NSCLC display three histological subtypes: adenocarcinoma, squamous cell
      carcinoma and large cell carcinoma. The prognosis of these three NSCLC subtypes is quite
      similar. In this regard, development and validation of new prognostic/predictive biomarkers
      from tumor tissues and biological fluids is one of the more promising domain in translational
      cancer research. However, the clinical impact of new biomarkers has to be carefully
      validated, including for NSCLC. While pTNM staging is currently the only validated prognostic
      factor used in NSCLC patients follow up and treatment, 25% to 50% of patients with
      early-stage I NSCLC show tumor recurrence following extensive tumor resection, indicating the
      urgent need of more sensitive prognostic markers. Furthermore, it has been reported that the
      presence of occult metastatic disease correlates with disease recurrence in stage I NSCLC
      patients. There is now a sizable body of evidence that metastases could develop from
      circulating tumor cells (CTC) spread in blood before or during surgery . Thus, sensitive and
      specific detection of CTC in blood is considered as a potentially relevant predictive
      biomarker for patients with NSCLC. Indeed, the main goal for preoperative detection of CTC is
      to identify patients with high risk of recurrence after surgery, in order to perform more
      adapted therapeutic strategy. Despite several studies reported about CTC detection,
      methodological aspects concerning sensitivity, specificity and reproducibility have prevented
      a clear appraisal of their clinical impact. While RT-PCR and immune-mediated methods can be
      very sensitive, specificity remains a critical issue for these approaches as no transcript or
      antigen is known at present specifically recognizing tumor cells from solid tumors . In this
      setting, cytopathological analysis of circulating non hematological cells (CNHC), of
      epithelial (CEC) and endothelial (CEN-C) origin, isolated according to their size (ISET,
      Isolation by Size of Epithelial Tumor cells) is considered a promising approach, as CNHC
      enrichment is very sensitive and cell morphology is not damaged allowing to apply classical
      cytopathological criteria to identify tumor cells. In this regard, ISET technology has been
      previously reported to allow identification of CTC in patients with liver and breast tumors.
      However, ISET method has never been used to detect CTC in patients with NSCLC. The aim of
      this study is to determine the diagnostic potential of ISET method for preoperative detection
      of CTC in NSCLC patients. For this purpose cytomorphological criteria have been established
      by a group of 10 cytologists to classify CNHC in 3 groups : i) CNHC with malignant features
      (CNHC-MF) , ii) CNHC with uncertain features (CNHC-UMF), and, iii) CNHC with benign features
      (CNHC-BF). The presence and number of these circulating cells are then correlated with pTNM,
      histological subtype, and percentage of tumor cells into the primary tumors.
    
  