
    
      Phase 1: Stakeholder Group. The investigators will engage 20 dyads of children and
      adolescents with spina bifida aged 8-17 years old, who experienced any urinary and fecal
      incontinence in the past 4 weeks, and their caregivers in the exploration phase. These
      children and adolescents will be identified from among spina bifida patients receiving care
      from pediatric urology providers at Riley Hospital for Children, Indiana University Health.
      As part of the exploration process, it is important to include patients that reflect the
      varied life experiences of those impacted by spina bifida. Therefore, the investigators will
      aim to include children and adolescents with a range of physical and cognitive developmental
      delays. Groups will be separated by gender to facilitate discussion and elicit any
      gender-specific urinary incontinence goals. The patient engagement core will create a
      smartphone-based "Day in the Life" diary toolkit that will be provided to the stakeholder
      group. The stakeholders will be asked to self-report their experiences and perspectives as
      they relate to being a child or adolescent with spina bifida and urinary and fecal
      incontinence, or taking care of someone with spina bifida with urinary incontinence.
      Stakeholders will be asked to respond using video to various prompts such as documenting a
      typical day in their life, sharing their experiences. After completing the requested tasks,
      stakeholders will return the toolkit to the patient engagement. These self-reporting tools
      will be designed to be as usable as possible by as many participants as possible, taking into
      account common barriers caused by this condition, and relying on caregivers, as needed, to
      administer the tools. Investigators anticipate that the kit will take approximately 3 hours
      to complete. Through analysis and translation of the diaries and video, the patient
      engagement core will identify insights into patient-centered UI goals and areas of
      opportunity for design solutions. These identified opportunity spaces will inform the work
      for Phase Two, the creation phase.

      Phase 2: In order to achieve a holistic and sustainable intervention, it is crucial that the
      investigators work with an interdisciplinary team that include designers, researchers,
      patients, family members, other caregivers, and health care providers in the process of
      creating the intervention. Therefore, the investigators will invite 8-10 of the dyads from
      Phase One to participate as members of the Co-Design Panel which will be brought together to
      participate in a 2-4 hour co-design session. During this session, designers will share the
      insights gained from Phase One work. Panel participants will be asked to help refine these
      insights to define domains of patient-centered urinary incontinence goals. From there, the
      Co-Design Panel will work to generate solutions for a tool to facilitate goal-setting and
      follow-up related to these domains (i.e., MyGoal tool). This will be done through a series of
      generative, prototyping exercises with participants. For example, the group could work in
      small teams to generate ideas for their ideal goal-setting tool and then use sketches,
      storyboards, building materials like foam core, or verbal story-telling to prototype these
      ideas. The options for prototyping will be diverse to accommodate a spectrum of physical and
      cognitive abilities. These prototypes can then be used to generate discussion among the
      Co-Design Panel, which will further refine the ideal aspects of the MyGoal tool from the
      perspective of children and adolescents with SB and their caregivers.

      The Physician Panel will then be invited to respond to a prototype of the MyGoal tool and
      give their input on how it can be improved to best fit into clinic workflow, address
      physician preferences, and work for a variety of patient-physician scenarios. These responses
      will be gathered through structured in-person interviews.

      Phase 3: The investigators will ask patient/caregiver dyads with spina bifida (N=8), who were
      not part of the Co-Design Panel in Phase Two, to utilize the tool in conjunction with their
      pediatric urologist during a pediatric urology clinic visit at Riley Hospital. The
      investigators will comply with all IRB requirements at the study institution for the
      inclusion of patients in research, including obtaining the necessary consents/assents.

      Testing Process. Following the clinic visit, the patient/caregiver will participate in
      Cognitive Interviews. They will be asked to describe their impressions of the prototype
      MyGoal tool through the use of scripted verbal probes ("What do you think is being
      represented here?" "Describe what you would do next.") and spontaneous probes ("What about
      this picture/sentence/etc., makes you feel that way?"), the investigators will determine if
      the prototype MyGoal tool is functioning as expected, or any key elements were missed. The
      investigators will also ask for feedback from the urologists on how well the tool functioned
      within the clinic setting to help in this iterative validation process. This will be
      accomplished by conducting interviews with approximately 6 physicians.

      Phase 4: The investigators will recruit children and adolescents with SB (8-17 years old) who
      are followed at Riley Hospital Pediatric Urology Outpatient Clinic and their primary
      caregiver. The primary caregiver must be the patient's legal guardian. Well over 200 children
      and adolescents with SB are seen at this facility annually. Each week, a research assistant
      (RA) will be given a list of SB patients within the desired age range who have an upcoming
      appointment in two settings: the Pediatric Urology Clinic or the multidisciplinary Spina
      Bifida clinic. The RA will approach the patient and their primary caregiver upon arrival at
      the clinic appointment to gauge their interest in study participation. If the dyad indicates
      potential interest, the RA will take them to a private area to further discuss the details of
      the study, determine eligibility, and then obtain consent from the legal caregiver and assent
      from the patient wishing to enroll in the study. Over a 12-month period, the investigators
      will enroll 78 children and adolescents with SB and their primary caregivers. After
      enrollment in the study, the RA will administer the MyGoal tool, and collect baseline data
      regarding self-reported urinary and fecal incontinence and HRQOL. The patient and their
      caregiver will then meet with their urologist for the scheduled clinic appointment. The
      urologist will be provided with the completed MyGoal tool and will utilize this tool to
      verify/discuss the goal selected, and then discuss plans for treatment in order to achieve
      this goal. Goal attainment, UI, and HRQOL will be assessed at 6 and 12 months after
      enrollment. Children with SB are typically seen in the outpatient clinic every 6-12 months.
      Therefore, these follow-up assessments will occur in-person at a clinic appointment, or, if
      not possible, investigators will contact the participant by telephone to notify them that an
      email link to a secure website to complete the necessary assessments will be sent. To
      minimize loss to follow-up, investigators will ask for 3 different phone numbers with at
      least one being a landline (if available). Investigators will also ask for two email
      addresses. Up to 3 attempts will be made to reach participants.
    
  