
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose of erlotinib hydrochloride and Hedgehog antagonist
      GDC-0449 with or without gemcitabine hydrochloride in patients with unresectable solid
      tumors.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the adverse events profile associated with these treatment regimens.

      II. To describe the responses in patients treated with these regimens. III. To assess the
      effect of erlotinib hydrochloride and Hedgehog antagonist GDC-0449 on selected biomarkers in
      circulating tumor cells and tumor biopsy samples from patients with metastatic pancreatic
      cancer.

      IV. To assess the effect of erlotinib hydrochloride and Hedgehog antagonist GDC-0449 on
      fludeoxyglucose F 18 positron emission tomography imaging in patients with metastatic
      pancreatic cancer.

      V. To study the association between clinical (toxicity and/or tumor response or activity) and
      biologic (pharmacodynamic) results associated with erlotinib hydrochloride and Hedgehog
      antagonist GDC-0449 in patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of erlotinib hydrochloride.

      Patients receive Hedgehog antagonist GDC-0449 orally (PO) once daily (QD) and erlotinib
      hydrochloride PO QD on days 1-28. Some patients also receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV
      over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients treated at the maximum tolerated dose undergo fludeoxyglucose F 18 positron emission
      tomography at baseline and on day 28. These patients also undergo tumor tissue and blood
      sample collection at baseline and periodically during study for correlative laboratory
      studies. Samples are analyzed for tyrosine phosphorylated or total MAP-K, EGFR, AKT, and
      other potential biomarkers of activity/response and for levels of genes transcriptionally
      activated (e.g., BCL-2, GLI, BFL-1/A1, 4-1BB, PTC1) by immunofluorescence, IHC, and
      quantitative-PCR.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed at 3 months.
    
  