
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Confirm the feasibility and efficacy of the combination of gemcitabine hydrochloride and
           bexarotene in patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma whose disease is no longer
           controlled by skin-directed therapy and who have had at least one prior systemic
           therapy.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the rate of objective disease control as defined by complete response (CR),
           clinical complete response (CCR), partial response (PR), and stable disease (SD) for 6
           months as determined by the Objective Primary Disease Response Evaluation Criteria
           (OPDREC).

        -  Evaluate the duration and durability of objective disease response (CR, CCR and PR) as
           determined by OPDREC criteria.

        -  Evaluate time to objective disease response.

        -  Determine the safety of this combination in terms of adverse events, clinical laboratory
           data, physical examinations, rate of neutropenic fever and sepsis, blood transfusions,
           and treatment compliance.

        -  Determine the time to objective disease progression.

        -  Determine the time to treatment failure.

        -  Determine change from baseline in Severity-Weighted Assessment Tool (SWAT) value,
           Erythroderma SWAT value, Pruritus Visual Analogue Scale, and ECOG performance status.

        -  Determine proportion of disease control, response, and progression as determined by
           RECIST criteria.

        -  Evaluate the proportion of patients with clearing of Sézary cells from the blood and
           bone marrow.

        -  Measure changes in patient assessed Quality of Life using Skindex 29 and EORTC QLQ-30.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV on days 1 and 8 and oral bexarotene daily on
      days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 4 courses of study therapy, patients with
      responding disease receive oral bexarotene alone daily until disease progression or treatment
      no longer tolerated.

      Patients complete a quality of life questionnaire at baseline, during study therapy, and
      after completion of study treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 2 months for up to 5 years.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK
    
  