
    
      The Unruptured Intracranial Aneurysm Aspirin Trial (UIAAT) is a single centre, randomised,
      single blind, open label trial of 300mg aspirin daily versus no treatment for 3 months. 58
      patients with an intracranial aneurysm diagnosed on imaging will be recruited - potential
      participants will be approached by their consultant neurosurgeon or a member of their direct
      clinical care team.

      Patient interviews will take place at Wessex Neurological Centre to coincide wherever
      possible with standard appointments. Participants will be screened for eligibility and
      consented during this interview. Following consent, baseline data will be taken to include
      participants' baseline characteristics, other medications, and comorbidities.

      The patients will then undergo a baseline MRI including VWI imaging, and then be randomised
      to either the 'aspirin 300mg daily' or 'no treatment' arms.

      All participants will then be called by a member of the trial team between days 7 and 21
      after being commenced in either arm of the trial, to review any issues with taking the
      medication if they are on that arm, whether they are using their drug diary, and to check for
      any adverse reactions or events.

      Following three months of their allocated treatment, patients will undergo a second,
      identical MRI scan, to assess whether there is any reduction in the inflammation in the
      vessel walls of the aneurysms. Patients will be reviewed at this time with their drug dairy,
      for drug reconciliation and recording of any adverse events. This will be the end of their
      participation in the trial.

      The study topic and design was discussed at a meeting to set research priorities advertised
      via the Wessex Subarachnoid Haemorrhage group that was convened by a consultant neurosurgeon
      and a subarachnoid haemorrhage specialist nurse with patients with unruptured and ruptured
      aneurysms and their carers. At this meeting the investigators clearly identified that it
      would be beneficial for more research into medical treatments for unruptured aneurysms and
      felt that with the evidence that the group would be happy to undergo the main two items
      required for participation in the study - treatment with aspirin and increased scanning
      frequency and were very supportive of the study design. Indeed the group saw the additional
      scanning as a strong attraction to participating in the study.
    
  