
    
      Hypertriglyceridemia is common among HIV-infected patients receiving Highly Active
      Antiretroviral Therapy (HAART). Although fibrates, statins, and niacin have all been used in
      the management of hypertriglyceridemia in HIV-infected patients, optimal control is difficult
      to achieve and other agents are needed. Omega-3 fatty acids are effective for lowering
      triglycerides in patients without HIV infection, but experience in HIV-infected patients is
      limited. In addition, omega-3 fatty acids may also have secondary benefits in decreasing bone
      resorption and decreasing markers of systemic inflammation. The purpose of this study is to
      evaluate the efficacy and safety of omega-3-fatty acids in HIV-infected patients with
      hypertriglyceridemia. In addition, we will evaluate the effect of omega-3 fatty acid
      administration of markers of bone turnover and inflammation. It is 8- week randomized,
      double-blind trial of omega-3 fatty acids (LOVAZA, GSK, Inc) compared to placebo in 48
      HAART-treated HIV-infected patients with triglycerides between 250 and 1000 mg/dl receiving
      dietary counseling. Subjects will be recruited from three centers (Johns Hopkins, Georgetown,
      and Los Angeles VAMC). The primary endpoint will be the change in triglyceride concentrations
      from baseline in the LOVAZA group compared to the placebo group. Secondary endpoints include
      the effect of LOVAZA on other lipid targets (total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol,
      HDL-cholesterol), markers of systemic inflammation, markers of bone turnover, markers of
      insulin resistance, HIV-disease control (CD4+ counts, HIV viral loads), measures of
      hepatotoxicity (ALT), platelet function, and patient reports of adverse events. Omega-3 fatty
      acids may be a useful adjunct in the treatment of hypertriglyceridemia in HIV-infected
      patients, but additional controlled studies are needed to assess its safety and efficacy
      using a purified, standardized preparation.
    
  