
    
      There are approximately 40,000 new cases of head and neck cancer each year in the United
      States. Approximately two thirds of these patients present with locally advanced disease with
      either large disease at the primary site and/or spread to regional lymph node levels.
      Treatment options include surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy, usually applied in
      combination for advanced disease. Despite aggressive treatment, the 5-year survival for
      locally advanced disease remains poor (overall, approximately 50%). To increase the efficacy
      of locoregional therapy, different treatment maneuvers are used including increased radiation
      dose, concurrent use of chemotherapy and radiation therapy and high dose intra-arterial
      chemotherapy. Unfortunately, the increased intensity of combined treatment also leads to
      greater treatment related morbidity and mortality. It is currently difficult to predict who
      will benefit from intensive chemoradiotherapy and who would be most effectively treated with
      other combinations such as surgery and postoperative radiotherapy.

      It is predictable that the most immediate signal of a successful antitumor therapeutic regime
      will be a decrease in cellular proliferation in the tumor. Therefore, a tracer, which is
      taken up into and retained in cells as a function of their proliferative activity, should
      provide rapid information as to the effectiveness of the treatment. FLT is an ideal tracer in
      this setting as its uptake is a function of thymidine kinase activity. Thymidine kinase
      activity is an established marker of cellular proliferation. FLT can be imaged with a PET
      scanner and the FLT uptake in the tumor can be reliably quantified. Preliminary studies
      including at our institution also confirm accumulation of FLT in untreated head and neck
      cancers. The objective of our study is to evaluate the utility of FLT PET imaging in
      predicting the outcome of treatment in terms of locoregional control and disease-free
      survival in patients (i.e., progression free survival) with head and neck cancer as well as
      overall survival.
    
  