
    
      Stroke is a major cause of long-term disability in many countries. More than 50% of stroke
      survivors experience resultant upper extremity (UE) movement impairments that lead to
      activity limitations and restriction of participation. Various contemporary rehabilitation
      strategies which aim to improve UE motor deficits after stroke have been proposed.
      Constraint-induced therapy (CIT) is one of the current promising approaches, and numerous CIT
      and distributed CIT studies have shown substantial evidence of positive treatment effects.

      Although studies have shown a form of distributed CIT can enhance motor function of the
      affected UE, functional performance, and some aspects of HRQOL post stroke, determinants
      related to distributed CIT outcomes remain unclear. In addition, mismatch between the
      statistically significant and clinically important differences (CID) for change scores has
      been identified as a limitation of CIT studies. Investigation of CID is critical for
      understanding the clinically relevant meanings of change scores after intervention.
      Therefore, the purposes of this project are to (1) identify determinants of changes in motor
      ability, functional performance, and HRQOL after distributed CIT for patients with stroke
      using the Chi-squared Automatic Interaction Detector analysis; (2) examine whether the change
      scores on outcome measures after distributed CIT reach CID.

      Within the one year, we plan to complete cumulated data of distributed CIT trials for 70
      subjects. The distributed CIT intervention will be provided by two certified occupational
      therapists. The Fugl-Meyer Assessment (FMA), Wolf Motor Function Test (WMFT), Functional
      Independence Measure (FIM), and Stroke Impact Scale (SIS) will be used as outcome measures in
      this project. Six potential predictors will be selected for the FMA, WMFT and FIM, and seven
      potential predictors will be selected for the SIS based on previous empirical findings and
      theoretical basis. CHAID analysis will be used to identify the specific determinants and the
      best split points of the determinants. In addition, based on Cohen's effect size benchmark,
      if the change scores on the FMA, WMFT, FIM and SIS exceeded 0.2SD will be considered as CID.

      After the one-year project, we will identify the determinants of motor ability, functional
      performance, and HRQOL after distributed CIT and thus can help understand the factors that
      may affect treatment outcomes and target patients who benefit most from this intervention.
      Additionally, we will provide the results of CID for better evaluation and interpretation of
      the change scores after distributed CIT.
    
  