
    
      The outbreak of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), the Severe Acute Respiratory
      Syndrome caused by SARS-CoV-2, that first appeared in December 2019 in Wuhan, Huanan, Hubei
      Province of China, has resulted in millions of cases worldwide within a few short months, and
      rapidly evolving into a real pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic represents an enormous challenge
      to the world's healthcare systems. Among the European countries, Italy was the first to
      experience the epidemic wave of SARS-CoV-2 infection, accompanied by a severe clinical
      picture and a mortality rate reaching 14%.

      The disease is characterized by a highly heterogeneous phenotypic response to SARS-CoV-2
      infection, with the large majority of infected individuals having only mild or even no
      symptoms. However, the severe cases can rapidly evolve towards a critical respiratory
      distress syndrome and multiple organ failure. The symptoms of COVID-19 range from fever,
      cough, sore throat, congestion, and fatigue to shortness of breath, hemoptysis, pneumonia
      followed by respiratory disorders and septic shocks.

      The GEN-COVID is a multicentre academic observational study designed to collect and
      systematize biological samples and clinical data across multiple hospitals and healthcare
      facilities in Italy with the purpose of deriving patient-level phenotypic and genotypic data.
      The project aims to identify the genetic determinants of COVID-19 clinical variability
      studying host genetics. Genetic analyses will include Genome Wide Association Studies,
      performed by the Institute of Molecular Medicine in Finland (FIMM), and Whole Exome
      Sequencing (WES) performed by the University of Siena. SARS-CoV-2 infected individuals (swab
      virus PCR-positive) showing clinical different severity will be collected. In particular
      enrolled subjects will include only adults (subjects with age higher or equal to 18 years)
      with the following clinical status types: asymptomatic individuals, home care patients with
      mild symptoms and hospitalized patients (i-those requiring invasive ventilation; ii-those
      requiring non-invasive ventilation i.e. CPAP and BiPAP, and high-flows oxygen therapy; iii-
      those requiring conventional oxygen therapy, and iv-those not requiring oxygen therapy).

      Funding. MIUR project "Dipartimenti di Eccellenza 2018-2020" to Department of Medical
      Biotechnologies University of Siena, Italy; Private donors for COVID research (Italian D.L.
      n.18 March 17, 2020).
    
  