
    
      Trauma is the most common cause of mortality among people between the ages of 1 and 45 years,
      costing Canadians 19.8 billion dollars a year (2004 data), yet half of all patients with
      major traumatic injuries do not receive evidence-based care, and significant regional
      variation in the quality of care across Canada exists. Accordingly, the goal of this study is
      to lead a research project in which stakeholders themselves will adapt evidence-based trauma
      care knowledge tools to the varied institutional contexts and cultures. This will be done by
      developing and assessing the combined impact of WikiTrauma, a free collaborative database of
      clinical decision support tools, and Wiki101, a training course teaching participants how to
      use WikiTrauma. WikiTrauma has the potential to ensure that all stakeholders (eg, patients,
      clinicians, and decision makers) can all contribute to, and benefit from, evidence-based
      clinical knowledge about trauma care that is tailored to the needs and clinical setting.

      The main goal will be to study the combined effect of WikiTrauma and Wiki101 on the quality
      of care in four trauma centers in Quebec.

      First, the wiki will be pilot-tested with potential users to create a version ready to test
      in practice. A rapid, iterative prototyping process with 15 health professionals from
      nonparticipating centers will allow to identify and resolve usability issues prior to
      finalizing the definitive version for the interrupted time series. Second, an interrupted
      time series will be performed to measure the impact of the combined intervention on the
      quality of care in four trauma centers that will be selected;one level I, one level II, and
      two level III centers. Participants will be health care professionals working in the selected
      trauma centers. Also, five patient representatives will be recruited to participate in the
      creation of knowledge tools destined for the use (eg, handouts). All participants will be
      invited to complete the Wiki101 training and then use, and contribute to, WikiTrauma for 12
      months. The primary outcome will be the change over time of a validated, composite,
      performance indicator score based on 15 process performance indicators found in the Quebec
      Trauma Registry.

      The project was funded in November 2014 by the Canadian Medical Protective Association. The
      trial will start in early 2015 and preliminary results should be available in June 2016. Two
      trauma centers have already agreed to participate and two more will be recruited in the next
      months.

      This study is expected to add important and unique evidence about the effectiveness, safety,
      and cost savings of using collaborative platforms to adapt knowledge implementation tools
      across jurisdictions.
    
  