
    
      >100,000 patients suffering STEMI present in the UK each year. P-PCI in the UK is increasing
      exponentially. In 2004 there were <1500 P-PCI and in 2007 and 2008 these figures had
      increased to 5902 and 9224 respectively (BCIS database).

      Although P-PCI delivered quickly is more effective than thrombolysis, the efficacy of this,
      essentially mechanical, technique is limited by the unpredictable phenomenon of no-reflow and
      the under-stated lesser degrees of MVO. As more UK centres adopt P-PCI the dilemma of how to
      attenuate MVO will remain. Currently there is no consensus on the optimal management to
      prevent or attenuate MVO particularly when thrombus laden lesions are treated with P-PCI.

      There is divergent clinical practice, even within institutions, in the UK and worldwide. This
      is because there is no solid evidence base to inform clinicians. The current options for
      interventional cardiologists are:

        1. Routinely aspirate thrombus and give IC vasodilator during the intervention but only in
           high burden thrombus formation lesions.

        2. Perform a standard P-PCI only and then give IV vasodilator if angiographic no-reflow
           develops.

        3. Routinely consider that angiographically silent MVO (i.e a grade below true "no-reflow")
           may have important impact on infarct size and clinical outcome and treat
           prophylactically.

      Few if any clinicians follow this thinking. Indeed, it appears impossible to predict the
      incidence of (no-reflow/MVO) from the presenting angiogram (pre- or post- wire or balloon)
      and it can be argued that irrespective of thrombus burden it would be better to undertake
      prophylactic treatment in all patients, following the use of aspiration catheter, with
      delivery of agents able, in theory at least, to reduce (angiographically undetectable) MVO.
      Several studies of IC adenosine or SNP have shown favourable effects in attenuating MVO.
      However, the size of effect with either drug and whether indeed there is a difference between
      them in reducing MVO and infarct size is undetermined.

      The objectives of our proposed study are to determine:

        1. Whether adjunctive pharmaco-therapy at time of P-PCI and following thrombus aspiration,
           reduces CMR-determined MVO and infarct size.

        2. Whether there is a difference between adenosine and SNP in reducing CMR-detected MVO and
           infarct size, both given selectively and distally via a thrombus aspiration catheter or
           a coronary microcatheter.

        3. The correlation of angiographic, including the recently designed computer-assisted
           myocardial blush quantification 'Quantitative Blush Evaluator'(QuBE), and other
           myocardial perfusion markers, with CMR detected MVO and infarct size, as well as with
           clinical outcome (MACE) at 30 days.
    
  