
    
      Rural women living with AIDS (WLA) in India continue to face profound challenges in accessing
      and following treatment regimens, caring for family members, and maintaining positive mental
      health. Furthermore, they are generally underweight and malnourished, with adherence to
      antiretroviral therapy (ART) at levels lower than 50%. While the Indian Government's National
      Rural Health Mission utilizes a successful model to address the health needs of the rural
      population by training village women as Ashas (Accredited Social Work Activists) to enhance
      health of pregnant women and their infants, the focus on rural WLA needs to be significantly
      strengthened. U.S. and Indian collaborators recently completed an R34 pilot study which has
      demonstrated successful improvement in ART adherence, CD4 levels, and physical and mental
      health among rural Indian WLA. In total, 34 rural intervention WLA were supported by
      grant-trained, HIV-focused Ashas who provided assistance to WLA in decreasing barriers to ART
      adherence and provided protein supplementation compared to equal numbers of usual care WLA
      who received minimal protein supplementation. While very successful, our Asha pilot study
      monitored only WLA, despite the fact that many rural children are also at risk for delayed
      physical growth and psychomotor development. More importantly, we were not able to separate
      the nutritional component from the care and support component of the Asha, did not
      incorporate nutritional biomarkers, and were limited by only a six-month follow-up. In light
      of the mandate to advance both the science of nutrition and sustainability in real settings,
      our experienced team proposes to build on and extend our successful pilot work to meet this
      need, by assessing the incremental advantages of nutritional support to Asha care and support
      alone, and the impact of these programs on an index child (oldest between 3-8 years). In
      addition, we will take advantage of rural India's excellent mobile phone coverage and
      computer technology for both wireless data collection and data transfer. The proposed
      longitudinal study will use a 2x2 factorial design, specifically, 1) Asha support alone for
      WLA , vs. 2) Asha support for WLA + nutrition (food-based) training, vs. 3) Asha support for
      WLA + food supplementation, vs. 4) Asha support for WLA + nutrition training + food
      supplementation, to test the effects of nutrition training and/or food supplementation on
      primary outcomes of anthropometric parameters and immune status (CD4 levels) of the WLA at
      6-, 12- and 18-month follow-up; and secondarily on ART adherence, psychological health,
      nutritional adequacy and lipid status of the WLA over time. Based upon reviewers' comments,
      among index children, we streamlined our assessments to include anthropometric parameters and
      psychomotor development; and among those HIV positive, immune status.
    
  