
    
      The primary objective of this initiative is to implement a prospective study that will allow
      the investigators to identify and validate biosignatures of resilience. Specifically, the
      research will identify protective factors (socio-demographic, lifestyle, clinical and
      behavioral assessments, fluid-based biomarkers, genomics, neuroimaging, EEG and cell-based
      assays) that reduce risk of developing mood and anxiety disorders in adolescents and young
      adults at risk for these illnesses.

      Presence and severity of symptoms will be assessed over 10 years using questionnaires for
      symptom changes, social factors, and overall quality of life. Other outcomes generated from
      this study will include rate of change in quantitative measures of brain function, of
      depression relevant brain regions correlated with systems-levels behavior and other
      functional neuro-circuitry MRI measures. Rate of change of specified biochemical biomarkers
      will also be assessed.

      Integration of these measures will provide an unmatched understanding into the mechanisms of
      resilience and protection against depression and anxiety disorders, and holds tremendous
      promise for identifying targets for prevention strategies.

      Specific Aims:

      Aim 1 Examine baseline biosignatures and independent factors (demographic, social,
      environmental, genetic, EEG, and fMRI) associated with resilience in at-risk adolescents and
      young adults.

      Aim 2 Examine changes in the biomarker factors annually for 10 years to determine for
      plasticity of these biomarkers.

      Aim 3 Examine the interaction between psychiatric symptoms and changes in the biopsychosocial
      signature.

      The following variables will be evaluated:

      Based on this, the investigators determined that the most promising variables to evaluate
      are:

        1. Comprehensive clinical phenotype;

        2. Magnetic resonance imaging using MRI measures of cortical structure;

        3. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) to assess cortical white matter tract integrity;

        4. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) using multiple tasks to assess brain
           activation patterns to both emotional conflict and reward-dependent learning tasks;

        5. Quantitative electroencephalography (EEG) to assess cortical and subcortical brain
           activation patterns, using advanced EEG processing techniques;

        6. Cortical evoked EEG potentials;

        7. Behavioral neuropsychological tasks to include reaction time, and motor processing
           speed;

        8. DNA, mRNA, and plasma, urine and saliva protein and metabolomics samples, collected at
           baseline and throughout the study

        9. Socio-economic, demographic and life habits parameters.

      Planned analyses include: Assessment of individual moderators/mediators: The first set of
      analyses will test an a priori list of individual variables for status as moderators and
      mediators. Depression symptom change from baseline will be measured using the Inventory of
      Depressive Symptomatology-Clinician (IDS-C). Tolerability will be measured using the
      Frequency, Intensity, and Burden of Side Effects Rating (FIBSER) and the Treatment Emergent
      Symptom Scale (TESS). Other measures (i.e., treatment response, remission) may also be used
      and correlated variables collected in the study.
    
  