
    
      The investigators will conduct a 2-arm Randomized Controlled Trial comparing an
      Interdisciplinary Team-Based Care Approach to usual care.

      The primary research question will be: Does adding the Interdisciplinary Team-Based Care
      Approach (ITCA-ThyCa) to usual care (EG) increase levels of overall QoL among newly diagnosed
      thyroid cancer patients, compared with those receiving usual care (UC), at 9 months
      post-randomization (i.e., after all of the dedicated-nurse meetings are administered) as
      judged by scores on the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-General (FACT-G)?
      Primary hypothesis: The EG will report higher scores of overall QoL on the FACT-G than the UC
      at 9 months post-randomization.

      Secondary research questions: The investigators plan to evaluate ITCA-ThyCa effects on
      secondary outcomes such as level of: physical health (SF-36 Physical Health subscale), mental
      health (SF-36 Mental Health subscale), fatigue (Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness
      Therapy-Fatigue; FACIT-F), anxiety and depression (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale;
      HADS), and negative illness perception (Illness Perception Questionnaire - Revised (IPQ-R).
      The investigators also plan to explore ITCA-ThyCa effects on satisfaction with care (16
      questions of the NRC Picker satisfaction survey measuring patient satisfaction with care) and
      healthcare service use (types of professionals consulted, frequency of visits, and time
      elapsed between referral and first consultation). Hypotheses: The EG will report a higher
      level of physical and mental health on the SF-Physical and Mental Health subscales,
      respectively; and a lower level of fatigue on the FACIT-F, anxiety and depression on the
      HADS, and negative illness perception on the IPQ-R; compared with the UC at 9 months
      post-randomization.

      All of the abovementioned changes will be present throughout the treatment, namely at 7-10
      days and 5 months post-randomization (i.e., immediately after each of the meetings planned
      with the dedicated nurse).

      All of the abovementioned changes will persist at 12 months post-randomization (i.e.,
      corresponding to 6 months after all anti-cancer treatments are completed and 3 months after
      all dedicated-nurse meetings have been administered).

      Feasibility and acceptability (9 first months of the trial):

      The investigators plan on testing the feasibility and acceptability of the 2-arm RCT of
      ITCA-ThyCa during the first 9 months of the trial (once the investigators start recruiting,
      after the first 3-6 months dedicated to hiring our personnel and developing the manual of our
      approach). During this phase, the investigators will aim to address the following research
      questions:

        1. Can the investigators recruit a sufficient number of patients (i.e., a minimum of 60
           patients over 6 months or 10/month) and retain a sufficient proportion of thyroid cancer
           patients (i.e., at least 80% at 7-10 days, 5 months or 9 months post-randomization) in
           both trial arms?

        2. Is ITCA-ThyCa acceptable to at least 80% of EG thyroid cancer patients? Secondary pilot
           study questions

        3. Which evaluation time should be primary post-randomization, based on an acceptable
           retention rate of 80%?

        4. What variance estimates can be used to inform calculation of sample size for the full
           study?

      If the design remains the same following this pilot, the investigators aim to roll in the
      pilot data in the full trial.
    
  