
    
      Scorpion stings are common emergency events in many parts of the world. It is common in
      tropical and subtropical regions. In our locality, Upper Egypt, scorpions still represent and
      a life hazard, especially to children .The clinical manifestations of scorpionism are due to
      complex interactions between sympathetic and parasympathetic stimulation.This leads to
      increased release of neurotransmitters and mediators, resulting in a cascade of pathological
      events, involving the nervous system, the cardiovascular and the respiratory system,
      eventually leading to death.Scorpionism results in hormonal and biochemical changes with
      significant release of catecholamines, increased angiotensin II and inhibition of insulin
      secretion .The symptoms and signs of envenomation are usually more severe in children,
      especially younger ones. Local pain represent 66 to 90 percent of stings which is practically
      immediate, of varying intensity ranging from mild to very intense. It is characterized by
      tingling, burning, or stinging. Regardless of the severity of envenoming, pain and
      paresthesia may persist at the site or at the affected limb for several days .Systemic
      effects become apparent in 10 to 33 percent of patients.After envenomation, symptoms may
      begin immediately and typically progress to maximum severity within 5 hours. The clinical
      effects of stings are characterized, cardiovascular, neurological and gastrointestinal
      effects .Cardiovascular effects are atrial tachycardia, ventricular extrasystoles, T-wave
      inversion, ST-T wave changes, bundle-branch block. Catecholamine-induced myocarditis and
      myocardial ischemia results in pulmonary edema and cardiogenic shock.Cardiovascular effects
      are atrial tachycardia, ventricular extrasystoles, T-wave inversion, ST-T wave changes,
      bundle-branch block. Catecholamine-induced myocarditis and myocardial ischemia results in
      pulmonary edema and cardiogenic shock..Gastrointestinal effects: are vomiting, abdominal pain
      and diarrhea. Also acute pancreatitis has been reported.Cardiovascular toxic effects and
      acute pulmonary edema are the most important complications of scorpion stings and the most
      frequent cause of death in the first 24 hours after the sting .Gastrointestinal effects: are
      vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. Also acute pancreatitis has been
      reported.Cardiovascular toxic effects and acute pulmonary edema are the most important
      complications of scorpion stings and the most frequent cause of death in the first 24 hours
      after the sting .
    
  