
    
      Pre- procedure all parturients will be asked to be fasting for 8 hours for solid and 2 hours
      for clear liquids. Before ECV (as routinely done in ECV procedure), a cardiotocogram (CTG)
      and obstetric ultrasound will be done to confirm the fetal wellbeing and fetal position prior
      to procedure. The mother and fetus were monitored for at least 30 min before attempting ECV.
      The procedure will be performed by one of two experienced obstetricians. Fetal heart rate
      will be recorded throughout the procedure.

      In the operating room, standard monitoring will be placed, as well as intravenous line will
      be established on an upper limb. Baseline measures of BP, HR, O2 Saturation will be taken
      before proceeding to inhalation sedation, including 3 baseline blood pressure readings to
      determine baseline values. A circle system, including antibacterial filter and scavenging
      system is connected to the anesthesia machine (Datex-Ohmeda).

      If the parturient is assigned to the control (nonintervention) group, the participants will
      not receive any medications neither tocolytics nor analgesics as we do routinely in our
      hospital. However, these participants will be monitored throughout the procedure for vital
      signs and for pains scores as in the intervention group (see below).

      In the intervention group, each participant started by preoxygenation of 100% oxygen for
      3minutes. Then, parturients breath 1% of sevoflurane in mixture of oxygen and air (FIO2 0.5)
      by tight face mask with a gas flow of 6 L/min. Values of inspired (FI) and end-tidal (FET)
      concentrations of sevoflurane, oxygen and respiratory rate (RR) measured by end-tidal carbon
      dioxide (EtC02) were monitored continuously and recorded at 30 seconds intervals by a gas
      analyzer.

      Thirty seconds after stating inhalation sedation, the obstetrician will be asked to start the
      procedure. HR, FI and FET concentration of sevoflurane, Sp02 and EtC02 will be recorded at 30
      seconds intervals during ECV. Non-invasive BP will be recorded every one minute. The duration
      of ECV in addition to the level of difficulty estimated by obstetrician will be recorded. In
      noninterventional (control) group, the patients will not receive any medication or anesthetic
      intervention however their vital signs including Sp02, BP and HR will be monitored throughout
      the procedure at the same interval used for the intervention group, their pain score will be
      measured as in the intervention group (see below).

      A hypotensive episode will be defined as 2 consecutive systolic BP (SBP) measurements less
      than 20% below the baseline value. The treatment of hypotension consists of Phenylephrine 1
      mcg/kg IV bolus will be administered if HR > 60 bpm or Ephedrine 5 mg IV bolus if HR is < 60
      bpm. If only the HR is < 55 bpm, but SBP is normal, Glycopyrrolate 0.2 mg IV bolus will be
      administered.

      ECV considered successful when a cephalic presentation, confirmed by ultrasound scan,
      achieved. Pain intensity measured by VAS will be recorded at the end of procedure and 10
      minutes after. In addition, the women's level of satisfaction with the procedure will be
      assessed using another numerical rating scale (0 = completely dissatisfied, 10 = completely
      satisfied) 10 min after the end of attempted ECV.

      The intervention will be stopped if the woman reported severe pain, if the version could not
      be achieved readily, or if prolonged fetal bradycardia, uterine bleeding or placental
      abruption occurred.

      Parturient will be kept in the Post Anesthesia Care Unit (PACU) for 45minutes. CTG will be
      monitored during PACU stay. Maternal oxygen saturation will be measured continuously using
      pulse oximetry, episodes of hypoxia (Sp02 ≤95%) and need for oxygen therapy will be recorded.
      Blood pressure will be measured every 5 min; hypotension was defined as a fall in blood
      pressure of >20% from baseline and will be treated as perioperative period (see above).
      Isolated bradycardia with HR < 50 bpm will be treated by glycopyrrolate 0.2mg IV bolus.
      Nausea and vomiting will be documented as adverse effects, regardless of when they occurred,
      and were treated with intravenous ondansetron 4 mg. Other maternal side effects including
      drowsiness and dizziness were also documented.

      Data Collection Pre-procedure and intra-procedure and post-procedure data will be collected
      by an anesthesia resident, or an anesthesiologist Not involved in the procedure.

        -  Pre-procedure data:

             -  Age, weight, height, gestation, gravida, parity

             -  Estimated fetal weight

             -  Number of prior cesarean deliveries

             -  Reason for the ECV

        -  Intra-procedure data:

             -  HR, Sp02, EtC02 for RR, FI and FET concentration of sevoflurane will be recorder
                every 30 seconds

             -  BP every one minute

             -  Episode of tachycardia

             -  Episode of hypotension

             -  Episode of desaturation (Sp02 ≤95%)

             -  Nausea or vomiting

             -  Use of ondansetron

             -  Pain intensity measured by VAS

             -  Transient fetal bradycardia

             -  Emergency Cesarean delivery

        -  Post-procedure data:

             -  HR, RR, Sp02, BP will be recorded every 5 minutes

             -  Pain score measured by VAS 10 minutes after ECV

             -  Episodes of desaturation

             -  Episodes of hypotension

             -  Nausea or vomiting

             -  Drowsiness

             -  Dizziness

             -  Fetal bradycardia

             -  Maternal satisfaction by using numerical rating scale 0-10 (see above) 10 min after
                the end of attempted ECV

             -  Mode of delivery after successful and failed ECV will be recorded by reviewing the
                electronic medical records

      Randomization:

      - Randomization will be achieved by a statistician using an online random number generator

      Sample Size Estimation A sample size of 40 parturients (20 per group) would give 80% power to
      detect a difference of 0.2 in the change in successful ECV rate.

      Assuming the use of sevoflurane will have 65% success rate and confidence interval 95% with
      5% margin of error and total number of cases per year in our center is 45 patients. The
      average success rate of ECV in patients who either did not receive any intervention or just
      receive intravenous analgesia is 43.1% (10). So, we are aiming to increase the success rate
      of ECV by using Sevoflurane to be more than or equal to 65%.

      The sample size calculation will be 40 cases. The sample size was calculated by the help of
      this website (http://www.raosoft.com/samplesize.html).

      Statistical Analysis

      This prospective randomized controlled study will compare the difference in success rate of
      ECV when a subject receives a sevoflurane or not. Other covariable like pain scores and
      adverse effects will also be recorded. Data will be stored in an excel database and analyzed
      with SPSS statistical software.

      Demographic data and intraoperative and PACU continuous and categorical data will be analyzed
      by Student t-test, ANOVA for repeated measures, or Chi-Squared test, accordingly.

      A P-value < 0.05 will be considered statistically significant.
    
  