
    
      Enrollment: The study team will recruit 72 newly diagnosed stage I-III breast cancer
      survivors to participate in a 24-week randomized controlled trial. Participants will be
      randomized to CORE or SOC in a 2:1 ratio, stratified by adherence to national physical
      activity guidelines.

      Exercise Intervention: Participants randomized to standard of care will be instructed to
      continue their typical lifestyle activity. Participants randomized to CORE will complete an
      in-clinic assessment consisting of the PROMIS Physical Function and Godin surveys to identify
      the appropriate pathway for triage. Results from the questionnaires will be used to triage
      participants into one of three groups:

        1. Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation (PM&R): This rehab service is aimed at improving
           complex and acute functional deficits. Participants with a T-score < 40 on PROMIS will
           be triaged to PM&R, regardless of current exercise engagement.

        2. Personal Optimism With Exercise Recovery (POWER): POWER is our institution's exercise
           oncology program. POWER is aimed at improving mild functional deficits and physical
           deconditioning. Participants with a T-score of 40-50 on PROMIS who are not meeting
           activity guidelines, will be triaged to POWER. Participants with a T-score of ≥ 40 who
           are meeting activity guidelines, may choose to participate in POWER or be re-triaged to
           Exercise Self-Management.

        3. Exercise Self-Management: This arm is aimed for participants who are fit and free of
           functional deficits and impaired physical conditioning. Participants with a T-score of ≥
           51 on PROMIS and currently meeting activity guidelines will be triaged to this group.
           They may choose to participate in POWER.

      Assessments: Five assessment methods will be collected over three time points: (1)
      Post-Diagnosis/Pre-Surgery, (2) Post-Surgery, and (3) 24-weeks Post-Surgery.
    
  