
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the overall survival (OS) in patients with metastatic renal cell cancer (RCC)
      treated with ipilimumab-nivolumab followed by either nivolumab versus cabozantinib-nivolumab.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine progression free survival (PFS) of patients treated with nivolumab versus
      nivolumab-cabozantinib.

      II. To evaluate the 12-month complete response rate in patients treated with
      ipilimumab-nivolumab followed by cabozantinib-nivolumab versus ipilimumab-nivolumab followed
      by nivolumab (patients who have complete response [CR] and relapse before 12 months will not
      be counted as a CR at 12-months).

      III. To evaluate the rates of discontinuing therapy at 1 year. IV. To compare objective
      response rates (ORR, assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] 1.1
      and Immune Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [iRECIST] criteria) for patients
      treated with ipilimumab-nivolumab followed by cabozantinib-nivolumab versus
      ipilimumab-nivolumab followed by nivolumab.

      V. To document the adverse event profile of ipilimumab-nivolumab followed by
      cabozantinib-nivolumab.

      BIOMARKER OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate biomarkers associated with exceptional responses in both arms (exceptional
      responses defined as CRs with treatment discontinuation at 12 months or 24 months).

      II. To evaluate whether baseline IL-6 is predictive of outcome in patients treated with
      cabozantinib-containing regimen.

      QUALITY OF LIFE (QOL) OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare health-related quality of life at 18 months post-registration as assessed by
      the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT)-Kidney Symptom Index 19 (FKSI-19) between
      patients randomized to nivolumab (nivo) versus (vs) cabozantinib (cabo)/nivo.

      II. To compare health-related quality of life as assessed by the FKSI-19 between patients
      randomized to nivo vs cabo/nivo at other time points.

      III. To compare patient-reported fatigue using Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement
      Information System (PROMIS)-Fatigue between patients randomized to nivo vs cabo/nivo.

      IV. To compare quality-adjusted survival (overall survival x utility score assessed by
      EuroQol five-dimensional questionnaire [EQ5D-5L]) between patients randomized to nivo vs
      cabo/nivo.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes and ipilimumab IV
      over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      TREATMENT:

      Patients with unconfirmed but clinical progression of disease (iuPD) receive cabozantinib
      orally (PO) daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days until further disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with unconfirmed CR (iCR) receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with non-CR/non-PD or iuPD are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and cabozantinib PO daily on
      days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 5 years.
    
  