
    
      While many physicians and patients are convinced of the efficacy of osteopathic manipulative
      treatment (OMT), strong evidence supporting such a claim is sparse.

      The objectives of this study are to determine the scope of conditions currently being treated
      with OMT, identify conditions that are responsive and unresponsive to OMT, determine which
      osteopathic manipulative techniques are most beneficial in responsive conditions, determine
      if certain patient characteristics are present in those who are responsive to OMT, and
      determine which physicians have consistently positive outcomes with OMT for certain
      conditions.

      As an observational study, this study will not impact any aspect of the care received by the
      patient participants. Data will be collected from patients and physicians through a series of
      questionnaires incorporated into an online data collection system. DO-Touch.NET will be
      utilized for physician recruitment, site personnel training, members portal for accessing
      study materials, coordination, and physician data collection. Assessment Center will be used
      for participant registration, data collection and study tracking/reporting. Patients aged 18
      years and older who receive OMT from a participating physician at a DO-Touch.NET site will be
      recruited to participate in the study. Background data will be collected from the patients
      including demographics, presenting symptoms and severity, and impact on quality of life. Data
      on medical history, examination, diagnosis, treatment, and home instructions/plan will be
      gathered from the physician. On a daily basis for a week after OMT, data will be collected
      from the patient regarding symptom severity and health changes. Impact of symptoms on quality
      of life will be reassessed after one week. These data will be collected from a patient over a
      series of office visits when applicable.

      Ongoing observation of both positive and negative outcomes associated with OMT directly from
      patients will be increasingly more valuable, producing and sustaining a current evidence base
      for OMT and identifying priorities for further osteopathic research.
    
  