
    
      Experimental design

      A prospective, single blind, randomised control trial.

      Methods

      50 subjects will be recruited by the admitting physiotherapists from the inpatient wards at
      Royal Brompton Hospital. Using stratified computer randomisation, the subjects will be
      allocated to either the control (no treatment group) or the treatment group. The
      randomisation will be carried out by an independent member of the Department of Cystic
      Fibrosis and the outcome measures recorded by an observer blind to the randomisation.

      Method:

        -  Two key investigators will be involved in the study to perform the treatment
           intervention as outlined in the paragraphs below

        -  The subjects' records will be reviewed by the key investigators to ensure they meet the
           inclusion criteria

        -  Prospective subjects will be given written and verbal information about the project and
           be given 24 hours to consider entry to the study

        -  Subjects will give written consent to participate in the project. The top copy will be
           included in the patient's medical record and a copy placed in the patient's study file

        -  A letter will be written to the subject's General Practitioner outlining the purpose of
           the study and inviting him/her to make contact to discuss the study in more detail if
           there are any queries or concerns

        -  The subjects will be withdrawn if there is a clinical deterioration negating the
           inclusion criteria or they are discharged for further home intravenous antibiotic
           treatment

        -  Three independent observers (the senior & junior physiotherapists usually working with
           this patient group) will be trained to ensure good intra & inter-relater reliability in
           the recording of the measurements

      Intervention for the treatment group:

      The treatment group will receive the interventions on top of their usual chest physiotherapy
      and medical care. A treatment series of gentle joint and muscle movements (musculoskeletal
      interventions) will be undertaken by a physiotherapist, on alternate days for the duration of
      admission. The physiotherapy musculoskeletal assessment and intervention may last up to 45
      minutes on alternate weekdays and may include one or a combination of the following
      techniques which are documented in populations with postural changes, thoracic stiffness,
      discomfort and/or pain:

        -  Specific, gentle oscillatory mobilisations to the rib cage and thoracic spine of the
           subjects to improve joint alignment and mobility, and to reduce pain. These techniques
           should optimise chest wall mechanics, improve the length-tension relationships of the
           muscles and normalise movement to dysfunctional areas (Maitland, Banks et al.
           2001;Mulligan 2005)

        -  Treatment of specific muscle dysfunction or tight muscle groups to further optimise
           muscle length and biomechanical relationships in the area (Massery 2005), leading to
           improved efficiency of recruitment and improved power output (Travell & Simons 1983)

        -  Postural education and awareness discussions to improve the subject's own joint
           alignment and ability in a functional manner. A short programme to reinforce the
           progress during the treatment sessions consisting of no more than three specific
           stretching or strengthening exercises may be given.

      Control Group:

      The control group will receive their usual medical and physiotherapy management but no
      placebo intervention.

      Data Collection:

      The outcome measures will be undertaken by one of three independent observers to pre-agreed
      protocols, before the first intervention session, and before intervention sessions on day
      five, day ten and day of discharge. The questionnaires CF-38 and the Hospital Anxiety and
      Depression Scale will be completed on initiation and completion of the study.

      Sample size calculation: The number of patients needed for this study was based on testing of
      posture before and after musculoskeletal intervention in the outpatient adult cystic fibrosis
      randomised controlled trial ("Do physiotherapy musculoskeletal techniques improve forced
      expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) in adults with cystic fibrosis?"; Ethics reference
      number: 06/Q0404/81). To test for a three point change in thoracic index at the 5%
      significance level, using a square-root of within-mean standard of error of three would
      require at least 50 patients to achieve 90% power.

      Analysis

      Statistical advice was given by Mr Michael Roughton, Statistician, Royal Brompton Hospital
      and Imperial College London. The data will be analysed using an appropriate test e.g. t-tests
      or Mann-Whitney tests.

      The intra & inter-rater reliability and repeatability of the measurements, by the independent
      observers, will be determined using Bland Atman plots to ensure they lie within clinically
      acceptable limits of agreement.
    
  