
    
      Heart failure (HF) is a frequent co-morbid condition associated with poor prognosis in
      diabetes, particularly among older patients. HF accounts for more than 1 Million
      hospitalizations annually in USA. In addition, HF hospitalizations are associated with
      significant high risk of post-discharge mortality and recurrent hospitalizations. Almost
      one-half of patients will be re-hospitalized within 6 months and one-third will die within 12
      months of discharge. Median survival after HF diagnosis is about 5 years and is similar for
      HFpEF and heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) patients. Diabetes as
      co-morbidity multiplies risk of hospital admissions in HF patients.

      Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) is a pathological condition characterized by elevated glucose
      levels and it is associated with high incidence of cardiovascular (CV) events. Several
      hypoglycemic agents have successfully managed the elevated glucose levels but with little or
      no impact on CV events. Management of concomitant HF in T2DM is particularly challenging, as
      some glucose-lowering agents, such as TZDs, are contraindicated in the treatment of HF
      patients. Thus, there was a need for an oral agent that improved glycemia as well as provided
      CV benefits. Empagliflozin is the first glucose-lowering agent showing that not only improves
      glycemic control but also has cardiovascular benefits. The recent EMPA-OUTCOME trial has
      shown significant reductions in major adverse cardiac events (MACE), cardiovascular
      mortality, and hospitalization for Heart Failure (HF) by Empagliflozin given on top of
      standard-of-care therapy for T2DM patients with Cardiovascular disease (CVD). The dramatic
      change driving the superiority of the primary composite outcome was a significantly lower CV
      death rate (38% relative risk reduction). In addition, there were also an impressive 35% and
      38% relative risk reductions in hospitalization for heart failure (HF) and death from any
      cause, respectively.

      Empagliflozin is a member of a new class of hypoglycemic agents, the SGLT-2 inhibitors. There
      are a couple of characteristics that single out the SGLT2 inhibitors from other hypoglycemic
      drugs. One is their low hypoglycemic risk since they act on the urinary excretion of glucose
      without interfering with the physiologic response to hypoglycemia. And the other is their
      "positive" cardiovascular effects such as lowering blood pressure, arterial stiffness,
      urinary microalbuminuria and triglycerides while increasing HDL-Cholesterol levels.
      Therefore, the combination of the above-mentioned observations led to some investigators to
      suggest that these benefits may be, at least in part, independent of its hypoglycemic
      activity and thus, Empagliflozin could be considered a "cardiac" drug.
    
  