
    
      Background: Mental illness affects a significant proportion of women during and after
      pregnancy. The most common form of mental illness is depression, which can manifest with
      symptoms such as sadness, loss of pleasure in activities, poor sleep, changes in appetite
      and, in severe cases, suicide. Depression during or after pregnancy can have profound effects
      on the mother, her family and wider society. Left untreated, depression can become chronic
      and recurrent and lead to reduced ability to work and provide care. Children of depressed
      mothers are at increased risk of poor growth, increased infections and delayed cognitive,
      behavioural and emotional development. Recognising maternal depression at an early stage and
      offering effective treatment such as counselling or anti-depressant medication is vital to
      helping women and minimising impacts on their families. To effectively diagnose depression, a
      variety of screening tools is available. However, psychometric properties vary across
      populations and contexts, and tools must be validated locally prior to use. This validation
      study will be based at the Shoklo Malaria Research Unit (SMRU), which has provided health
      services and conducted research in rural and disadvantaged populations living on the
      Thai-Myanmar border for nearly three decades.

      Research design: The study will be an observational, cross-sectional validation study. Women
      will be asked to complete two questionnaires and an interview.

      Study population: The study population will be women who are pregnant and post-partum (up to
      12 months) attending SMRU antenatal and postnatal clinics at Wang Pha, Mawker Tai and Maela.

      Method and technique (survey, interview, observation): The questionnaires will be translated
      into Burmese and Karen, and back-translated into English to ensure that semantics have been
      maintained. Pregnant and post-partum women attending antenatal clinics (ANC) and postnatal
      clinics (PNC) who volunteer to participate will be asked to provide consent. Participants
      will first be asked to complete two questionnaires: the PHQ-9 and RHS-15. These will be
      administered by a member of SMRU staff in Karen or Burmese. Participants will then be asked
      to attend a diagnostic interview conducted by the principal investigator with an interpreter.
      The principal investigator will be blinded to the results of the PHQ-9 and RHS-15 until
      completion of the interview.

      Anticipated outcomes: The outcomes of this validation study will be measures of validity,
      reliability, sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive
      value for each of the screening tools (PHQ-9 and RHS-15).

      Potential value and significance: If the questionnaires are found to be valid in the local
      population they can be used as a routine screen for depression for all women attending
      antenatal and postnatal clinics at SMRU. Helping to identify women with depression will
      enable earlier treatment and minimise the impact of depression on her and her family.
    
  