
    
      Breast cancer (BC) is the leading cause of cancer worldwide with estimated 2.3 million new
      cases and 685000 deaths in 2020. In women, breast cancer accounts for one in 4 cancer cases
      and one in 6 cancer deaths.

      In Egypt, BC is the most common cancer among females accounting for 32.0% of all cancers in
      women according to the data of the National Cancer Registry Program of Egypt . 22038 Egyptian
      females breast cancer new cases were estimated to be in 2020 .

      The most important risk factors for breast cancer include female gender, age (30 years old
      and older), positive family history for breast cancer , and familial genetic mutations,
      including mutations in the breast cancer A1 (BRCA1) and BRCA2 genes. Furthermore, women with
      a history of breast cancer are more likely (20-25%) to develop microscopic cancer in the
      opposite breast. A positive history for cancer in the endometrium, ovaries, or colon, as well
      as radiation therapy for Hodgkin's lymphoma, was shown to increase the risk of breast cancer.

      The gold standard for diagnosis of breast cancer is histopathology. Several tumor markers
      have been suggested for the evaluation and management of breast cancer including estrogen and
      progesterone receptors (ER/PR), which are used for the assessment of susceptibility to
      hormone treatment, and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), which is used to
      assess the susceptibility to trastuzumab treatment.

      With the rapid development of medical technology, strategies such as surgery, medication and
      radiotherapy can help a lot to reduce mortality rate. Though clinical intervention at early
      stage can greatly improve prognosis, many BC patients are asymptomatic until disease
      progression.

      Thus, effective screening methods are in great demand for the early detection of BC. In
      clinical practice, many screening strategies have been widely used, such as mammography,
      breast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and ultrasound imaging.

      However, these strategies are far from being perfect because of over-diagnosis,
      false-positive inconsistent results and potential radiation injury.

      Core needle aspiration can help establish the diagnosis, but the procedure is invasive and
      not suitable for routine use .

      Therefore, novel non-invasive screening methods of high sensitivity and specificity are
      needed to assist the early diagnosis of BC .

      Microribonucleic Acids (microRNAs) are a large subgroup of noncoding RNAs made up of 18-25
      nucleotides. MicroRNAs regulate gene expression after transcription. They have a
      multifunctional role, as they can perform either as oncogenes by repressing their target
      tumor suppressor genes, or as tumor suppressors through inhibiting the expression of their
      target oncogenes.

      Numerous studies have shown that miRNAs played important roles in nearly all biological
      processes and their aberrant expression was associated with many diseases including cancers.
      Stable existence of miRNAs in peripheral blood circulation revealed that they could be
      promising noninvasive biomarkers for cancer detection.

      For BC, more and more circulating miRNAs (ie, miRNA-373, miRNA-425-5p) are emerging as
      potential diagnostic or prognostic biomarkers.

      In breast cancer miRNA-425-5p was found elevated and predicted a poor prognosis for the
      patients, and its role in BC highlight a new research points for diagnostic and therapeutic
      plans.

      MiRNA-373 Circulating level has been reported as a potential biomarker of lymph node
      metastasis and its expression has been linked to promoting migration and invasion of breast
      cancer cells. It has also been reported that correlations between decreased miRNA-373
      expression and BC relapse.

      However, findings often differed from each other due to different experiment design, study
      cohorts or disease status.
    
  