
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether adjuvant treatment with MoAb 17-1A will improve the probability of
      overall and disease-free survival, and increase disease-free intervals in patients who have
      undergone resection of a Stage II colon cancer.

      II. To determine whether alterations in the expression of cell cycle related genes
      (thymidylate synthase, p53, and the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors p21 and p27) predict
      the risk of survival and recurrence in this patient population.

      III. To determine whether alterations in markers of metastatic potential-expression of DCC
      and measures of tumor angiogenesis (microvascular density and vascular endothelial growth
      factor expression)-predict the risk of survival and recurrence in this patient population.

      IV. To determine whether a marker of cellular differentiation-sucrase isomaltase-predicts the
      risk of survival and recurrence in this patient population.

      V. To determine whether DNA ploidy and cell proliferation are prognostic of tumor recurrence
      and overall survival in Stage II colon cancer.

      VI. To determine whether interactions among these tumor markers identify subsets of patients
      with significantly altered outcome.

      VII. To determine whether pathologic features including tumor grade; tumor mitotic
      (proliferation) index; tumor border configuration; host lymphoid response to tumor; and
      lymphatic vessel, venous vessel and perineural invasion predict outcome in this patient
      population.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to degree of
      differentiation (well vs moderately well vs poor), vascular or lymphatic invasion (no vs
      yes), and preoperative serum CEA (less than 5.0 ng/mL vs at least 5.0 ng/mL vs unknown).
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      Arm I: Patients receive adjuvant edrecolomab IV over 2 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats
      every 28 days for 5 courses. Patients must begin therapy no earlier than 7 days and no later
      than 42 days post-surgical resection. Patients also undergo observation at 3 and 6 months
      post-randomization.

      Arm II: Patients undergo observation at 3 and 6 months post-randomization.

      Patients are followed after the last course of edrecolomab (arm I) and at 12 months (arm II).
      All patients are followed every 6 months for 5 years.
    
  