
    
      Background:

      Treatment of cardiac arrest includes effective chest compressions, ventilation using high
      flow oxygen and the delivery of electric shocks (cardioversion). Prompt termination of
      cardiac arrhythmias and sufficient airway handling including oxygenation are crucial factors
      for patient outcome. Studies suggest that cardioversion itself may induce myocardial injury;
      however it is currently unknown whether hyperoxia exacerbate this injury.

      Currently, several different biphasic waveforms are in use for cardioversion.The comparative
      efficacy and safety of these waveforms has not been compared in clinical studies.
      Commercially available defibrillators use different electrical waveforms that may affect the
      efficacy of external defibrillation. Although the superiority of biphasic over monophasic
      waveforms is well established, the relative efficacy and safety of the available biphasic
      waveforms is not clear.

      The long held belief that oxygen (O2) is always beneficial for ill and injured patients is
      being challenged by recent studies suggesting that excessive oxygenation may result in
      free-radical mediated tissue damage, resulting in increased morbidity and mortality. Recent
      guidelines suggest that O2 should be 'titrated' to achieve an appropriate target saturation
      of 94-98% rather than being administered in an all-or-nothing fashion, particularly in
      patients with myocardial ischemia or those following resuscitation from cardiac arrest. The
      Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network (SIGN), British Thoracic Society, National
      Institute of Health Care Excellence (NICE), European Resuscitation Council and other
      respected bodies all restrict O2 use to those with hypoxemia, pulmonary oedema or continuing
      myocardial ischemia, based on expert opinion and pathophysiological reasoning rather than
      hard evidence.

      Studies using patients presenting with shockable life-threatening arrhythmias (e.g.
      ventricular fibrillation) are difficult to perform for ethical and practical reasons. This
      study will therefore use patients requiring elective cardioversion for atrial arrhythmias,
      who are able to give consent and also present a more controlled population. Elective
      cardioversion is a standard treatment for patients with atrial arrhythmias and is performed
      as a day case procedure under general anaesthesia.

      This study has the following aims:

        1. To compare a standard biphasic waveform with a newer pulsed biphasic waveform on which
           there is little published data

        2. To compare the effect of hyperoxia and room air on myocardial injury following
           cardioversion on which there is no published data.

      Methods:

      All patients admitted for cardioversion for atrial fibrillation and flutter will be
      potentially eligible for the study. Patients will be recruited at the Regional Hospital of
      Randers as a part of the pre-cardioversion check. This is the first contact to patients, and
      they will receive oral and written information. The oral and written information will be
      given by a doctor and/or the primary investigator. The information will be given in a quiet
      setting, and the patients may ask questions about the study. It will be possible for the
      patient to have a companion present. Informed consent will be obtained from all participants
      during the pre-cardioversion check or alternatively prior to cardioversion allowing the
      patient to have a companion present before consent is given. Patients declining to
      participate in the study will receive treatment according to the standard protocol.

      Patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter for ≤48 hours may be cardioverted immediately.
      Patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter for >48 hours will be required to have a
      documented weekly international normalized ratio (INR) ≥2.0 (including within 48 hours of
      cardioversion) or treatment with dabigatranetexilat for three weeks or longer. Alternatively,
      a transoesophageal echocardiogram documenting absence of intracardiac thrombi is accepted and
      cardioversion can be performed on treatment with low molecular weight heparin. All patients
      will be discharged with a recommendation for therapeutic anticoagulation according to current
      guidelines.

      Patient preparation

      Patients will be consulted prior to cardioversion; standard blood test will be taken, blood
      pressure, height and weight will be measured. Information from patient chart (age, gender,
      morbidity, co-morbidity and medication) will be used to define baseline values. In addition
      New York Heart Association Functional Classification (NYHA), European Heart Rhythm
      Association AF-related symptoms (EHRA), American Society of Anaesthesiologists Score (ASA)
      and Canadian Cardiovascular Society Grading System (CCS) will be recorded during history
      taking. In addition, information from the patient chart regarding comorbidities, medication
      etc. will be obtained.

      Cardioversion protocol

      Blood samples, ECG, blood pressure, oxygen saturation and heart rate will be obtained at
      baseline and all patients will receive 0.5 mg Rapifen i.v. All patients will be treated with
      100 % oxygen or room air, 10-15 L/ minute for 3 minutes before administration of Propofol.
      All patients will be treated with Propofol 1 mg i.v./kg bodyweight with subsequent 20 mg
      boluses as needed. Before cardioversion PaO2 will be measured by arterial blood gas (1 mL).

      Follow up All patients will be seen at the outpatient clinic after 3 months. Echocardiography
      will be performed and biomarkers will be measured. Patients will be classified after NYHA,
      EHRA, ASA and CCS.

      Statistics

      Regarding waveforms: Assuming the cumulative efficacy, defined as success rate after all
      delivered shocks, for one of the waveforms is 95%, and for the other waveform ≥80%, a sample
      size of 75 patients in each group is needed to achieve a power of 80% in rejecting the null
      hypothesis (that the difference in cumulative efficacy is ≥15%). Continuous variables (number
      of shocks, delivered energy etc.) are expressed as mean ± SD or median values and compared
      with Students t-test or equivalent non-parametric test. Categorical variables (e.g.
      successful cardioversion) are expressed as percentages and compared using the Chi-square or
      Fisher's exact test (where appropriate). P ≤ 0.05 is considered statistically significant for
      all comparisons.

      Regarding oxygen treatment: It is estimated that 150 patients will be sufficient for the
      study. After treatment of 60 patients, an interim futility test will be performed. Biomarker
      data will be analyzed using parametric and non-parametric tests as appropriate. P ≤ 0.05 is
      considered statistically significant.

      Ethics

      Approval from The Danish Research Ethics Committee and Danish Data Protection Agency has been
      obtained. The project will be performed in accordance with the Danish Health Act.
    
  