
    
      The Russian Registry of Acute Myocardial Infarction study is an independent study initiated
      by the investigators;

      The partner inpatient hospitals will provide data on every patient with known acute
      myocardial infarction (I21) admitted between days 1 and 10 of each month during the
      recruitment period.The Russian Registry of Acute Myocardial Infarction study is an
      independent study initiated by the investigators;

      For every engaged hospital (medical center) the investigators will designate a 2-3 person
      task team, including a Team Leader;

      The participants shall be kept informed and coordinated via email and messengers. The website
      of the Russian Society of Emergency Cardiology.

      The study will be hosted by the CRM Quinta® platform.

      Administration, data entry monitoring, and statistical processing will be carried out by
      Aston Consulting (a certified personal data operator.)

      AO Aston Consulting has a license for storage and processing of personal data in accordance
      with the applicable legislation.

      PATIENTS.

      INCLUSION CRITERIA

      1. Diagnosed acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) or non-ST elevation myocardial
      infarction (NSTEMI) (ICD 10 I21 ); the diagnosis is established based on the Fourth Universal
      Definition of Myocardial Infarction Guidelines 2018 .

      EXCLUSION CRITERIA

      1. A patient or his/her legal representative did not sign IC.

      STUDY ASSESSMENTS

      The following information will be collected and entered into CRF: Full name

      Residential address

      Phone number of patients or their legal representatives' Demographic profile. Weight, height

      Social status (education, job title, occupation status)

      Co-morbidities

      Clinical signs and symptoms

      Drug therapy.

      Clinical outcomes during the hospital stay.

      Drug therapy and clinical outcomes in 6 and 12 months after the diagnosis establishment.

      Hospitals wishing to join the study must contact any of the project coordinators and complete
      the Participation questionnaire (Appendix 4).

      The Registry enrolment process starts in 2020 and will continue for 24 months. The hospitals
      that will not be able to start the enrolment in 2020 will have the chance to do it before
      December 31, 2022, and perform the follow-up monitoring for the next 12 months.

      At the moment of the enrolment, the patient's data are to be entered into the online
      database. Any new data that might appear during the hospital stay will be successively or
      immediately entered into the database at the moment of the patient's death/discharge. The
      data received during an in-person or a phone contact 6 or 12 months after the enrolment will
      also be entered into the database.

      Shall the initiators have any questions regarding the entered data, they will ask the
      participants to elaborate, clarify, or correct the data.

      If the patient dies before the enrolment to the study, his/her data shall be entered into the
      database retrospectively.

      The patients (or their legal representatives) enrolled to the Registry must be kept informed
      about the inclusion in this observational program and give their written consent for
      participation (patients who died or are otherwise unable to sign the consent to the
      processing of personal data will be enrolled on a de-identified basis.)
    
  