
    
      -  CD epidemics: Celiac Disease incidence is increasing at unexpected rates in the last two
           decades in all gluten-consuming populations.

        -  Remarkable stratified genetic risk: there is a strong genetic component as the main risk
           to develop disease, as supported by > 85% concordance in monozygotic twins, but genetics
           cannot change over decades and does not explain the epidemic which has been observed.
           The presence of double HLA DQ2 in female subjects does increases the risk of disease
           above that of a mendelian recessive inheritance. Hence the estimation of environmental
           factors associated to the genetic risk is quite complex and does need a very strict
           prospective longitudinal study design, since each factor is likely to produce, if ever,
           a quite small odds ratio .

        -  Gene expression in the first year of life: we have observed, in our previous cohort
           studies, that the expression of at least a small set of CD associated candidate genes is
           substantially different between the children who eventually develop Cd and those who do
           not, already a 6 months of age, much before any measurable recognition of the gluten
           antigen, development of antibodies or any clinical sign (ref 3 Galatola).

        -  Epigenetic changes in small intestinal tissue: in addition of the previously reported
           gene expression differences, gene methylation and related expression of CD associated
           candidate genes have been observed in the epithelium and the lamina propria of Cd
           patients . In addition, microRNA appear to be differently expressed in patients versus
           controls.

        -  Early events in the first-second year of life before diagnosis: our groups and others
           observed that the occurrenceof acute respiratoryinfections in the first and second year
           of life, at least 12 months before the onset of disease, was associated to increased
           odds (> x2) of developing CD. It is most likely that viral infections (as the large
           majority of URTI in children) play a role in the development of food antigen intolerance
           leading to CD . A role of non-pathogenic viral infections has been also suggestedin the
           developmentof intolerance to gluten.

        -  No influence of breast-feeding or gluten introduction: breast feeding does not prevent
           the incidence of CD in at risk infants: its most likely effect is to delay the onset of
           clinical symptoms. Similarly, the time and quantity of gluten introduction is not
           associated to the actual incidence, but is only associated to delayed time effects.

        -  Possible implication of microbiome: despite the complexity of estimating differences in
           the composition of microbiome in the infants, it has been suggested that infants who
           later develop CD might show a fila composition slightly different from their matched
           controls.
    
  