
    
      1. Aim of the trial: A randomized longitudinal study assessing the efficacy of a dyadic
           communication reinforcement intervention (DCRI) between cancer patients and their
           caregivers. Efficacy of the DCRI will be assessed by the analysis of changes over time
           in both patients and caregivers self-reported questionnaires/scales measures.

        2. Participants: Patients and caregivers are recruited from oncology clinics at Erasme
           Hospital and Jules Bordet Institute (Brussels, Belgium). Recruitment and all study
           procedures were approved by a central ethics committee (Erasme - ULB Ethics Committee)
           and all participants are providing written informed consent.

        3. Study Design: Participants are randomly assigned to the experimental group, consisting
           of the DCRI, or to the control group, consisting of a waiting list. Dyads in the waiting
           list can complete the DCRI after the last assessment if they want to. Investigator,
           psychologist in charge of the intervention and participants are blinded for this
           randomization. Dyads completed a follow-up assessment (T2), either 2 weeks after the
           DCRI in the experimental group or 6 weeks after baseline in the control condition. All
           assessment time were completed either at the outpatient clinic or at home.

        4. DCRI content: DCRI aims communication reinforcement by a weekly 4-sessions program. DCRI
           is manualized and is conducted by an experienced psychologist (same psychologist for all
           participating dyads). Sessions focus on reciprocal cancer-related stress communication
           between patients and their caregivers using a specific communication task that promotes
           self-disclosure and request for support. All sessions are divided into four times: (1)
           session introduction, (2) first communication task, (3) second communication task and
           (4) session conclusion.

      (1)Session introduction: Firstly, psychologist assesses if any significant moment occurred
      before the actual session and let dyad members talk about it if they want. Secondly,
      psychologist addresses some theoretical information about the session subject. First and
      second session subject is about personal cancer-concerns disclosure and close one supportive
      response to this disclosure. Third and fourth session subject is about personal request for
      support to face a cancer-related stress and close one response to this request for support.
      In the first and second session, psychologist therefore discusses the importance of sharing
      stress appraisal, stress describing, thoughts and emotions expressing and how to be
      supportive in responding. In the third and fourth session, psychologist discusses the
      importance of the personal needs communication and the clarity of the request for support to
      be well understood by the partner.

      (2 & 3) First and second communication task: This communication task is divided into an
      audio-recorded communication exercise and the debriefing of this communication exercise. In
      each session, there are therefore two communication tasks (two exercises and two debriefing).
      An exercise lasts 5 minutes and psychologist stays with the dyad but does not intervene
      during it. This exercise consists in patient and caregivers embody a specific role:
      "discloser" and "listener". Each role is associated with specific instructions. Exercise (and
      therefore task) is performed twice a session to let patient and caregiver experiment each of
      these roles. In the first and second session, the discloser has to express a personal
      cancer-related stress to the listener. The listener has to listen and respond supportively to
      this expressed cancer-related stress. In the third and fourth session, the discloser has to
      ask for help about a personal cancer-related stress to the listener. The listener has to
      listen and respond to this request for support. The exercise debriefing consists in the
      listening, in session, of the exercise record. After the listening, psychologist asks to the
      listener what kind of the discloser communicational behavior help him to understand the
      expressed cancer-related stress. Psychologist asks also to the discloser what kind of the
      listener communicational behavior help him to feel supported. After that, psychologist
      reinforces each positive communication strategy used by the discloser and the listener.

      (4) Session conclusion: Psychologist summarizes the two communication tasks and notes all
      positive communication strategies used by the patient and the caregiver in
      self-disclosing/responding (first and second session) or request for support/responding to
      request for support.

      5. Assessment procedure: Patients and caregivers are assessed by self-reported measures at
      baseline (T1) (after enrollment) and 2 weeks after the intervention (in the experimental
      group) or 6 weeks after baseline (T2) (in the control group). Patients and caregivers
      complete exactly the same self-reported questionnaires and scales. Patients had a medical
      information questionnaire in addition at baseline and study personnel rated their performance
      status, based on the Karnofsky Performance Status Scale, at T1 and T2. Other specific
      oncologic information was collected by medical record review.

      At T1, demographic questionnaire assesses gender, age, cultural background, education level,
      native speaking, professional situation, familial situation (children) and psychiatric
      history. At T1, dyadic information questionnaire assesses relationship type, relationship
      length, living situation and contact frequency between patients and caregivers.

      Patients and caregivers complete following self-reported scales in T1 and T2: (1)
      Cancer-related dyadic communication frequency, (2) cancer-related dyadic communication
      satisfaction, (3) cancer-related communication self-efficacy, (4) Dyadic Coping Inventory,
      (5) Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale and (6) Ways of Coping Checklist.

      6. Statistical Analysis: Statistical analysis consisted in a comparative analysis of groups
      at baseline using parametric and nonparametric tests as appropriate (Student's t test,
      Mann-Withney U test or Chi-squared test). Patients and caregivers outcomes at baseline and
      after the DCRI, or after the waiting period, were compared using repeated measures analysis
      of variance (MANOVA). Time and group-by-time effects were processed using MANOVA. Effect size
      will be report with eta-squared (η²) given by MANOVA. All tests were two-tailed, and the
      alpha was set at 0.05. All analyzes were performed using SPSS®, version 25.

      7. Data Quality Control: There are 6 study collaborators: (1) recruitment manager, (2)
      investigation coordinator, (3) assessor, (4) psychologist in charge of the intervention, (5)
      data manager and (6 & 7) two data assistants.

        1. Recruitment manager manages the recruitment process. Every recruitment steps have been
           approved by institution ethics committee. Patients phone numbers meeting inclusion
           criteria are provided by the medical staff to the recruitment manager only. These phone
           numbers are destroyed after the recruitment phase. Recruitment manager calls each
           patient to give them basic information about the study. If they are interested in,
           recruitment manager calls the designated caregiver with the patient consent. If the
           caregiver agrees too, recruitment manager makes an appointment to provide a written
           informed consent.

        2. Investigation assistant provides the randomization number for each participating dyad to
           the data manager. He books all DCRI session for the psychologist in the good time lapses
           (regarding the group).

        3. Assessor assists participants in questionnaires and scales if they need it and he rates
           each patient by a Karnofsky score. A numerical copy is made for each assessment. This
           copy is put on a encrypted hard drive disk. Paper version is given in person to data
           manager. Paper versions are stored in a secure location.

        4. Psychologist conducts the DCRI

        5. Data manager manages randomization number, securing data storage, data encoding and
           encoding checking.

        6. Data assistants encode data provide by the questionnaires and scales. They only have a
           participant ID and no randomization information. Double encoding, checked by the data
           manager, reduces encoding error.

      This 7-persons functioning guarantees complete masking procedure from recruitment to
      encoding.
    
  