
    
      Purpose:

      Chronic pain is one of the most common healthcare issues that Veterans face; it can be very
      debilitating as well as difficult to treat. Pain Predominant Chronic Multi-symptom Illness
      (CMI) (e.g., fibromyalgia) is a particularly debilitating and treatment-resistant chronic
      pain condition and a presumptive service-connected condition for Veterans who deployed to the
      Gulf region from 1990-2021 (VA Benefits Administration, 2018). There is an urgent need for
      evidence-based non-pharmaceutical treatments for chronic pain. This study will explore the
      efficacy of remote-delivered health coaching intervention aimed at modifying lifestyle
      factors of diet, exercise, social connections, stress, and sleep. The control condition will
      be supportive psychotherapy.

      Study Aims:

      Primary Aim 1: Determine if remote-delivered health coaching reduces (H1a) disability and
      (H2a) pain impairment as compared to remote-delivered supportive psychotherapy for Veterans
      with Pain-CMI. The investigators will also assess the improvement in (H1b) disability and
      (H2b) pain impairment at the 24-month follow-up.

      Primary Aim 2: Determine if health coaching results in more frequent clinically significant
      improvement in (H3) disability (20%) and (H4) pain impairment (1 point) as compared to
      supportive psychotherapy.

      Secondary Aim 3: Determine if health coaching reduces (H5) physical symptoms, (H6)
      catastrophizing, (H7) limiting activity and increases (H8) pain control as compared to
      supportive psychotherapy.

      Exploratory Aim 4: Determine if the reduction in (H9) catastrophizing, (H10) limiting
      activity and increases in (H11) pain control mediate the relationship between health coaching
      and reductions in disability and pain impairment.

      Study Design:

      The current proposal is a randomized clinical trial to determine the efficacy of
      remote-delivered health coaching in reducing disability and pain impairment for Veterans with
      Pain-CMI as compared to supportive psychotherapy (n=250). Additionally, the investigators
      will explore mechanisms of change. Participants will complete four assessments at four
      different timepoints: baseline, 6-week mid treatment (~6 weeks after baseline),
      post-treatment (~12 weeks after baseline), and 24-week follow-up (~24 weeks after baseline).
    
  