
    
      Prospective,randomized, multi-center, active-controlled, masked-observer, parallel-group,
      competitive equivalence study. The study has been designed to assess the equivalence of
      chloroprocaine 3% gel (Test) with respect to tetracaine 0.5% solution (Reference) in surface
      anesthesia. Patients in both groups will receive three drops of study products before
      surgery. The study will include a Selection visit (Day -90/Day -1), an Inclusion visit (Day
      1/surgery day), a Follow-up visit (Day 2, phone visit), a Final visit (Day 8), and a
      Follow-up phone call - Optional (Day 28, phone visit).

      Selection visit (Visit 1, Day -90/Day -1):

      Patients scheduled to undergo cataract surgery in a single eye will be informed about the
      aims, procedures and possible risks of the study and will be asked to sign the informed
      consent form for the inclusion in the trial.

      Inclusion visit/Surgery (Visit 2, Day 1):

      Before the anesthesia, patients will be questioned about previous and concomitant ocular and
      non-ocular treatments. Inclusion /exclusion criteria and patient status will be verified.
      Patients will be randomized to either chloroprocaine 3% gel (Test) or tetracaine 0.5% eye
      drop (Reference) treatment group.

      Follow-up visit/phone visit (Visit 3, Day 2):

      Concomitant ocular and non-ocular treatments, AEs, and patient global satisfaction will be
      assessed.

      Final visit (Visit 4, Day 8 ± 1 day):

      Concomitant ocular and non-ocular treatments, ocular symptoms, best far corrected visual
      acuity in both eyes, endothelial cell count, corneal thickness, blood pressure and heart
      rate, and AEs will be assessed. Slit lamp examination and fluorescein test, IOP in both eyes,
      and fundoscopy will be performed.

      Optional visit/phone visit (Visit 5, Day 28 ± 3 days):

      Concomitant ocular and non-ocular treatments and AEs resolution will be assessed.
    
  