
    
      Approximately 160 patients diagnosed with ALK-positive metastatic NSCLC (according to the 7th
      edition of the AJCC [American Joint Committee on Cancer] Cancer Staging Manual) and active
      lesions in the brain and/or diagnosed with leptomeningeal carcinomatosis were included in the
      study, approximately 40 patients in Arm 1 and Arm 2, approximately 30 patients in Arms 3 and
      Arm 4, and approximately 20 patients in Arm 5. Additional patients were enrolled in Arm 4 to
      achieve approximately 60 patients in Arms 3 and 4 together (i.e. ALKi naïve patients), if
      enrollment rate in Arm 3 was slow.

        -  Arm 1 included patients with metastases in the brain without evidence of leptomeningeal
           carcinomatosis, previously treated with radiation to the brain and with prior exposure
           to an ALKi.

        -  Arm 2 included patients with metastases in the brain without evidence of leptomeningeal
           carcinomatosis, previously untreated with radiation to the brain but with prior exposure
           to an ALKi.

        -  Arm 3 included patients with metastases in the brain without evidence of leptomeningeal
           carcinomatosis, previously treated with radiation to the brain but with no prior
           exposure to an ALKi.

        -  Arm 4 included patients with metastases in the brain without evidence of leptomeningeal
           carcinomatosis, previously untreated with radiation to the brain and with no prior
           exposure to an ALKi

        -  Arm 5 included any patients with leptomeningeal carcinomatosis with or without evidence
           of active lesion at the baseline Gadolinium-enhanced brain MRI.

      Note: Previous treatment with ALK inhibitors other than crizotinib was not allowed in Arms 1,
      2, and 5.

      Ceritinib was administered orally once daily at a dose of 750 mg (five 150 mg capsules) on a
      continuous dosing schedule. The treatment period started on Cycle 1 Day 1.

      Complete tumor assessments including gadolinium enhanced brain MRI was repeated at Week 8 (on
      Cycle 3 Day 1) and every 8 weeks (i.e. every 2 cycles) thereafter or earlier if clinically
      indicated. Safety evaluations included (S)AEs, physical examination, vital signs, ECGs,
      laboratory parameters and WHO performance status. Blood and CSF samples for PK were also
      collected.
    
  