
    
      Design: This study consists of a three-arm randomized control trial design to test the
      effectiveness of (1) Chen Style tai chi (TC) and talk therapy; (2) trauma-sensitive yoga
      (TSY) and talk therapy in comparison to (3) treatment as usual (TAU), which typically
      consists of talk therapy, on four primary self-reported mental health outcomes: overall
      mental health, depression, anxiety, and trauma symptoms. Secondary outcomes include
      self-reported measures of resilience, stress, social support, and alcohol consumption. Other
      demographic information will also be collected such as race, ethnicity, education, income,
      family status, etc. Data collection will consist of three online assessments: a pre-test,
      post-test, and 1-month follow-up. In-person interviews will also be available for
      participants who choose to discuss their experiences.

      Recruitment and Sample: Participation in these groups requires the following: 1) female
      gender, 2) age 18 years or older, 3) currently experiencing the symptoms of trauma, 4) an
      insurance carrier who can cover both individual and group mental health sessions (most
      in-state plans can do this), 5) paying any co-pays or deductibles associated with individual
      or group sessions, and 6) reliable transportation to and from appointments and group
      sessions.

      Recruiting will take place spring 2018 to Spring 2021. Recruitment approaches include flyers,
      social media (e.g., Facebook), and use of MercyOne email list-serve. Those who are interested
      in the study will be asked to either click or enter a web link that will bring them to an
      online screening tool that will screen for trauma symptoms using the PTSD Checklist PCL-2
      along with other questions to determine eligibility (i.e., exclusion criteria). If the
      participant 1) screens positive for a history of trauma according the PCL-2, answers "yes" to
      questions related to inclusion criteria, and answers no to questions related to the exclusion
      criteria, then they will be sent to a screen where they can read the full consent form. At
      the bottom of the page, there will be a button that allows them to choose how they want to
      participate in the study: 1) decline to enroll, 2) they are interested but would like to
      speak to a member of the research team, 3) they would like to officially enroll in the study.

      Group Assignment: Participants who consent to be enrolled in the study will be randomly
      assigned to one of the following: (1) TSY; (2) TC or (3) TAU. Both the TSY and TC group
      classes will be held at the Wellness Center at the MercyOne Cedar Falls Medical Center in
      Cedar Falls, Iowa. Each group will meet once a week for 12 weeks for 1-hour sessions.

      Assessment: If assigned to either the TC or TSY groups, we will supply participants a
      schedule that has the dates, times, and locations of the groups. All participants (including
      those in the TAU group) will then be sent a web-link to an online pre-test assessment, which
      should take about 20-30 minutes to complete. Participants will then attend the TC or TSY once
      a week for a period of 12 weeks. Those who are randomly assigned to the TAU group will be
      asked to see consistently see a mental health provider for the 12-week study duration. It is
      not specified or dictated how often participants meet with their provider nor what type of
      therapeutic interventions are to be used.

      At the end of the 12-week study duration, all participants will be sent an online post-test
      assessment, with the same measures found in the pre-test. The same assessment will then be
      provided again in 1-month to assess for diminished effects. Participants have the option to
      participate in interviews where they will be asked questions about their experiences
      participating in the therapy group and the research study. The interviews will be audio
      recorded and take about 30-40 minutes to complete. These interviews are optional, and not
      required to participate in the study.
    
  