
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Advances in molecular genetics, genetic epidemiology, population genetics, and identification
      of new risk factors and clusters of risk factors for cardiovascular disease made 1991 an
      opportune time to take advantage of the extensive information about cardiovascular disease,
      pre-clinical atherosclerosis, and risk factors in individuals who had been examined in
      ongoing, state-of-the-art epidemiological studies supported by the NHLBI. By recruiting first
      degree relatives of random samples of such defined populations, FHS obtained information
      about familial aggregation, genetic and environmental contributions to variance in continuous
      variables, and the frequency and distribution of elevated levels of risk factors and of
      selected major genes in the general population.

      The FHS was initiated by staff and approved by the Clinical Applications and Prevention
      Advisory Commitee in May, 1990. The Requests for Proposals were released in July 1991.
      Contracts were awarded in June, 1992.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      During Phases I and II from May 1992-May 1996, probands, aged 45-69, were recruited from the
      Framingham Heart Study, the Utah Family Tree Study and the North Carolina and Minnesota sites
      of the ARIC Study, along with their relatives, for participation in the Family Heart Study.
      Two groups of probands were selected, either randomly or by a high family risk of CHD as
      calculated from data from the parent study. Additional family structure and disease history
      data were collected on 3,150 probands and 22,909 of their relatives. Clinical examination and
      follow-up of these random and high CHD risk families were conducted on a total of 1,253
      families including 5,975 individuals, of whom 102 families including 265 individuals were
      African-American. The examinations included information on anthropometry, blood pressure,
      ECG, carotid ultrasound, pulmonary function, and blood chemistries. Questionnaire data
      included medical and reproductive histories, diet, physical activity, tobacco and alcohol
      consumption, education, income and psychosocial factors including hostility, social support
      and stress. Phases I and II included four field centers, a coordinating center, and a central
      blood laboratory.

      In August 1996, Phase III began when cooperative agreements were awarded to a consortium of
      seven investigator-initiated grants to conduct molecular genetic and genetic epidemiology
      studies using data collected during Phases I and II. Phase III ended in July 2001. The
      objective of Phase III was to perform molecular genetic and genetic epidemiology studies
      using the extensive data on family and medical histories, risk factors, life style, blood
      specimens, and banked DNA previously collected by the FHS. Studies included novel molecular
      genetics of candidate genes and genome-wide searches with anonymous markers for the
      detection, mapping, and characterization of coronary heart disease and atherosclerosis genes.
      Genetic epidemiology analyses were conducted that contributed new information on the familial
      aspects of atherosclerosis and intermediate phenotypes in African Americans. Phase III also
      included four field centers, a central laboratory, a molecular genetics laboratory, and a
      coordinating center.

      The study was renewed in 2001 as the Family Heart Study - Subclinical Atherosclerosis Network
      (FHS-SCAN) to complete analyses of genome-wide scan data and to genotype promising markers.
      The study expects to enroll 401 informative pedigrees (3,027 individuals) previously examined
      and genotyped by the NHLBI Family Heart Study to quantify coronary and aortic calcium volume
      in order to identify genes associated with atherosclerosis. In addition, 315 African American
      sibships (770 individuals) previously examined and comparably genotyped by the Hypertension
      Epidemiology Network (HyperGEN) will be examined at one study center to address these study
      questions in this minority population.
    
  