
    
      The following hypothesis will be tested in this study:

        1. Fecal microbiota transplantation is a safe, tolerable procedure.

        2. The fecal microbial diversity, composition and function in stool recipients after fecal
           transplantation will change to a similar microbial diversity, composition and
           functionality as found in donor stool.

      Primary objectives:

      1. To determine the short term safety and tolerability of fecal microbiota transplantation up
      to 12 weeks post-transplant in patients with Crohn's disease.

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To determine the long term safety and tolerability of fecal microbiota transplantation
           (FMT) up to one year post transplant in patients with Crohn's disease.

        2. To compare microbial diversity in healthy donor stools compared to pre-FMT recipient
           stools collected from patients (recipients) with Crohn's disease.

        3. To compare microbial composition in healthy donor stools compared to pre-FMT recipient
           stools from patients (recipients) with Crohn's disease.

        4. To compare microbial function in healthy donor stools compared to pre-FMT recipient
           stools from patients (recipients) with Crohn's disease

        5. To compare microbial diversity in healthy donor stools and pre-FMT recipient stools with
           1 week post-transplant recipient stool samples collected from patients (recipients) with
           Crohn's disease.

        6. To compare microbial composition in healthy donor stools and pre-FMT recipient stools
           with 1 week post-transplant recipient stool samples collected from patients (recipients)
           with Crohn's disease.

        7. To compare microbial function in healthy donor stools and pre-FMT recipient stools with
           1 week post-transplant recipient stool samples collected from patients (recipients) with
           Crohn's disease.

        8. To compare microbial diversity in healthy donor stools and pre-FMT recipient stools with
           12 week post transplant recipient stool samples collected from patients (recipients)
           with Crohn's disease.

        9. To compare microbial composition in healthy donor stools and pre-FMT recipient stools
           with 12 week post transplant recipient stool samples collected from patients
           (recipients) with Crohn's disease.

       10. To compare microbial function in healthy donor stools and pre-FMT recipient stools with
           12 week post transplant recipient stool samples collected from patients (recipients)
           with Crohn's disease.

       11. Stool calprotectin levels will be measured in the recipient at baseline pre-FMT, 1 week
           and 12 weeks post FMT to determine if FMT causes a statistically significant change.
    
  