
    
      BACKGROUND Engaged patients have been referred to as "…the blockbuster drugs of the 21st
      century". Under the Affordable Care Act (ACA), Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs) are
      required to engage patients. The specific question we will address is: Do patients receiving
      care from ACO practices with highly developed patient activation and engagement (PA&E)
      activities achieve better patient reported health outcomes, report better experiences of
      care, and have better selected clinical measures (blood pressure, hemoglobin levels, and
      LDL-C) compared to patients receiving care from ACO practices with less developed PA&E
      initiatives? We plan to capitalize on the natural occurring variation in degree of
      implementing PA&E activities.

      OBJECTIVES

      1) To collect information on the PA&E activities in 16 practices of two ACOs at baseline and
      over three years - including initiatives focused on disease prevention and health promotion,
      care team-patient communication, shared decision-making, self-management support, advanced
      serious illness care, and patient involvement in the care redesign experience; 2) to assess
      the differences on patient-reported outcomes of care, patient experiences, and selected
      clinical measures between patients exposed to highly developed PA&E initiatives versus those
      receiving care from practices with minimal PA&E activities; and 3) examine practice-level
      variation in PA&E implementation processes including culture, leadership, teamwork, and
      relational coordination.

      METHODS We will take advantage of the naturally occurring variation in the implementation of
      PA&E activities in 16 practices of two ACOs treating patients with diabetes and
      cardiovascular disease (CVD). A random sample of chronically-ill patients from each of the
      two ACOs will be sampled and will complete a patient-reported outcome instrument that
      includes select Patient-Reported Outcomes (PROMIS) measures and patient experience measures
      in early and late stages of the project. They will also complete the patient activation
      measure (PAM). We will examine changes over time in the outcome variables noted above. We
      will also survey ACO/ practice stakeholders regarding organizational culture, leadership,
      team effectiveness, and relational coordination using previously validated instruments
      supplemented by site visits. Multilevel analyses examine PA&E effects and practice-level
      heterogeneity within ACOs, controlling for patient characteristics.

      PATIENT OUTCOMES The proposed project's explicit focus on examining the PA&E activities of
      ACO practices with highly developed PA&E activities in comparison with those with very little
      and linking these to the outcomes measures noted above should be of great interest to
      patients, the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI), and the health care
      policy and practitioner community. The findings should help to guide PCORI's future research
      agenda in this area while providing all involved with knowledge to advance patient-centered
      care.
    
  