
    
      Objectives:

      Primary Objective

      • To investigate the safety and feasibility of neoadjuvant plus adjuvant dosing of durvalumab
      +/- tremelimumab in patients with localized renal cell carcinoma (RCC).

      Secondary Objectives

        -  To assess the immune response to neoadjuvant plus adjuvant dosing of durvalumab +/-
           tremelimumab in patients with localized RCC as measured an increased density of
           tumor-infiltrating CD8 T-cells.

        -  To assess the antitumor effect of neoadjuvant durvalumab +/- tremelimumab in patients
           with RCC as measured by change in tumor size.

      Correlative Objectives

        -  To explore pharmacodynamic and microbiome markers of response to checkpoint inhibition
           in pre- and post-treatment blood and tissue samples (e.g. infiltration of T cells, T
           regulatory cells and/or Myeloid-derived suppressor cells).

        -  To understand changes in the immunological milieu mediated by pre-surgical immune
           checkpoint blockade (e.g. change in T cell repertoire, expression of T cell agonist
           targets).

      Study Design:

      This study will be a single-arm open-label phase Ib study of neoadjuvant durvalumab +/-
      tremelimumab in localized / locally advanced, non-metastatic RCC patients suitable for
      nephrectomy. Upon selection as appropriate for study, patients will undergo computed
      tomography (CT)-guided biopsy of renal mass to obtain histological confirmation of diagnosis,
      and immunologic characterization of the RCC tumor. Peripheral blood will also be drawn at
      time of screening. Patients will subsequently receive systemic neoadjuvant treatment in one
      of 5 cohorts as defined below. Following systemic therapy, patients will undergo nephrectomy.
      Type of surgery (open vs. minimally invasive, radical vs. partial) and template for lymph
      node dissection are at the discretion of surgeon. Timing of surgery in relation to adverse
      events and/or treatment for adverse events from neoadjuvant dosing of study drugs is at the
      discretion of the surgeon. Adjuvant therapy will be administered within 4-6 weeks of surgery.
      Subsequent follow-up will then be completed to assess adverse event resolution and long-term
      outcomes.
    
  