
    
      A prospective study of cases and controls was designed using a previously validated model for
      the study of occult pancreatobiliary reflux in patients undergoing gastrectomy for gastric
      cancer, in which cholecystectomy is routine according to the oncological surgery protocol for
      gastric cancer of our institution. The study universe was constituted by a convenience sample
      in which all patients undergoing gastrectomy for gastric cancer during the period between
      January 2015 and June 2017 the investigators included. All patients included in this study
      signed a detailed informed consent regarding the interventions to be performed and the
      objectives of the study.

      Cholecystectomy was performed in all patients after the section of the duodenum. Before the
      manipulation and dissection of the Calot triangle, a sample of 5 to 10 cc of bile was taken
      directly from the gallbladder. The sample was stored in a sterile tube at room temperature
      and immediately sent for processing. The technicians of our institutional laboratory that
      processed the sample did not know the details of the study. The cholecystectomy was then
      carried out until the cystic was reached and was cut as proximally as possible to the
      gallbladder. Through the cystic duct, a 4 French feeding tube equivalent to 1.35 mm in
      diameter (Well Lead®, Hamburg, Germany) was introduced until reaching a distance of 3 cm
      distal to the junction of the cystic duct and the common bile duct. Once tested for patency,
      this probe was connected to a standard pressure transducer used to measure intra-arterial
      pressure (Edwards Lifesciences™, Irvine, California, USA) and this was connected to a B40
      monitor (General Electric® Medical Systems, Milwaukee, WI, USA) with the ability, among other
      functions, to perform pressure measurements in millimeters of mercury. The level of the
      junction of the cystic duct and the common bile duct was taken as a zero point, as previously
      described. Once the whole system was irrigated with 0.9% physiological solution and the zero
      point was established on the monitor with the system closed, the system was opened and
      pressures were measured. The minimum, maximum and mean pressures were recorded for one
      minute. After the procedure was completed, the gastrectomy was performed.
    
  