
    
      Despite a declining incidence in many developed countries, gastric cancer remains the second
      most common cause of cancer deaths, and it is responsible for about 12% of all cancer-related
      deaths worldwide. More than two-thirds of patients diagnosed with gastric cancer will have
      unresectable disease and despite the fact that surgical pathological resection can be
      curative for many patients, most of them develop recurrent disease. Evidence supports the use
      of palliative chemotherapy with the aims of improving symptoms, quality of life, and possibly
      prolonging survival. Combination chemotherapy regimens have been developed in the hopes of
      improving response rate and overall survival (OS). Unfortunately, the benefits of combination
      chemotherapy have been modest. In general, regimens containing fluoropyrimidine and platinum
      agents are widely accepted as potential standard therapies. Although a large proportion of
      patients with metastatic or recurrent gastric cancer may initially respond to chemotherapy,
      they ultimately progress. In addition, many patients have primary refractory disease. The
      median survival at progression after first-line chemotherapy for metastatic gastric cancer is
      about 2.5 months.

      Docetaxel is one of the most active single agents in the treatment of gastric cancer. In the
      first line setting, at a dose of 60-100 mg/m2 repeated every 3 weeks, response rates ranged
      from 17% to 20%. Docetaxel is the only taxane that has been evaluated in the context of a
      phase III study.

      Low-dose metronomic chemotherapy represents a new strategy to treat solid tumors by
      exhibiting stronger anti-angiogenic activity and less side effects, especially in combination
      with other anti-angiogenic agents. Capecitabine is a fluoropyrimidine carbamate, which has a
      broader spectrum of antitumor activity than other fluoropyrimidines. In gastric cancer
      xenografts. metronomic capecitabine inhibited angiogenesis, growth of gastric cancer and
      improved survival with less toxicity. In combination with other drugs, the treatment with
      metronomic capecitabine has proven its efficacy with minimal toxicity in breast cancer, in
      metastatic renal-cell carcinoma, in advanced adrenocortical carcinoma, in hepatocellular
      carcinoma, in prostate cancer.

      The "metronomic" strategy was also considered in pretreated elderly patients with advanced
      gastric cancer. Eligible patients with advanced gastric cancer were treated with capecitabine
      until disease progression or significant toxicity. Metronomic chemotherapy achieved a disease
      control rate at 8 weeks of 51.1% , and the objective response rate was 20.9% . The median
      time-to-progression and median overall survival were 3.6 months and 7.6 months, respectively.
      Grade II neutropenia and thrombocytopenia were observed in 13.3 and 2.2% of patients,
      respectively. Grade II/III nonhematological toxicities included diarrhea (4.4%), stomatitis
      (13.4%), and hand-foot syndrome (15.5%). No grade 4 toxicity, neutropenic fever or
      treatment-related deaths occurred.

      Based on these premises and to the fact that the role of metronomic chemotherapy remains
      controversial, its optimal therapeutic use has not yet been defined, we designed this phase
      II study with tha aim to assess efficacy and tolerability of metronomic capecitabine in
      combination with the conventional use of docetaxel in patients with advanced gastric cancer
      previously treated with a fluoropyrimidine-based and platinum-based chemotherapy.
    
  