
    
      The primary objectives of this study are:

        1. to investigate the effects of a sports injury prevention program on train-ing attitudes,
           eccentric hamstring strength, leg axis-/hip-/core-stability and general fitness in
           competitive alpine skiers;

        2. to assess the effectiveness the prevention program to lower the occur-ring health
           problems (i.e. traumatic injuries, overuse injuries and illnesses) in competitive alpine
           skiers.

           The secondary objectives of this study are:

        3. to investigate the agreement between self-reported questionnaire data with unobtrusively
           measured smartphone data (i.e. sensor-based activity data) to monitor the prevention
           program;

        4. to identify athletes at risk for developing pain and injury based on digitally acquired
           data (questionnaires and activity sensor data).

      The primary study outcomes are the changes in training attitudes, maximal eccentric hamstring
      strength, leg axis-/hip-/core-stability, general fitness-related factors and the occurring
      health problems in competitive youth alpine skiers over a 12-month intervention period. These
      outcomes are assessed by established methods of strength testing, neuromuscular screening,
      and load- and health-monitoring.

      The secondary outcome is a smartphone enabled training and injury prevention program for
      skiing athletes.

      Study design: Medical Training Therapy (MTT) Intervention with historical control Group

      Methods and procedures:

      Fitness- and health-related factors are assessed before and after a 12-month observational
      period and before and after a 12-month preventative training intervention period.

      Maximal eccentric hamstring strength is tested by using the NordBord (Inc. VALD Performance,
      AU).

      Leg axis-/hip-/core-stability related measures are assessed by biomechani-cal measurement
      technologies, such as Vicon Vero (Inc. Vicon Motion Sys-tems Ltd, UK), mobile 2D force plates
      (MLD, Inc. SP Sportdiagnosegeräte GmbH, AT), mobile 3D force plates (Inc. Kistler Group, SUI)
      and surface electromyography (EMG) (aktos, Inc. Myon AG, SUI).

      General fitness-related factors are quantified by the Swiss-Ski Power Test (incl. the tasks
      "swiss cross", "push up", "5-jump", "standing long jump", "twist test", "obstacle course",
      "high box jump" and "12' run").

      The athletes' training loads/activities are monitored using custom question-naires and
      measurements obtained through a smartphone (i.e. activity sen-sors).

      The athletes' health is monitored by the OSTRC questionnaire. The athletes' biological
      age/maturity offset is estimated according to the non-invasive, anthropometric-based method
      of Mirwald et al.

      Intervention: The intervention (i.e. the preventative training program) includes a specific,
      complementary training of leg-, hip- and core-strength/stability and will be conducted over
      an intervention period of 12 months. The control interven-tion, compromises no such training
      program.
    
  