
    
      This study is divided in 4 phase. First Phase: Agriculture (Year 1) Site description: The
      experiment will carried out at the Experimental Farm of São Paulo's Agency for Agribusiness
      Technology (APTA) in Ribeirao Preto, Brazil, at the geographic coordinates of 21°12'26" S e
      47°51'48" N and average altitude of 646 m. The annual rainfall is about 1427 mm, with average
      maximum and minimum temperature of 25°C and 19.3°C, respectively. The soil is classified as
      Oxitol with glay texture. The bean crop (Phaseolus vulgaris), will be grown at the 0,50m
      between rows with 12 seed per linear meters and at the 2 weeks after anthesis (flowering) the
      water supply will be amended with deuterium oxide to experimental development. The grain
      produced will be harvested to experimental analysis and consumption. The experimental area
      will have 5.000 m2 with common bean crop to produce enough quantity of grains to the
      experiment running. Seeds will be dried in a scale of 1 to 10 kg of dry and selected seeds.

      Nutrients Composition Analysis (Year 1) Six samples of 100g each will be separated for
      nutrients composition analyses, that will be performed at the Animal Nutrition Laboratory of
      the Animal Science Institute of the University of São Paulo, Brazil. Right after harvesting,
      the food samples will be weighted and dried in a stove with forced air circulation at 65
      degrees Celsius, during 72 hours. After this, samples will be ground in a mill with 2 mm hole
      sieve, and a subsample will be taken for the analysis of dry mass, protein, ether extract,
      mineral mass, energy, calcium and phosphorus, according to Official Methods of Analysis
      (AOAC) (1996). Fibre will be analysed in neutral and acid detergent according to reference
      Silva and Queiroz, 2005, and selenium will be analysed according to Olson et al., 1975.
      Energy analysis will be performed by a calorimetric bomb and fat by the extraction according
      to reference Bligh and Dyer, 1959, at the Nutrients Composition Laboratory of the Ribeirão
      Preto Medical School.

      Second phase (pilot study), Nutrition Institute (Year 2) Subjects Fifteen adult volunteers
      will be recruited for method validation. Inclusion criteria

        -  Healthy, non-pregnant adults 18-65 years of age

        -  Not taking any medication, including NSAIDs

        -  Not taking antibiotics within 4 weeks of study

        -  BMI within 18-35 range

        -  Stable weight Exclusion criteria

        -  Children and elderly (over 65)

        -  Pregnancy

        -  Diagnosed with non-communicable or communicable disease

        -  Being under restrictive diet

        -  Antibiotics within 4 weeks of study

        -  Medications within 4 weeks of study Study design After approval of project by local
           ethics committee and obtaining signed informed consent, volunteers will be offered a
           test meal with milk protein. The test protein in the first place will be whole milk
           protein, produced with a low level deuterium enrichment within the study. This will
           permit the Carbon-13 single cell protein to be characterised against a well-studied
           animal protein known to possess high digestibility. Tracer Amino Acid (AA) appearance in
           the circulation (blood; saliva, urine and breath will also be sampled) and the relative
           appearance of test and reference protein will be taken as a measure of relative
           bioavailability which can be converted into an absolute measure once the reference
           protein has been characterised. The basic measurement will be of stable isotope
           enrichment in individual amino acids.

      Phase 1 pilot study, Nutrition Institute. Fifteen adult volunteers will be recruited for
      method validation.

      Third Phase is in 15 children (1-3 years, with different nutritional status) and Fourth phase
      is in 15 elderly (more than 65 years, with sarcopenia or not sarcopenia).

      Test meal 1: Beans soaked for 3 h, water discarded and beans cooked for 20 min in pressure
      cook.

      The test meal will be separated by the use for two weeks of unlabelled beans. The same
      approach as used in the pilot study of milk protein will be adopted to study the
      bioavailability of grain legumes through simultaneous comparison with a modest quantity
      carbon-13 enriched single cell protein combined in the same test meal.

      All groups will be analysed food intake assessment, total urinary nitrogen and enrichment of
      deuterium in protein. Four 24h Recall Questionnaires will be applied to each volunteer during
      the periods of intake of the test meal, in order to verify the protein and calories
      consumption. Volunteers will be asked to keep their usual intake, to avoid changes in food
      consumption. Total urinary nitrogen of the samples will be analysed by the Kjeldahl method
      with ammonium micro diffusion. Compound specific isotope enrichment in amino acids will be
      analysed in saliva, urine, breath and blood samples. Carbon-13 in breath carbon dioxide (CO2)
      and Deuterium in urine enrichment will be analysed in Mass Spectrometry of Medicine School of
      Ribeirão Preto (FMRP-USP), Brazil, SP.
    
  