
    
      Specific Aims:

        1. Determine the effect of total intravenous versus inhaled anesthesia on intraoperative
           visual field in endoscopic sinus surgery for advanced paranasal sinus disease

        2. Evaluate clinical outcomes associated with choice of total intravenous versus inhaled
           anesthesia in endoscopic sinus surgery

      General Design:

      Double blind, randomized controlled trial of total intravenous versus inhaled anesthetic for
      maintenance of anesthesia during endoscopic sinus surgery.

      Subject Recruitment and Screening:

      Patients will be screened for study inclusion by the principal investigator (EDM) during
      their preoperative visit in the Department of Otolaryngology. Those meeting inclusion
      criteria will be introduced to the study at this time. A full description of the research
      purpose, personnel, procedures, risks and benefits will be presented, and a copy of the study
      consent documentation will be provided for home review.

      Method for Assigning Subjects to Treatment Groups:

      On the day of surgery, eligible participants will be admitted to the Day of Surgery
      Department, where a member of the Anesthesia team will review study information and confirm
      informed consent. A randomly assigned, sealed envelope will then be opened to assign
      participants to either the TIVA, or inhaled anesthetic cohort. At no time will the patient or
      surgeon be made aware of the patient's cohort.

      Blinding of Study Drug:

      At no time will the patient or surgeon be made aware of the patient's cohort. During the
      procedure the surgeon is blinded to the type of anesthesia by placement of a high drape at
      the head of the operative table. Study reviewers will be blinded to treatment arm without
      cohort assignment at time of review for determination of visual field score.

      Study Procedures:

      Participants make no clinic/hospital visits for purposes of study completion as all patient
      interaction limited to visits and surveys completed as part of routine clinical care. Clinic
      visits will include a baseline preoperative visit, and visits at 1 week, 4 weeks, and 10
      weeks after surgery.
    
  