
    
      Purpose of the study:

      Is pro calcitonin a marker for bacterial infection in cancer patients? Is pro calcitonin
      better than C-reactive-protein to identify cancer patients with a bacterial infection?

      Background:

      Infections, in particular bacterial, pose a major threat to cancer patients as treatment
      related immuno-suppression and general weakness increase risk and severity of infections.
      Prompt identification of patients with a bacterial infection is necessary. Traditionally,
      fever, leucocytosis and elevated c-reactive protein (CRP) have been used in the evaluation in
      patients with suspected infection. How-ever, fever may be reduced by analgesics and steroids,
      leucocytes may be decreased due to anticancer therapy and CRP is in some cases elevated by
      the cancer disease as such. The diagnosis of bacterial infection is thus more difficult in
      cancer patients. Recently, pro-calcitonin (PCT) (her dækker maja's godt)

      Design of the study:

      Two groups will be included in this study:

      Group I includes patients in anti-cancer therapy including chemo and radiotherapy, targeted
      treatment and radiotherapy but not hormone treatment, and without any sign of infection
      defined as temperature < 38 C and no focal symptoms of infections. Vital signs are noted and
      blood tests for haematology, CPR and PCT are drawn. Details about cancer type, stage,
      treatment history of infections less than 1 month prior and co-morbidity are registered. Data
      from this cohort will be used to assess median CRP and PCT among non-infected cancer
      patients. Forty patients will be included.

      Group II includes patients in anti-cancer therapy including chemo and radiotherapy, targeted
      treatment and radiotherapy but not hormone treatment, who is hospitalized with suspected
      infection (temp> 38 last 24 hours). At the time of hospitalization, vital signs are noted and
      blood tests for haematology, CPR and PCT are drawn. Details about cancer type, stage,
      treatment history of infections less than 1 month prior and co-morbidity are registered. All
      hospitals records are reviewed after discharge to determine if a certain diagnosis of
      infection (positive bacteriology), probable infection (negative bacteriology but clinical
      course consistent with bacterial infection) or non infection was made. Data from this cohort
      will be used to assess the role of CRP and PCT in prediction of bacterial infection. Forty
      patients will be included in this study.
    
  