
    
      Design and overview. This proposal adds continuous passive sensing and periodic dietary
      assessment to EMA to measure dietary lapses in adults with overweight/obesity and CVD risk
      (n=40) throughout a BOT program (12 weeks) and a period of weight loss maintenance (12
      weeks). Participants will self-report via EMA on meals and snacks, indicting when dietary
      lapses occur. The ActiGraph Link, a wrist-worn device that can detect the motion of food
      being brought to the mouth, will be used to objectively detect eating characteristics.
      Because the composition of foods consumed during lapses is an important facet of lapse
      behavior that is not measured well via passive sensing or EMA, participants will complete
      periodic 24-hour dietary recalls via structured interview (split between days with and
      without lapses) to measure the composition of all food and beverages consumed. Data from the
      EMA, ActiGraph, and food recalls will be integrated to assess characteristics (i.e.,
      frequency, rate, duration), estimated caloric content, and composition of dietary lapses
      compared to non-lapses. The study will advance the science of weight control by combining
      gold-standard and innovative methods to objectively measure dietary lapses and test their
      association with weight change in BOT.

      Recruitment and Screening. Participants will be recruited on a rolling basis using
      advertisements in local newspapers, the study Center's website, and advertising resources
      available through the Miriam Hospital. The study will recruit over 12 months aiming for 4
      participants per month. Interested individuals will be contacted via telephone to complete
      initial screening. The study procedures will be summarized, and an in-person appointment will
      be scheduled for additional screening and orientation. At the orientation meeting, a thorough
      overview of the study purpose and procedures will be provided and consent obtained. Consented
      individuals will be asked to complete all screening questions and measures to determine
      eligibility. Eligible participants will be contacted after this visit to begin treatment.
      Ineligible individuals will be notified accordingly and provided with referrals for BOT in
      the community.

      The behavioral obesity treatment is described in further detail below.

      Assessment schedule. Measures are described in further detail below. The primary outcome of
      interest, dietary lapse, will be measured on a biweekly basis throughout the 24-week study.
      Participants will continuously wear a wrist-watch device to passively detect eating episodes.
      Composition and quality of dietary intake will be measured every 6 weeks. Participants will
      have weight measured and wrist-watch data downloaded at each weekly appointment during the
      weight loss treatment phase. During the maintenance phase of treatment, participants will be
      asked to attend an additional appointment once per month separate from the monthly treatment
      visit, to initiate data downloading on the wrist-watch sensor and have weight measured.
    
  