
    
      Premature ejaculation (PE) has been known as one of the most common male sexual dysfunction.
      PE can deteriorate sexual satisfaction and quality of life of the patients and their
      partners. Recently, the International Society for Sexual Medicine (ISSM) gave a definition
      that PE is a 'male sexual dysfunction characterized by ejaculation that always or nearly
      always occurs prior to or within 1 min of vaginal penetration from the first sexual
      experience (lifelong PE), or a clinically significant reduction in latency time, often to
      about 3 min or less (acquired PE)' . Until now, several treatment modalities for PE have been
      introduced. Psychological/behavioral; pharmacologic therapies, including selective serotonin
      reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), tricyclic antidepressants, tramadol, phosphodiesterase 5
      inhibitor, alpha 1-andreoreceptor antagonists; topical anaesthetics, and even surgical
      treatments have been used for PE in practice. Dapoxetine is the first oral pharmacological
      agent developed for the treatment of PE and the only SSRI approved in more than 60 countries
      for PE. The introduction of dapoxetine was accompanied with high expectation because of the
      optimal efficacy/ safety profile showed in the phase 3 trials. However, several clinical
      studies using depoxetine confirmed the efficacy in increasing IELT, it reveals significant
      dropout rate likely which was shown in the treatment using off-label SSRIs. Despite high
      efficacy and safety, discontinuation rate of dapoxetine is high compared to PDE5 inhibitors
      in patients with erectile dysfunction (ED).

      Until now dapoxetine is the only approved medical treatment option and there is no second
      line therapy in case of no-response or refuse to dapoxetine, a comprehensive evaluation of
      the factors that lead to dropout is needed especially in a real-practice setting. With this
      background, investigators will assesse the discontinuation rate of dapoxetine treatment in
      patients with PE and the reasons for discontinuation in a clinical setting throughout a
      follow-up period of 2 years.
    
  