
    
      Smoking during pregnancy carries serious risks to mother and infant health. More babies whose
      mothers smoke are stillborn or die within the first year of life. Smoking during pregnancy
      results in increased rates of intrauterine growth retardation, preterm birth, and babies'
      longer-term risk of developing heart disease and diabetes. Pregnant women who smoke are more
      likely to experience miscarriage, placental abruption, pregnancy-induced hypertension and
      later conditions such as lung cancer and heart disease.

      Reduction in smoking in pregnancy has been a long standing health policy target however there
      is limited evidence of effectiveness of many smoking cessation interventions and their uptake
      is generally low. We have developed, and carried out initial testing of an intervention to
      support smoking cessation in pregnant women using narrative, story-telling delivered via
      automated text-messages. The intervention aims to alter women's perceptions of risk, social
      norms, outcomes and self-efficacy using three key elements. 1. a narrative story of a
      fictional young pregnant woman 'Megan' trying to stop smoking by overcoming a series of
      commonplace barriers. 2) images showing the size of their fetus and its stage of development
      3) an interactive 'help' function to receive a supportive, tailored response. Behaviour
      change techniques for smoking cessation in pregnancy are embedded in the intervention.

      A randomised controlled trial is required to test the effectiveness of the intervention in
      reducing smoking in pregnancy. The aim of this study is to investigate the feasibility and
      likelihood of success of the narrative and image-based intervention for smoking cessation in
      pregnant women. If successful the intervention will be tested in a full-scale (Phase III)
      multi centre randomised controlled trial.

      Objectives:

        1. To assess acceptability and willingness to be randomised to the narrative and image
           based intervention or usual care.

        2. To assess and compare the feasibility of recruitment strategies, the level of
           participants' retention in the study and engagement with the intervention.

        3. To assess the acceptability and likely impact of the intervention among pregnant
           smokers.

        4. To estimate the required sample size for a full trial.
    
  