
    
      GammaTile therapy results in improved clinical outcomes; however the data is a single site
      experience with a limited number of subjects, only 12 of which were patients with metastatic
      brain tumors. The primary objective of this randomized, controlled trial is to compare the
      efficacy and safety of intraoperative radiation therapy using GammaTilesTM (GT) versus SRS
      3-4 weeks following metastatic tumor resection which is the current standard of care. The
      data collected in this trial design will allow for a direct comparisons of a variety of
      outcomes including local control, overall survival, functional status, quality of life,
      neurocognitive status and safety in the target population. In order to support direct
      comparisons, subjects will be randomized to the two equally sized arms (1:1) based on the
      following stratification factors; age (<60 and ≥60), duration of extracranial disease control
      (≤3 months vs >3 months), number of metastases (one or two to four), histology (lung and
      radiation resistant), and the maximal diameter of the index lesion (≤3 cm and >3 cm).

      An index lesion meeting the criteria of ≥2.5cm3 and appropriate for gross total resection
      (GTR), will be identified and up to three other non-resectable lesions in a patient will be
      allowed. After resection of the index lesion the surgical bed will be treated with adjunct
      radiation (either GT or SRS) thereby following the standard of care guideline. (NCCN
      Guidelines, 2019). Additional unresected metastatic lesions will be treated with with
      stereotactic radiosurgery alone, which also adhears to standard of care guidelines.(NCCN
      Guidelines, 2019).

      GammaTile is an FDA-cleared means of rapid dose delivery of radiation therapy directly to the
      tumor bed with predictable dosimetry at the immediate time of re-resection, and a intense but
      localized radiation treatment may confer a reduced risk for radiation necrosis compared to
      other therapies. It is typically easly placed with minimal additional operative time and
      limited staff radiation exposure.

      Given these benefits, the rationale for conducting this randomized control comparison study
      is to generate additional data, to further support the use of this new FDA-cleared method of
      delivering radiation therapy in the setting of newly diagnosed brain metastases.
    
  