
    
      Objective:

      Pain is one of the most important signals for an organism s survival. The pathways that
      transfer noxious input from the periphery to the central nervous system are highly conserved
      across human and animal models. In humans, the ultimate experience of pain is also highly
      influenced by psychological factors. For example, the placebo effect leads to robust pain
      relief and can influence responses to noxious stimuli in the human brain. However, the
      psychological and neurobiological mechanisms by which psychological factors influence pain
      remain largely unknown.

      Pain can be modulated by explicit beliefs about treatments, prior experience and learning,
      interpersonal processes that support the patient-provider relationship, and contextual
      factors related to the treatment environment. In the proposed series of experiments, we will
      systematically investigate the neural and psychological mechanisms that mediate the effects
      of these factors on acute pain. We will focus on expectations, attention, emotion,
      conditioning/associative learning, and social factors. These experiments will principally use
      functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and psychophysiological measurements, as well as
      behavioral assays and self-reports. We will examine the effects of different types of
      pain-related expectations on decisions about pain as well as responses in the brain and
      periphery. We will also compare acute pain with other hedonic and perceptual processes. This
      will allow us to distinguish processes that are unique to pain perception from those that are
      not specific to pain, such as processes involved in perception and decision-making across
      domains.

      Together, the proposed series of experiments aim to elucidate the psychological,
      neurobiological, and physiological mechanisms that modulate pain. This, in turn, can identify
      targets for pain treatment and inform mechanistic studies of altered pain processing in
      clinical populations.

      Study Population:

      We plan to recruit 280 healthy volunteers between age 18 and 50.

      Design:

      The aim of the proposed series of experiments is to understand how expectations, attention,
      and emotion influence acute pain. We will manipulate expectations about noxious stimuli using
      associative learning and verbal instructions, in both within-subjects and between-groups
      designs. We will measure decisions about pain experience (self-report) as well as neural and
      physiological responses to noxious stimuli that cause pain. We will combine computational
      modeling with advanced neuroimaging analyses to isolate the neural and psychological
      mechanisms that mediate the effects of expectations, attention, and emotion on subjective
      pain. To determine the specificity of these mechanisms, we will compare acute pain modalities
      (e.g., thermal pain versus shock-induced pain), and we will contrast pain with other hedonic
      and perceptual domains (e.g., taste).

      Outcome measures:

      Dependent variables for all experiments will include decisions about pain and/or other
      percepts (e.g., sweetness of a taste) measured with visual analogue scales, reaction time,
      physiological responses (e.g., skin conductance, pupil dilation), and/or BOLD activation in
      regions of interest. We are specifically interested in processes within the network of
      regions known to be involved in pain processing (pain-processing network, PPN), as well as
      responses in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), ventral striatum (VS), and amygdala. We hypothesize
      that nociceptive stimuli and pain ratings will be associated with unique patterns of
      activation within the PPN, whereas responses in regions associated with value, executive
      function, and decision-making will be common across outcomes.
    
  