
    
      The intervention group will consist of all patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease (COPD) referred to Guy's and St Thomas' Hospital (GSTT) pulmonary rehabilitation. A
      sample of 30 is anticipated as this is the maximum number of patients who could be enrolled
      in the 3 month recruitment period in Guy's and St. Thomas' Hospital.

        1. The patient information sheet, together with the referral for PR, will be posted to the
           patients. Patients will be informed about the study details in the patient information
           sheet. This will include the fact that they have to wear an accelerometer for 5 to 7
           days prior to starting the program. These accelerometers will be collected thereafter.
           Instructions on the use of the accelerometers will be given. They will also be informed
           that any personal information will strictly be kept confidential and that the results
           will be used for analysis in the study.

        2. Written consent will be taken on initial assessment if patient agrees to participate in
           the study.

        3. The Pulmonary Rehabilitation Adapted Index of Self-Efficacy (PRAISE) questionnaire will
           be administered. It consists of 15 questions and will take less than 10 minutes to
           complete.

        4. The patient will undertake 14 sessions of PR under supervision to successfully complete
           the program. The program is held at Guy's and St Thomas' Hospital.

        5. The PRAISE questionnaire will be administered again after completion of the program.
           Patients will be asked to wear the accelerometers again to track their physical
           activity. After 5 to 7 days of use, the accelerometers will be collected either from
           their address or via stamped postage.

      No changes will be made to the current pulmonary rehabilitation program.

      No control group is present in the study as pulmonary rehabilitation is the standard of care
      and it is not ethical to withhold pulmonary rehabilitation from patients with COPD.

      The null hypothesis would be that there is no difference in physical activity and
      self-efficacy before and after pulmonary rehabilitation. The statistical test used will be a
      paired sample t-test to determine the change in a) physical activity and b)self-efficacy
      after pulmonary rehabilitation.

      Correlation analysis will be made between self-efficacy and physical activity with a) Anxiety
      and depression (Hospital anxiety and depression scale), b)Functional exercise capacity (6
      minute walk test) and c) COPD Assessment test.

      A Pearson or Spearman correlations will be done depending on whether or not the data is
      normally distributed.
    
  