
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Determine the toxicities and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of birinapant concurrent with
      intensity modulated re-irradiation therapy (IMRRT).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the objective response rate of patients with locoregionally recurrent head and
      neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) treated with re-irradiation and birinapant.

      II. Determine the local-regional control, progression free survival (PFS), and overall
      survival.

      III. Determine if FADD and/or BIRC2/3 copy gain in tumor tissue or in the blood are
      associated with improved response, locoregional control (LCR), progression-free survival and
      overall survival.

      IV. Determine the feasibility of detecting effects of birinapant and re-irradiation on pilot
      pharmacodynamic markers in tumor tissue, by using microwestern to assess decrease in drug
      targets IAP1/2 and increase in apoptosis/necroptosis markers caspase 3 and mixed lineage
      kinase domain like pseudokinase gene (MLKL).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Explore if mutational load detected with whole exome and ribonucleic acid (RNA)-sequencing
      of tumor tissue influences objective response rate.

      II. Explore if PD-L1, CD8 T-cell tumor infiltration, TNFalpha, and other immune related
      biomarkers in tumor tissue are associated with objective response rate.

      III. Explore the pharmacokinetics of birinapant in combination with radiotherapy in blood
      samples.

      IV. Explore whether specific germline single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are associated
      with response to birinapant and reirradiation.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of birinapant.

      Beginning on day 1, patients undergo IMRRT 5 days a week (Monday-Friday). Patients also
      receive birinapant intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 2 and 9 of each cycle.
      Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 28 days, and at 3, 6, 9, 12,
      18, and 24 months until confirmation of disease progression.
    
  