
    
      Prescreening:

      The purpose of prescreening is to determine the IQ and functioning level of the participants.
      The investigators will administrate IQ tests in which the participants will complete a series
      of tasks such as pointing to images/objects, placing objects, and answer questions upon
      instruction. The investigators will interview parents regarding their children's levels of
      functioning as well as their information (e.g., level of education). Additionally, the
      investigators will also assess the number of digits (digit span) and delay for each
      participant as the participants may function at different levels. Members of the research
      team will test a combination of different digit span and delays for each participant to
      assess how many digits in a sequence (i.e., digit span) they can remember and how long (i.e.,
      delay) they can remember the digit sequence.

      Pretest:

      A pretest trial starts when a teacher asks a participant to repeat a sequence of numbers and
      a sequence of nonsense words. The teacher will say one number or one nonsense word at a time,
      wait for a predetermined interval, and ask the participant to report the numbers or the words
      in the exact sequence as they hear. The trial ends after the participant recalls correctly or
      incorrectly, or if the participant does not produce a recall after 5 s. The teacher will not
      provide any verbal feedback for participants' responses during the pretest. The investigators
      will conduct pretest for approximately one week. During the pretest, teacher will record
      exactly what the participant says.

      Random assignment:

      After pretest, the participants will be randomly assigned to one of four groups: control,
      rehearsal, reinforcement, and rehearsal + reinforcement groups.

      Control group Participants in this group will not receive any intervention during the study.

      Rehearsal group Participants in this group will receive rehearsal intervention. The
      intervention will last approximately 2-3 weeks depending on the participant performance.
      Sessions will be conducted daily, and each will include 10 trials.

      A preference assessment will be conducted to determine the reinforcer before each session.
      Participants will be asked to choose a reinforcer that they would like to receive during the
      instruction. In a rehearsal trial, the teacher will verbally present numbers in a sequence.
      After a number is verbally presented, the teacher will prompt the participant to rehearse
      (repeat) the number being said as well as all previous numbers. Correct rehearsal will be
      followed by a reinforcer (e.g., an edible item with verbal praise). Once the participant can
      independently rehearse the number(s), the prompts for verbal rehearsal will only be provided
      when he or she does not start providing a rehearsal within 1 s. The reinforcer will then only
      be given for correct unprompted verbal rehearsal. If the participant does not provide any
      verbal rehearsals or verbalize incorrect numbers, the instructor will repeat the process and
      ask the participant to rehearse the numbers again. After the predetermined delay after the
      correct verbal rehearsal, the participant will be asked to recall the number sequence. No
      reinforcement or feedback will be provided.

      Reinforcement group A preference assessment will be conducted to determine the reinforcer
      before each session. Participants will be asked to choose a reinforcer that they would like
      to receive during the instruction. Before each trial, the teacher will verbally instruct the
      participant to try to remember the numbers and that the reinforcer will be delivered upon the
      correct recall. In each trial, the teacher will verbally present numbers in a sequence. After
      a while, the teacher will ask the participant to repeat the numbers in the sequence. If the
      participant correctly repeats the numbers, the reinforcer will be given. If the numbers are
      repeated incorrectly, the reinforcement will not be given. No other instruction will be given
      (e.g., on rehearsal strategy).

      Rehearsal + reinforcement group The participants in this group will receive rehearsal
      intervention and reinforcement in the same manner as the participants in the rehearsal group
      as well as in the reinforcement group.

      Posttest:

      Posttest procedure and data collection will be the same as those during pretest.
    
  