
    
      This is a prospective, multicenter, non-randomized controlled trial. The target population
      consists of 200 acute spinal cord injury patients undergoing pre-hospital treatment in the
      Beijing Emergency Medical Center and Beijing Red Cross Emergency Rescue Center, and receiving
      in-hospital treatment in the Peking University People's Hospital, Peking University Third
      Hospital, Beijing Friendship Hospital Affiliated to Capital Medical University, Chaoyang
      Hospital Affiliated to Capital Medical University, and Chinese PLA General Hospital, China.

      History and current related studies Acute spinal cord injury (SCI) as a clinical common
      disease is the difficulty of clinical treatment, and frequently occurs in young adults. The
      incidence of acute SCI is 30-40/million people in Europe and USA, but 60.2/million people in
      Beijing of China. The complete SCI is very dangerous, and there is no effective medical
      therapy. At present, the effective treatment of acute SCI should be the first aid and
      advanced rehabilitation.

      24 hours is the best time to rescue spinal cord function after SCI, especially 3-8 hours
      after injury is the golden opportunity. A large dose of hormone therapy in the 3-8 hours
      after injury can reduce secondary injury, thereby reducing the degree of SCI. 24 hours after
      injury, early surgery for relieving spinal cord compression can significantly improve the
      recovery of spinal cord function. Timely and properly pre-hospital first aid, quick hospital
      admissions and assessment, and timely surgery are essential for the rescue of spinal cord
      function. Patients with incomplete SCI can be completely injured and lose the possibility of
      recovery of spinal cord function due to improper first aid or untimely treatment. Complete
      SCI will cause more severe injury due to improper treatment. It may be difficult to make up
      for surgery or rehabilitation training. A sound and rapid treatment system is the basis for
      improving the treatment level of SCI, but we still lack of this kind of system in China.

      In Beijing of China, pre-hospital treatment can be done by Beijing Emergency Medical Center
      (120 first aid system) and Beijing Red Cross Hospital (999 first aid system). While
      cooperating with each other, it is also faced with different mechanisms, different treatment
      patterns and overlapping treatment regions. As for the in-hospital treatment, Beijing has a
      large number of high-level hospitals, but these hospitals are overcrowding. There is no SCI
      treatment specialist or professional hospital in Beijing City, so treatment basically relies
      on various general hospitals. In pre-hospital first aid and in-hospital treatment of Beijing
      City, the medical information transfer is not smooth; the treatment process is separated, and
      it lacks of standardized treatment. The ability and level of medical personnels are not
      consistent, the technology is backward, and there is lack of professional training. Thus, the
      vast majority of patients with SCI cannot be treated within the optimal treatment time after
      injury. It is also an important cause of higher mortality and disability in SCI patients in
      China compared with the developed countries.

      In 2006, Professor Bao-guo Jiang, director of the Department of Orthopedics, Peking
      University People's Hospital, led the establishment of the Traffic Medicine Center of Peking
      University, involving Peking University People's Hospital, School of Public Health of Peking
      University, Peking University First Hospital, Peking University Third Hospital, Beijing
      Traffic Management Bureau, and Beijing Emergency Medical Center in China. Reviewed by the
      Health and Family Planning Commission, the "National Center for Severe Trauma Training" was
      set up in 2015, and Bao-guo Jiang served as the director of the center. The Traffic Medicine
      Center and two emergency centers in Beijing have cooperated for many years, and established
      an epidemiological database for the treatment of severe trauma and the linkage mechanism of
      pre-hospital and in-hospital. The treatment of spine injury and SCI is one of important
      contents for treating severe trauma. With this center as a platform, the database of SCI
      patients can be specialized; a unified standardized and rapid treatment can be carried out in
      many participating medical units using the linkage mechanism with the emergency centers; a
      high level of scientific research can be carried out, and a series of studies can be started,
      concerning SCI epidemiology, treatment procedures and improvement in treatment effect.
      Simultaneously, the standardized training for pre-hospital and in-hospital first aid care
      personnel in each research center and hospital can be completed.

      For nonstandard treatment process and path and poor information exchange, incoherent
      pre-hospital care and in-hospital treatment, lack of professional training for treatment
      personnel, and uneven comprehensive hospital treatment capacity, this trial aims to formulate
      the standards for the treatment of spine injury and SCI through a standardized multicenter
      study so as to improve the level of SCI treatment and to reduce the mortality and disability
      of SCI patients in Beijing, China.

      Statistical analysis

        1. Statistical analysis will be performed using SPSS 19.0 software (IBM, Armonk, NY, USA)

        2. Measurement data will be expressed as the case number (missing number), mean, median,
           standard deviation, first quartile, third quartile, maximum, and minimum. The 95%
           confidence interval of the rate will be calculated.

        3. Count data will be expressed as the frequency and relative number. The 95% confidence
           interval of the rate will be calculated.

        4. Normally or non-normally distributed measurement data will be analyzed using paired
           t-test or Wilcoxon signed rank test.

        5. Count data will be analyzed using Chi-square test or Fisher exact test. Ranked data will
           be analyzed using Wilcoxon signed rank test.

      Sample size calculation In accordance with previous SCI treatment conditions in participating
      units, we will recruit 200 cases.

      Data management

        1. The database will be constructed and maintained by Peking University People's Hospital.
           According to the data characteristics of the research program, the main researcher will
           draft detailed data management and statistical plans, including data quality audit,
           construct corresponding electronic database, completely and accurately input all
           expected data.

        2. Each participating unit will be responsible for filling in the database of their
           subjects.

        3. The computer program combined with the manual method will be used to check the
           consistency and logicality of the data.

        4. Any questions will be answered by the person in charge of the project and the main
           staff, and returned to the data management center, and then the data manager will modify
           and update the database. All inspection procedures need to be repeated several times
           until there is no doubt. All changes and updates are required for recording and filing.
           It is strictly forbidden to use correction fluid or correction tape.

        5. All researchers are required to ensure that the data recorded in the case report forms
           are authentic.

      Auditing

        1. Peking University People's Hospital will organize training sessions before the study and
           conduct unified training for all the participants. A person, as a coordinator, will
           coordinate the whole research, prepare a research brief, regularly announce the progress
           of the study, and solve the problems in the study.

        2. The responsible person will hold a regular meeting, summarize the work, communicate,
           correct the problem, and make a request.

        3. In order to follow the Guidelines for Good Clinical Practice, we will set up a regular
           visit to each center to ensure compliance with research programs, Good Clinical Practice
           and related laws.

      Quality control and management

        1. In order to implement the research plan, it is necessary to hold the project launch
           meeting of the heads of the participating units so as to carry out unified training for
           the implementation of the project plan, and for the record and assessment.

        2. The heads of the participating units will train specific operators on programs,
           procedures, and instructions, develop training programs and manuals to ensure that the
           team members are familiar with and grasp the relevant contents before the trial.

        3. The inspector is responsible for ensuring the smooth progress of the trial, controls the
           whole process, and deals with emergencies.

        4. Each participating unit will perform its duties, strictly follow the clinical trial
           program, and adopt standard operating procedures. Grading of quality-control staffs will
           be set up; different grades of staffs will be responsible for different parts of work,
           which will be inspected by the superior staff to ensure that the data will be input in
           the database system within 24 hours after the incident and to ensure the authenticity
           and validity.

        5. A new team member will be trained, concerning project plan and process, and timely
           trained, concerning the updated content/process or content that needs to be
           re-emphasized.

        6. Standard operation procedure will ensure smooth handover if necessary.

        7. The arbitrator will guarantee the rights of each participating unit, make sure true,
           accurate, complete and correct data record and report, and ensure that the research
           follows the relevant laws and regulations. The number of visits of the arbitrator will
           meet the needs of quality control. The arbitrator after each visit will inform the
           project leader the inspection results.

        8. Quality controller of each region will carry out internal inspection on scale filling
           weekly according to the requirements.

        9. According to the training program, the leader of each region will submit the results,
           statements, and a summary report quarterly to the research group. The research group
           will timely adjust the protocol according to the report.
    
  