
    
      Given the investigators daily activity evaluated patients received 65-70 day hospital,
      assessing the feasibility of the project with an internalized platform seems most relevant to
      completely control the process and costs.

      This project will consist of anticipation paramedic telephone consultation followed by a
      medical prescription validation will trigger the production of chemotherapy prematurely
      before the coming of the patient.

      The François Baclesse Center therefore supports the idea of an early day hospital, that is to
      say a prescription and production pockets of chemotherapy before the arrival of the patient
      in the service.

      This project was named PROJECT OPTIMA for "Optimize requirements and preparations
      chemotherapy Ambulatory Medicine" with a paramedic telephone consultation.

      So this ambitious project is the first experience of a French advance routine injectable
      anticancer therapies, all protocols combined in a Centre for the Fight against Cancer but
      also in a hospital reference competent oncology and chemotherapy and whose preparation
      process of chemotherapy administered by injection is fully internalized and centralized.

      Before starting this program routine, it is essential to validate through a research project
      concordance between paramedic telephone consultation structured using tools and medical
      consultation but also define the profiles of patients and types of chemotherapy injectable
      likely to benefit safely from this program.

      This study will be conducted in two parts:

      • Part 1: where are compared two tools:

        -  paramedical examination conducted by telephone two days before the arrival of the
           patient by a trained nurse, according to a predetermined grid, as a basis for medical
           decisions prescription "virtual" or non-treatment;

        -  medical examination performed on the day of the coming of the patient for treatment.

      This component will run for three months and will evaluate the rate of discrepancies between
      these 2 types of prescription.

      During this period, any prescription or administration of treatment will be validated at the
      end of the paramedical examination phones.

      This component will also detect and specify protocols suitable injectable cancer treatment
      and develop a typology of patients for whom the anticipation process is more efficient and
      more secure.

      Indeed, the investigators can think that the anticipation process will not be effective for
      all patients.

      For example, a patient with a brain tumor will often diminished cognitive abilities including
      its memory abilities. Responses to the telephone interview conducted by the nurse may be
      incomplete or even false due to its memory disorders.

      At the same time, waiting times and patient satisfaction will be evaluated and used as a
      reference for the second part of the study whose objective is to evaluate the benefits of
      this early prescription used routinely.

      • 2nd part: It is an assessment process routinely used after defining the profile of patients
      and types of treatment protocols, including the phone call from the nurse, the early
      prescription of chemotherapy, early production and day, medical consultation control before
      administration.

      In this step will be compared to expectations time, patient satisfaction and treatment
      wrongly prepared before and after the launch of Optima.

      Prerequisites:

        -  All nurses to conduct telephone interviews will be trained on two days conducted by EFEC
           (European School of Oncology Training) whose purpose is to explain the issues of the
           telephone interview for resulting prescription chemotherapy for the patient.

        -  Nurses phone platform dedicated to the call of patients will experience in service,
           allowing them to develop acuity to identify clues that signpost to important pieces of
           information for the management of patients.

      Feasibility:

      This study will be conducted in two stages for a period of three months each, which should
      allow in the investigators activity to include 450 patients by step, based on 3 patient came
      through, about 1350 came by step ..

      The homepage of the day hospital service capacity is 40 places for activity 65-70 patients
      per day. Approximately 300 patients are admitted each week with about 42 new patients each
      week.

      The investigators welcome all specialties outside of Hematology (digestive oncology, ENT and
      Pneumology, urogynecologic, breast screening, brain tumors and sarcomas).
    
  