
    
      ABSTRACT

      Background: In order to ensure the highest quality of care is provided for dying patients and
      their families, one needs to first be able to robustly evaluate the current quality of care.
      One identified method is to assess this from the user-perspective by conducting bereaved
      relatives' surveys. 'Care Of the Dying Evaluation' (CODE) is a recognised, validated
      post-bereavement questionnaire which has been extensively used within the United Kingdom. The
      ERANet-LAC CODE project aims to use CODE in a wider international context. In Work Package 1
      of the project, CODE will be translated and pilot tested in volunteers and bereaved relatives
      in the partner countries. Using a consensus procedure, a final version of the international
      CODE (i-CODE) questionnaire will be developed.

      Aims: The present project (Work Package 2) aims to advance the international evidence in care
      for dying cancer patients by undertaking an observational study of bereaved relatives' views
      across seven participating countries. The overall aims of Work Package 2 (WP2) are to:

        -  Conduct an international survey of bereaved relatives of cancer patients dying in
           hospitals, using the CODE questionnaire

        -  Use the CODE data to provide feedback about the quality of care and level of family
           support at an international and national level, allowing for cross-country comparisons

        -  Conduct a web survey of all participating institutions to be able to interpret the
           survey data in the context of information about each organisation and the level of
           specialist palliative care provision at each site / country

      Methods: Bereaved adult relatives, to adult cancer patients who had an 'expected' death in
      hospital, will be approached face to face, by telephone or in writing and invited to complete
      the CODE questionnaire. The CODE questionnaire pack will be sent out 6-8 weeks after
      bereavement. CODE may be completed via self-completion paper questionnaire, via on-line
      questionnaire, or facilitated via a researcher using a tablet, telephone or face-to-face
      interview, according to what is feasible and acceptable in each country. The aim is 100
      completed questionnaires per country. Basic demographics will be recorded for all potential
      participants and for the patients who died.

      Analysis of results: Data will be analysed using SPSS and according to the CODE user guide,
      to present a common international report, individual country reports and cross-country
      comparisons. Data will be interpreted in the context of knowledge about the individual
      sites/countries.

      Conclusions: The expected outcomes from WP2 are an international survey and cross-country
      comparisons about the current quality of care for dying cancer patients as perceived by
      bereaved people, including key areas where care needs to be improved. WP3 of the project will
      use the results of the international survey to implement changes to improve the care.

      INTRODUCTION

      In 2012, 2.35 million people died from cancer in European and Latin American (EU-LAC)
      countries. Patients with advanced cancer generally experience a number of distressing
      symptoms and face problems of a psychological, social and spiritual nature as well as
      physical ones. Care for dying patients is an important part of comprehensive cancer care and
      a central responsibility for health care on the whole. Evidence has identified challenges and
      disparities in the quality of care for seriously ill and dying patients, both within and
      across EU-LAC countries. An international project which engaged both EU and LAC countries
      (OPCARE9) already identified areas of common research interest and potential learning between
      continents.

      The present project was proposed in response to the ERANet-LAC 2nd Joint Call on Research and
      Innovation and approved for funding under the European Commission's 7th framework program.
      The aim of the project is to inform and develop an evidence based approach to systematically
      standardize assessment and care of dying cancer patients, using relative generated outcomes.
      The project will be conducted in four European and three South American countries three years
      starting from January 2017. The project contains three Work Packages (parts). This protocol
      describes the work to be undertaken in Work Package 2 (CODE International Survey).

      BACKGROUND

      The delivery of appropriate care for dying cancer patients remains a key medical, social,
      economic and political issue. However, the quality of care for the dying is diverse both
      within and between EU-LAC countries. The Quality of Death Index 2015 ranges 80 countries
      around the world based on 20 quantitative and qualitative indicators across five categories:
      the palliative and healthcare environment, human resources, the affordability of care, the
      quality of care, and the level of community engagement. The European countries of the present
      proposal all fall within the top 30 of this ranking, ranging from positions 1-26, while the
      South American countries have positions 32, 39 and 42 respectively. Several reports on the
      current state of palliative and end-of-life care in South America have been published in
      recent years. They show that 80 % of Latin American countries do not acknowledge specialist
      palliative care as a discipline, and consequently do not include it in public health
      services. Only 51 % of patients in terminal stages of disease receive palliative care. Even
      in the United Kingdom, however, ranked as number 1 in the Quality of Death Index 2015, recent
      reports have shown significant variations in the care of the dying across hospitals in
      England (National care of the dying audit - hospitals, England 2014). In Norway, ranked as
      number 13 overall, but number 9 in the availability of care category and 7 in the human
      resources category, there is a lack of robust indicators to evaluate the care given to dying
      patients, hampering audit and comparisons between services. Henceforth, this indicates the
      need and importance for good process and outcome indicators to be in place within healthcare
      settings.

      Based on the international evidence base, a set of core principles for care of the dying has
      been defined. These principles are applicable to the care of dying cancer patients, as well
      as other patients, worldwide. Several of the partners of the present consortium have led
      local, regional or national initiatives to improve care for dying cancer patients, especially
      by the use of integrated care plans applying these core international principles for care.

      In order to ensure the highest quality of care provisions, one needs to first be able to
      robustly evaluate the current quality of care. One method, as recommended by the End of Life
      Care Strategy within the United Kingdom, is to assess this from the user-perspective by
      conducting bereaved relatives' surveys. As such, bereaved relatives' evaluations (both by
      surveys and telephone interviews) have formed a key aspect in evaluation of end-of-life care
      in many countries, especially within North America, and parts of Europe.

      'Care Of the Dying Evaluation' Questionnaire

      One such post-bereavement questionnaire is 'Care Of the Dying Evaluation' (CODE) (Appendix
      1). This is a 42-item self-completion questionnaire, developed within the UK, and focused on
      the quality of care and the level of support provided to individuals and their families in
      the last days of life and the immediate post-bereavement period. In the UK, the NHS Friends
      and Family Test has also been included as an additional question within this questionnaire.

      CODE represents a shortened and more user-friendly version of the original instrument,
      'Evaluating Care and Health Outcomes - for the Dying' (ECHO-D). ECHO-D has been used with
      over 700 bereaved relatives within a hospice and hospital setting and shown to be valid,
      reliable and sensitive in detecting inequalities in care and areas of unmet need. Both these
      instruments are unique from other post-bereavement questionnaires as they specifically link
      with the key components representing best practice for 'care of the dying' in the last days
      of life.

      ECHO-D was revised and shortened, and the 'key quality indicator' questions (based on
      validity and reliability measures as well as clinical importance) were used to form CODE.
      These questions include: aspects of symptom control; communication; nursing and medical care;
      provision of fluids; place of death; emotional and spiritual support. CODE has been used and
      validated with bereaved relatives to patients who died in their own home. The validation
      process included: undertaking cognitive 'think aloud' interviews to assess face and content
      validity; assessing CODE's stability over time by conducting test-retest reliability
      analysis; and assessing the construct validity and internal consistency of three key
      composite scales within CODE. The three composite scales that exist within CODE represent the
      conceptual themes environment, care and communication. In addition, CODE contains four key
      composite variables representing groups of questions which have similar important conceptual
      themes and nominal response options: symptom control, symptom management, spiritual needs and
      unmet information needs.

      Subsequently, CODE has been used within the context of the National Care of the Dying Audit -
      Hospitals which was led by the Royal College of Physicians; and within Merseyside and
      Cheshire as part of a quality assurance and benchmarking process to evaluate Care of the
      Dying across hospices, hospitals and community settings. Additionally, prior to the present
      project, there have been six requests for CODE to be used internationally, and over 40
      requests for use within the UK healthcare setting.

      In Work Package 1 of the present project, CODE was translated from English into the main
      language of each partner country according to established international procedures, and pilot
      tested in volunteers and bereaved relatives to assure understanding and appropriate cultural
      adaptation. Based on feedback from the testing in each country, a common, international
      version of CODE (iCODE) has been established through a consensus procedure.

      All partners have signed a Material Transfer Agreement for the use of CODE in the present
      project.

      AIMS & OBJECTIVES

      The present project (Work Package 2) aims to advance the international evidence in care for
      dying patients by undertaking an observational study of bereaved relatives' views across
      seven participating countries, by use of the CODE questionnaire.

      The overall aims of Work Package 2 (WP2) are:

        -  Conduct an international survey of bereaved relatives of cancer patients dying in
           hospitals, using the CODE questionnaire

        -  Conduct a web survey of all participating institutions to aid in the interpretation of
           the survey data

        -  Use the CODE data to provide feedback about the quality of care and level of family
           support at an international and national level, allowing for cross-country comparisons

      The aims will be achieved by the following objectives:

        -  Recruit the sufficient number of hospitals caring for adult cancer patients as study
           sites

        -  Recruit at least 100 bereaved relatives as study participants in each country. (Due to
           expected response rates for these types of bereaved surveys, the investigators are
           anticipating that up to 3-4 times as many questionnaires will need to be disseminated to
           bereaved relatives. The expected response rate is also depending on the method of
           recruitment, as generally more persons respond to a personal invitation than to a letter
           in the post.)

        -  Establish feasible and effective procedures for CODE data collection in each country

        -  Establish safe and effective methods for transfer of study data to a common database

        -  Develop an online survey for mapping information for all participating hospitals

        -  Analyse the CODE data using the CODE user guide and appropriate statistical methods

        -  Interpret the data in view of the organisation and level of palliative care provision at
           each site / in each country

      METHODS

      Study sites

      The necessary number of hospitals caring for adult cancer patients will be recruited as study
      sites.

      The study will only be performed in institutions defined as hospitals (not hospices, nursing
      homes or other care institutions, nor home care services). Any type of hospital caring for
      adult cancer patients may be used: local, central, or regional hospitals, providing secondary
      and/or tertiary care, with or without a palliative care inpatient unit, with public or
      private funding.

      Definitions:

        -  Next-of-kin: Defined by the patient and recorded in the patient's hospital record. It
           may be any family relation or friend, neighbour, warden, etc.

        -  Expected death: If not possible to check with attending physician: any cancer patient
           who died in hospital and was not resuscitated the last day of life

        -  Cancer patient: Any patient with a cancer diagnosis (histologically or radiologically
           verified), not necessarily dying from the cancer. Solid tumours as well as
           haematological malignancies count as cancer.

      Recruitment

      The relative / next-of-kin must be approached after the patient's death. The investigators
      will approach the person recorded as next-of-kin in the patient's hospital record.

      Only one completed questionnaire will be included per deceased patient, but it may be
      completed by more than one relative, or by somebody else than the one recorded as
      next-of-kin.

      Recruitment will be done prospectively. However, in the UK, recruitment will also be done
      retrospectively to be able to reach the desired number of participants, but will be limited
      to 8 weeks post bereavement.

      The method of recruitment will be adapted as to what is feasible and in the individual
      country. Potential participants will be approached face to face, by telephone or in writing
      and invited to complete the CODE questionnaire.

      DATA COLLECTION

      CODE International Survey

      Data to be collected

      The CODE questionnaire is the common data collection tool of the study. It is described in
      the Background section above. The demographic data included in CODE are the following (all
      information provided by the participant):

      Participant:

        -  Relation to the patient

        -  Age (in groups)

        -  Ethnic group

        -  Gender

        -  Religious affiliation

      Patient:

        -  Illnesses in the last days and hours of life

        -  Age (in groups)

        -  Ethnic group

        -  Gender

        -  Religious affiliation

      In addition, the following information will be included for all cases, as part of the
      inclusion procedure:

        -  The patient's length of stay in the hospital

        -  Type of ward the patient died on (general medical or surgical ward, oncology ward, ICU,
           emergency ward, palliative care unit)

        -  The patient's cancer type (predefined groups)

        -  Whether or not the specialist palliative care team was involved in the care (for
           patients not dying in a palliative care unit)

        -  Whether or not an individual care plan for the dying phase was used

      Length of stay, type of ward, cancer type, involvement of the specialist palliative care
      team, use of an individualised care plan as well as age (groups) and gender of the patient
      and next-of-kin will be recorded for all eligible cases, included and non-included, to be
      able to subsequently judge whether the sample is representative of the population as a whole.
      Depending on national regulations, this may require special permission.

      If any of the partners want to include additional items or questionnaires, they are free to
      do so, provided the necessary approvals are obtained and the add-ons do not negatively
      influence participation in the main study.

      Method of data collection

      The CODE questionnaire will be sent to the participants 6-8 weeks post bereavement. If not
      returned, one reminder will be sent, four weeks after the first attempt. CODE International
      Survey was intended as a postal survey. However, due to poorly functioning postal services,
      illiteracy, lack of experience with postal questionnaires or very low response rates in
      several of the participating countries (South America), other data collection methods (data
      entry online, face to face interviews and telephone interviews) will also be accepted. Poland
      intends to use computer-assisted personal interviewing using tablets (CAPI; the computer
      displays the questions on screen, the interviewer reads them to the respondent, and then
      enters the respondent's answers).

      If CODE is to be completed by the participant in writing, they may have the choice between
      paper and an electronic version. They will receive a letter with the paper version of CODE
      and a fully self-addressed (or prepaid) envelope, but the letter may also say where they can
      log on to complete the electronic version, depending on the ethical and data protection
      stipulations in each country. The paper questionnaire will be marked with the unique
      identifier code when sent out. When answering online, the participants themselves must enter
      their identifier code.

      Sample estimation

      The aim is to have at least 100 completed CODE questionnaires per country. Sample estimation:
      Minimum acceptable number of questionnaires per country is 100 (with this number, a 95%
      confidence interval will give a margin of error of +/- 10% of the primary outcome).

      There is no maximum acceptable number of questionnaires per country as increasing response
      rates only will diminish the margin of error and increase the accuracy of the results.

      Data transfer

      The electronic version and database for CODE for each country/language will be developed in
      Norway using the Corporate Surveyor software. There will be one database for each country.
      Participants entering their data online will enter them directly into the database. For paper
      questionnaires, either filled in by the participants themselves or by interview, the CODE
      data will be entered into the database by local project co-workers.

      The databases will be merged in Norway for the final common analyses. Data from Corporate
      Surveyor may be transferred directly to SPSS or other statistics tools.

      As some analyses of the survey data may be conducted by other consortium partners,
      consent/approval for data transfer is included in the information sheet for survey
      participants and the ethics application.

      Web survey of study sites

      Data to be collected

      In order to provide contextual information for the results of CODE International Survey of
      bereaved relatives, information will be gathered about each organisation (hospital) and their
      palliative care provision. The following information will be collected:

        -  Type of hospital - categories

        -  Number of beds in hospital; number of beds in included wards

        -  Public/private; if private, profit-oriented or idealistic

        -  Deaths per year

        -  Deaths from cancer per year

        -  Palliative care unit in the hospital - yes/no

        -  Advisory specialist palliative care team - yes/no

        -  Outpatient specialist palliative care clinic - yes/no

        -  Palliative care daycare unit - yes/no

        -  Structured bereavement service - yes/no

        -  Chaplaincy - yes/no

        -  Physicians, nurses, physiotherapists specialized in palliative care

        -  EOL care implemented in hospital's 'mission statement'

        -  Integrated care plan for the dying implemented - yes/no

        -  Level of oncological expertise (comprehensive cancer centre, oncological centre; clear
           definitions must be given) ('not applicable' included as answer option)

        -  Code status defined/identified

        -  Opioid access / policy

      Method of data collection and transfer

      The web survey of study sites will be developed using the Corporate Surveyor software.

      There will be one questionnaire to be used by all participating institutions across all seven
      countries, and the answers will be entered into one common database. The questionnaire will
      be developed and answered in English.

      DATA ANALYSIS

      Data will be analysed using the SPSS statistical package. Initial data analysis of response
      rates and demographic details will be conducted using descriptive statistics (proportions (%)
      for categorical data; means and standard deviations for continuous parametric data and
      medians and interquartile range for continuous non-parametric data).

      A comparison of demographic details for participants and non-respondents will be conducted to
      assess how representative our sample is compared to the potential population as a whole.
      Pearson X2 statistic will be used for categorical data, independent sample t-testing for
      continuous parametric data and Mann-Whitney U for continuous non-parametric data.

      The dataset, anonymised at patient, site and country level, will be aggregated at
      international level to enable an international report. Results will be summarised in tabular
      and graphical format, as appropriate.

      Missing data: If <10% missing data: For single questions, the mean values of responses given
      for other questions will be used, based on the composite scales. With higher degrees of
      missing data, multiple imputation will be used.

      Descriptive statistics will be used for analysis of the characteristics of respondents
      compared with non-respondents, to assess how representative the sample is compared with the
      population as a whole.

      For each country, similar reports as described for the international level will be developed.
      National data will be reported back to each partner.

      Data from the web survey of study sites will be analysed with descriptive statistics using
      SPSS.

      Where appropriate, responses to CODE will be compared with hospital characteristics and level
      of palliative care provision using regression analyses.

      Free text comments will be analysed using qualitative methods (text condensation).

      Additionally, the three key composite scales within the CODE questionnaire, the care, the
      communication and the environment scales would be assessed for their internal consistency and
      construct validity. These three scales represent question items which have been grouped
      together for their conceptual similarity. Cronbach's alpha will be used to assess the
      internal consistency of these scales and factor analysis techniques to assess the construct
      validity.

      PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND WORK PLAN

      An overview of the ERANet-LAC CODE consortium is included in the Appendix (Appendix 1). All
      partners have signed the consortium agreement. The PIs are responsible for the CODE
      international survey in their respective countries. The group of PIs constitute the project
      General Assembly and decision-making body. Important decisions concerning both WP1 and WP2 of
      the present project were made at the project Initiation Meeting in Mainz, Germany, in
      February 2017.

      Project management will be handled by the Coordinator.

      WP1 (Preparation and Piloting) ran from month 1 to month 7 of the project, i.e. from January
      to August 2017. Group discussion with volunteers was out as soon as the translation process
      was completed. Cognitive interviews with bereaved relatives were conducted after ethical
      approval was obtained.

      WP2 is designed to run from month 8 to month 22 of the ERANet-LAC CODE project, i.e. from
      September 2017 to November 2018. Recruitment of participants for the international survey may
      start when the following factors are in place:

        -  Approval from ethics committee and other relevant agencies / governance bodies

        -  i-CODE ready for use in all relevant languages and presented as fully developed, tested
           and web-accessible data collection tools

        -  Study office with the necessary infrastructure in each country

      Time line and deliverables

      Confirmation of ethical approval for CODE International Survey in each country: month 6 (July
      2017) Web survey of institutions ready for use: month 6 (July 2017) Fully developed, tested
      and web-accessible data collection tools: month 6 (July 2017) i-CODE ready for use: month 7
      (Aug 2017) Completed web survey of inclusion sites: month 10 (Nov 2017) Completed
      international survey with at least 600 completed CODE questionnaires: month 22 (Nov 2018)
      Report on CODE International Survey data: month 22 (Nov 2018)

      END OF STUDY

      The end of WP2 will occur when the following outcomes are achieved:

        -  A common international report on CODE survey data

        -  Individual country reports and cross-country comparisons

        -  Identification of the two main concerns, across the countries and in the individual
           countries

      SPONSORSHIP AND BUDGET

      Financial support for the project was granted from national research funding agencies in the
      participating countries, except in the UK. The University of Liverpool, UK, takes part in the
      project as self-financed partner. Details on the agencies are provided in Appendix 1.

      No commercial interests are involved in the study. No conflicts of interest have been
      declared. Participants receive no financial benefit for participation.

      ETHICAL APPROVAL AND GOVERNANCE

      The Project Lead (PI) for each country will seek the necessary approvals for CODE
      International Survey, from their local/regional ethics committee, and from their
      institutional review board as needed. All countries will need ethical approval for WP2.

      The research project will adhere fully to the Declaration of Helsinki and to the requirements
      set out in the Health Research Governance Framework for each participating country.

      All potential participants will be given a Participant Information Sheet detailing the aims
      of the study. This information sheet emphasizes that participation is fully voluntary and
      that they may withdraw at any time, up to the time when the final analysis and reporting have
      been completed. They will be given time to consider whether they wish to participate. In
      addition, the full contact details for a member of the research team will be provided so that
      the opportunity to ask questions and request additional information is available. These
      measures should ensure that participation is based on fully informed consent.

      Studies have shown that participating in post-bereavement surveys may have therapeutic value
      for bereaved relatives.

      PATIENT AND PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT Seeking patient and public views is an important component of
      WP1 of this study. Both volunteers and bereaved relatives will be deeply involved in
      developing i-CODE to be used for the international survey. They will also be consulted on how
      to approach the participants in the survey.

      After the survey has been performed, bereaved relatives will be involved in the action
      planning on how to address the main areas of concern identified.

      CONFIDENTIALITY AND DATA MANAGEMENT

      The Project Lead for each country will preserve the confidentiality of participants taking
      part in the study. All participants will be allocated a unique identifier number, both for
      transcription of interviews, inputting of data and completion of the CODE questionnaire. The
      code list will be securely locked up and only available to the responsible personnel/contact
      person recruiting participants at each study site/ward. The list will not be available for
      researchers analysing the data. The code list will be destroyed by the end of the study.

      All data will be anonymised and individual participants will not be identifiable from
      published data. Any quotations from free text comments that may lead to a participant being
      identifiable will be edited prior to publication of subsequent reports and publications.

      All data will be stored on a secure, password protected research server. Paper documents will
      be locked in filing cabinets. Data will be stored for up to five years after the completion
      of the project before being confidentially shredded or deleted.

      DISSEMINATION AND PUBLICATIONS

      A website for the project will be established with the purpose of providing general
      information about the study. The website has one public part and one part with restricted
      access, open for the PIs and study personnel. This part will contain all common project
      documents and templates. Summary results from the project will be published on the open part.

      The dissemination activities will be directed towards health care professionals and
      researchers, the general public, and health care authorities and politicians. Publications
      reporting results from the study will be submitted to international peer review medical
      journals, and presented at international meetings.

      Authorship will be defined according to the Vancouver Guidelines. The main PI and study
      coordinator in each country (see Appendix 1) will be co-authors on the main international
      publication from WP2, as long as they fulfil the requirements in these guidelines. The local
      PI / person in charge of carrying out the study at additional study sites will be included in
      the standard description of the project to be used in publications, and not in the author
      group. If included in the standard description, the publication will still count on their
      publication list.

      National data may be published in local reports for individual organisations and national or
      international journals by the study group in each country. Plans for additional publications
      including authorship must be decided or approved by the Project General Assembly.

      The last project meeting with presentations and discussions of the project findings will be
      arranged as an open international conference.

      APPENDIX: Overview of ERANet-LAC CODE Consortium, including PIs and national funding agencies

      University of Bergen, Norway: Prof Dagny Faksvåg Haugen, dagny.haugen@uib.no The Research
      Council of Norway (RCN / NFR)

      Sue Ryder House administered by Pallmed, Poland: Prof Wojciech Leppert wojciechleppert@wp.pl
      National Centre for Research and Development (NCBR)

      Mutualista Asociaciόn Hospital Evangélico, Uruguay: Dr Eduardo Garcia Yanneo
      eduardouruguay@hotmail.com National Research and Innovation Agency of Uruguay (ANII)

      Pallium Latinoamérica N.G.O. Argentina: Dr Vilma Adriana Tripodoro vilma.tripodoro@gmail.com
      Ministry for Science, Technology and Productive Innovation (MINCyT)

      University Medical Center of the Johannes Gutenberg University of Mainz, Germany: Prof Martin
      Weber martin.weber@unimedizin-mainz.de Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF/DLR)

      State University of Campinas, Brazil: Prof, Dr Lair Zambon lair.zambon@hes.unicamp.br
      Research Support Foundation of the State of Sao Paulo (FAPESP)

      University of Liverpool, UK: Dr Catriona Mayland catriona.mayland@liverpool.ac.uk No funding
      agency
    
  