
    
      Since October of 2001, approximately over 2 million troops have been deployed in the Global
      War on Terror. Many service members are returning with both physical injuries and mental
      health conditions. High rates of both post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and/or mild
      traumatic brain injury (mTBI) and associated symptoms have been noted. It has been estimated
      that approximately 18-20% of returning service members meet criteria for PTSD and that 11-23%
      of veterans have a history of mTBI. It has been well established in the research literature
      that these two conditions frequently co-occur. While there is a dearth of evidence-based
      treatment for co-occurring PTSD and mTBI, it has been suggested that best practices entail
      treating presenting symptoms (hyperarousal, hypo-arousal, emotional reactivity, irritability,
      depression, anxiety, concentration problems) regardless of etiology. Yoga may be particularly
      well-suited to treating returning servicemen as data suggests that core symptoms that develop
      with a history of trauma exposure (e.g: hyperarousal; hypoarousal; emotional reactivity;
      anxiety, irritability), are physiologically based, somatically experienced and often not
      amenable to change through talking alone. In addition, yoga may assist with dysregulation
      often associated with mental health and physical conditions, and facilitate the development
      of mindfulness skills. Research suggests that that moment-to-moment awareness of present
      experience may decrease emotional reactivity and anxiety, and increase the capacity for
      self-regulation. Mindfulness skills have also been associated with: building resilience in
      the midst of stress; allowing one to better cope with physical discomfort; decreasing anxiety
      and depression; decreasing reactivity. All of these areas are relevant to improving the
      health and well-being of Veterans.
    
  