
    
      The optimal treatment of patients with laryngeal cancer remains controversial. Standard
      treatment options have included laryngectomy with or without radiation (RT) and radiation
      alone with surgical salvage (RTSS).

      Because of the significant functional morbidity associated with laryngectomy, the Department
      of Veterans Affair Cooperative Studies Program completed a randomized, prospective study of
      332 patients that compared a new organ preservation treatment strategy to conventional
      laryngectomy and radiation. The experimental treatment arm involved three cycles of
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by definitive radiation among patients who had a partial
      (>50%) clinical tumor response. Final results of this study demonstrated comparable 2, 3, 4,
      and 10 year survival rates between treatment groups, with successful laryngeal preservation
      in 66% of the surviving patients randomized to receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

      This study led to a dramatic re-assessment of the treatment approach for advanced laryngeal
      and hypopharyngeal cancer patients, who face total laryngectomy. Based on these results,
      Second approach was designed and tested in a Phase II study at the University of Michigan .In
      this study, 97 patients were treated with one cycle of induction chemotherapy. Seventy-five
      percent had a >50% reduction of tumor and were treated with chemo-RT (cisplatin 100 mg/m2 x 3
      cycles), and 25% were non-responders who underwent total laryngectomy followed by RT. The
      overall 3-year survival rate was 85%,and the larynx preservation rate was 70%. This study
      included over 30 percentage of patients with advanced stage 4 disease, however did not
      specifically evaluate there outcome and therefore did not directly address the role of organ
      preservation in advanced disease which is considered a controversial issue in head and neck
      literature.

      In this study all patients (25 %) who did not respond to the initial chemotherapy were
      referred to total laryngectomy and therefore there were 30 %of patients who eventually
      underwent total laryngectomy.Lately several series suggest the option of partial laryngectomy
      as an alternative to total laryngectomy as initial treatment for advanced larynx cancer ,in
      cases in which the cricoids cartilage and arytenoids are not involved.Supracricoid subtotal
      laryngectomy spares at least one arytenoid and offers organ preservation and can also be
      performed according to many articles as salvage surgery in cases of radiation failure,and
      therefore if performed in the right indications can improve the percentage of total
      laryngectomy free patients without compromising survival. This will reflect of course on
      quality of life It has been suggested lately that the use of aggressive induction
      chemotherapy may improve outcome. The combination of Taxotere with Cisplatin and
      5-fluorouracil has been shown to be more effective than the standard cisplatin and
      5-fluorouracil without an elevation in side effects .It has been suggested that the three
      cycles of induction chemotherapy may lower the rate of distant metastases which is high in
      advanced disease

      Objectives

      Primary

      To determine the laryngeal preservation rate in a treatment paradigm that uses clinical
      response to a single cycle of induction chemotherapy to select patients for either concurrent
      cisplatin-radiation or surgery(if possible organ preserving partial laryngectomy) as compared
      to historical controls To determine the survival rate among T4 laryngeal patients in a
      treatment paradigm that uses clinical response to a single cycle of induction chemotherapy to
      select patients to either ,two more cycles of induction followed by concurrent
      cisplatin-radiation or surgery .

      Secondary To determine the survival rate in a treatment paradigm that uses clinical response
      to a single cycle of induction chemotherapy to select patients for either concurrent
      cisplatin-radiation or surgery including organ preserving partial laryngectomy (if possible)
      as compared to historical controls.

      To determine if the use of three cycles of induction chemotherapy lowers the rate of distant
      metastases in advanced cases; namely: positive nodal disease and T4.

      To evaluate the quality of life (QOL) of this treatment paradigm.

      To evaluate partial supracricoid laryngectomy as salvage to chemoradiation failure.

      compare PET scan results with the pathological specimen of the larynx.

      To determine correlation between changes in biological markers such as EGFR degradation EGFR
      mutation, p53 overexpression, Bcl-XL, Bcl-2 expression, and HPV observed in tumor biopsies
      taken shortly after the administration of TPF, compared with pre-treatment biopsies. And
      compared to those found in the completion of treatment in cases of failures.

      Study Design

      Chemotherapy/Radiation/Surgery schedule Days #1-4: Patients will undergo induction
      chemotherapy with (TPF) docetaxel (Taxotere) 75 mg/m2 and cisplatin 100 mg/m2 on day 1, and
      5-FU CI 750mg /m2 /24 hours days 1-4. See section 7.2.

      Day #22: Patients will undergo a direct laryngoscopy with biopsy the biopsy will be done with
      in 3 days. Patients will also undergo a repeat CT scan of the neck within a week (+/-) of
      their perspective biopsies.

      Patient with a < 50% response (NR) to induction chemotherapy will undergo salvage
      supracricoid partial laryngectomy if possible or laryngectomy followed by RT. Cisplatin will
      be added to radiation for patients whose surgical pathology reveals high-risk features (i.e.
      extracapsular spread, > 2 positive lymph nodes, perineural invasion, or positive margins).
      Cisplatin will be dosed 35 mg/m2 weekly at the discretion of the prescribing physician. See
      section 7.2 for prescribing details for cisplatin.

      Responding patients with > 50% response will be divided to two groups those with N2 disease
      or stage T4 will undergo two more cycles with induction TPF others will directly undergo
      treatment with RT (Total dose 70 Gy) in combination with cisplatin weekly (35mg/m2 ).Those
      who receive two more chemotherapy courses will be assessed clinically and by CT scan if no PD
      will continue to chemo and RT ,those with PD will undergo surgery Eight weeks following the
      completion of RT, patients will undergo a repeat direct laryngoscopy and a PET scan. The
      primary tumor site will be biopsied. Neck nodes that are persistent, clinically suspicious
      nodes, including PET positive nodes, will be biopsied. Patients with positive laryngeal
      biopsies following chemoradiation will undergo salvage surgery if possible supracricoid
      partial laryngectomy, otherwise laryngectomy. If the laryngeal biopsy is negative but
      clinically positive neck lymph nodes remain, patients will undergo neck nodal dissection.

      Once patients are disease-free following chemoradiation and nodal neck dissections (if
      needed), patients will be followed every 6 weeks in the first year, followed by every 3
      months in the second, every 6 month between 2 and 5 years. Patients whose physical
      examination or whose imaging studies are concerning for recurrent disease will undergo
      biopsy. If positive, they will undergo salvage laryngectomy.

      Chemotherapy with Cisplatin, Docetaxel, and 5-Fluorouracil (TPF)

      Docetaxel (Taxotere): Docetaxel 75 mg/m2 administered as an i.v. infusion over one hour on
      day #1.

      With Docetaxel administration, all patients will receive dexamethasone 8 mg PO BID for 3
      consecutive days, starting 1 day before docetaxel administration, or 10-20 mg IV on Day 1
      prior to treatment with Docetaxel.

      Cisplatin: Cisplatin 100 mg/m2, administered as an i.v. infusion will run over one hour on
      day #1 following docetaxel.

      An aggressive antiemetic regimen is required before the administration of cisplatin,
      consisting of a serotonin antagonist, APREPITANT and a steroid.

      5-Fluorouracil: 5-Fluorouracil 750 mg/m2 in 0.9% normal saline as a 24-hour continuous
      infusion, day's #1-4. The infusion will start after cisplatin administration.

      Evaluation of Response to Treatment

      Careful evaluation of tumor extent will be separately recorded for the primary tumor and
      regional nodes at specified intervals. These will be based on laryngoscopies performed
      pre-treatment, day 21 after start of induction chemotherapy, and 8 weeks after completion of
      chemoradiation. Standardized response criteria will be used. CT scans will be used at the
      discretion of the clinician to supplement clinical exams.

      7.4.2 Biopsy of any persistent neck nodes is required if at the 8 week post -radiation
      evaluation is either clinical or radiologically positive. . Patients whose PET shows a CR at
      8 weeks post will undergo clinical observation.

      Diagnostic CT scans and/or PET scans will be obtained prior to scheduled endoscopies for
      tumor assessment. Post treatment a ct will be performed.

      Outpatient clinical examinations will be performed at the completion of radiation therapy, at
      6 week intervals during year 1 of follow-up,every 3 months during year 2 of follow-up, and
      6-monthly during year 3 of follow-up. 8 Translational Studies

      Tissue samples obtained at the time of laryngeal biopsies will be sent to laboratories for
      analysis of histologic growth pattern, p53 overexpression, Bcl-XL, Bcl-2 expression, HPV ,
      EGFR expression, phosphorylated EGFR and stem cells levels . The tissue will be obtained
      during routine biopsies prior to the beginning of treatment, after completion of induction
      chemotherapy and after Radiation .the following techniques will be used:
      Immunohistochemistry, PCR and Western blot.

      10 Response Assessment Criteria:

      The patient's tumor will be tattooed by the surgeon,who will then measure the product of the
      longest primary tumor dimension and its perpendicular; following chemotherapy, the extent of
      the tumor will be measured for response. Treatment decisions (i.e. surgery vs Chemo+RT) are
      based on response of the tumor at the primary site.

      Tumor responses to chemotherapy or chemoradiation will be determined clinically by the
      surgeon performing the DL.

      Radiologic imaging studies will be used in conjunction with the physical examination in
      determining tumor response to chemotherapy or chemoradiation.

      Clinical PR: Significant (>50%) reduction in the product of the longest primary tumor
      dimension and its perpendicular compared to pre-treatment clinical (endoscopic) measurements
      or imaging study as necessary.

      Non-Responders (< PR): A 50% or less reduction in the product of the longest primary tumor
      dimension and its perpendicular compared to pre-treatment clinical (endoscopic) measurement
      or imaging study as necessary.

      Criteria for Discontinuation of Treatment

        1. Unacceptable adverse event(s).

        2. Intercurrent illness, which prevents further administration of treatment.

        3. Patient preference.

        4. Progressive disease.

        5. Life threatening or other unacceptable drug-related toxicity.

        6. General or specific changes in the patient's condition that render the patient
           unacceptable for further treatment in the judgment of the investigators.

      Radiation Therapy

      13.1. General Considerations: All the patients in this study will receive either definitive
      radiotherapy or post operative irradiation. For those patients found to have a PR to
      induction therapy on repeat DL, definitive radiotherapy with Cisplatin will begin. Post
      operative radiation should begin as soon as adequate healing has been established. Usually,
      this will be within three to four weeks of the surgical procedure but must begin by six
      weeks.

      13.2 Radiation Fields: The treatment volumes will be individual as for each patient depending
      upon the extent of disease. Tumor volumes will be outlined on the planning CT scans with the
      aid of pre-chemotherapy CT and, if available, PET scans, to ensure adequate irradiation of
      the pre-chemotherapy tumor volume. Treatment techniques will aim at adequate irradiation of
      the clinical and the sub-clinical disease. The therapy goals, specifying the intended doses
      to the primary tumor and lymph node metastases, and the intended doses to each lymph node
      level treated adjuvantly, will be detailed in the therapy chart. A CT-based display of the
      isodoses will be recorded, such that it will be feasible to assess whether the intended
      (prescribed) isodoses cover the targets adequately.

      Doses:

      Radiation with chemotherapy: Tumor doses will be expressed in Gy. The prescribed doses should
      encompass the targets. Treatment plans will be generated demonstrating adequate coverage of
      the target volume. The dose across the target volume should not vary by more than +/- 10% of
      the prescribed dose.The treatment will be given either using IMRT planning or 3D. Treatment
      will be given once daily, five days per week, two Gy per fraction to gross disease, and
      1.6-2.0 Gy per fraction to subclinical disease. Total gross dose will be 70 Gy and
      subclinical disease dose will be 50-60 Gy.

      Post Operative Radiation Therapy: The patient will be treated with conventional
      fractionation, 1.8-2.0 Gy per fraction, and five fractions per week in a continuous course.
      The dose to the tumor bed and lymph nodes will be 56-64 Gy, depending of the existence of
      extranodal extension or the existence of close surgical margins. Patients with gross residual
      disease or positive resection margins will receive total 66-70 Gy to the sites of residual
      disease.

      Salvage Surgery

      The extent of salvage surgery for either the primary tumor or regional nodes is dictated by
      the extent of the disease .

      Salvage surgery may be required at the times of scheduled tumor assessments or any time tumor
      progression or recurrence is demonstrated by adequate biopsies of areas clinically suspicious
      for tumor involvement.

      Primary site: Extent of surgery will vary between total laryngectomy and supracricoid
      subtotal laryngectomy in accordance with the inclusion and exclusion criteria specified).

      Neck: Bilateral selective neck dissections will be performed in conjunction with salvage
      total laryngectomy for any patient initially staged N0 in the neck. Ipsilateral modified
      radical or radical neck dissection is required for any patient initially staged N+ who recurs
      or persists with cancer in that neck. At 8 weeks post radiation, neck dissection alone
      without laryngectomy is required for any patient with initial staging neck node > 3 cm in
      size who is PET positive or with biopsy proven palpable neck disease. 14.5

      Informed Consent

      All patients with stage III and IV squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx who are candidates
      for surgical resection will be screened for participation in this study.

      .

      Reporting Potentially Serious Adverse Events

      Definitions

      An adverse event is any new, undesirable medical experience or Change of an existing
      condition which occurs during or after treatment, whether or not considered product-related.

      A serious adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence that

      Suggests significant hazard or side effect that:

        1. Results in death.

        2. Is life-threatening (places the patient at immediate risk of death).

        3. requires or prolongs inpatient hospitalization Is disabling or incapacitating.
    
  