
    
      There are approximately 40,000 new cases of head and neck cancer each year in the United
      States. Worldwide more than 500,000 individuals will develop head and neck cancer each year,
      ranking as the sixth most common cancer. These cancers are predominately squamous cell
      cancers. Approximately two thirds of subjects will present with locally advanced disease with
      either large disease at the primary site and/or spread to regional lymph node levels.

      Despite aggressive treatment, 5-year survival remains poor (overall, approximately 50%). The
      major site of treatment failure is within the head and neck region, with distant metastases
      occurring in approximately 25% of subjects and usually after local and/or regional (nodal)
      failure.

      Current treatment options for locally advanced head and neck cancer include combinations of
      surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy. It is currently difficult to predict which
      combination will be best suited for any particular individual. Rapid methods of assessing the
      response of subjects to chemo-radiotherapy would be a useful tool, as it would permit the
      oncologist to change therapies, either in type or degree, in cases when the subject does not
      respond to the initial therapy regimen. Current best methods of evaluating tumor response are
      either serial CT examinations, so that changes in tumor size can be estimated or a
      fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) study in which changes in the
      metabolic status of the tumor are evaluated. Unfortunately, the anatomic information afforded
      by CT examinations often require months after treatment to allow the full effects of therapy
      to take place. Even after this time, the metabolic activity of any remaining tissue is nearly
      impossible to assess by CT scan, making it difficult to distinguish between fibrosis and
      viable tissue. Generally the FDG studies require 3-4 weeks after the end of the therapeutic
      regime before the relevant information is available, with more reliable information obtained
      at 3-4 months after treatment.

      It is predictable that the most immediate signal of an anti-tumor therapeutic regime that has
      been successful is that the tumor cells will stop dividing (proliferating) after the therapy
      is initiated. Therefore, a tracer which is taken up into and retained in cells as a function
      of their proliferative activity should provide rapid information as to the effectiveness of
      the treatment. It is the objective of this study to determine the biodistribution and
      radiation dosimetry of tracer F-18 3'-deoxy-3'-fluorothymidine. This distribution data is
      essential before an Investigational New Drug (IND) application can be filed with the FDA that
      would allow the use of this tracer in clinical trials.
    
  