
    
      Literature Review Generally CHF patients have reduced exercise capacity, with main symptoms
      of effort intolerance, early fatigue and breathlessness.They also exhibit increased
      peripheral and central chemosensitivity, impaired sympathovagal balance with sympathetic
      activity (SA) predominance, and depressed baroreflex n control. Compared with myocardium of
      healthy controls, the myocardium of patients with chronic LV dysfunction is characterized by
      a significant reduction of pre-synaptic norepinephrine (NE) uptake and post-synaptic beta
      adrenoceptor density.There is generalized increased SA in the heart of patients with CHF that
      might contribute to the remodeling process of the LV. This concept is consistent with the
      finding that down-regulation of myocardial beta-adrenoceptor density, measured using positron
      emission tomography with 11C-CGP-12177, soon after acute myocardial infarction (MI) is
      predictive of the occurrence of LV dilatation at follow-up. Myocardial beta-adrenoceptor
      density appears reduced in patients with HF due to dilated cardiomyopathy and down-regulation
      of myocardial beta-adrenoceptor is more pronounced in patients with hypertrophic
      cardiomyopathy who proceed to LV dilation and HF. Therefore, myocardial beta-adrenoceptor
      down-regulation may be a general nonspecific response to stress and could be due to a locally
      increased amount of NE in the synaptic cleft. The sustained hyperactivity of the SA observed
      in HF is the consequence of several mechanisms including increased central sympathetic
      outflow, altered neuronal NE reuptake, and facilitation of cardiovascular response to
      sympathetic stimulation by angiotensin II. CRT is an accepted treatment for patients with
      moderate-to-severe CHF and intraventricular conduction delay. Intraventricular conduction
      delays, identified by a QRS interval of 120 msec or more on a 12-lead electrocardiogram
      (ECG), occur in up to a third of patients with severe systolic HF and are associated with
      dyssynchronous contraction of the LV, leading to impaired emptying and, in some patients,
      mitral regurgitation. Abnormal atrioventricular coupling (identified by a prolonged PR
      interval) and interventricular dyssynchrony, identified on an echocardiogram, may also occur.
      CRT with atrialsynchronized biventricular pacing often improves cardiac performance
      immediately, by increasing stroke volume (SV) and reducing mitral regurgitation. Randomized
      trials involving patients with severe HF showed that CRT resulted in a reduction in symptoms
      and improved FC, a reduction in the number of hospitalizations for worsening HF, and
      increased survival. ExT in CHF produce meaningful improvements in peak oxygen consumption
      (VO2peak) with an expected average improvement of 17%. This is particularly important since
      improvement in FC is related to the improvement in neurohormonal activation, peripheral
      abnormalities and ventilatory function. Submaximal exercise capacity (SubMaxExC) is also
      improved, as assessed by a significant increase in the ventilatory anaerobic threshold (VAT)
      and in 6-MWT. The improvement in SubMaxExC of CHF patients (NYHA II-III) was probably due to
      peripheral training adaptations in skeletal muscle mass (SMM). Theoretically, by improving
      SMM strength, a lower % of maximal contraction would be used to do a similar amount of work
      following training. A lower relative muscle contraction would be expected to produce less
      blood lactate, thereby decreasing the need for carbon dioxide (CO2) elimination, thus
      increasing the VAT. The improvement in VAT is important as it would allows patients to
      exercise longer and harder without negative alterations in ventricular dynamics associated
      with the VAT and could possibly delay the onset of the ischemic threshold. To severe CHF
      patients, the truly meaning of improvement SubMaxExC as effect of ExT is related to QOL since
      the engagement in daily activities does not demand VO2peak. All the previous studies were
      done with low to moderate risk patients but high risk patients probably have a greater need
      in order to lead a normal, independent life. Results from previous studies with CHF showed
      that ExT reduces NE levels at rest and during exercise, decreases central sympathetic nerve
      outflow as measured by microneurography. ExT also enhances vagal control with a shift away
      from sympathetic activity, and improves heart rate (HR) variability and HR recovery with a
      return to a better sympathetic-vagal balance. Moreover, ExT produces significant reduction in
      the local expression of cytokines such as interleukin (IL)-6 and inducible nitric oxide
      synthase (iNOS) in the SMM of CHF patients and has a beneficial effect on peripheral
      inflammatory markers reflecting monocyte/macrophage-endothelial cell interaction. These local
      anti inflammatory effects of ExT may attenuate the catabolic wasting process associated with
      the progression of CHF. This can be an important issue since inflammatory responses plays a
      pathogenic role in the development and progression of CHF. Probably the impaired availability
      of nitric oxide (NO) is responsible for the impaired endothelium dependent relaxation of
      peripheral resistance and conduit arteries and may contribute to the reduced FC in CHF and
      other severe symptoms. Also endothelium-independent vasodilatation abnormalities may relate
      to a combination of impaired smooth muscle responsiveness to NO, impaired of NO diffusion to
      the smooth muscle or structural alterations in arterial compliance associated with CHF. The
      combination of ExT in CRT is not been well-investigated. One small-scale pilot study (not
      randomized ) suggested that functional capacity improved. More recently, Patwala et al.
      reported improvements in quality of life (QOL) and VO2peak through improved SMM performance
      with the addition of a 3-month ExT 3-month after the CRT. In this study, all the patients
      were in class III of NYHA and an ExT only 3 months in duration. Little is known about ExT for
      elderly severe CHF patients.

      Plan and Methods The purpose of this research project is to determine the effects of adding
      ExT to CRT on clinical status, ANS function, in ischemic and nonischemic cardiomyopathy
      patients with moderate to severe CHF. The investigators will evaluate the following specific
      aims: 1- To determine the effects of a long-term ExT program following CRT provides on
      clinical outcome; 2-Identify the mechanisms of the hypothesized improvements in clinical
      status. The primary end points for aim 1 are the clinical status, namely NYHA functional
      class, all-cause mortality, hospitalization rate, cardiac function and maximal and SubMax FC.
      For aim 2 the SA, HRV, HRR and blood endothelin-1, brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), IL-6,
      tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-a and C reactive protein (CRP). As secondary end points the
      investigators will analyze neuromuscular function(NMF), body composition(BC) and QOL.
      Relevance: Due to increased prevalence of CHF and consequent implications for mortality and
      morbidity rates, the prognosis of HF has improved in the past 20 years, but it remains a
      serious condition with a markedly increased risk of death in the early period after onset of
      the syndrome. In population studies, there is 10% mortality by 30 days. For those who survive
      this early high-risk period, the 5-year mortality is 54% in men and 40% in women. In clinical
      trials of CHF therapy, 50% of deaths are due to sudden death and progressive HF accounts for
      around 30% of deaths, this latter proportion increasing as symptomatic severity increases.In
      population studies including patients with new-onset HF, progressive HF appears to be the
      single most common cause of death (52%), with sudden death accounting for only 22% of deaths
      within the first 6 months of diagnosis.ExT has been shown to be effective in CHF patients
      NYHA II-III, as it improves autonomic control by enhancing vagal tone and reducing
      sympathetic activation, improves exercise FC, QOL, SMM, vasodilator capacity, endothelial
      dysfunction and decrease oxidative stress, hospitalization and mortality%. No information is
      available in more severe patients and they are the patients that are in most need and their
      treatment will also significantly impact heath care costs. Moreover, scientific research is
      absent on the effects of ExT after CRT on severe CHF patients and there is no information on
      the effects of both therapies on ANS. Thus, the proposed project will address a number of
      important gaps in scientific knowledge with potentially large clinical benefits. Methods: The
      investigators will use a controlled stratified experimental design, using a longitudinal
      approach with 3 assessment time points: baseline, before the cardiac implant (CI) (M1); at 3
      (M2) and 6-month (M3) after the experimental therapy (ET). It will be a continuum of
      recruitment during the 24 month but the study protocol it will be the same for all patients.
      The study will employ state of the art methods for ANS analysis, namely the Scintigraphy with
      123I-meta-iodobenzylguanidine (123I-MIBG). The investigators will evaluate both clinical,
      physiological and QOL outcomes. The assessment of cardiac sympathetic neuronal activity with
      123I-MIBG, a radio-labelled analogue of NE, will improve the understanding of the mechanisms
      responsible for increased sympathetic activity in HF, and how sympathetic overactivity exerts
      its deleterious actions. This technique offers a huge advantage in order to understand what
      happens in the heart, compared to the more commonly used technique of Muscle Sympathetic
      Nerve Activity. The inclusion of a M2 assessment will allow us to update the exercise
      intensity and also to conduct initial data analysis. Also the technique chosen in our project
      for group assignment (stratified by age and etiology randomization), provides the best
      opportunity to evaluate if the expected changes will be related with ET since patients with
      different age and etiology responded differently to ExT. The ExT design was done based on
      Wisloff's results. The AE will be developed with an AIT since previous results showed better
      results but due to the clinical status of our patients and longer intervention duration we
      will employ a different (slower) exercise prescription progression. We will begin with
      shorter aerobic intervals and only at the end of the 2nd month the investigators will use the
      same protocol as Wisloff et al. Compared with continuous exercise training methods, this
      method allows patients with HF to complete short periods of exercise at high intensity (which
      stress the heart's ability) but without deleterious effects of undue stress and fatigue.
      Another difference in the ExT program is the incorporation of resistive and sensoriomotor
      exercises (SME). These types of exercises will improve the lack of SMM of the CHF patients
      producing positive consequences in activities of daily life and QOL, and will enhance muscle
      performance of muscles not involved in the aerobic mode of exercise. This project can provide
      evidence for a useful and powerful treatment to reduce the high sympathetic activation (SA)
      that leads to an endothelial dysfunction contributing to both central and peripheral
      impairments in patients with severe CHF. In CHF patients, SA is initially increased as a
      compensatory mechanism; however, chronically elevated stimulation of the adrenergic system is
      associated with sustaining the process of myocardial remodeling. Another consequence is
      endothelial dysfunction manifested as impaired endothelium-dependent relaxation of peripheral
      resistance and conduit arteries, most probably due to impaired availability of NO. Besides
      the expected changes from the CRT we hypothesize that adding an ExT protocol that use the AIT
      and inclusion of endurance and SME to these patients will maximize both clinical and
      physiological outcomes. Our project will be the first to provide evidence for sympathetic and
      parasympathetic ANS action on the heart itself, and how these may be altered over 6 month of
      ET in patients with severe CHF. The combination of the selected assessment techniques will
      allow an overview of the expected adaptations and the underlying mechanisms. To our knowledge
      this project will be the first to address with precise and valid methods the benefits of a 6-
      month ExT program just after CRT on the ANS of moderate-to-severe CHF patients. Linking these
      results with NMF, BC, QOF and clinical status improvements will contribute to further
      understand the impact of ExT on overall health status of these patients. Also, the longer
      period of the ExT program and the inclusion of the M2 assessment will allow a more accurate
      analysis of the change process. Expected results: This study will firstly contribute to a
      better understanding of the implications of a combined therapy in CHF patients. This study
      can provide an extensive characterization of changes in ANS both central and peripheral,
      which will be of great value for stabilization or regression of the disease with direct
      impact in patient's daily life. It is expected that the ExT group compared with the control
      group will improve all the physiological variables included in the project as was observed in
      previous studies with less severe CHF patients and this will lead to improvements in clinical
      status. The investigators also expect that ExT group show a better improvement in the
      clinical outcomes and in health related QOL leading to a decrease in overall health care
      costs.
    
  