
    
      Title: The Effect of Energy Drink Ingredients on Cardiovascular Function

        1. Statement of the research question

           Does the caffeine in energy drinks interact with other ingredients to affect
           cardiovascular function, including QTc interval of the EKG, heart rate and blood
           pressure in healthy male and female adults after exercise?

        2. Purpose and significance of the study

      Energy drinks are beverages promoted to enhance alertness along with athletic and cognitive
      performance. The most common ingredients found in energy drinks include water, sugar,
      caffeine, taurine, and B-vitamins, with variable inclusion of other ingredients, such as
      carnitine, glucuronolactone, inositol, guarana, ginkgo biloba leaf extract, thistle extract,
      and ginseng root extract. Since the mid-1990s, the consumption of energy drinks has grown
      dramatically, with worldwide sales in 2017 exceeding $49 billion.

      As the sale of energy drinks has grown, so has the number of adverse event case reports for
      patients who consumed energy drinks. Reported symptoms include cardiac arrhythmias such as
      ventricular fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, and cardiac arrest. A few small clinical
      studies have reported that energy drinks can increase systolic and diastolic blood pressure
      and change electrical activity in the heart as measured by an electrocardiogram (EKG). The
      intent of the proposed study is to determine whether caffeine or the combination of caffeine
      with taurine and L-carnitine can alter heart rate, blood pressure and the QTc interval of the
      EKG. Caffeine stimulates cardiovascular function primarily through antagonism of adenosine
      receptors. Taurine is a modulator of intracellular calcium ion concentrations which can
      affect the strength cardiac contraction. Carnitine facilitates fatty acid transport into the
      mitochondria, thereby increasing the production of adenosine triphosphate, the energy source
      of cells. Hypothesis: the effects of the ingredients of energy drinks on the heart are
      mediated in part by interactions between caffeine, taurine and carnitine. The amount of each
      ingredient in the study was based upon the amount commonly contained in two cans of energy
      drinks currently on the market.
    
  