
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the time to progression of women with primary breast cancer treated with
           fluorouracil, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide vs docetaxel, epirubicin, and
           cyclophosphamide.

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to metastatic axillary lymph node involvement (4-9 vs 10 or more), hormone receptor
      status (estrogen and/or progesterone) of the primary tumor (negative vs positive), and timing
      of adjuvant radiotherapy (intermittently after completion of 50% of chemotherapy vs after
      completion of all chemotherapy). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive fluorouracil IV over 10-15 minutes and epirubicin IV over 15
           minutes on days 1 and 8 and oral cyclophosphamide on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every
           4 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive epirubicin IV over 15 minutes and cyclophosphamide IV over 1
           hour on days 1, 21, 42, and 63 and docetaxel IV over 1 hour on days 84, 105, 126, and
           147 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Within 21 days after the completion of chemotherapy, patients undergo adjuvant radiotherapy 5
      days a week for 5.5 weeks. Alternatively, patients may undergo radiotherapy intermittently
      after completion of 50% of chemotherapy.

      Upon completion of chemotherapy, patients with positive hormone receptor status (estrogen
      and/or progesterone) receive oral tamoxifen daily for 5 years. Additionally, patients with
      positive hormone receptor status who are under age 40 receive goserelin subcutaneously every
      4 weeks for 2 years.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, prior to each course of chemotherapy, 4 weeks after
      completion of chemotherapy, 6 weeks after completion of radiotherapy, and then at 6 months
      after completion of chemotherapy.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 3 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 446 patients (223 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 3 years.
    
  