
    
      Social connections have a strong impact on mental and physical health. Surprisingly, however,
      there is a paucity of studies probing the predictive validity of perceived social connections
      such as subjective social support and loneliness for the outcomes of inpatient treatment of
      BPD. Although social impairments are key features of BPD psychopathology, social integration
      has been largely neglected, which may therefore explain the minimal translation of predictive
      molecular or imaging-based biomarkers into the clinic. The investigators hypothesize that the
      assessment of negative cognitive biases at baseline will help to identify BPD patients who
      will experience less social support and more loneliness during inpatient treatment.
      Furthermore, an inclusion of social integration indices may increase the incremental validity
      for the biomarker-based prediction of treatment response.

      In this longitudinal, observational study, 60 BPD patients will be recruited to assess
      negative cognitive biases and the underlying neurobiological mechanisms with behavioral,
      neuroendocrine, psychophysiological, and neural readouts before and after a four-week
      inpatient treatment. To evaluate pathological biases, the patients' data will be compared
      with a control group of 30 healthy participants, who will also be tested twice. Neural
      readouts include structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) measurements.
      The fMRI tasks will probe the processing of social touch, interpersonal trust, and
      interoception. To further investigate pathological distortions of social touch, the tactile
      detection threshold will be assessed and participants will indicate the bodily areas where
      others are allowed to touch. Further, patients and healthy participants will perform a
      positive social interaction task, accompanied by psychophysiological and
      neuroendocrinological measures. Psychometric questionnaires and semi-structured interviews
      will be used to monitor symptom load and social indices before, during, and after the
      inpatient treatment. Long-term effects will be assessed by online questionnaires 8,12, 20 and
      24 weeks after inpatient treatment (follow-ups). The investigators plan to conduct uni- and
      multivariate analyses of the baseline measurements to predict patients' social integration
      and treatment response during the inpatient therapy and examine treatment-related changes.
      The findings of this project may help identify vulnerable patients that benefit from adjunct
      therapies targeting negative social biases and improve biomarker-based models of treatment
      prediction.
    
  