
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determination of the maximally tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination of daily oral
      OSI-774 and standard fractionation external beam radiation therapy in patients with oral
      cavity (OC) or oropharyngeal (OP) squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), stage II and III.

      II. Determination of the MTD of daily oral OSI-774, low dose daily cisplatin at 6 mg/m^2/day
      and standard fractionation external beam radiation therapy in patients with oral cavity or
      oropharyngeal SCC stage III and IV.

      III. Determination of the safety of chronic oral dosing of OSI-774 after radiation therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determination of biological markers of activity of OSI-774 in tumor biopsy specimens from
      patients with SCC of OC and OP pre and post therapy.

      II. Determination of the ability of (18F)-FDG-PET scan to demonstrate biological activity of
      OSI-774 in previously untreated patients with SCC of the OC and OP and to predict for
      clinical response.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of erlotinib. Patients are assigned to
      1 of 2 regimens according to disease stage.

      Regimen A (patients with stage II [T2, N0] or III [T1-2, N1] disease): Patients receive oral
      erlotinib once daily. Beginning on day 15, patients also undergo intensity-modulated
      radiotherapy (IMRT) once daily 5 days a week for 7 weeks.

      Regimen B (patients with stage III [T3, N0-1] or IV [T1-4, N2-3, M0 or T4, N0-1, M0]
      disease): Patients receive oral erlotinib and undergo IMRT as in regimen A. Patients also
      receive cisplatin IV over 20 minutes on each day of radiotherapy.

      Patients in both regimens continue to receive erlotinib until the last day of IMRT (patients
      already in the maintenance phase of this study as of 5/11/04 continue to receive erlotinib
      once daily for up to 2 years) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      In both regimens, cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of erlotinib until the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at
      which at least 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Patients are followed at 30 days and then every 3 months for up to 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 24-48 patients (12-24 per regimen) will be accrued for this
      study within 6-24 months.
    
  