
    
      The aim of our study is to determine if any other available noninvasive method can reliably
      diagnose knee meniscal pathology as well as magnetic resonance imaging. In our case, we use
      ultrasound as a noninvasive method , and we want to see if this will be sufficient for
      diagnosing meniscal lesions , if it could be used for this task instead of magnetic resonance
      imaging investigations performed by a radiologist, as well as a guide for indication of knee
      arthroscopy .Knee ultrasound is widely accepted among orthopedic surgeons, and ultrasound is
      used as diagnostic tool for various pathological conditions in orthopedic surgery. ultrasound
      is currently popularly used in orthopedic surgery due to its simplicity and because it is
      less time-consuming and more practical than magnetic resonance imaging. It can diagnose
      location of the tear, joint effusion, synovial thickening, and osteophytosis. Rather, the
      goal is to determine whether or not meniscal pathology wanting surgical intervention .

      We will also compare the diagnostic accuracies of these diagnostic procedures for both acute
      and chronic meniscal lesions of the knee.While magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is often
      considered the gold standard diagnostic imaging modality for detection of meniscal
      abnormalities, it is associated with misdiagnosis in as high as 47% of cases, and is not
      readily available to a large number of patients. Ultrasonographic examination of the knee
      will be reported to be an effective diagnostic tool for this purpose with the potential to
      overcome many of the shortcomings of magnetic resonance imaging. The purpose of this study is
      to determine the clinical usefulness of ultrasonography for diagnosis of meniscal pathology
      in patients with acute knee pain and compare its diagnostic accuracy to magnetic resonance
      imaging in a clinical setting . Musculoskeletal ultrasound involves the use of high-frequency
      sound waves to image soft tissues and bony structures in the body for the purposes of
      diagnosing pathology . Recently, an increasing number of physicians have integrated
      musculoskeletal ultrasound into their practices to facilitate patient care. Technological
      advancements, improved portability, and reduced costs continue to drive the proliferation of
      ultrasound in clinical medicine the clinical applications of musculoskeletal ultrasound in
      clinical practice, including the ultrasonographic appearance of normal and abnormal tissues
      as well as specific diagnostic and interventional applications in major body regions.
    
  