
    
      Regular exercise and dynamic life style can prevent and treat disability, as well as promote
      mental health and quality of life. In addition to chronic illness, reduced muscle mass and
      strength as part of aging, affect the daily activities of living of the elderly and their
      independent lifestyle. In fact, exercise had found positive effects on lower limb weakness of
      the elderly. Elastic band is a resistance training aid which can be used for different muscle
      weight training. The research results have been demonstrated elastic band resistance training
      is safe and effective strategy to apply in the elderly population and to improve physical
      fitness, and mental functioning. Therefore, this study will examine the effects of
      low-resistance elastic band training on muscle strength, flexibility, quality of life and
      ease of care among the nursing home residents. Nursing homes with more than 50 beds that will
      be recruited in Qingshui and Waipu district Taichung City. Nursing homes will be randomly
      assigned to the experimental group and the comparison group. Each group has 20 subjects. The
      residents in experimental group will receive a low-resistance elastic band training(30
      minutes), including warm-up and cold-down period, three times per week for 10 weeks.
      Residents in control group will receive regular activity in nursing home. Inclusion criteria
      for the elderly include: (1) living in nursing home over 3 months; (2) communicating with
      Mandarin and Taiwanese; (3) being able to sit in a chair or wheelchair; (4) can grip elastic
      band by hands; (5) no severe cardiovascular disease, musculoskeletal disorders and mental
      illness;(6) consciousness intact and their consent to participate in this study. Two
      structured questionnaires and an assessment checklist of muscle strength, flexibility will be
      used to collect data at baseline, week 8 and week 12 of exercise. The collected data will be
      coded and double checked and analyzed by using SPSS Window Release 20.0. The findings of this
      study can be apply to develop and conduct an effective exercise program through elastic band
      resistance training to improve residents' strength, flexibility, quality of life and care of
      ease in Taiwan.
    
  