
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a systemic disease associated with dyspnea,
      fatigue, and poor health-related quality of life. COPD is further complicated by the presence
      of pain which may be attributed to common comorbidities such as musculoskeletal conditions
      (osteoarthritis, osteoporosis), cardiac disease or diabetes. Pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) is
      the cornerstone of treatment for COPD however the impact of pain on PR has not been explored.
      It is unclear whether those experiencing chronic pain achieve a similar, lesser or greater
      degree of benefit compared to those without pain, or whether exercise training exacerbates
      symptoms. Gaining a greater understanding of the effects of an outpatient PR program on pain
      will provide direction into future specific treatment options which may necessary for
      managing chronic pain as part of PR.

      Individuals with COPD who are beginning an out-patient PR program will be enrolled in the
      study. Those who report the presence of chronic pain will be classed as the pain group; those
      who report the absence of chronic pain will be classed as the comparator group. All
      participants will complete a 6-minute walk test and a Chronic Respiratory Disease
      Questionnaire (CRDQ) at the beginning of the PR program. These measures will be repeated at
      the end of the 8-week PR program for all participants. All participants will be asked to
      report their level of pain using a visual analogue scale every two weeks during the PR
      program.

      Participants reporting chronic pain will also complete a series of questionnaires regarding
      their pain and coping strategies. These include; the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), Coping
      Strategies Questionnaire (CSQ), Fear Avoidance Behavior Questionnaire (FABQ), Hospital
      Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) and Centre for Epidemiological Studies for Depression
      Survey (CES-D).
    
  