
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate major pathological response rate. (Resectable and borderline resectable groups
      [treatment naive or previously treated]) II. To estimate 6-month disease control rate.
      (Locally advanced groups [treatment naive or previously treated])

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To measure progression free survival and overall survival. (Resectable and borderline
      resectable groups [treatment naive or previously treated]) II. To measure progression free
      survival and overall survival. (Locally advanced groups [treatment naive or previously
      treated])

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To benchmark tissue acquisition protocols for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic
      acid (RNA) analysis in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC).

      II. To demonstrate concordance of cell free DNA detected mutations to those detected in the
      tumor-derived DNA in PDAC.

      III. To demonstrate response through exosome and circulating tumor DNA. IV. To demonstrate
      response through the quantification of the immune activation by analyzing T and B cells,
      peripheral blood mononuclear cells, and tissue biopsies.

      V. To derive organoids from human PDAC and measure drug response in vitro. VI. To analyze the
      tumor microenvironment through immunohistochemistry (IHC) and hypoxia staining.

      VII. To associate prognosis of patients with baseline and follow-up quantitative computed
      tomography (CT) image based analysis.

      VIII. To associate clinical and pathological outcomes of patients with changes in radiomic
      measurements.

      IX. To correlate quality of life for patients on standard and experimental therapies with
      laboratory, radiological, pathological, and clinical characteristics.

      OUTLINE:Patients are assigned to different groups, and each group has a control arm. Within
      each group, the patient will be randomized to the appropriate control or an experimental arm.
      The control arms for the groups are:

      Control arm for Group I (Treatment-naive resectable PDAC): Patients receive fluorouracil,
      irinotecan, leucovorin, and oxaliplatin (mFOLFIRINOX) for 3 months before and after surgery
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Control arm for Group II (Previously-treated resectable PDAC): Patients receive gemcitabine,
      gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel, gemcitabine and cisplatin, or FOLFIRINOX for up to 4 months
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Control arm for Group III (Treatment-naive borderline resectable PDAC): Patients receive
      FOLFIRINOX for 4-6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients may then undergo radiation therapy at the discretion of medical doctors.

      Control arm for Group IV (Previously-treated borderline resectable PDAC): Patients receive
      gemcitabine, gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel, gemcitabine and cisplatin, or FOLFIRINOX for 6
      months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may then
      undergo radiation therapy at the discretion of medical doctors.

      Control arm for Group V (Treatment-naive locally advanced PDAC): Patients receive FOLFIRINOX
      for 4-6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may
      then undergo radiation therapy at the discretion of medical doctors.

      Control arm for Group VI (Previously-treated locally advanced PDAC): Patients receive
      gemcitabine, gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel, gemcitabine and cisplatin, or FOLFIRINOX for 6
      months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may then
      undergo radiation therapy at the discretion of medical doctors.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 16 weeks.
    
  