
    
      Background:

      Heroin dependence is one of the major health issues worldwide. Methadone Maintenance Therapy
      (MMT) is an effective treatment for opioid dependence, but more than three quarters of
      persons receiving MMT report sleep complaints. Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) is one of
      the most common complementary therapies offered to insomnia patients in Taiwan. Investigators
      designed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial to evaluate the
      efficacy of TCM in methadone-maintained persons with sleep disturbance.

      Methods/design:

      In this study, inclusion criteria are persons receiving MMT for at least one month, more than
      20 years old, complain insomnia with a Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) of six or
      higher. Exclusion criteria include being pregnancy, had serious physical or mental illness,
      current use (last 30 days) of TCM, had received any antidepressant or neuroleptic medication
      and inability to read and fill out the forms for the study. The patients were separated into
      an intervention group (Suan-Zao-Ren Tang, SZRT) and a placebo group for four weeks using a
      randomized, double-blind procedure. Outcome measures will be assessed at baseline, 4 weeks
      and 8 weeks after receiving medication. PSQI was used to assess sleep quality over the past
      30 days, anxiety and depression levels measured by the Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI) and Beck
      Depression Inventory II (BDI-II) were also conducted, heroin craving degree was evaluated by
      the change of the visual analog scale (VAS). Serum proteins will be detected using a
      proteomics method based on two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, and the specificity of
      proteins will confirmed by western blotting. T-test and chi-square tests are used for
      statistical analysis.

      Discussion:

      SZRT is a combination of Semen Zizyphi Spinosae (Suanzaoren), Sclerotium Poriae Cocos
      (Fuling), Radix Ligustici Chuanxiong (Chuanxiong), Rhizoma Anemarrhena (Zhimu), and Radix
      Glycyrrhizae (Gancao). It was the most commonly prescribed Chinese herbal formula used for
      the treatment of insomnia. In the classical literature and previous studies, SZRT was said to
      calm the nerves and nourish the blood to eventually bring on a tranquillizing sensation and
      improved the quality of sleep without generating significant side effects. In order to
      evaluate the efficacy of SZRT for sleep disturbance during methadone maintenance,
      investigators designed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial and perform the
      proteomic-system biology analysis to find the biomarker associated with sleep condition.
    
  