
    
      Background of the study:

      Pressure injury is a major problem in patients with no or limited mobility and sensation such
      as paraplegics. One of the main principles to prevent development of pressure injury is to
      reduce the pressure over certain regions by changing the resting or lying position
      periodically. Paraplegics who are suffering from loss of sensation in some parts of the body
      are at high risk because of the missing internal trigger to change the position regularly.
      Many studies have addressed the personal, social, medical and economic consequences of
      pressure injuries. Some studies have investigated solutions aiming to reduce the probability
      of pressure injury development, such as special mattresses or the frequency of moving the
      patients from one side to the other etc. So far it has not yet been possible to
      quantitatively and continuously measure the physiological skin parameters, which are
      essential in the development of pressure injury, over a long period of time. Up to now,
      long-term studies on paraplegics are limited because there are no suitable measurement
      devices. Current measurement devices are hard and inflexible and increase the probability of
      pressure ulcer development in paraplegics by applying external pressure on the tissue. In
      this project, the applicability of wearable measuring systems, which do not apply external
      pressure on the tissue, will be evaluated in paraplegics.

      Aim of the study:

      The goal of the study is to answer the following questions:

        1. Is wearable technology usable for skin physiology measurements in paraplegics?

        2. Are the measurements of skin temperature, pressure, humidity, perfusion, and oxygenation
           reproducible in able bodied individuals?

        3. Do changes in skin temperature, pressure, humidity, perfusion, and oxygenation differ
           between paraplegics and healthy subjects?

      Study design Two different measurement patches will be used. One patch consists of
      temperature, pressure, humidity and perfusion sensors. The second patch consists of
      near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) sensors (to measure oxygenation). This patch is designed
      for non-invasive measurement of oxygenation parameters such as oxygen saturation, oxygen
      consumption etc. The study is divided into two parts. The first part will be performed in 10
      healthy subjects and 3 paraplegics. There will be two measurements in paraplegics and three
      measurements in healthy subjects, each for 10 minutes. The second part which will be
      conducted in 10-20 subjects (5-10 healthy and 5-10 paraplegics). The skin parameters will be
      measured for an hour.

      Part 1a healthy subjects:

      The subject will acclimatize in the room where the experiment takes place for 15 minutes.
      Then the patch will be placed over the ischium of the patient. Ischium will be localized
      manually and the patch will be placed in the underwear of the participant. The subject will
      be asked to sit for 10 minutes in a chair.

      Part 1b paraplegics:

      The subject will acclimatize in the room where the experiment takes place for 15 minutes.
      Then the patch will be placed over the ischium of the patient. Ischium will be localized
      manually and the patch will be placed in the underwear of the participant. The subject will
      be asked to sit for 10 minutes in a in a standard wheelchair.

      Part 2:

      The same procedure will be carried out with the only difference that the measurements will
      last 60 minutes.

      Statistical Analyses:

      Data will be analyzed descriptively. The reproducibility of the data will be analyzed using
      intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC).

      The differences between data from paraplegics and that of healthy subjects will be analyzed
      using the Mann-Whitney-U-Test.

      .
    
  