
    
      A variety of sources of evidence suggest altered vestibular function in people diagnosed with
      MS (PwMS). These sources of evidence include [a] subjective complaints of dizziness /
      vertigo, [b] altered subjective visual vertical, [c] altered vestibular evoked myogenic
      potentials, [d] altered performance on the vestibular dominant components of the sensory
      organization test, and [e] pilot reports of gaze stabilization deficits during vestibular
      ocular reflex (VOR) testing from the investigator's research group. These findings suggest
      vestibular deficits are present in PwMS. Epidemiological studies document cerebellar and
      brainstem involvement in 23% of PwMS at disease onset, increasing to 82% after longstanding
      illness. These vestibular deficits contribute to motion sensitivity, dizziness, imbalance,
      and falls. Regardless, dizziness and falls have a significant negative impact on quality of
      life. Multiple studies show that falls are a major disabling symptom in MS affecting
      approximately 75% of PwMS. The high incidence of falls in MS, is an important health concern
      due to its associations with injury-related morbidities, mortality and financial costs.

      The vestibular pathways responsible for gaze and postural stability, as well as sensory
      integration reside in the brainstem, cerebellum and spinal cord. Demyelination of the
      pathways involving the vestibular nuclei complex within the brainstem and cerebellum
      adversely affect angular vestibulo-ocular reflex,vestibulo-spinal reflex function and sensory
      integration in PwMS. While evidence reports impairments in posturography and otolith mediated
      responses (vestibular evoked myogenic potentials), the responses mediated by the semicircular
      canal end organs and vestibular pathways have not been examined. Specifically, the learning
      and retention of gaze and postural stability as a result of task specific training program
      has not been studied in a well controlled clinical trial.

      This proposal seeks to examine gaze and postural stability outcomes utilizing outcome
      measures that span the World Health Organization's International Classification of Function,
      Disability, and Health. Following completion of the baseline examination, PwMS will be
      randomized to one of two interventions: An Experimental Gaze and Postural Stability Training
      Group (GPS) or a Standard Care Aerobic Exercise Control Group (SCA). The two groups differ
      only by the presence of the GPS program in the experimental group. Both groups will
      participate in supervised exercise 3 times per week for 6 weeks followed by a post
      intervention testing period . After one month of no training, both groups will be brought
      back for a final follow-up examination to determine the retention of any training induced
      changes.
    
  