
    
      Prospective, short-term studies in patients admitted for acute stroke have shown an increased
      risk of infections, bedsores, impaired functional outcome, slower rate of recovery, poorer
      rehabilitation potential and higher mortality in patients with a poor nutritional status.
      Sixteen percent of stroke patients are already malnourished on admission to hospital. The
      incidence of dysphagia in patients with acute stroke ranges from 30 to 45%. Dysphagia
      increases the risk of developing poor nutritional status, and new cases of malnutrition
      develop during the hospital stay, even during the first week. In hospitals without routine
      nutritional assessment and individual nutrition management plans, the risk of patients
      developing malnutrition may be increased. In this study patients admitted for acute stroke
      are randomised into either receiving nutritional therapy derived from estimated individual
      nutritional intake and nutritional needs, or nutritional therapy based on routine care;
      without routine assessment of nutritional status, intake or needs. Nutritional therapy:
      enriched meals, sip-feedings or enteral feedings. Parameters of nutritional status: Weight,
      BMI, TSF thickness, mid upper arm circumference, body composition, s-albumin and
      s-transferrin. Estimation of nutritional intake: Daily registration of food and drink intake.
      Estimating functional status: Hand grip strength, Barthels ADL index and Scandinavian stroke
      scale. Estimating quality of life: EQ-5D.

      Before the inclusion started we decided to use the percentage of patients with weight loss ≥
      5 % at 3 months follow-up as the primary outcome measure because this is correlated better to
      clinical outcomes as e.g. mortality and comorbidity. Secondary outcome measures were then
      defined as handgrip strength, quality of life, nutritional status, nutrient intake and length
      of hospital stay.
    
  