
    
      Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a highly prevalent and debilitating condition that reduces
      quality of life, increases health care utilization, markedly impairs social/occupational
      functioning, and enhances suicide risk for countless individuals worldwide. A substantial
      proportion of MDD patients present with comorbid insomnia that significantly complicates
      their clinical management. For many such patients, insomnia represents a longstanding and
      problematic condition that predates the onset of MDD, adds to their suicide risk, dampens
      their response to traditional depression treatment, and enhances the likelihood for MDD
      relapse. Moreover, many patients who show remission of depressive symptoms with traditional
      therapies (e.g., antidepressant medications, cognitive therapy) suffer from residual insomnia
      that increases their chances for eventual relapse. Despite the deleterious effects insomnia
      may have on MDD patients, there has been surprisingly little research to test effective
      insomnia management strategies among this patient group. Some reports suggest that depression
      treatments may benefit from adding a hypnotic medication to traditional depression therapy,
      but this approach has it limits since sleep improvements achieved with hypnotics do not
      endure after hypnotic discontinuation. Cognitive-Behavioral Insomnia Therapy (CBT-I)
      represents a promising alternative treatment for MDD since it is highly effective and
      produces sleep improvements that persist well beyond the discontinuation of acute therapy.
      Unfortunately CBT-I has yet to be tested among MDD patients with comorbid insomnia. In the
      current project, we will conduct a randomized clinical trial to test the efficacy of CBT-I
      when used in isolation or in combination with antidepressant medication (escitalopram) among
      MDD patients with comorbid insomnia. A sample of 201 patients with MDD and comorbid insomnia
      will be randomized to treatments consisting of the combination of antidepressant medication
      plus CBT-I, antidepressant medication plus placebo behavioral insomnia therapy, or CBT-I plus
      a placebo medication. Objective (polysomnography, actigraph) and subjective (sleep diary,
      questionnaires) sleep measures, as well as depression and quality of life measures will be
      obtained before therapy, after an 8-week treatment phase, and at 6-months follow-up. Results
      of this trial will provide important new information about the short and long-term management
      of those highly challenging and difficult to treat patients with insomnia comorbid to MDD.

      Hypothesis I asserts that the combined CBT-I+AD therapy will produce significantly greater
      pre-to-post therapy improvements in sleep continuity measures than will the 2 mono-therapy
      conditions. The primary outcomes for these hypotheses are subjective (sleep diary) measures
      of TWT and SE. These sleep measures are recorded daily for 2-week periods at baseline,
      post-treatment, and the 6-month follow-up. The daily measures will be averaged over each
      2-week period. As a result, patients will have three repeated outcomes for each of the two
      sleep measures: one representing the average at baseline, one for the average at
      post-treatment, and one for the average at 6-months. Sleep diary estimates of TWT and SE from
      pre to post treatment will serve as the primary measures to test this hypothesis. Our
      secondary outcome measures include diary estimates of total sleep time (TST), as well as
      objective measures of TWT, SE, & TST taken from pre-and post-treatment PSG and actigraphic
      monitoring We will use a 3 (treatment groups) x 2 (Baseline vs. post-treatment) Analysis of
      Variance (ANOVA) model to compare the performance of our treatment conditions across the
      primary and secondary outcomes. Treatment comparisons of CBT-I + AD vs. each of the other 2
      treatments will be made. Alpha for the 2 primary outcomes is fixed at 0.025 (= 0.05/2).
      Further analyses will adjust for pre-treatment stratification variables and other covariates.
      The investigators will, in particular, be mindful of the treatment adherence and credibility
      data we collect and use these measures as covariates if the investigators find differential
      adherence or credibility rates across treatment conditions. In addition, the investigators
      will explore the effect of changes in medication on the observed changes in our outcome
      measures by considering medication usage data derived from the MQS106.
    
  