
    
      Among patients with coronary artery disease and HF, mortality rates range from 10-60% at 1
      year. Many trials have demonstrated benefit of revascularization in patients with ischemic
      heart disease (IHD) and LV dysfunction. Some criteria, such as severe angina or left main
      coronary artery stenosis may indicate the need for surgical therapy for HF patients; however,
      a large number of patients fall into a gray zone without clear evidence for benefit from
      surgical intervention. The need remains for approaches that can help better define and select
      the HF patients most likely to benefit from revascularization; which could be either surgical
      or percutaneous intervention.

      Increasingly over the past three decades, information describing cardiac structure,
      perfusion, hemodynamics, and metabolism obtained from noninvasive cardiac imaging studies has
      been used to guide management decisions for patients with HF.

      AIMI-HF is part of a large Canadian team grant IMAGE-HF (Imaging Modalities to Assist with
      Guiding therapy and the Evaluation of patients with Heart Failure) involving 3 parallel
      randomized trials addressing the role of imaging in HF patients according to HF etiology.

      Primary Hypothesis of AIMI-HF:

      In patients with HF due to IHD with LVEF less than or equal to 45%, a management algorithm
      that applies alternative imaging strategies (PET or CMR) achieves a better clinical outcome
      measured as the composite clinical endpoint (CCE) of cardiac death, MI, resuscitated cardiac
      arrest and cardiac re-hospitalization (WHF, ACS, arrhythmia) than an approach with "standard
      care".

      Secondary Hypotheses of AIMI-HF:

      i) Compared to standard care, in patients with HF due to IHD with LVEF ≤ 45%, a management
      algorithm that applies alternative imaging modalities (PET or CMR) achieves: a) more
      efficient use of revascularization procedures with similar complication rates than standard
      care imaging strategies b) better LV remodeling (including favorable evolution of serum
      markers associated with LV remodeling e.g. PIIINP, OPN) c) better HF and angina symptom
      reduction, d) better QoL, measured using MLHFQ and EQ5D, e) more favorable evolution of
      selected serum markers of prognosis in HF (e.g. BNP, RDW, hs-cTnT, hs-CRP) and f) is
      economically attractive in patients with HF due to IHD with LVEF<45%.

      ii) In patients with HF due to IHD with LVEF ≤ 45%, a HF management algorithm that applies
      PET achieves a better primary composite clinical endpoint (CCE) and secondary outcomes
      (revascularizations, remodeling, QoL, Cost efficiency) compared to one that applies CMR.

      iii) Renal function impairment is a known independent predictor of cardiovascular events in
      HF. Renal function may influence revascularisation decisions and its evolution could be
      modified by revascularisation procedures.

      Study design

      AIMI-HF is the IMAGE-HF Project 1-A trial; it is a prospective comparative effectiveness
      study to compare the effect of HF imaging strategies in patients with HF due to IHD. Eligible
      patients will have LV systolic dysfunction due to IHD where evaluation of ischemia and
      viability is relevant. Patients will be prospectively randomized to standard (SPECT) versus
      advanced (PET or CMR) imaging. Patients who meet inclusion criteria but cannot be randomized
      due to clinical management decisions, yet undergo standard or advanced imaging (SPECT, PET/CT
      or CMR), will be entered into a registry. Based on site screening logs, patients who could
      not be randomized, who met all other inclusion criteria and underwent standard or advanced
      imaging, will be retrospectively enrolled, from the date of original HREB approval, into the
      study as registry participants. Registry recruitment will be monitored to ensure a balanced
      recruitment for each modality registry.
    
  