
    
      Specific Aim:

      Critical illness and the therapies that accompany it are associated with a disruption in the
      ecological equilibrium of the GI tract that can ultimately lead to infection. Lactobacillus
      GG, a probiotic, repletes the healthy flora of the intestinal tract and may decrease the risk
      of diarrhea and infection during critical illness. However, little is known about the impact
      of probiotics following a burn injury and the mechanisms behind the proposed benefits. The
      hypothesis of this research is that Lactobacillus GG decreases the incidence of diarrhea and
      infection in burned children receiving antibiotic therapy. The specific aim of this research
      is to determine the impact of Lactobacillus GG on the incidence of diarrhea and infection
      among burned children (>20% TBSA) receiving antibiotic therapy.

      Subjects:

      All subjects will be recruited from the Shriners Hospitals for Children in Boston. Patients
      of any age admitted to Shriners Hospitals for Children in Boston that match the following
      inclusion criteria will be considered for this study 1)burn wound size of at least 20% of the
      body surface area, 2)requires antibiotic therapy. Exclusion criteria includes: 1) < 20% total
      body surface area burn, 2)does not require antibiotic therapy, 3)only requires post-operative
      antibiotic therapy, 4)bowel obstruction, 5)milk allergy.

      Study Design:

      This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Patients will be randomly
      assigned to receive Lactobacillus GG (n = 47) or a placebo (n = 47) within 3 days of
      initiation of antibiotic therapy. Randomization will occur by using a computerized
      randomization list. A pharmacist, who is not a member of the study staff, will assign each of
      the 2 supplement groups a number and label the supplement bottles accordingly.

      Methods:

      Lactobacillus GG, a nonpathogenic microorganism, will be administered in this study. A dose
      of 1010 colony factor units (cfu) twice daily will be given to the experimental group (n
      =47). The control group will receive a placebo (n = 47) that will be identical in appearance
      to the probiotic. All supplements will be administered orally or via feeding tube. The study
      endpoint will be 10 days after antibiotic use is discontinued or patient discharge Parameters
      measured will include 1) the occurrence of pneumonia or infection in the wound, blood, or
      urine, as defined by The National Nosocomial Infection Surveillance System (A localized or
      systemic condition that results from adverse reaction to the presence of an infectious
      agent(s) or toxin(s)) and clarified by the Infection Control Nurse, 2) incidence of diarrhea
      defined as 3 or more loose or watery stools per 24 hours, 3) weekly weights and labs
      (including total protein, albumin, prealbumin and C-reactive protein) as obtained per routine
      care, 4) length of antibiotic use, 5) length of stay.
    
  