
    
      The standard pathway for prostate cancer diagnosis is trans-rectal ultrasound guided (TRUS)
      biopsy of the prostate following an elevated PSA. TRUS guidance is performed primarily for
      anatomic guidance as the ultrasound poorly discriminates between cancerous and non-cancerous
      tissue. TRUS guided prostate biopsies are concentrated in areas of the peripheral zone,
      thought to harbor the majority of cancer.

      An alternative pathway for prostate cancer diagnosis in men with elevated PSA is to perform
      multi-parametric magnetic resonance imaging (MPMRI) to localize cancer. This information is
      used to direct a subsequent biopsy, known as an MRI-targeted biopsy. MRI-targeted biopsy has
      been shown in preliminary studies to detect a similar or greater amount of clinically
      significant cancer than systematic TRUS guided biopsy and has several other potential
      advantages including: the ability to differentiate between clinically significant and
      insignificant cancer, reducing unnecessary biopsy and fewer numbers of biopsy cores, reducing
      biopsy-related side-effects.

      A 'clinically insignificant cancer' is cancer that is unlikely to progress or to affect an
      individual's life expectancy and therefore does not warrant treatment. However when diagnosed
      with low grade cancer that is likely to be insignificant, a large proportion of subjects
      request treatment in case a more significant cancer is present. A challenge in this area is
      that subjects are typically not aware that their cancer is clinically insignificant, and
      often view the early diagnosis and aggressive treatment they have been subjected to as
      life-saving.

      A prostate cancer detection procedure that differentiates clinically significant cancer from
      clinically insignificant cancer is therefore a major unmet need.

      The potential implications of this trial include:

        -  A redefinition of the prostate cancer diagnostic pathway;

        -  A reduction in the number of subjects undergoing prostate biopsy;

        -  A reduction in the number of biopsy cores taken per subject;

        -  A reduction in biopsy-related adverse events including sepsis and pain;

        -  A reduction in the over-diagnosis of clinically insignificant prostate cancer;

        -  A reduction in the economic burden of diagnosing and treating prostate cancer.
    
  