
    
      1. Background:

           Successful vascular access is critical for the treatment of acute and critically ill
           patients, especially those with cardiac arrest. For cardiac arrest patients, besides
           high-quality chest compressions and defibrillation, timely use of rescue drugs is also
           important. This requires early vascular access during chest compressions. Clinical
           studies and animal experiments indicate that 1 min delay of administration of
           antiarrhythmic drugs will increase the risk of adverse outcome, also found that the time
           interval from cardiac arrest to the first dose of rescue medication is closely related
           to the return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) and prognosis.

           Because of the circulatory failure of patients with cardiac arrest, peripheral venous
           network often collapses, which makes it more difficult to develop vascular access. In
           addition, central venous catheterization (CVC) often takes an experienced physician at
           least 5-10 min, and it may affect resuscitation.

           Intraosseous (IO) access is a new, fast, safe and efficient route of rescue of
           critically ill patients. Animal and clinical studies found drug pharmacokinetics and
           pharmacodynamics of IO are similar to IV route. Compared with IV and CVC, IO is
           time-consuming, easy to grasp, and has high operation success rate. European
           Resuscitation Council (ERC) 2015 guidelines recommend IO when the establishment of
           vascular access is difficult or impossible.

           Recent animal studies suggest that IO access have better ventricular fibrillation
           termination rates, ROSC rates and survival compared with IV route. However, recent
           retrospective clinical studies found that IO versus IV treatment was associated with a
           lower likelihood of ROSC and hospitalization. How routes of vascular access influence
           clinical outcomes after OHCA merits multicenter randomized controlled trial. We suppose
           IO versus IV treatment is associated with a higher likelihood of ROSC and hospital and
           discharge survival.

        2. Materials and methods:

           Study Design:

           This study is a prospective, open, two-arm, multicenter randomized controlled trial. The
           study will be conducted by the Department of Emergency Medicine, Second Affiliated
           Hospital, Zhejiang University, and other 21 medical centers or affiliated hospitals in
           China.

           Selection of patients:

           We will enroll nearly 2356 patients experiencing an out of hospital cardiac arrest
           (OHCA) patients by the eligibility and exclusion criteria during January 2020 to
           December 2022.

           Randomization:

           Block randomization will be conducted in this study. Randomized sequence numbers, which
           will be generated by the computer random number generator from Department of Medical
           Statistics and Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Zhejiang University, will be put
           into opaque envelopes and saved by an independent third party. A section included 4
           random numbers, and each reference unit has its own independent research random number
           segment. avoiding centers into groups selectively shift caused by uneven. Research
           institutions and researchers should random subjects into the groups according to the
           random envelope numbers without secretly opening the envelope or jumping numbers. After
           being unpacked, random envelopes will be uniformly sealed and saved. Patients consistent
           with inclusion and exclusion criteria will be randomized into IO group or peripheral
           venous access group (IV).

           Patients will be randomized using a random envelope method, and researchers of all
           centers are not aware of the length of randomized block. Preparation and production of
           random envelops are commissioned by the Department of Emergency Medicine, Second
           Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University. The study is an open label study. But the
           staff responsible for the follow-up, data collection and data analysis later does not
           know the specific grouping. To avoid rescue delay, random envelope will be placed in
           fixed position in all research centers. When an OHCA patient is enrolled, randomly open
           a random envelope and determine the grouping.

           Intervention:

           Group IO: The insertion site locates at 1 cm medial tibial tuberosity. EZ-IO (U.S.
           Teleflex® Corporation) will be used with an adult 15G needle. Pull out the needle when
           having a sense of frustration, withdraw the bone marrow with the syringe, bolus 20 mL of
           normal saline to open intramedullary path and begin drug resuscitation at the same time.
           The retention time of IO route should be less than 24 h, and venous access should be
           established after winning rescue time as soon as possible to continue treatment. If
           failed, the next catheterization plan will be determined by the physician in charge of
           the scene.

           Group IV: Any available peripheral venous can be chose to establish vascular access for
           the administration of drugs or fluids, the antecubital vein is preferred. If failed, the
           next catheterization plan will be determined by the physician in charge of the scene.

           Other treatment measures of two groups refer to 2015 AHA Advanced Cardiovascular Life
           Support guidelines.

           Technical Training:

           The operators of IO receive at least 1 h theoretical study and practice in training
           until master mold puncture technique, passing the examination before the start of the
           study. Operators of peripheral venipuncture have more than 1 year venipuncture
           experience.

           Statistical analysis:

           Intention-to-treat analysis (ITT) and per-protocol set (PPS) sensitivity analysis will
           be conducted in our study. Descriptive statistics are used to summarize the data.
           Categorical variables are presented as counts and percentages, and differences between
           groups are analyzed using the χ2 test. Continuous variables are presented as means with
           standard deviations or median (interquartile range [IQR]), hence analysis is done by the
           Student t test or the Mann-Whitney U test according to normal or non-normal
           distributions. Stage analysis will be performed when collected data account for 30%,
           50%, 80%, 100% of anticipation. The interim analysis will follow the O'Brien-Fleming
           rule to assess the safety and efficacy of this study. If the results of interim study do
           not meet the criteria of suspension, cases will continue to be collected until the
           completion of the target sample size.

        3. Sample Size Calculation Prior to the start of the study a sample size calculation was
           performed to determine study feasibility. Model assumptions were made based on prior
           quality assurance reviews. Sample size requirements for a non-inferiority comparison
           were calculated using the following assumptions: alpha 0.025, beta 80%, clinically
           significant difference of 5% increase in ROSC and 25% ROSC rate for both arms. Assuming
           the sample has an equal number of subjects in each arm, the study would need to include
           at least 1178 subjects per arm (2356 total) to reach statistical significance.

        4. Data Management and Confidentiality

           Data Management:

           Using EDC platform+ paper version for data management and storage. The person
           responsible for collecting paper version will input data in EDC platform uniformly,
           summary paper and electronic versions for further statistical analysis and preservation.

           Security measures:

           All records related to the identity of subjects are to be confidential and not open to
           the public outside the scope of relevant laws or regulations.

        5. Informed consent:

           Subjects must obtain written informed consent prior to the implementation, being
           informed of specific content of study, as detailed informed consent.

        6. Adverse events reporting:

      Definition of adverse events and classification of serious adverse events:

      Adverse events (AE): It is defined as any adverse medical events occurred in patients, which
      is not necessarily a cause or result of treatment. Therefore, adverse event can be any
      discomfort or unconscious signs (including abnormal laboratory findings), symptom or disease
      generated after interventions, whether or not considered to be related to drugs.

      Serious adverse events (SAE):

      Death, life-threatening, hospitalization, prolonged hospitalization, persistent or
      significant disability / loss of function, important medical events that require medical or
      surgical treatment to avoid serious consequences.

      Assessment of adverse events:

      In each AE, researchers need to assess: intensity (severity), clinical relevance, causality
      (relationship between drugs and research process), results and measures taken.

      Recording and reporting procedures:

      During the study, researchers should record all AE in detail and report. All SAE are required
      to be recorded in the AE page of CRF. In addition, a completed "serious adverse events"
      should be sent to the competent authorities, the local Food and Drug Administration
      investigators and Ethics Committee involved immediately (at the latest within 24 hours). The
      researcher will sign and date the report, informing the other researchers involved in this
      clinical study at the same time.
    
  