
    
      The treatment options for renal stones 10-20 mm include either extracorporeal shock wave
      lithotripsy (SWL) or endourology (retrograde intrarenal surgery (RIRS) and percutaneous
      nephrolithotomy (PNL).

      SWL is an attractive treatment option for renal stones because it is non-invasive and more
      acceptable for the patient and can be done under analgesia, sedation, or minimal anaesthesia.
      However, the limitation of SWL includes a relatively lower stone-free rate (SFR) and the need
      for repeated sessions and auxiliary procedures. The SFR after SWL is affected by several
      factors, including body mass index (BMI), stone size, intrarenal stone location,
      skin-to-stone distance (SSD), and stone density.

      The EAU guidelines put endourology and SWL as two equal options in medium-sized non-lower
      pole renal stones and did not give special attention to the stone density, which is an
      important predictor for SWL outcome. Several studies reported that the number of SWL sessions
      increased with increased stone attenuation value (SAV) and SFR decreased significantly in
      high-density renal stone.

      PNL and RIRS have good SFR compared to SWL but might entail a significant risk of morbidity.
      The improved fURS instrumentation and lithotripsy technology, and development of the
      miniaturized PNL technique, may lower the procedure-related complications and mPNL and RIRS
      an alternative and excellent option for medium-sized and even large renal stones The
      investigators hypothesize that addressing the stone density factor may give a clear
      recommendation for medium-sized, high-density renal stones. They expected the superiority for
      either mPNL or RIRS, regarding SFR, without increased morbidity.

      The study aims to compare the outcome of mPNL, RIRS, and SWL for treatment of non-lower pole,
      high-density renal stones of 10 to 20 mm size.

      The study will include adult patients with non-lower pole, high-density (>1000 HU) renal
      stones of 10 to 20 mm size.

      Pre-operatively, patients will be evaluated by medical history taking, physical examination.
      urinalysis, urine culture, complete blood cell count (CBC), liver function tests, coagulation
      profile, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), serum creatinine, plain abdominal X-ray and computed
      tomography for urinary tract (CT-UT), Eligible patients will be randomly divided into 3 equal
      groups. PNL group, in which PNL procedures will be performed using miniature nephroscope,
      RIRS group, in which RIRS will be performed using flexible ureteroscope and SWL group, in
      which SWL procedures will be performed using Dornier Lithotripter.

      post-operatively, patients will be followed up regularly, for 3 months. The SFR, complication
      rate, cost, patients' and surgeon's satisfaction will be evaluated and compared between the
      three groups using the appropriate statistical tests and analytical program.
    
  