
    
      Twenty-five sedentary class 2 and above obese [body mass index (BMI) >35 kg/m2, waist
      circumference >40 inches (men) or >35 inches (women)] men and women (18-45 yrs) will
      participate in these experiments. Individuals under 18 years of age will not be investigated
      due to the invasive nature of the protocol. Individuals greater than 45 years of age will not
      be investigated due to the age-related decline in endothelial function. There will be no
      restrictions with regard to race, sex, or socioeconomic status. Women will be premenopausal,
      will be on combined estrogen/progestin hormonal contraceptive therapy (oral pill, transdermal
      patch or vaginal ring) and will be studied within the seven day inactive (placebo) phase of
      hormonal contraceptive therapy (comparable to the early follicular phase in the normal
      menstrual cycle; verified by blood estradiol analyses). Ensuring consistency in studying the
      women during the phase of hormonal contraceptive therapy with lowest plasma estradiol
      concentrations is important due to the known positive effects of estradiol on endothelial
      function. Sedentary obese individuals will have been weight stable for the preceding 6
      months, and will have the Metabolic Syndrome. The Metabolic Syndrome will be defined
      according to the most widely used criteria for the Metabolic Syndrome from the Third Report
      of the National Cholesterol Education Program Expert Panel on Detection, Evaluation, and
      Treatment of High Blood Cholesterol in Adults (Adult Treatment Panel III). Individuals with
      the Metabolic Syndrome have at least three of the following:1) Central obesity as measured by
      waist circumference (men >40 inches; women >35 inches); 2) Fasting blood triglycerides > 150
      mg/dL; 3) Blood HDL cholesterol in men<40 mg/dL and women <50 mg/dL; 4) Blood pressure >
      130/85 mmHg; 5) Fasting blood glucose > 110 mg/dL, and (not per ATP III) a 2-hour GTT glucose
      of 140-200 mg/dl.

      Before participating in this study, subjects will undergo a medical history, physical
      examination, and screening for cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes. Evaluations
      consist of a graded treadmill stress test, a blood chemistry, body composition analysis by
      Dual X-ray Absorptiometry (DXA) and a minimum waist circumference (between the xiphoid
      process and the umbilicus) measure.

      Exclusions Subjects participating in purposeful endurance exercise training (>20 min/day, >1
      day/week) will be excluded. Pre-menopausal female subjects must not be pregnant or lactating,
      and must have had regular menstrual cycles for the past year. All subjects will be screened
      for cardiovascular and peripheral vascular disease. Individuals taking medications that may
      affect central or peripheral circulation, are on nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents or
      serotonin reuptake inhibitors, who smoke or chew tobacco, have diabetes (fasting blood
      glucose >125 mg/dL), hypertension >160/95 mmHg (individuals with diabetes and high degree of
      hypertension will be excluded to keep a more uniform group of individuals with the metabolic
      syndrome), congestive heart failure, angina, or peripheral vascular disease. Individuals with
      evidence of serious arrhythmias and/or acute myocardial ischemia reflected in ST-segment
      depression of 1 mm or greater at rest or during exercise will be excluded. Individuals with
      chronic infections, paralysis due to stroke, advanced Parkinson's Disease, severe rheumatoid
      arthritis or other serious orthopedic problems that would prevent performance of the exercise
      training tasks will be excluded. Subjects will not be allowed to take antioxidant, herbal or
      vitamin supplementation for at least 2 weeks prior to investigation since some of these
      agents have been shown to improve endothelium-dependent vasodilatation. Subjects will not be
      allowed to ingest caffeine the day of the experiment. Subjects will be excluded if weight
      changes by more than 5% during the training program or if their exercise adherence is below
      90% of the exercise sessions or total exercise time.

      Timeframe: Subjects will be recruited, screened, enrolled, and tested during months 3-28 of
      this grant. Subject recruitment procedures and procurement of needed supplies will occur
      during the first 2 months of the project. Additional recruitment, as well as screening and
      testing of subjects will occur in 1-month cycles over the ensuing 25 months at a rate of
      approximately 1 per cycle. Twenty-five microdialysis experiments will therefore be performed
      on participants both before and after 8 weeks of exercise training, for a total of 50
      microdialysis experiments. This plan will therefore require 2 microdialysis tests per month
      on average during the testing months. Testing of these subjects includes six hours for the
      microdialysis procedure. Biochemical analysis of samples requires approximately six hours per
      experiment, and data reduction another five hours per experiment. Additional time (five hours
      per week) is required for subject recruitment, preliminary testing and follow-up. The
      recruitment and testing goals are therefore realistic in light of the personnel and
      percentage efforts allocated, coupled with personnel and resources not charged to the grant.

      Microdialysis (Before and after exercise training):

      Subjects will report to the Hickner laboratory following an overnight fast. While subjects
      are quietly resting, an overnight fasted blood draw will be obtained from an antecubital vein
      to be analyzed for traditional (insulin, glucose, lipids, c-reactive protein) and
      non-traditional [(cytokines TNF-alpha, IL-6, IL-13, intercellular adhesion molecule-1
      (ICAM-1), vascular adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) and P-selectin] cardio-metabolic disease
      risk/inflammatory markers in blood using ELISA's from EMD Millipore, or our clinical analyzer
      (Beckman Access systems). In addition, plasma glutathione (GSH/GSSG) will be analyzed as a
      marker of systemic oxidative stress using a kit from Percipio Biosciences (Bioxytech
      GSH/GSSG).

      Microdialysis Procedure Seven microdialysis probes (CMA 20: 10mm * 0.5 mm 20kilodalton cutoff
      membrane, 5 cm probe shaft length, inlet tubing and outlet tubing 20cm; CMA/Microdialysis,
      Stockholm, Sweden) will be percutaneously inserted, 3 cm apart, into the vastus lateralis of
      the quadriceps femoris muscle group (3-4 probes per leg) using sterile technique under local
      anesthesia (1% lidocaine). The probes will be perfused with the appropriate solution at a
      rate of 2.0 µL/min using CMA/102 microinfusion pumps (CMA/Microdialysis, Stockholm, Sweden)
      according to the schedule in Table 2.

      The control perfusion solution will consist of a sterile saline solution containing 5 mM
      ethanol (for blood flow/microvascular exchange measures). Two of the probes will initially be
      perfused with this control solution while the other probes will be perfused with NADPH
      oxidase inhibitors. Subjects will rest while seated for 60 minutes to allow for recovery from
      probe insertion and equilibration of the perfusate with the local environment. Phase 1: Three
      10-minute dialysate samples will be collected over the subsequent 30 minutes in capped 150 µL
      polyethylene collection vials to determine basal nutritive flow in the absence (probe 1) and
      presence (Probes 3-7) of the NADPH oxidase inhibitors, and to serve as an intra-probe control
      period prior to SNP perfusion (Probe 2). Phase 2: The perfusate solutions in the second probe
      will then be changed to contain the control solution plus 50 mM sodium nitroprusside (SNP: to
      control for non-endothelium dependent changes). 100 µM Amplex UltraRed and 1 U/mL horseradish
      peroxidase (HRP) will be added to the perfusate in the other probes for measurement of in
      vivo H2O2 production. Three twenty-minute dialysate samples will then be collected over the
      subsequent 60 minutes to provide these measures in the absence of superoxide dismutase. Phase
      3: 10 U/mL superoxide dismutase (SOD) will then be added to the Amplex UltraRed/HRP
      containing perfusates. Three twenty-minute dialysate samples will then be collected over the
      subsequent 60 minutes to provide measures of the effects of SNP, 1 mM apocynin, 100nM
      MitoTempo,100uM MitoTempo+Apocynin, 100nM GKT 137831, or 100nM GKT 137831+Apocynin in the
      absence of SOD. Phase 4: The perfusate solutions in probes two through seven will then be
      changed to contain the control solution plus either 50 mM Ach (to determine
      endothelium-dependent changes), or 50 mM ACh + either 1 mM apocynin, 100nM MitoTempo,100uM
      MitoTempo+Apocynin, 100nM GKT 137831, or 100nM GKT 137831+Apocynin (to determine if
      inhibition of NADPH oxidase or mitochondrial ROS production improves the
      endothelium-dependent response). The probes will then be perfused for 60 minutes to allow for
      equilibration with the local environment. Three ten-minute samples will then be collected
      over the subsequent 30 minutes to determine the nutritive flow effects of ACH in the presence
      and absence of NADPH oxidase or mitochondrial ROS inhibition. For each sample where Amplex
      UltraRed and HRP are added to the perfusion medium, 30 µL of dialysate will immediately be
      measured for H2O2 in the laboratory fluorometer. For each sample where blood flow is
      measured, dialysate will be stored at 4 °C and analyzed for ethanol (for blood
      flow/microvascular exchange) within 24 hours. All perfusates and dialysates will be protected
      from light exposure.

      Microdialysis ethanol outflow/inflow ratio Ethanol (5 mM) will be included in the perfusion
      medium to monitor nutritive blood flow/microvascular exchange in the area of the
      microdialysis probe as described in our previous publications 30-32.

      Determination of peak aerobic capacity (before and after exercise training):

      All subjects will perform a standardized maximal exercise test on a treadmill upon enrollment
      in the study and again upon completion of the training program. Subjects will individually
      adjust speed and incline (3-6 km·hr-1, 0-5%) for a 5-minute warm-up period. After the warm-up
      period, the subject's expired O2 and CO2 will be continuously monitored via open circuit
      spirometry (TrueOne 2400; Parvomedics; Salt Lake City, UT). The VO2peak test will be
      performed using a ramp protocol where the speed will be constant and the incline will be
      increased 2% every two-minutes until VO2peak is reached. The starting speed will be
      individually adjusted based on the warm-up speeds and heart rates, with the intention of
      obtaining VO2peak within 8-12 minutes.

      Training Protocol All participants will perform aerobic interval exercise training three
      times per week on non-consecutive days for eight weeks. Exercise will consist of
      walking/running up an incline on a treadmill. Subjects will warm up for 10 minutes at 70% of
      maximal heart rate (HRmax as determined during the VO2peak test) before performing four
      4-minute intervals at 90% of HRmax with a 3-minute active recovery at 70% of HRmax between
      intervals and a 5-minute cool-down period, yielding a total exercise time of 40 minutes.

      Determination of body composition Fat-free mass, fat mass, and percent body fat will be
      determined using dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA; GE Lunar Prodigy Advance, Madison
      WI). Body mass and height will be measured for the calculation of body mass index (BMI:
      kg/m2). Minimum waist and maximum hip circumferences will be also measured to potentially be
      used as a covariate in statistical analyses due to the relationship of w/h ratio and waist
      circumference with cardio-metabolic disease risk.

      Muscle markers of oxidative stress:

      Biopsies will therefore be taken in the resting state before and after training in those
      participants agreeing to the biopsy procedure. Percutaneous muscle biopsies will be obtained
      from the vastus lateralis of the quadriceps femoris muscle group (undergoes adaptations to
      the proposed exercise training) using sterile procedures and after administration of local
      anesthesia (1% lidocaine).
    
  