
    
      Eligible healthy women >= 40 years old at average risk for developing breast cancer will be
      offered participation in the study at the time they present for routine screening mammogram
      (MM) at the University of Maryland Breast Screening Center and Baltimore Washington Medical
      Center; includes women who present to the center as a referral for further diagnostic workup
      of recent screening diagnosis of breast cancer <= to 3 months with mammographic findings on
      screening MM with BIRADS 0-6<= 3 months.

      Informed consent will be reviewed with the study participant and She will be asked if She
      wishes to participate in this study. Once the volunteer agrees and signs the consent, her
      eligibility criteria will be reviewed by the study coordinator and if eligible the patient
      will be enrolled. Her MM, US or MRI results will be obtained and the study subject will be
      assigned to one of the 3 cohorts of patients.

      COHORT I-BIRADS 1 or 2, COHORT II -BIRADS 3 COHORT III-BIRADS 4-6.

      The first blood sample (20ml) for GP-88 will be drawn within 31 days of the initial signing
      of the informed consent. It is expected that majority of women attending the screening and
      diagnostic program at the UM Breast Center will be approached about this study. The
      investigator expects to screen 1400 and consent approximately 800 women in 12 months.

      Once deemed eligible the study participant will have their first GP-88 blood sample drawn
      (20ml) within 31 days of signing the consent. The investigator will make every effort to draw
      the blood sample for GP-88 on the day of the visit to our breast center and will try not to
      ask study participants to come back to have the blood samples drawn unless the patient is
      willing to do it. However the study participant does have the option to have the GP-88 blood
      sample drawn within 31 days of her screening or diagnostic MM, US or breast MRI or biopsy if
      she wishes to participate but cannot do it on the day of her visit here. If the initial-first
      blood sample is never drawn the patient will be considered a screen failure, if subsequent
      blood samples will not be drawn or if the patient does not return for follow up screening or
      diagnostic MM or other testing as recommended by the radiologists, she will be replaced by
      another subject.
    
  