
    
      Primary dysmenorrhea (PD) is described as suprapubic pelvis pains with cramps that begin a
      couple hours before menstrual bleeding or after menstrual bleeding or last 12-72 hours and
      occur repeatedly without organic pathology. According to De Sanctis et al. (2015), PD
      prevalence varies between 16% and 93%. PD is generally seen with sweating, fatigue,
      gastrointestinal system signs and central nerve system signs. These symptoms occurring just
      before or just after menstrual bleeding may prevent these women from attending school and
      work and joining social activities.

      In literature, there are studies that state that PD can be cured using such complementary
      therapies as essential oil acids, vitamins, acupuncture, herbal medicines, aromatherapy,
      reflexology, acupressure, massage, sport and exercise. In PD management, it is estimated that
      giving massage together with progressive relaxation exercises (PRE) will be beneficial.
      Massage intensifies blood flow in the site where it is applied and reduces muscle strain.
      Besides, it also elevates endorphin secretion and increases pain threshold. Relaxation
      exercises produce a decline in sympathetic activity, a rise in parasympathetic activity and
      as a result, a reduce in heart rate, blood pressure, respiration rate, oxygen requirement,
      dilatation in peripheral veins, a rise of blood flow in blood arteries and a reduction in
      muscle strain, pain or pain perception and a better sleep quality. In addition, thanks to
      deep breathing techniques performed with PRE sympathetic nerve system activity reduces; as a
      result of which pain, anxiety and depressive symptoms decrease, too.

      In literature, there are no studies where massage and PRE have been used together in PD
      management. In this sense, the study was planned to examine the effect of massage and PRE
      used together with massage upon pain intensity and menstrual symptoms in the management of
      PD.
    
  