
    
      The overarching aim of this study is to assess the effects of a program of mother-delivered,
      cue-based infant massage on stress reactivity in the mother-infant dyad, and on other
      measures of mother-infant functioning. The study has several interrelated objectives:

        1. To evaluate the short-term effects of infant massage intervention on infant and maternal
           stress reactivity from assays of maternal and infant salivary cortisol, and cortisol
           levels in mothers' breast milk.

        2. To examine the impact of mother-delivered infant massage on the development of infant
           resistance to infectious pathogens and antibody-based protective immunity in response to
           routine scheduled vaccinations, and to examine if the degree of immunity is mediated by
           infant stress reactivity.

        3. To examine the impact of mother-delivered infant massage, and of changes in stress
           reactivity in response to massage, on infant physiological functioning (vagal tone,
           heart rate variability), infant physical development (weight, height, and head
           circumference), mothers' perception of infant temperament and infant state regulation,
           parenting self-efficacy, symptoms of depression and anxiety, and mother-infant
           interaction.

        4. To examine associations between cortisol levels in mothers' saliva, mothers' breast
           milk, and infants' saliva. Establishing such linkages would support recent animal data
           suggesting that infant glucocorticoid levels can be affected by glucocorticoid levels
           transferred to the infant in mother's milk.

        5. To examine whether a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in three candidate genes (Mu
           opioid receptor, brain-derived neurotropic factor, and vasopressin V1b receptor), each
           associated with hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA) functioning, moderates the
           effects of infant massage on stress-related outcomes.
    
  