
    
      Rationale Clozapine (CLZ) is generally prescribed if at least two trials of antipsychotic
      agents have not led to satisfactory clinical improvement, thereby implying that patients on
      CLZ generally suffer from more severe and/or persistent symptoms than patients suffering from
      schizophrenia spectrum disorders (SCZ) on other antipsychotic agents. Unraveling the
      (functional) genetic variation underlying this severe SCZ phenotype therefore has the
      potential to deepen our understanding of the biological underpinnings of SCZ beyond the
      boundaries of DSM-based consensus criteria. Such knowledge in turn has the potential to shape
      future pharmacotherapeutic research. The investigators here hypothesize that targeting this
      phenotype in genome-wide association studies and next-generation sequencing studies will
      signal genetic risk loci implicated in this severe SCZ phenotype. In the future, this may
      lead to early detection of severe SCZ, which in turn will enable tailoring of
      pharmacotherapeutic strategies to such SCZ subtypes. The results of this genetic part of the
      study will be combined with the results from our other research protocol ('Phenomics and
      genomic of clozapine pharmacotherapy - New Users').The overarching goal of both projects is
      to create a prediction model for clozapine outcome (response (and side effects). This model
      includes genetic, epigenetic and clinical data.

      Objectives

      Primary:

      1) To predict CLZ efficacy and ADRs (=treatment outcome) based on phenotypic and genetic data
      obtained in this study.

      Secondary:

        1. To investigate which non-genetic factors, methylation and gene expression
           levels/patterns predict treatment outcome after initiating CLZ;

        2. As the genetic architecture of SCZ has not been fully elucidated, the current project
           will aid in the further elucidation of the genetic architecture of SCZ and any possible
           differences between 'regular' SCZ patients (those not considered treatment resistant)
           and those on CLZ (considered generally to be a more homogeneous and severe group).

      Study design This is a mostly cross-sectional study, in which both phenotypic and genotypic
      data are gathered from this study population that currently uses CLZ or has used CLZ in the
      past. A genome-wide association study (GWAS) will be performed to reveal possible differences
      in genetic architecture between patients who use or have used CLZ and the broad schizophrenia
      phenotype on the one hand and between those who use or have used CLZ and healthy controls on
      the other. Targeted next-generation sequencing may be used to follow-up possible positive
      associations. The genetic data will be used to analyse which genetic variants are associated
      with CLZ response and/or side effects.

      Study population The investigators will include 2,500 patients diagnosed with schizophrenia,
      schizophreniform disorder, schizoaffective disorder or psychotic disorder NOS (together
      referred to as SCZ) >18 years of age who are currently on CLZ treatment or have used CLZ in
      the past. Publicly available Psychiatric Genomics Consortium (PGC) GWAS data will be used for
      comparisons with the broad schizophrenia phenotype group. For the purpose of the case-control
      comparison, the 2,500 subjects who use or have used CLZ will be age and sex-matched to 30,000
      healthy control subjects for whom genotype data are available in-house.

      Intervention No intervention will be applied.

      Main study parameters/endpoints

        1. To assess whether the genetic architecture of this severe SCZ phenotype differs from the
           broad DSM-based SCZ phenotype.

        2. To predict clozapine response and side effects based on phenotypic and genetic data
           obtained in this study.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness Almost all patients on CLZ regularly have their blood drawn for routine white
      blood cell counts and/or CLZ blood level assessments. The investigators anticipate that the
      majority of the study population will consist of such patients as white blood cell monitoring
      is strictly enforced in clinical practice for this patient group. For these patients, no
      additional risks will be attached to the study, as the blood necessary for DNA extraction for
      the current study will be drawn during these routinely performed venipunctures. Time
      investment will also be low as the patients will only undergo a 10-minute interview. A
      minority of patients on CLZ does not have their blood routinely monitored and neither do
      patients who have used CLZ in the past. These subjects will be asked to allow a single blood
      draw. A venipuncture entails the risk of a hematoma (blood leaving the vessel). The
      investigators aim to minimize this risk by only allowing experienced personnel to draw blood
      and in the event of deeply located or thin veins request central lab personnel to perform the
      venipuncture. Although a hematoma resulting from a traumatic puncture imposes an esthetical
      burden on the subject, no serious health risks are involved.
    
  