
    
      With the increasing use of ICT, family information can be easily accessed. According to the
      findings from FHinTs 2016, ICT was increasingly used as a method of family information
      seeking: 66.7% of respondents sought family information from online websites, compared with
      53.6% in 2009. About 30.9% sought family information from social media such as Facebook, and
      22.8% sought family information from instant messaging platforms such as WhatsApp. Family
      information such as recreation (46.6%), family health (22.9%) and elderly-related topics
      (17.9%) was most commonly sought. Also, family information seeking was associated with higher
      levels of family health, happiness, harmony, and overall family well-being. The associations
      were observed regardless of the type of sharing methods, such as face-to-face sharing or
      sharing via ICT means.

      Alongside the growth in popularity of ICTs and its role in promoting family well-being, there
      is also a growing appreciation that ICTs such as internet-enabled devices and web-based
      applications can offer many advantages compared to traditional face-to-face approaches when
      delivering behaviour change programmes.

      Family services in Hong Kong In light of the review on family services in Hong Kong in 2000,
      pilot projects on the Integrated Family Service Centre (IFSC) service mode were conducted in
      2002. Having received positive feedback from the community on the pilot projects, 61 IFSCs
      were established in 2004 to provide public-funded family services in Hong Kong. These IFSCs
      comprise three important components, including the family resource unit (FRU), family support
      unit (FSU), and family counselling unit (FCU) to provide preventive, supportive, and remedial
      services respectively. They are operated by the Social Welfare Department and subvented
      non-governmental organizations to support and strengthen individuals and families,
      particularly single parents, new arrivals, ethnic minorities, and deprived families receiving
      Comprehensive Social Security Assistance (CSSA), in the community.

      Jockey Club SMART Family-Link Project Family well-being is the cornerstone of a harmonious
      society, and early support for families in need will avert a crisis. The Hong Kong Jockey
      Club Charities Trust has funded to a four-year (2018-2021) "Jockey Club SMART Family-Link
      Project" to advance the use of Information and Communications Technology ("ICT") in family
      services. Interventions leveraging ICT (i-Action) is one of the project components, which
      leverage ICT to help social workers offer ICT-based interventions in their work to add to
      their face-to-face interventions. ICT tools and mobile apps will be designed and interactive
      games will be provided to engage children and young family service users through e-platforms.
      Social workers will also be able to connect with service users between face-to-face sessions
      using these e-platforms.

      The present study aims to reduce stress, enhance resilience and promote personal and family
      well-being through Zentangle. We will conduct quantitative and qualitative evaluation.
    
  