
    
      Drug induced sleep endoscopy (DISE) is an increasingly performed procedure, offering dynamic
      upper airway evaluation during artificial sleep before surgical treatment for patients with
      obstructed sleep apnea (OSA).

      Aim: To evaluate the value of DISE for tailoring the proper treatment for patients with
      snoring and OSA.

      DISE is a safe procedure, easily practicable, valid and reliable. It is considered a
      fundamental clinical procedure that is essential before choosing the surgical treatment.
      Results so far suggest that a multilevel collapse is significantly associated with higher
      apnea hypopnea index values. The investigators think that the weight did not play a
      significant role in RDI reduction. Results till now show that tailored surgery based on DISE
      may leverage sleep surgeries outcome significantly, presenting 70% success rate based on the
      investigator's experience The aim of this tudy is to evaluate surgery results in patients who
      underwent DISE prior to their surgery in comparison to their condition prior to the
      treatment.

      The results of the DISE based treatment will be compared with literature data from patients
      who underwent the surgery without DISE.

      Method:

      A retrospective follow-up study. Patients with snoring and OSA, had sleep study and had DISE
      before deciding on the surgical treatment. DISE findings were reported using the NOHL and
      VOTE classifications systems; site, degree of airway narrowing and configuration of
      obstruction. Patients underwent tailored surgery based on DISE findings included multi-level
      surgery; palate, tonsils, base of tongue and epiglottis.

      After examining the results of the surgery in the patients, a comparison will be made based
      on sleep laboratory parameters (RDI, minimum saturation, degree of sleep apnea, degree of
      snoring) with data from the literature for patients who did not undergo DISE. On the whole,
      the degree of improvement in the patient's condition will be assessed.

      We would like to show preference in surgery outcome in patients who were diagnosed using
      DISE.
    
  