
    
      Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) is a rare tumor with an incidence of 1.5 to 2 per million
      people per year. It has a very poor prognosis with an overall 5-year mortality rate of 75 -
      90% and an average survival from the time of diagnosis of 14.5 months.

      The natural history of ACC can vary greatly ranging from an aggressive course with patient
      survival measured in months to a more indolent course with patients living with the disease
      for years. The basis for these differing clinical presentations is not known. Therefore,
      accurate survival predictions in ACC are difficult and tumor classification methods with
      better clinical prognostic value are needed to help rationally guide the clinical management
      of patients with ACC. Over the last 20+ years in the CCR we have seen patients with ACC in
      different stages of their disease receiving various types of therapies from local directed
      therapies to systemic therapies, however, we have been unable to determine if local therapies
      may improve survival compared to the approved systemic therapies.

      In this study, we plan to characterize the overall prognosis and treatment responses among
      patients with ACC with various systemic therapies and correlate with age, sex, race and
      disease burden. Identifiers will be recorded in order to correlate outcomes with therapy.

      The study will involve review of patient records and will not use specimens or participant
      contact. The participants whose records will be reviewed in this protocol were enrolled
      various ACC studies conducted by CCR. The Principal Investigators of each protocol have been
      contacted and have given permission to conduct this study and have verified that none of the
      original protocols or informed consent documents precludes such a review of clinical data.
      Participants who did not consent to future research will be excluded.
    
  