
    
      Nearly 30% of US women are either vitamin D insufficient or deficient. Vitamin D inadequacy
      during gestation is increasingly linked to adverse birth outcomes including preterm birth,
      the risk of cesarean section and placental and pregnancy-associated infections. At this time
      the Institute of Medicine (IOM) has not advocated any increase in vitamin D intake across
      gestation but this remains controversial in large part due to insufficient information on the
      basic physiology of vitamin D. Pregnancy induces dramatic changes in regulation of vitamin D.
      The investigators hypothesize that increased maternal, placental, and fetal vitamin D
      requirements during late gestation will result in an increase in vitamin D absorption and a
      decrease in the half-life of both vitamin D3 and 25-hydroxyvitamin D. The fetus is entirely
      dependent on maternal vitamin D to meet its requirements for this nutrient. Maternal vitamin
      D is thought to be passively transferred across the placenta to the fetus given that neonatal
      concentrations of 25(OH)D are at least 20-30% lower than maternal 25(OH)D concentrations. To
      date, much of what is known about vitamin D absorption and utilization in humans has been
      extrapolated from early radiotracer studies in adult men and non-pregnant women and there are
      no in vivo data to determine if maternal vitamin D3 or maternal 25(OH)D3, or both, can be
      transferred across the placenta to the fetus

      The specific aims of this project are to:

        1. Obtain pilot data on the absorption of vitamin D3 in non-pregnant and pregnant women,
           following oral dosing with deuterated vitamin D3

        2. Obtain pilot data on the dynamics of the conversion of vitamin D3 into 25-hydroxyvitamin
           D3, following dosing with oral deuterated vitamin D3

        3. Estimate the serum half-life of vitamin D3 and 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 in non-pregnant and
           pregnant women

        4. Evaluate the absorption of vitamin D3 in late gestation and evaluate the concentrations
           of these forms of vitamin D in the cord blood at birth

        5. Evaluate the ability of the placenta to rapidly transfer maternally absorbed vitamin D3
           to the fetus at term

        6. Evaluate the ability of the placenta to rapidly transfer maternally absorbed 25(OH)D3 to
           the fetus at term
    
  