
    
      Percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL) is a minimally invasive procedure for removal of large
      volume upper urinary tract stones. Although PCNL is effective and yielding high stone-free
      rates, complications rates range from 18.30% to 83% with sepsis has been reported in 0.3% to
      7.6% of cases result in the most common cause of perioperative mortality in PCNL patients.

      Urosepsis after PNL is an important and potentially catastrophic complication. The overall
      incidence of fever (25%), bacteremia (23%), endotoxemia (34%) and septicemic shock occurs in
      0.3%-2.5% of patients. Urosepsis and shock result from the intravasation of bacteria or
      endotoxins into bloodstream, which in turn increases with prolonged surgery, degree of
      hydronephrosis, bacterial load in the renal pelvis, and presence of infected stones.

      Charton et al., concluded that without antibiotic prophylaxis 35% of patient suffered urinary
      tract infection a post-PCNL, although preoperative urine showing no growth. In a prospective
      but nonrandomized assessment of PCNL patients receiving oral ciprofloxacin, intravenous
      ciprofloxacin, or no antimicrobial treatment found postoperative urinary tract infection to
      occur in 17%, 0%, and 40% of patients, respectively. Mariappan et al., stated that midstream
      urine (MSU) culture does not represent upper tract infection in patients with obstructing
      stones. Also, stone and pelvic urine cultures are better predictors of upper tract infection
      and urosepsis in such cases.

      Antibiotic prophylaxis has been recommended (Level of evidence: IIb, III) for patients
      subjected to PCNL to avert these infectious complications, as profiled in an American
      Urological Association (AUA) Best Practice Policy Statement. They also recommend antibiotic
      prophylaxis before shock wave lithotripsy and ureteroscopy with high level (Level of
      evidence: Ia and Ib, respectively) due to presence of meta-analysis and large randomised
      controlled trial.

      The optimal timing, dosing, and duration of a prophylactic antibiotic regimen for PCNL
      procedures has also been a point of discussion. The AUA best practice policy statement
      currently recommends that a one-time dose on the day of the procedure is sufficient. The EAU
      guidelines are less definitive in concluding that a short course is adequate but that the
      "length of time is to be determined." Mariappan and colleagues in a prospective
      non-randomised trial found that 52 patients who had dilated collecting systems, stone burden
      greater than 2 cm, and no confounding factors predisposing to UTIs who received a 1-week
      course of ciprofloxacin before PCNL had a 3-fold lower risk of postoperative UTI and SIRS
      than 46 patients who received standard perioperative antibiotics on the day of surgery.

      Bag and colleagues prospectively randomized 101 patients with greater than 2.5-cm kidney
      stones and/or hydronephrosis with sterile preoperative urine cultures to a 7-day course of
      nitrofurantoin versus no antibiotics before PCNL and found a statistically significant lower
      rate of postoperative SIRS (19% vs 49%), endotoxemia (18% vs 42%), positive result on kidney
      urine culture (0% vs 10%), and positive result on stone culture (8% vs 30%) in the arm
      receiving nitrofurantoin.

      Although these two small series support a week of preoperative antibiotics before PCNL,
      larger, prospective, randomized studies are needed to better elucidate the risks and benefits
      of empiric antibiotics
    
  