
    
      Patellofemoral pain syndrome (PFPS) is the most common overuse injury characterized by
      anterior and peripatellar knee pain, associated with physical activities in Active Daily
      Living (ADL) such as climbing stairs, squatting, jumping, and running and by sitting with the
      knees flexed for prolonged periods of time. It mainly affects young women without any
      structural changes such as increased Q-angle or significant pathological changes in articular
      cartilage. It mainly affects young women without any structural changes such as increased
      Q-angle or significant pathological changes in articular cartilage. Patellofemoral pain has
      prevalence of 23% in adults and 29% in adolescents annually in general population. Its
      incidence is higher in women as compare to men and is located at 22/1000 person per year. It
      accounts for 25-40% of all knee complaints in sports medicine. The prevalence of this problem
      is high because it can occur in patients with a wide range of physical activity levels.

      The main symptom of PFPS is anterior knee pain or pain around and behind patella during
      patellofemoral joint loading activities. The pathophysiology of PFPS is multifactorial.
      External factors; change in training intensity and frequency, training surfaces and
      inappropriate shoe wear, while intrinsic factors includes muscle and soft tissue imbalance
      and malalignment of lower extremity and poor biomechanics of foot. In PFPS patients' dynamic
      valgus and patellar maltracking is common. Decrease strength of hip abductors, abnormal rear
      foot eversion can cause dynamic valgus. Further other muscles imbalance is also associated
      with PFPS i.e. vastus medialis, vastus lateralis, quadriceps, hamstring and iliotibial tract.

      Correction of biomechanical imbalance and decreased anterior knee pain as therapeutic
      exercise has already been shown to be effective in the treatment of PFPS for pain and
      function. Conservative treatment involves a multimodal physiotherapy approach including
      patient education, activity modification, neuromuscular electric stimulation on quadriceps,
      therapeutic ultrasound, biofeedback, exercises for enhancing the activity of Vastus Medialis
      Obliquus (VMO) muscle, lower extremity-strengthening exercises, and proximal stabilization,
      stretching exercises on tight structures, bracings, foot orthoses, patellar mobilization and
      taping techniques. Patellofemoral pain syndrome is treated through conservative methods from
      long period of time but

      tibiofemoral mobilization is not practiced very much while standard mobilization is patellar
      mobilization, it can be painful to mobilize patella. So the goal of this study is determine
      the effect of reciprocal joint mobilization i.e. tibiofemoral joint mobilization in
      patellofemoral joint pain syndrome and enhance the awareness of this in practice.

      Literature review A systematic and evidence based search of relevant literature was performed
      by utilizing PubMed and Google Scholar as search engines. Search term for the initial
      literature review was patellofemoral Pain Syndrome, Tibiofemoral mobilization, prevalence of
      patellofemoral pain syndrome, causes of PFPS, pathophysiology of PFPS, treatment option for
      PFPS, conservative treatment of PFPS, short term effect of Tibiofemoral mobilization,
      exercise protocol of PFPS. The search was limited to papers in English preferably published
      since 2010 with full text available. Different studies were available regarding PFPS but
      limited data were available regarding tibiofemoral mobilization in PFPS.

      A consensus statement (2018) on exercise therapy and physical interventions and mentioned
      that it is recommended that exercise targeting the hip and knee is a key component of
      management for all patients with patellofemoral pain, particularly when used in combination.

      A consensus statement (2016) from the 4th International Patellofemoral Pain Research Retreat,
      that exercises are best to treat PFPS in short medium and long term goal and also mentioned
      that instead of only giving exercises of knee alone if combined hip and knee exercises would
      be given to patient it will show great effect.

      The short-term effects of Movement With Mobilization (MWM) and Kinesio Tapping practices
      performed in addition to the exercises proved to be similar to one another.

      The tibiofemoral joint manipulation with exercises for home plane give a successful results
      in treating patellofemoral pain syndrome.

      A systemic review mentioned that the different combinations of Manual Therapy (MT) and
      physical therapy analyzed in this review suggest that giving more emphasis to proximal
      stabilization and full kinetic chain treatments in PFPS will help better alleviation of
      symptoms.

      Another study concluded that interventions directed at the lumbopelvic region did not have
      immediate effects on quadriceps force output or activation. Muscle fatigue might have
      contributed to decreased force output and activation over 1 hour of testing.
    
  