
    
      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The research design was a 2 x 2 design with repeated measures at six and 12 months after the
      baseline measurement and treatment application. The investigators tested the relative
      effectiveness of two major dimensions of blood cholesterol change programming in worksites of
      250 - 800 employees with at least one occupational nurse. The overall design was 2 x 2 with
      10 of 25 worksites randomly assigned to an Internal Condition and 10 worksites assigned to an
      External Condition. In the Internal Condition, occupational nurses were trained by project
      staff to implement the SCOREs and were given Reflotron portable dry chemistry analyzers to
      measure cholesterol. In the External Condition, the SCORE was conducted by an external
      organization (project staff). Five (5) worksites from each of the above conditions had the
      educational session of the SCORE delivered face-to-face [Face-to-Face condition (FF)] by
      either the nurse or project staff, depending on the condition (Internal + FF or External +
      FF). The other 10 worksites had this education delivered by a microcomputer/optical scanner
      (the RT 2000) that read the participant's risk factor and self-reported eating pattern
      information and delivered a print-out with recommendations that were prioritized and
      individualized for the participant (RT intervention was delivered by the nurse or project
      staff depending on the condition (Internal + RT or External + RT). All SCORE participants in
      the above 20 worksites also received a self-help nutrition change kit. This cross design
      allowed testing for possible interaction effects.

      Another group of five worksites was also included which served as a comparison group for the
      External Condition. The employees in this group received a screening and education experience
      similar to the usual type of program offered by external, commercial screeners with minimal
      written education materials and no individualized feedback (Usual Care External Condition).
      The primary dependent variables included measured blood cholesterol, weight, other CHD risk
      factors, and self-reported eating pattern. Change were assessed six and 12 months after the
      SCOREs were conducted. A wide range of other variables including process, cost and mediating
      variables were assessed through the project period.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  