
    
      An anonymous national survey involving all practicing Algerian surgeons was conducted, this
      survey started the 1st November 2016 and ended the 1st September 2017.

      Any digestive , general and visceral surgeon practicing in Algeria was eligible for this
      survey, surgeons in training "residents" and Algerian surgeons exercising overseas was
      systematically excluded.

      The aim was to analyse some practice in accordance with the recommendations of the Society of
      American Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic Surgeons who published a guideline in 2010.

      This elaborated form was an electronic one; it was performed using the open electronic
      platform "Google Form", the conception of the form was made by A.Tidjane "surgeon" and he was
      the first participant to this survey, considering his participation he was excluded from the
      seizure of the data. The analysis and interpretation of data was made by S.Benilha
      "bio-statistician", B.Tabeti "surgeon" and A.Tidjane.

      The form consisted of two parts, the first concerning the surgeon's Wilaya of exercise, the
      rank of health structure of practice, his professional position , and the year of his
      graduation , the second part concerning his practices during the performing CH and the
      questions concerned the use of laparoscopy or open surgery to perform CH, the number of
      Trocars used, the technique to access the peritoneal cavity, the surgical technique, the use
      of intraoperative cholangiography "IOC", the technique of extraction of the gallbladder,
      systematic gallbladder macroscopic and histological examination, the systematic abdominal
      cavity drainage, systematic use of postoperative antibiotic prophylaxis, and the optimal
      duration of postoperative stay in the case of optimal patient with no preoperative incident
      or postoperative complication. At the end of the survey a question was asked to surgeons
      about the occurrence during their professional practice of an operative bile duct injury.

      The language of instruction of surgeons in Algeria is French; the French was used to draft
      this form. This electronic form was distributed by email to all surgeons in the authors Mail
      lists, those first contacted surgeons had the mission not only to participate in this survey
      but also had the mission of distributing the electronic form to their surgeon colleagues. All
      incomplete responses were excluded.

      Statistical analyses:

      At the end of the survey, all data were captured and processed using the SPSS v20 software
      (IBM Inc., Chicago, IL, USA), a χ 2 tests were used to compare some surgical practices in
      different groups of surgeons, a (P < 0.05) was considered statistically significant.
    
  