
    
      Perception and evaluation of the environment, communication, comfort, and adaptation to
      conditions affect individual success in the workplace. Wages and working hours, type of
      contract (shift work, overtime), security, administration, and relations with co-workers are
      examples of these conditions. For having high job satisfaction, it is also essential that the
      staff has sufficient knowledge about the job and their expectations. Job satisfaction can be
      positively affected by determining job, working time, and eliminating differences of work
      conditions to emergency health care personnel, especially paramedics.

      Emergency health services are not a separate unit in the ministry of health in Northern
      Cyprus. Since the emergency health services are not directly different from the existing
      system, and therefore, the staff directly connect to their units, some of the participants
      work in health centers. The first recruitment as a paramedic in Northern Cyprus in the
      Ministry of Health took place in 2005. However, Paramedics and EMTs who participated in our
      study declared that they work under the name of nurse staff. Paramedics, who previously
      worked under the name of another status, first started to work in the public sector in their
      occupation group as of 2018. Therefore, the current statistical information of both the
      ministry of health and the most crowded public hospital in Northern Cyprus does not provide
      sufficient up-to-date information on the number of paramedics and EMTs.

      This descriptive study was conducted to evaluate job satisfaction of nurses, paramedics, and
      EMTs working in Northern Cyprus emergency health care. A total of 17 healthcare facilities
      providing emergency care services were in the study. Of these facilities, 2 are emergency
      call centers, 4 are hospital emergency services, and the rest of connected to health centers.
      A total of one head nurse, 123 nurses, 12 paramedics, and 3 EMTs provide emergency health
      care to all of Northern Cyprus.

      The data of the study collected between October 20; November 10, 2016, after obtaining
      permission from the related institutions. The questionnaire consisted of two parts with
      sociodemographic characteristics and job satisfaction scale. The job satisfaction scale
      developed by Güneri, İlhan& Avcı was a 5-point Likert type. It consisted of 7 sub-dimensions:
      the nature of work, relations with co-workers, vocational training, relationships with
      supervisors, economic, cultural, social aspect, and capacity of consumables.

      The answers to suggestions in the scale were scored as "very satisfied = 5 points",
      "satisfied = 4 points", "okay= 3 points", "dissatisfied = 2 points", and "very dissatisfied =
      1 point". The scale lowest score was 47, and the highest was 235. Participants' high scores
      on the scale indicated high job satisfaction. In this study, the Cronbach alpha coefficient
      was found to be 0.94 in the scale and 0.79-0.95 in the sub-dimensions.

      For statistical analysis, we used to statistical program SPSS 21.0. (SPSS Inc, Chicago, IL,
      USA). Before the data analysis, the data set checked to eliminate the errors that may arise
      from data entry. Frequency analysis was used to determine the sociodemographic
      characteristics of the participants. Scores obtained from job satisfaction scale and
      sub-dimensions gave as descriptive statistics for central tendency measures such as mean,
      standard deviation, minimum, and maximum value. The scores of the participants obtained from
      the job satisfaction scale according to their independent variables were analyzed. For the
      data analyzing, the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test and the QQ plot graph used. It concluded that the
      data set conforms to normal distribution. After that, we compared the scale scores according
      to independent variables.

      In the comparison of job satisfaction scores according to the characteristics of the
      participants such as gender and marital status, a t-test was used since the independent
      variable consists of two categories. ANOVA test was used to compare the scores obtained by
      the participants if the independent variable such as age group and professional seniority
      consisted of more than two categories. If there was a difference between the types of the
      independent variable as a result of ANOVA, Tukey test was used to determine which groups the
      dispute originated. In this study, 132 of 138 personnel working in emergency health services
      reached in Northern Cyprus. Of the remaining, four were on long-term leave, and two did not
      accept.
    
  