
    
      Biological anti-inflammatory drugs, such as TNF-α antagonists, have revolutionized treatment
      of chronic inflammatory diseases, such as inflammatory bowel disease, rheumatoid arthritis,
      psoriasis, or other auto-immune disorders and have largely improved prognosis and quality of
      life of patients affected by these conditions. However, the high cost of these agents is
      prohibitive for a large number of patients and some patients are not eligible to such
      treatments because of co-morbidities that constitute contraindications. Thus, there is a need
      for cost-effective alternative treatment strategies. Activation of the cholinergic
      anti-inflammatory pathway, which operates through the parasympathetic nervous system, may
      constitute an alternative approach to treat chronic inflammatory diseases. This pathway has
      been demonstrated to shift the function of immune cells in reticular organs, such as the
      spleen from a pro-inflammatory to an anti-inflammatory state. Subsequently, these
      "reprogrammed" cells translocate to the systemic circulation and reach the site of
      inflammation. Clinical studies and the investigators' preliminary data suggest that
      non-invasive transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation (taVNS) can augment
      parasympathetic tone and potentially activate the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway.
      Another way of potentially activating this pathway is through osteopathic manipulative
      treatment (OMT) because some OMT techniques have been demonstrated to increase
      parasympathetic activity. However, it is not known if such OMT techniques also activate the
      cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway. Furthermore, it is not known if osteopathic lymphatic
      pump techniques augment these anti-inflammatory responses by facilitating translocation of
      "reprogrammed" immune cells from reticular organs to the systemic circulation. The
      investigators' long-term goal is to contribute to the development of cost-effective OMT
      approaches to treat chronic inflammatory diseases. The central hypothesis is that successive
      applications of different OMT techniques or the combination of taVNS with specific OMT
      techniques first activate and then augment the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway through
      stimulating parasympathetic tone and facilitating translocation of immune cells.
      Parasympathetic nervous system function will be assessed by heart rate variability analysis
      and other cardiovascular parameters that are under the influence of the parasympathetic
      nervous system. Immune function will be assessed by measuring plasma concentrations of
      inflammatory mediators (cytokines) and by in vitro cell culture experiments of immune cells.
      At the completion of these studies, the investigators anticipate to demonstrate that OMT
      techniques that activate the parasympathetic nervous system and taVNS elicit
      anti-inflammatory effects. Second, the investigators also anticipate to demonstrate that
      subsequently applied osteopathic lymphatic pump techniques augment the anti-inflammatory
      actions of OMT and taVNS by facilitating translocation of "reprogrammed" immune cells from
      the spleen to the systemic circulation. These outcomes are expected to have important
      positive impact, because they will potentially lay a mechanistic foundation for future
      clinical studies applying such combinations of taVNS and OMT techniques to chronic
      inflammatory diseases, including inflammatory bowel diseases, rheumatoid arthritis,
      psoriasis, or other auto-immune disorders.
    
  