
    
      Patients with abdominal or pelvic mass suspicious of primary ovarian, tubal or peritoneal
      cancer using subjective assessment by experienced sonographer (principal investigator) will
      be enrolled in the study and send to surgical planning. During surgical planning, the CT and
      MRI will be scheduled and the patient ́s consent will be requested if inclusion criteria are
      fulfilled. Please note, tumors with atypical morphology and/or tumor spread suspicious for
      secondary ovarian cancer will be first subjected to a tru-cut biopsy and will be included if
      histopathology confirms adnexal or peritoneal cancer.

      Ultrasound will be always performed by the principal investigator in each center. Principal
      investigator is an ultrasound expert with level II or III EFSUMB accreditation
      (http://www.efsumb.org/). Operators performing ultrasound scan and radiologists performing CT
      or MRI will be well instructed and educated about standardized approach and criteria of
      inoperability. Sonographers and radiologists will be blinded to the results of other imaging
      modalities. If a patient already had CT or WB-DWI/MRI done by the referring hospital, the
      study radiologists will decide about the quality of imaging and necessity to repeat CT or
      WB-DWI/MRI.

      The decision to treat by PDS (primary debulking surgery), or by NACT (neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy) with IDS (interval debulking surgery) will be based on departmental guidelines
      taking into account medical comorbidities and disease-related factors. If a patient is
      indicated for NACT a tru-cut biopsy or/and a diagnostic laparoscopy are performed. The
      clinicians will document why the primary debulking surgery was not considered. The surgery
      (laparoscopy, primary or interval debulking surgery) should always be performed within four
      weeks after the index test. Patients without surgical exploration will be excluded.

      Surgeons performing laparoscopy will describe site to site involvement and in case of
      inoperability will take a biopsy and document reasons for abandoning laparotomy. In operable
      cases surgeons performing laparotomy will describe site to site involvement and where
      applicable reasons for not achieving optimal cytoreduction defined as no residual tumor left
      in situ at the end of surgery (R0).

      If the patient has only ultrasound and CT (and not WB-DWI/MRI) she can still be included in
      the study. Similarly if the patient undergoes interval debulking surgery she can be included
      in the study if the index tests will be performed less than 4 week before IDS.

      Clinical data and four evaluation forms will be filled in (Ultrasound, CT, MRI, Surgery)
      immediately after the procedure using electronic database. The evaluation form from
      histopathology will be filled when available by principal investigator. The database cannot
      be saved unless all the information required are filled in and it will not be available to
      any other investigator. Data will be submitted for statistical analysis.
    
  