
    
      1. Introduction Changes in nutritional status are a frequent complication in cirrhotic
           patients. The prevalence of malnutrition is related to the severity of the disease and
           has been reported by 65-90% in advanced cirrhosis. The most significant component of
           malnutrition is a progressive and generalized loss of mass understood as sarcopenia.

           Several studies have reported that sarcopenia represents a negative prognostic factor
           for survival in patients with liver cirrhosis. Other studies have shown that sarcopenia
           is an independent predictor of complications of portal hypertension.

           For these reasons and being a modifiable condition, identifying and treating sarcopenia
           in patients is very important for their prognosis.

           Sarcopenia in liver cirrhosis occurs as a result of an increase in proteolysis or a
           reduction in protein synthesis, or a combination of the two mechanisms. The alterations
           in the molecular pathways that involve the regulation of these mechanisms are not
           entirely known. Recent research has led to the identification of increased expression of
           myostatin, member of the transforming growth factor ß superfamily, in skeletal muscle in
           animal models of hepatic injury and in the plasma of cirrhotic patients with consequent
           inhibition of protein synthesis. In addition, myostatin is able to examine the protein
           kinase 5' AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), an inhibitor of signaling of mammalian
           target of rapamycin (mTOR), a key regulator of protein synthesis.

           I populations of non-cirrhotic malnourished patients, the benefits of a therapy aimed at
           improving malnutrition are highlighted by reduced mortality, infections, systemic
           inflammatory responses and hospital stay. For cirrhotic patients, specific studies in
           this regard are limited by the size of the cohort and by the design of the study, and
           there are no effective therapies mainly due to the fact that the mechanisms of muscle
           loss in cirrhosis are not yet well understood. In addition, the end-points of these
           studies are heterogeneous (regain muscle strength, the disappearance of sarcopenia,
           mortality, complications of portal hypertension, etc.). In a study that used a
           nutritional enteral supplement, the authors observed a modest improvement in nutritional
           parameters but found no statistically significant differences in morbidity and mortality
           between the two patient groups. Better results have been reported in clinical trials
           that used nocturnal nutritional support, in most cases represented by branched-chain
           amino acids (BCAA) (leucine, isoleucine, and valine). This type of intervention has
           obtained an improvement in the use of energy substrates in the short term and an
           improvement of some nutritional parameters in the long term.

           Beta hydroxy-beta-methyl-butyrate (HMB) is a leucine metabolite with the potential to
           increase muscle performance and tropism. Studies conducted in experimental models of
           cachexia have reported increased phosphorylation and activation of mTOR secondary to the
           use of HMB. Experimental studies performed on cell cultures of myoblasts also showed an
           increased expression of insulin like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) secondary to treatment with
           HMB. These findings confirm the anabolic properties of HMB. A role of HMB on the
           suppression of proteolysis by inhibiting the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway in models of
           neoplastic cachexia and an effect on attenuating muscle atrophy secondary to steroid
           therapy has also been demonstrated. The association of anabolic properties targeting
           mTOR and anti-proteolytic make HMB a potential efficacy supplement for the treatment of
           sarcopenia in the cirrhotic patient. There are currently no data in the literature on
           the use of HMB in this category of patients.

        2. Aim of the study

           Primary endpoints:

           • evaluate the effect at 3 months (T12) of HMB supplementation for 12 weeks in patients
           with liver cirrhosis on the mass and muscle performance compared to a group of patients

           The secondary objectives are:

             -  assessment of the impact of supplementation with HMB on the development of
                complications (minimal and manifest hepatic encephalopathy, bacterial infections,
                ascites, GI bleeding) compared to the control group;

             -  evaluation of the impact of sarcopenia on the number of admissions and the days of
                hospitalization for these complications compared to the control group;

             -  identification of surrogate markers of sarcopenia through the preparation of a
                serum;

           This controlled trial is not sponsored by a drug company.

        3. Patients Patients are enrolled in the study after been informed of the purpose and
           protocol of treatment and need to sign a written informed consent.

        4. Statistical analysis, sample size, and randomization:

           For categorical variables, the Person-Chi-square test or the Fischer test will be used.
           For continuous variables, the Mann-Whitney Test will be used. The ANOVA variance
           analysis will be applied followed by the "t-test" when significant differences will be
           highlighted. Values of p <0.05 will be considered statistically significant.

           Block randomization, consisting of 4 individuals per block, was executed in a 1:1ratio
           using random numbers generated by an independent statistician (SPSS version 16.0).
           Knowledge of the randomization code was limited to the physician.

           While there is no evidence of HMB supplementation in cirrhotic patients, based on
           previously described variations in muscle mass in the elderly population, we aim to
           conduct a pilot study in which will be enrolled 20 patients per group.

        5. Protocol of the study:

      The registration will include the main clinical and biochemical data of patients.

      Nutritional counseling will be provided to all patients to ensure similar caloric and daily
      protein intake in the two groups, according to the current guidelines (caloric intake of
      20-25 kcal/kg/ die ± 10%, protein intake of 1.2 g /kg/day).

      At the time of the enrollment and during the subsequent controls the following data will be
      recorded :

        -  calorie intake in the week preceding the visit by a three days non-consecutive food
           diary;

        -  height, weight, body mass index

        -  body composition by bioelectrical impedance analysis bioimmunoassay (BIA)

        -  muscular function evaluated by 6-minute walk test (6MWT), Timed Up and Go test-TUGT), e
           l'Hand grip Test (HG).

        -  biochemical and metabolic parameters

        -  pharmacological therapy During the study, clinical complications (hospital admissions,
           infectious events, the onset of comorbidity) will be recorded.

      During the study, the tolerability of the supplement (analog-visual scale), adherence to
      absorption and any intolerance or secondary adverse effects will be detected.

      Randomization: Patients are randomized to Group 1 - placebo (or control group) and Group 2 -
      supplementation (or treatment group)

      The placebo will be 1gr mannitol twice daily. Supplementation will be HMB 1.5 g dissolved
      twice daily. Supplementation/placebo will be provided for 12 weeks.
    
  