
    
      Background :

      Cystic fibrosis is a rare chronic genetic disease that mainly affects the respiratory tract
      and the digestive system. Their management includes multi-year intravenous antibiotic
      treatments and repeated venous sampling. The venous access is a source of difficulties that
      nurses who take care of these patients face on a daily basis. In addition, multiple attempts
      at punctures can induce anxiety and pain in patients. It is therefore important to limit
      failures.

      Vein visualization technologies exist: guidance echo, portable trans lumination or infrared
      visualization can guide venipuncture and limit failures.

      Compared with the guided echo or the portable trans lumination, the infrared visualization is
      easy to use and does not pose a risk for the patient. Nevertheless, studies evaluating this
      technique are few in chronic diseases and mainly conducted in young children.

      This study aims to show that the use of a vein illumination system (VIS) should improve the
      peripheral venous access at the first attempt (thus limiting venous lesions) in adolescent
      and adult patients with cystic fibrosis, and improve comfort of the patient (pain,
      apprehension of the gesture).

      Objectives of the study :

      The main objective of the study is to demonstrate that the use of a vein illumination system
      (VIS) for the placement of a peripheral venous line or venous sampling on the hand, forearm
      or fold of the elbow improves peripheral venous access (PVA) successful on the first attempt.

      The secondary objectives are :

        -  To study the efficacy of VIS for peripheral venous access (placement of a peripheral
           venous line or peripheral venous sampling in the hand, forearm or elbow) on the number
           of attempts.

        -  To study the impact of the use of SIV on the patient's pain felt during the peripheral
           venous access procedure.

        -  To study the impact of VIS on patient anxiety prior to peripheral venous access.

        -  To describe the nurses and nursing students satisfaction with the use of the VIS device
           for peripheral venous access.

        -  To study the determinants of the success of peripheral venous access at the first
           attempt among the characteristics of nurses and nursing students (age, year of obtaining
           their diploma, experience within the cystic fibrosis ressource and competence center).

        -  To describe the nurses and nursing students satisfaction with the use of A-DIVA scale.

      Study design The study will last 36 months. It is an open and randomized multicenter cluster
      study, with sequential allocation of the device (stepped wedge allocation), comparing a group
      of patients benefiting from a technique of locating the puncture site by a venous
      illumination system for a peripheral venoux access (hand, forearm, fold of the elbow) to a
      group of patients whose veins are identified according to the usual modality of a peripheral
      venoux access. The cluster is defined by the Cystic Fibrosis Resource and Competence Center
      (CRCM).

      Expected results

      For the patients, the use of a venous illumination system device during the peripheral venous
      access should facilitate the success of the gesture on the first attempt, allowing to :

        -  Reduce their pain due to multiple attempts.

        -  Reduce their anxiety associated with peripheral venous access.

        -  Preserve their venous capital This could have an impact on their care, such as making it
           easier to consult for them and being less anxious about peripheral venous access.

      For the nurses, using a venous illimunation system device could

        -  Reduce their apprehension of peripheral venous access gesture

        -  Save their time with fewer peripheral venous access are repeated. It is considered that
           this technique will be distributed to all Cytic Fibrosis Ressource and Competence
           Centers (CRCM) in order to improving the comfort of the chronically ill patient with
           repeated blood tests and intravenous treatments.
    
  