
    
      Neuromodulation Therapy Device for the Treatment of Sleep Apnea

      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a common public health problem with severe health
      consequences that substantially raises the risk of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular death.
      Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is currently the most effective treatment option,
      yet up to half of patients fail to tolerate CPAP and require other approaches. Novel
      treatments offering alternatives to CPAP are thus sorely needed by those suffering from OSA.
      The Neuromodulation Therapy Device (NMTD) is a novel potential therapy for OSA. The main goal
      of our project is to evaluate the efficacy, tolerability, and safety of NMTD in patients with
      OSA.

      Hypothesis 1 - The NMTD device is capable of reducing AHI.

      OSA severity is indexed by apnea-hypopnea index (AHI), the number of apnea/hypopnea events
      occurring hourly during sleep. Our first aim is to determine NMTD's operating characteristics
      for treatment of OSA. The optimal duration of a detected apnea/hypopnea event before NMTD
      responds must first be determined. Additional adjustable features include sensitivity of
      respiratory event sensor, as well as pulse duration, frequency, and intensity of the
      delivered auditory tone. Since independent adjustment of each of the 4 parameters is not
      feasible, our screening analysis will test two variables at a time to identify which
      variables most effectively reduce AHI. This will allow for more practical titration during a
      therapeutic sleep study and more generalizable application of the device.

      Hypothesis 2 - Modified NMTD is as effective and tolerable as CPAP in OSA treatment.

      Once Aim 1 is complete and effective NMTD settings have been identified, we will initiate a
      Phase II NMTD trial to assess efficacy and tolerability. The primary outcome variable will be
      AHI reduction by NMTD compared with CPAP during a repeat polysomnogram (PSG). We will
      randomly assign previously titrated CPAP vs. NMTD to each subject then compare the resultant
      AHI between the two devices. Tolerability will also be assessed by sleep efficiency, arousal
      index, and sleep architecture. While auditory stimuli below 90 dB threshold should not
      adversely affect sleep architecture and quality,1 intermittent stimuli given during different
      sleep stages have not been previously assessed. Therefore, we will monitor NMTD's influence
      on sleep architecture, arousal index, and sleep efficiency compared to the same variables
      during CPAP use, allowing us to examine whether NMTD affects sleep quality. We will also
      assess patient preference in using CPAP versus NMTD.

      Hypothesis 3 - NMTD will maintain efficacy with repeated use.

      Given the brain's plasticity, it is unknown whether the brain may adapt to such repeated
      auditory stimuli. Constant auditory stimuli may lead to adaptation, resulting in the stimuli
      being "ignored." NMTD's stimuli, however, are less likely to lead to significant adaptation
      since they are intermittent and somewhat random, dependent on apneic or hypopneic events.
      Subjects will undergo two sequential nights of PSG with NMTD to evaluate if there is any
      stimulus-response extinction over time. In the future, when more devices are available, we
      will plan on long-term evaluations.

      We propose to test this novel device in the treatment of OSA. This device, if successful,
      will substantially expand the treatment options for OSA by offering an effective alternative
      to CPAP with the potential for improved treatment compliance.

      Plan:

      This is a prospective study evaluating the efficacy of the NMTD in the treatment of OSA.

      The study is divided into three consecutive phases, representing the three aims. If eligible,
      participants will be assigned to the phase that is currently being studied.

        -  One PSG, using the NMTD all night (32 participants)

        -  One PSG, split between the NMTD and standard CPAP therapy, randomized as to which is
           first (20 participants)

        -  Two consecutive PSGs using the NMTD all night (20 participants) to assess
           stimulus-response extinction over time (20 participants) All participants will complete
           a questionnaire about their experience with the device.
    
  