
    
      Background:

      Post-traumatic stress disorder is a mental health problem of enormous proportion within the
      VA system for both male and female veterans. The 40 percent of veterans with PTSD and
      concurrent clinically significant depression are particularly difficult to treat. Effective
      and efficient treatment of veterans with this combination of disorders would be of benefit to
      a significant number of veterans.

      Objectives:

      Well-validated treatments of PTSD and its complications are rare. There are no studies of
      treatment addressing the sequelae of chronic PTSD, including depressive symptomatology. Our
      study is the first randomized, controlled study of group psychosocial interventions for the
      combination of PTSD and depression in male and female veterans. The purpose of the study is
      to evaluate the impact of two psychosocial interventions on clinical outcomes and on the use
      of hospital resources by veterans with these co-existing disorders.

      Methods:

      Male and female veterans with both PTSD and depressive diagnoses will be recruited for the
      study. Male veterans must have combat-related PTSD, and female veterans will have trauma
      related to sexual assault. Veterans will be randomly assigned to either Self-Management
      Therapy (Rehm, 1984), a cognitive-behavioral treatment program for depression, or to a
      Psychoeducational Group Therapy (Dunn, et al., 1998). Both programs involve short-term group
      therapies that teach veterans about their disorders, and provide them with new strategies and
      skills for overcoming them. These therapy groups will be in addition to other standard care
      that veterans receive within the Trauma Recovery Program at the Houston VA Medical Center.
      Approximately 120 male veterans and 60 female veterans will be enrolled in the program.
      Participants will be assessed at pretest, posttest, and at 3-, 6-, and 12-month follow-up
      periods, utilizing various clinician-administered and self-report instruments of psychiatric
      symptomatology, psychosocial functioning, constructs targeted by the therapy groups,
      treatment compliances, and satisfaction.

      Status:

      Final report preparation.
    
  