
    
      The primary objectives of this study were in 2 parts: Phase l & Phase II.

      The study included different periods starting by molecular pre-screening (applicable for all
      subjects enrolled under protocol versions 00 to 03, or applicable only for Phase I and Group
      3 in Phase II of FGF401 single agent, for subjects enrolled under protocol version 04),
      Screening, Treatment, End of Treatment, Disease progression follow-up (if applicable), Safety
      follow-up and then ended by survival follow-up period

      In the Phase I part, subjects with HCC or other advanced solid tumors characterized by
      positive FGFR4 and KLB expression were enrolled and treated with FGF401 as a single agent or
      in combination with PDR001. Subjects in this phase were dosed under fasted or fed conditions.

      In the Phase 2 part, subjects with advanced HCC or other solid tumors bearing positive FGFR4
      and KLB expression were enrolled into three groups (Group 1: HCC subjects from Asian
      countries; Group 2: HCC subjects from non-Asian countries; Group 3: Subjects with other solid
      malignancies regardless of geography) to assess the preliminary anti-tumor activity of FGF401
      in Phase ll. This Phase II part investigated the anti-tumor activity of FGF401 single agent
      and in combination with PDR001.

      Each group within the Phase II dose expansion part targeted a different number of subjects.
      Group 1 and Group 2 planned to enroll around 40 subjects each and Group 3 planned to enroll
      approximately 20 subjects. Subjects in this phase were dosed under fasted conditions.

      Oral FGF401 was administered on a continuous once daily (QD) dosing regimen for both FGF401
      single agent and in combination with PDR001 parts. Intravenous PDR001 was administered in a
      fixed dosing regimen of 300 mg iv every three weeks as per protocol until subject experienced
      unacceptable toxicity, progressive disease and/or treatment was discontinued at the
      discretion of the Investigator or withdrawal of consent.

      Because the enrollment of new subjects in this study was halted for business reason on
      03-Jul-2018 early enrollment termination was declared following the initial halt of
      enrollment once the global last subject last visit was achieved as per protocol, and
      consequently the phase II part of the FGF401+PDR001 combination did not start, none of the
      planned analyses related to the phase II part of the FGF401+PDR001 combination arm were
      performed.

      Duration of treatment: Subjects could continue study treatment until they experienced any of
      the following: Disease progression (radiologically documented according to RECIST v1.1) as
      assessed by the Investigator, unacceptable toxicity, & treatment was discontinued at the
      discretion of the Investigator or the subject.

      Subjects who permanently discontinued the study treatment for any reason other than disease
      progression or withdrawal of consent had to continue efficacy assessments as scheduled in the
      protocol until the time of disease progression.
    
  