
    
      There is compelling epidemiological and clinical evidence to suggest that periodontal
      infection adversely affects glycemic control in people with type 2 diabetes mellitus. The
      purpose of this pilot project is to obtain important preliminary data necessary to support
      design of a full scale, multi-center randomized clinical trial (RCT) to evaluate the effect
      of treating periodontal infection on glycemic control in individuals with type 2 diabetes
      mellitus. This current project involves treating periodontal infection to obtain estimates of
      changes and the variability of those changes over time in the established primary endpoint,
      hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c). This project will also explore use of several potential secondary
      endpoints including levels of periodontitis and glucose metabolism-related inflammatory
      mediators (TNF-alpha, IL-1-beta, IL-6), serum cholesterol, triglyceride and lipids. Subjects
      are randomly assigned to 1 of three possible groups for comprehensive periodontal
      examination, specimen collection, mechanical periodontal therapy and oral systemic
      antibiotics or placebo, and regular follow-up evaluations and site-specific mechanical
      periodontal therapy, at 3-month intervals, for approximately 15 months. Two groups receive
      ultrasonic scaling with local anesthesia (as needed), local antimicrobial treatment with
      povidone-iodine irrigation, and an oral systemic antibiotic (either doxycycline or
      metronidazole) at the initial treatment visit. The third group ("controls") receives a
      placebo and supra-gingival oral prophylaxis and ultrasonic removal of supra-gingival calculus
      with water irrigation at the initial treatment visit. At the 9-month follow-up visit,
      "controls" receive sub-gingival ultrasonic scaling with povidone-iodine irrigation.

      Results from this pilot project will be used as preliminary data to support design of an
      immediate follow-up proposal to NIH/NIDCR for funding a multi-center RCT to evaluate the
      effect of treating periodontal infection on glycemic control in type 2 diabetes. If results
      from the full scale clinical trial provide evidence that treating periodontal infection
      contributes to improved glycemic control, then diagnosis and treatment of periodontal
      infection in subjects with type 2 diabetes could be substantiated as an important component
      in management of diabetes.
    
  