
    
      The most frequent heart disease in patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) is the
      premature development of coronary atherosclerosis, which often leads to overt ischemic heart
      disease (IHD). T2DM can lead to both cardiac dysfunction due to IHD or to diabetic
      cardiomyopathy. Diabetic cardiomyopathy is defined as an impairment of left ventricular (LV)
      function without overt obstructive coronary vessel disease. Diabetic cardiomyopathy has been
      associated with microvascular dysfunction, which leads to the inability of the heart to
      circulate blood effectively. The microvascular atherosclerotic changes are well known in
      patients with diabetes, such as impaired vision, kidney function and sensibility. The
      macrovascular atherosclerotic changes such as plaques in the coronary arteries are strongly
      associated with reduced left ventricular function.

      However, the relationship between micro- and macrovascular atherosclerotic changes and the
      impact on cardiac function is less certain.

      Estimation of cardiac function includes: Left Atrial (LA) Strain, LA Strain Rate (SR), LA
      Emptying Function (LAEF), LV Ejection Fraction (EF), Fractional Shortening (FS), Global
      Longitudinal Strain (GLS), Circumferential Strain (CS) and Radial Strain (RS), Strain Rate
      (SR), Peak Systolic Strain, Post Systolic Strain, Early mitral filling velocity (E), late
      mitral filling velocity (A), E/A ratio, Deceleration Time (DCT) of early mitral filling
      velocity, medial and lateral mitral velocities using tissue doppler (e' , a' and s'), E/e'
      ratio, Isovolumetric Relaxation Time (IVRT), Isovolumetric Closing Time (IVCT), Ejection Time
      (ET), Myocardial Performance Index (MPI) and Myocardial Work Index (MWI).

      In this study, participants will be consisting of non-diabetic subjects and patients with
      diabetes type 1 + 2. All of the participants have no history of myocardial infarction, heart
      failure and current symptoms of cardiac disease.

      The study population will undergo following examinations:

        1. 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG)

        2. Urine- and blood samples.

        3. Measurements of anthropometric data and vital parameters

        4. Recording of medical history

        5. 2D transthoracic echocardiography

        6. Coronary flow velocity reserve (CFVR) with adenosine infusion.

        7. Coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA).

        8. Free fractional reserve computed tomography (FFR-CT)

      The examinations will be repeated at follow-up (however non-diabetic subjects will only have
      1 CCTA performed at baseline).

      The non-invasive FFR-CT will only be performed once in a subgroup of diabetic patients and
      non-diabetic subjects from November 2016 until May 2017.
    
  