
    
      Preliminary studies to support feasibility: Recent research from the investigator's group has
      shown that right ventricular (RV) dysfunction is present in a third of patients with HFpEF
      and the presence of pulmonary vascular disease and pulmonary hypertension (PH) is very high
      (related to both pulmonary venous hypertension as well as pulmonary vascular disease). Both
      of these have been associated with adverse outcomes and exercise intolerance but no therapy
      is currently available directly targeted at the pulmonary vasculature in HFpEF.

      The investigators recently demonstrated significant improvements in pulmonary vascular
      function with dobutamine (a β2 agonist) administered acutely in HFpEF. As an intravenous
      therapy, this is not suitable for chronic outpatient use. Hospitalized patients with heart
      failure often demonstrate symptomatic improvement with inhaled β2 agonist therapy, even in
      the absence of pulmonary disease, and animal studies have also shown improved resolution of
      pulmonary edema with albuterol. In the proposed randomized, double blinded placebo-controlled
      trial, the investigators seek to evaluate whether the commonly used inhaled bronchodilator
      albuterol, administered through a high-efficiency nebulizer device, improves pulmonary
      vascular function in patients with HFpEF-PH as compared to placebo. This has the potential to
      lead to a simple cost effective intervention to improve symptoms in HFpEF-PH, and potentially
      be tested in other WHO PH groups.

      In the absence of frank signs of congestive heart failure, patients with early HFpEF can only
      be reliably diagnosed by exercise right heart catheterization, which is routinely performed
      at Mayo Clinic as part of the evaluation of patients with unexplained dyspnea. The presence
      of elevated pulmonary capillary wedge pressures (PCWP) at rest (>15 mmHg) or with exercise
      (>25 mmHg); and elevated mean pulmonary artery pressures at rest (>25 mm Hg) and with
      exercise (>40 mmHg) has been used to invasively diagnose HFpEF with exercise pulmonary
      hypertension with a high degree of validity and reliability. Just as exercise stress unmasks
      abnormalities in left ventricular (LV) diastolic function in early stage HFpEF, the
      investigators have very recently shown that exercise stress reveals early abnormalities in
      pulmonary artery vascular function as compared to controls without HF that are not apparent
      from resting data alone.

      Using objective diagnoses of HFpEF and exercise induced PH, the investigators seek to
      evaluate the hemodynamic changes with exercise in pulmonary vascular resistance, peak cardiac
      output and subjective dyspnea before and after inhaled albuterol therapy for pulmonary
      vasodilation.

      Study design: This study will be performed in a randomized, double blind placebo-controlled
      fashion using inhaled albuterol or inhaled saline (prepared by research pharmacy)
      administered through a novel high-efficiency nebulizer in a 1:1 fashion. Patients will
      undergo right heart catheterization (RHC) with expired-gas analysis using high Fidelity
      micromanometer catheters at rest and with exercise, at baseline and following treatment with
      study drug, using a novel study design that the investigators have previously utilized and
      reported. Rest and exercise measurements will be repeated after receiving inhaled albuterol
      or control therapy.

      Patients referred to the cardiac catheterization laboratory for invasive exercise stress
      testing will be prospectively recruited. Standard RHC using high fidelity micromanometers
      (Millar Instruments) will be performed at rest and during supine exercise with simultaneous
      expired gas analysis (MedGraphics) as is our current practice. The protocol is rest-20 Watts
      exercise x 5 minutes, and then graded workload increases in 10-20 Watt increments (3 minute
      stages) to exhaustion. Hemodynamic, arterial and mixed venous blood gas and expired gas data
      are acquired at rest, during each exercise stage and at peak exercise. Venous blood samples
      will be obtained at rest and at peak exercise. Perceived symptoms of dyspnea and fatigue will
      be quantified using the Borg dyspnea and effort scores at each stage of exercise. Limited
      echocardiography will be performed by a cardiologist skilled in imaging focused on measures
      of RV morphology and function.

      After the initial exercise study and hemodynamics have returned to baseline, study drug
      (normal saline placebo or albuterol 2.5 mg) will be inhaled through a high efficiency
      nebulizer over 5 minutes. After a 10 minute observation period, resting hemodynamic and
      expired gas data will be acquired exactly as in the initial run. Subjects will then repeat
      the 20 Watt x 5 minutes exercise phase. Subjects will repeat exercise only at the 20 Watt
      stage, rather repeating the entire study. This is done to increase the feasibility and
      shorten the time of the case. The investigators have previously observed that the vast
      majority (>85%) of the elevation in cardiac filling pressures and reduction in venous oxygen
      content in people with HFpEF occurs at the low 20 Watt workload, so repeating exercise
      hemodynamic assessment at this load should be sufficient to detect any clinically meaningful
      treatment effect from albuterol.
    
  