
    
      In immune-competent adult patients admitted to a hospital ward with a diagnosis of
      community-acquired pneumonia, does a multi-faceted ASP utilizing prospective chart audit and
      feedback compared with usual care reduce the LOS without increasing the risk of death or
      readmission at 30 days post-discharge from hospital? In Ontario, pneumonia is the leading
      cause of death from bacterial infections and accounts for over 18,000 years of life lost
      annually due to premature mortality. Pneumonia accounts for the majority of antibiotic
      utilization in both hospital and outpatient settings. Evidence-based guidelines for the
      diagnosis and management of pneumonia are available to physicians. Adherence to these
      evidence-based guidelines is associated with both reduced mortality and antibiotic
      utilization.

      Antimicrobial stewardship is defined as any intervention that minimizes unwarranted variation
      in antimicrobial utilization from evidence-based best practice with the intent of improving
      patient safety and quality of care. Unwarranted refers to the absence of patient- or
      disease-specific reasons to justify practice variation from evidence-based practice
      standards. Antimicrobial stewardship can be operationalized in many different ways, but
      prospective audit and feedback (persuasive approach) and restricted antimicrobial prescribing
      policies (restrictive approach) appear to be the most efficacious interventions to achieve
      the goals of antimicrobial stewardship. Antimicrobial stewardship programs have demonstrated
      efficacy in improving antimicrobial prescribing and reducing rates of hospital-acquired
      infections. Antimicrobial stewardship programs directed to CAP patients have demonstrated
      reductions in mortality, but have failed to demonstrate reductions in length of stay.

      All participants will be admitted patients to the Royal Victoria Regional Health Centre
      (RVRHC), a 319 bed community-based, university-affiliated, acute care hospital located in
      Barrie, Ontario, Canada.

      All patients enrolled in the study will be admitted to one of four medical wards. All study
      patients will be admitted to a hospitalist service. Admission to any medical ward is
      controlled by bed allocation, a non-medical administrative service within the hospital
      responsible for patient flow and assigning patient care. Hospitalists are not assigned to any
      one specific medical ward, but provide care across all medical wards.

      All eligible CAP who meet the ASP review criteria will be exposed to the ASP intervention.
      The ASP intervention (ASP-i) consists of a prospective chart audit and physician feedback
      (persuasive) approach . The ASP members who conduct all the audits and make recommendations
      consist of an infectious diseases-trained pharmacist (LM) and an infectious diseases trained
      physician (GD). All patients are reviewed by both members. The ASP intervention (ASP-i)
      recommendations are guided by the Infectious Diseases Society of America CAP guidelines and
      the Canadian Thoracic Society guidelines for the management of chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease. The possible ASP-i recommendations are based on those recommended by the National
      Health Service in the United Kingdom and include the following:

      i) No change to current care ii) Discontinue antibiotic(s) iii) Intravenous to oral
      conversion iv) Duration of therapy v) Dosing change vi) Narrow or broaden spectrum of therapy
      The ASP-i recommendations are not mutually exclusive. All recommendations are documented in
      the patient's electronic medical record and communicated directly to the attending physician
      by the ASP members.

      This is a pragmatic controlled clinical study intended to measure the effectiveness of a
      'real world' program. The ASP-i will be implemented in a modified stepped wedge design;
      baseline patient data will be collected for all enrolled patients on each of the medical
      wards for the first three months of the study, and then the ASP-i will be introduced to each
      medical ward in a non-randomized sequential fashion in two month intervals until all medical
      wards are exposed to the intervention.

      The unit of analysis will be individual patients adjusted for potential clustering effects
      within hospital wards.

      The primary outcome is length of hospital stay (LOS) measured in minutes from the documented
      time of admission to the documented time of discharge (or censoring). All patients will be
      administratively censored at 14 days after hospital admission if they have not been
      discharged home.

      Enrollment of patients started on April 1, 2013. The study is expected to enroll patients
      until March 31, 2015. All consecutive patients that meet the inclusion criteria and have no
      exclusion criteria will be eligible for the intervention. The ASP-i intervention may be
      implemented anytime after 48 hours post-admission in those patients who meet the criteria for
      ASP review. All patients who have not experienced an outcome at 14 days after admission will
      be censored from the study. Patients who die or are transferred from the ward (to the
      intensive care unit or other hospital) will also be censored. Patients who are discharged
      from hospital and are not censored will be contacted at 30 days post-discharge to determine
      their adherence with antibiotic prescription (if relevant), survival status and readmission
      status.

      The sample size expected for the current study is 'fixed' and has been previously estimated
      to be between 400 to 500 CAP patients per calendar year. The accrual period will be 24
      months. Assuming 70% of patients in the control arm will achieve the primary outcome of being
      discharged alive from hospital, and setting power = 0.8 and statistical significance
      (2-sided) α = 0.05, the detectable ASP-i effect size is estimated to be up to an
      approximately 20% reduction in length of stay.

      An extended Cox regression analysis will be used to compare the primary and secondary
      outcomes between the control and intervention groups. Violations of the proportional hazards
      assumption for each covariate will be identified by using the method of Schoenfeld residuals.
      Results will be reported as hazard ratios with 95% confidence intervals. Time to ASP-i will
      be modeled as a time-variant covariate in the final model to account for any time-dependent
      bias.

      Other variables known to be associated with the primary and secondary outcomes will also be
      included in the final model, and include; age, sex, charlson comorbidity index, CURB-65
      score, time (days) to clinical resolution, and complications from pneumonia such as empyema.
      Fixed effects of wards on the outcomes will accounted for by including them as indicator
      variables in the final model. Maturation of ASP-i effect on outcomes over time will be
      adjusted by including a categorical time variable in the final model (time variable will be
      defined as 'quarter' from start of study). A dichotomous variable for acceptance or rejection
      of the ASP-i will be part of an interaction term with the control/intervention group variable
      to permit a per protocol analysis.
    
  