
    
      The goal is to help improve counselling and ASA adherence for preeclampsia prevention in
      pregnant women with SLE. This study could offer the ideal setting for the conduct of a future
      study assessing the efficacy of ASA for prevention of placenta-mediated complications in SLE
      pregnancies.

      For this trial, the investigator will recruit pregnant women with a SLE diagnosis based on
      the SLICC classification criteria, followed at the 6 Canadian SLICC centres (located in
      Toronto, Montreal, Halifax, Quebec, Winnipeg, and Calgary), at TRIO Fertility in Toronto and
      at Mary Pack Arthritis Centre, in Vancouver. Consecutive pregnant women speaking English or
      French and providing informed consent and meeting eligibility criteria will be recruited
      until the 12th gestational week. Investigator will only include one pregnancy per study
      subject in the study analyses. Investigator will include all single intrauterine pregnancies,
      occurring in women between the ages of 18-45 years, regardless of disease manifestations,
      level of disease activity, and medication exposures. Of note, all Canadian subjects recruited
      in the LEGACY cohort will be eligible to participate in this study.

      Study subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to either the patient educational tool or
      standard of care. Individual subject randomization will be performed through a central
      web-based randomization system, using stratified blocked randomization with randomly selected
      block sizes.

      For all study subjects, data will be obtained at baseline on demographics (maternal age,
      ethnicity, education, occupation), co-morbidities (e.g. hypertension, diabetes, chronic
      kidney disease, etc), alcohol and tobacco use, SLICC classification criteria, SLICC/ACR
      damage index (SDI), detailed lupus nephritis history (date of onset, lupus nephritis class as
      per biopsy if available, date of last renal flare), prior placenta-mediated complications
      (i.e. gestational hypertension, preeclampsia, eclampsia, small for gestational age neonate,
      stillbirth) and past/current medications.

      Information on ASA including date of initiation, dosage, over-the-counter use, indication,
      and adherence will be recorded. Investigator will measure ASA adherence using the "Adherence
      to Refills and Medications Scale (ARMS)", which is a validated self-reported questionnaire
      developed for patients with chronic diseases with low literacy. It includes 12 short and
      simple questions, each scored 1 ("always") to 4 ("never"), and the total ranges from 12 to
      48, with lower scores indicating higher levels of reported adherence. The investigator will
      define adherence as a continuous variable using the ARMS score, which has been shown to
      strongly correlate with both pill counts, pharmacy refills, and therapy response.
      Investigator will also record ASA adherence using a visual analogue scale.

      Investigator will measure disease activity using the SLEPDAI. Investigator will also obtain
      data on BP, weight and height, renal function, urine microscopy, and UPCR. Autoantibodies,
      such as aPL antibodies, will be assessed locally at each centre and reported according to the
      centre specific normal ranges.

      A 20-item questionnaire will be administered evaluating patient knowledge related to
      preeclampsia including both closed- and open-ended questions regarding the implications of
      preeclampsia, the symptoms associated with the syndrome, the role of ASA for its prevention,
      and the proper actions that should be taken if a patient experiences preeclampsia symptoms.
      The questionnaire will be scored by 2 independent investigators, calculating the percentage
      of correct responses. Once the questionnaire is completed at the baseline visit, results or
      correct answers will not be communicated to participants.

      At the baseline visit, after having responded to the questionnaire, participants in the
      education arm will be given the patient educational tool. This tool is a modified version of
      the patient educational sheet elaborated and validated by You et al. in collaboration with
      the Preeclampsia Foundation. This patient educational sheet graphically defines preeclampsia
      and its complications and has been shown to substantially improve patient knowledge related
      to preeclampsia in a prior RCT, as mentioned previously. A licensing agreement from the
      Preeclampsia Foundation has been obtained, with the rights to modify the educational tool for
      this RCT. The SLE-specific educational tool will consist in a sheet displaying the previously
      developed patient educational form on the recto. However, on the verso of the sheet,
      SLE-specific information related to the risk of preeclampsia in SLE pregnancies and the
      estimated efficacy of ASA in reducing preeclampsia risk in women at high risk are displayed.
      The graphical display of the SLE-specific content has been optimized in consultation with
      relevant end-users.

      Subjects in the standard of care arm will not receive the patient educational tool. If
      participants ask specific questions on pregnancy complications and/or preeclampsia, the
      clinicians will provide relevant information as judged appropriate, but without handing the
      patient educational tool.

      At each study centre, investigators will complete a survey on the current practice of both
      rheumatologists and obstetricians regarding preeclampsia education and counselling of their
      SLE patients to gain insights into the standard of care at each site. The survey will be
      updated every 6 months. Of note, none of the sites have for standard of care of administering
      the Preeclampsia Foundation educational tool.

      Patients will be reassessed in the 2nd (between 20-24 weeks), 3rd (between 30-34 weeks)
      trimesters, and in postpartum. At these visits, the investigator will record current
      medication use, including ASA initiation, dosage, indication for use, and adherence using the
      ARMS. In addition, the investigator will update information on placenta-mediated
      complications, disease manifestations, disease activity, BP, serum creatinine, urine
      microscopy and UPCR. The investigator will reassess patient preeclampsia knowledge at
      subsequent visits in both study groups by administering the same preeclampsia knowledge
      questionnaire to determine whether any enhancement of knowledge is retained. Informed consent
      has been obtain to include data collected from this RCT in the LEGACY biobank.

      Statistical Analyses Patterns of ASA Use in SLE Women Receiving Standard of Care: Descriptive
      statistics will be used to measure the prevalence of ASA use at baseline and compare the
      prevalence of use across all trimesters in subjects receiving standard of care. In addition,
      the investigator will determine the proportion of patients who initiated ASA during pregnancy
      as well as the proportion of subjects already on ASA prior to pregnancy, exploring
      indications of use. The investigator will also measure the frequencies of dosage used (i.e.
      80 mg, 160 mg, and 325 mg). Exploratory analyses will examine correlates of ASA initiation,
      as well as ASA non-adherence, during pregnancy in both groups using a bivariate regression
      analysis estimated with the generalized estimating equation method, evaluating the following
      baseline covariates while adjusting for educational tool exposure: maternal age,
      race/ethnicity, obesity, aPL autoantibodies, prior preeclampsia, prior nephritis, and
      anti-hypertensive use.

      Effect of Educational Tool of Preeclampsia Knowledge: The analysis of the effect of the
      educational tool on preeclampsia knowledge will be based on the intention-to-treat principle.
      A Student's t-test will be used to compare the mean preeclampsia questionnaire scores at all
      visits between the group exposed to the educational tool versus the standard of care group.

      Effect of Educational Tool on ASA Adherence: Based on the intention-to-treat principle,
      investigator will use a Student's t test to analyze the between-group difference using a
      logarithmic transformation of ARMS scores at the 2rd trimester visit. A logarithmic
      transformation is used to allow skewed data to approximate a normal distribution. All
      statistical tests will be 2-sided, and the level of significance will be set at .05.

      Sample Size and Power Calculation: The investigator estimates that 40 participants in each
      group provide at least 80% power, at a 2-sided alpha of .05, to detect a 15% difference in
      the mean preeclampsia questionnaire score assuming a mean score of 50% with an SD of 10%
      among women who were unexposed to any educational intervention. As the 6 participating
      Canadian SLICC centres have a collective number of more than 1 500 SLE women currently
      enrolled into existing research cohorts, the investigator is confident that the required
      sample size (total number of required study subjects = 80) will be accrued.
    
  