
    
      Anorexia Nervosa is a serious disorder associated with high medical and psychiatric
      morbidity, poor quality of life, and the highest mortality rate of any psychiatric illness.
      Although many individuals with AN ultimately achieve remission, this process of recovery is
      slow, with only about 1/3 of individuals recovering in the first decade of illness, and is
      not always associated with an enhanced quality of life. Further, a substantial portion of
      those with AN do not recover; 20-30% of affected individuals maintain a chronic illness
      course or die prematurely. Interventions that enhance the probability of long-term remission
      from adult AN are lacking. Efficacious outpatient treatments have not been identified and,
      although inpatient treatment can restore healthy weight, up to 50% of patients with AN
      relapse within a year of discharge. This paucity of effective treatment may be due to
      existing interventions not targeting key mechanisms of the disorder. Advances in neuroscience
      have contributed promising insights about the processes that promote AN symptoms. However,
      these findings have not been adequately integrated into treatment for AN. It is critical that
      future treatment development utilize emerging research on the mechanisms of AN to develop
      more effectively targeted interventions. The goal of the proposed research is to determine
      the extent to which Positive Affect Treatment (PAT), a novel treatment targeting reward
      mechanisms, can effectively target the psychological reward deficits that maintain anorexia
      nervosa (AN), and thus improve clinical symptoms. To this end, we propose a small,
      randomized, wait-list controlled pilot trial of PAT adapted for AN (PAT-AN) to achieve the
      following aims: To asses the feasibility and acceptability of PAT-AN among individuals with
      AN and to obtain initial data regarding the potential efficacy of PAT-AN compared to waitlist
      control on measures of clinical outcome and putative reward mechanisms in AN to inform a
      future larger randomized, controlled trial of this intervention.
    
  