
    
      After stroke, the combination of progressive skills practice in an adequate dose plus
      exercise for fitness augments motor and cognitive outcomes. However, sensorimotor and
      cognitive improvements often plateau after 12 weeks. There is an urgent need to find novel
      methods to drive recovery and lessen limb paralysis. Drugs that might enhance learning or
      neural repair, as well as other molecular and synaptic adaptations that occur during skills
      training and fitness exercise, might extend that recovery curve, although to date only
      fluoxetine has given any hint of this. Most trials have tested agents that modulate
      neurotransmitters. Several very recent preclinical experiments and observational studies in
      patients after stroke suggest that the commercially available medication, Maraviroc, may
      augment skills learning during rehabilitation training especially during the first three
      months after onset, by acting on unique molecular components for novel learning.

      The CAMAROS trial is a randomized, placebo-controlled, blinded phase II trial evaluating the
      efficacy of coupling Maraviroc (Celsentri) with exercise rehabilitation across multiple
      Canadian sites in 120 stroke participants. Patients will begin their participation within 6
      weeks of stroke onset. Both groups will receive an exercise program in addition to standard
      of care rehabilitation, but only one group (the intervention group) will receive the active
      drug Maraviroc.

      Study participants will be evaluated at baseline, after 4 weeks of taking the drug/placebo,
      after 8 weeks of taking the drug/placebo, and at 6-months post-stroke. While enrolled in the
      study, participants will be required to take part in an 8 week, daily exercise program.
      Evaluators and participants will be blind to the treatment administered. The trial is
      constructed with randomization to remove selection and allocation biases and to ensure
      greater validity in observed differences in the outcome measures.
    
  