
    
      A cross sectional study among healthy participants randomly selected from the population
      living in the Nanoro HDSS cohort to (a) study the relation between vaccination and morbidity
      (including hemoglobin levels, subclinical malaria and stunting) (b) perform hemocytometry in
      order to determine reference values for that population and estimate the prevalence and
      causes of anemia, using reference values from other Sub-Sahara Africa countries and
      industrialized countries.

      In a cross sectional study among a healthy population in the Nanoro HDSS cohort,
      hemocytometry will be performed in order to define normal values for that population. In
      addition, hemoglobin levels can be related to the presence of iron deficiency, thalassemia
      and malaria and be corrected for important confounding factors, such as the family income,
      family composition, distance to a healthcare center and vaccination status. This study will
      allow to assess simultaneously the normal range of hemoglobin values, the prevalence of
      (different causes of) anemia, the prevalence of subclinical malaria parasitemia, as well as
      the influence of (timepoint of) vaccination on all these issues. It is hypothized that early
      vaccination with live attenuated vaccines has a protective effect against malaria and other
      severe infectious diseases and will result in a better nutritional status, a higher
      hemoglobin level and a higher threshold of subclinical parasitemia. The protective effect of
      early vaccination with live attenuated vaccines may be due to the long-term modulation of the
      immune system through epigenetic changes causing a right balance between the pro- and
      anti-inflammatory responses. Such balance can be determined by ex-vivo stimulation of whole
      blood by a variety of stimuli, including Mycobacterium tuberculosis and lipopolysaccharide
      from Escherichia coli, followed by measurement of ex vivo cytokine production. Previous
      studies among healthy volunteers in the Netherlands have shown that BCG is indeed capable to
      induce epigenetic changes and influence immune response by influencing various pathways
      including through genetic variations in mTOR, HK2, PFKP, GLS, and GLUD1/2 (ref).

      The new Sysmex analysers are not only capable to determine hemocytometry, but are at the same
      time capable to detect malaria parasites directly. Interestingly, not only the asexual stages
      of the parasites are detected but the gametocytes as well. This may be very important as
      gametocyte carriers are known to play a crucial role in malaria transmission. Gametocytes are
      presently detected by light microscopy or by PCR, however these techniques are limited; the
      sensitivity of light microscopy is relatively low and PCR is too complex to perform in most
      rural sub-Saharan African settings. The new Sysmex hematology analysers are easy to operate
      at low costs and may as such become an important tool for malaria elimination programs. No
      data are presently available about gametocyte density in Burkina Faso in a large population,
      nor is the lower level of detection of gametocytes using the sysmex analyzers known.

      This research has four main objectives :

        1. To perform hemocytometry among a healthy rural Burkina Faso population selected from the
           Nanoro HDSS cohort, in order to determine reference values for that population.

        2. To perform hemocytometry among a healthy rural Burkina Faso population selected from the
           Nanoro HDSS cohort, in order to estimate the prevalence and causes of anemia, using
           reference values from other Sub-Sahara Africa (SSA) countries and industrialized
           countries.

        3. To study the relation between (timepoint of) vaccination and morbidity (including
           hemoglobin levels, subclinical malaria, bacterial infection and stunting) among a
           healthy rural Burkina Faso population selected from the Nanoro HDSS cohort. For this
           objective the population will be stratified by birth cohort.

        4. To perform ex-vivo whole blood stimulation to assess differences in immune response
           between patientgroups with a different vaccination status, within a healthy rural
           Burkina Faso population selected from the Nanoro HDSS cohort

           Seondary objectives

        5. To assess the detection limit of gametocyte carriages for the new series Sysmex
           hematology analyzers.

        6. To assess if Salmonella resides in blood as a reservoir for invasive infection among a
           rural Burkina Faso population selected from the Nanoro HDSS cohort.
    
  