
    
      Biliary tract carcinoma (BTC, adenocarcinoma in more than 90% of cases) is the second primary
      liver tumor in incidence after hepatocellular carcinoma (2,000 new cases/year in France).

      The prognosis of biliary malignancies is poor, with a 5-year overall survival rate (OS) of
      about 10-15%, most often due to late diagnosis, at an advanced stage.

      In advanced BTC, the gemcitabine plus platinum (cisplatin [GEMCIS] or oxaliplatin [GEMOX])
      doublet of chemotherapy is the standard first-line treatment and no targeted therapy has been
      validated in this indication to date. There is no second-line therapeutic standard;
      chemotherapy (mainly, 5-FU-based combination) yields limited median progression-free survival
      (PFS) and OS of abouty 2-3 months and 6-7 months respectively, justifying the exploration of
      new therapeutic options.

      Immune therapies (mainly, immune checkpoint inhibitors [ICI]) have opened new opportunities
      in cancer therapy. Hence, anti-CTLA-4 and anti-PD-1/PD-L1 monoclonal antibodies (mAb) have
      demonstrated robust clinical activity and obtained FDA approval in several cancers. Recent
      data showed encouraging results with anti-PD-1 mAb as a monotherapy in PD-L1-positive
      pre-treated advanced BTC. The effects of ICI in combination with second-line chemotherapy in
      patients with advanced BTC have not been explored to date.

      Platinum salts can induce "immunogenic cell death". Therefore, previous treatment with
      platinum may increase tumor immunogenicity and sensitivity to immune therapy, particularly,
      ICI. The second-line setting after failure of platinum-based chemotherapy may then be an
      optimal biological context for testing immune therapy in advanced BTC.

      Durvalumab is a human immunoglobulin (Ig) G1 kappa (IgG1κ) anti-PD-L1 mAb. Tremelimumab is a
      human IgG2 anti-CTLA-4 mAb. Paclitaxel is a chemotherapy belonging to the taxane family.
      Taxanes may enhance the effect of immunotherapy by increasing the sensitivity of the tumor
      and activating the immune system. Taxanes are used in some patients with advanced biliary
      cancer.

      These data suggest that BTC may be a good candidate for immune therapy. The combination of
      anti-CTL4 and anti-PD1/PD-L1 mAb is expected to be active in both immune-inflamed and
      non-inflamed BTC, and in PD-L1 high and low tumors.
    
  