
    
      In the United States, surgical care has become a gateway for chronic opioid dependence and
      its associated morbidity. Between 5-10% of patients who receive opioids for postoperative
      pain control go on to develop long-term opioid use. This translates to more than 2 million
      previously opioid-naïve individuals developing chronic opioid use after surgery each year.
      Persistent opioid use after surgery is associated with increased readmissions, healthcare
      utilization, and healthcare expenditures. Critically, long-term opioid use increases the risk
      of overdose and death in patients who, prior to their surgery, had no exposure to opioids.

      Growing recognition of this problem has led to numerous efforts aimed at reducing
      opioid-associated morbidity after surgery. These include legislative limits on opioid
      prescribing for acute pain, procedure-specific prescribing guidelines based on
      patient-reported opioid use, and opioid-sparing pain management pathways. In Michigan
      specifically, the Michigan Opioid Prescribing and Engagement Network (M-OPEN) led a statewide
      quality improvement effort beginning in 2016 that focused on provider education using
      evidence-based opioid prescribing guidelines. Previously, these guidelines have been shown to
      significantly reduce excessive postoperative opioid prescribing across the state, however it
      is currently unknown whether these efforts have had any effect on the actual incidence of
      persistent opioid use after surgery.

      Therefore, the current study will evaluate the incidence of new persistent opioid use before
      and after the establishment of M-OPEN in Michigan. Beginning in 2016, a statewide quality
      improvement initiative was undertaken in Michigan to improve postoperative opioid
      prescribing. In order to accomplish this goal, this study will use a
      difference-in-differences approach to compare new persistent opioid use in Michigan before
      and after 2016 to other states where no such quality improvement effort existed.
    
  