
    
      1. Perform observational study utilizing real-time quantification of ocular inflammation to
           determine minimal important change.

           In our current experiments, we have calculated reliability measurements including the
           standard error of measurement (SEM) for our software tools. Our hypothesis is that the
           minimal important change seen clinically will be at least equal to the standard error of
           measurement. This is based on previous work observing the use of SEM as the minimal
           important change on outcome scales.56-58 We hypothesize that changes in the imaging
           quantification of inflammation scores (IQI) of greater than SEM, will lead to observed
           changes in visual function.

           To test our hypothesis we will prospectively observe 25 patients with uveitis who are
           either active or were recently active in the previous 6 months. All of the patients will
           have standard clinical exams at baseline and image quantification of their inflammation
           using OCT, OCTA and UWFFA (if needed). At baseline, ETDRS vision, contrast sensitivity,
           hand held electroretinography and a visual function questionnaire (NEI-VFQ 25) will be
           administered. Patients will be followed for 6 months. During follow-up repeat imaging
           quantification of inflammation will be performed along with standard examinations,
           visual acuity and contrast sensitivity measurements and hand held ERG. At the final
           visit, all tests will be repeated. Data collected will be analyzed using statistical
           software package. Correlations between changes in imaging quantification of inflammation
           scores and changes in visual acuity, clinical grades of inflammation, visual function
           scores and contract sensitivity will be calculated. Expected outcomes include
           confirmation that a change in IQI scores greater than standard error of measurement will
           result in a clinically meaningful change. We now would have a definition of improvement
           and worsening based on changes in IQI scores.

           Image acquisition protocols will depend on subtype of uveitis. In those with anterior
           uveitis, only OCT, OCTA and anterior segment OCT will be obtained by study staff. In
           those with posterior segment uveitis, UWFFA will be obtained as part of standard of
           care.

        2. Prospective use of changes in imaging quantification of inflammation (IQI) scores in
           determining treatment decisions As the above experiment will have defined the scores
           required for improvement and worsening, we will assess the use of these tools in making
           clinical treatment decisions. We hypothesize that clinician use of imaging based
           quantification of inflammation (IQI) scores will impact clinical decision making. We
           intend to test our hypothesis with the following experiment. 25 patients with active or
           recently active (within 6 months) uveitis will be enrolled in a prospective study. At
           baseline patients will have standard of care examinations performed and IQI scores will
           be acquired using OCT, OCTA and UWFFA. Patients will be followed over a period of 1
           year. At subsequent follow-up visits, IQI scores will be obtained. Prior to the
           clinician examining the patient, the IQI scores will be reviewed and compared to the
           previous visit(s). The clinician will then fill out a survey form indicating if (s)he
           would treat based on IQI scores, observe based on IQI scores, or can't decide by IQI
           alone. At this point the clinician would then examine the patient and fill out a second
           questionnaire evaluating whether (a) clinical exam agreed with IQI, (b) clinical exam
           did not agree with IQI (c) clinical exam did not pick up changes that IQI found. The
           patient will then be treated by clinical judgment with clinical exam and IQI scores
           available to the physician. The data collected will be analyzed using a statistical
           software package. (SAS) Percentage agreement, correlation between exam results and IQI
           scores will be assessed.
    
  