
    
      Long-term data after implantation of coronary BVS is scarce, especially in subgroups of
      patients with diabetes or chronic kidney disease, and in those with complex coronary lesions
      and/or multivessel disease.

      Although the use of BVS is very promising in younger patients with one or more of the above
      characteristics, evidence of benefit is not available.

      The BVS-RAI Registry is a spontaneous initiative of a group of Italian interventional
      cardiologists who are interested in assessing the results of their interventional practice
      with BVS, by sharing data.

      The BVS-RAI Registry has been created in joint-venture with Centro di Ricerche Farmacologiche
      e Biomediche "Mario Negri Sud", and is not recipient of funding or benefits originating from
      the BVS manufacturer or seller. BVS devices are regularly purchased by the participating
      centres.

      Each participating centre is willing to input data of all consecutive patients treated with
      BVS, with a minimum of 50, and to report on follow-up for at least 5 years. Patient
      recruitment is not directed per protocol, nor is it rewarded. Patients who give informed
      consent are included in the BVS-RAI Registry after BVS implant has been performed following
      the indications, techniques and protocols used in each of the participating institutions.

      Baseline patient clinical data, with special attention to biochemistry and drug treatment in
      patients with diabetes and CKD, as well as angiographic and intravascular imaging data are
      entered into a web-based Case Report Form.

      Follow-up data from outpatient visits or phone interviews, subsequent admissions and coronary
      angiograms following the protocols being used in each of the participating institutions are
      prospectively collected and entered into the database.

      All data in the CRF is visible to all registered participants at all times. Endpoints are:
      target lesion and target vessel failure, BVS thrombosis, new revascularisation, myocardial
      infarction and death. Documentation of those events is required for adjudication by an
      independent committee.
    
  