
    
      A total of consecutive patients in the CAS registry of the Cardiovascular Center at Korea
      University Guro Hospital and who had resting chest pain without significant coronary lesions
      (luminal narrowing <50%) underwent a provocation test with Ach infusion during coronary
      angiography from November 2004 to May 2012 will be reviewed. Among them, patients with
      documented cardiovascular disease and/or any other serious medical condition, such as an
      increased serum creatinine level (>2mg/dl), will be excluded. Patients will be excluded due
      to incomplete data. The investigators will register hypertensive patients who are currently
      using antihypertensive medications. The study population will be divided into quartiles based
      on rising systolic BP, diastolic BP, and pulse pressure. CAS+chest pain(CP) means>70% luminal
      narrowing on Ach provocation test. and/or concurrent typical chest pain.

      BP was measured with a noninvasive BP monitoring device with the patient lying on the
      angiographic table after a five-minute rest (Patient monitoring system, NP 30:Philips,
      Amsterdam, The Netherlands). The first reading was discarded, and the mean of the next two
      consecutive readings was used. Next, coronary angiography was performed. Hypertension is
      defined as systolic BP ≥140mmHg and/or diastolic BP ≥90mmHg on at least two consecutive
      readings in the outpatient clinic. Patients taking antihypertensive medications are also
      categorized as hypertensives. Other Risk factors for CAS examined in this study include
      hyperlipidemia (total cholesterol level ≥200mg /dl or current medication with lipid-lowering
      drugs), diabetes (fasting blood glucose≥126mg /dl, and/or glycated Hemoglobin A1c level more
      than 6.5% or current use of medications), current smoker (active smoking within the past 12
      months), and current alcohol user (at least 1 alcohol drinking a week).
    
  