
    
      Necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) is the most common acquired gastrointestinal disease that
      occurs predominantly in premature infants and is considered to be one of the leading causes
      of morbidity and mortality in their age group (Schnabl et al., 2008).

      Primary prevention of NEC should be the priority, since NEC frequently progresses from
      nonspecific signs, to extensive necrosis within a matter of hours with medical or surgical
      treatment, making successful treatment and secondary prevention difficult to achieve (Lin et
      al., 2013).

      One of the assumed novel preventive measures against NEC is L-arginine & glutamine
      supplementation to high risk infants (Neu, 2005).

      We conducted a prospective, interventional, single blinded clinical study in the period from
      1/2011- 3/2014 in both NICUs of Children Hospital & Maternity Hospital of Ain Shams
      University. The study was approved by the Ethical Committee of Faculty of Medicinie, Ain
      Shams University.

      Aim of the study was to assess the preventive role of enteral L-arginine & glutamine against
      NEC and to assess the role of glutamine in decreasing the impact of sepsis on premature
      neonates.

      Seventy five preterm neonates were enrolled. Inclusion criteria were GA≤ 34 weeks assigned to
      feed in the first week of life. Exclusion criteria were the presence of any contraindication
      to feeding (e.g. intestinal surgery), sever or multiple congenital anomalies, intracranial
      hemorrhage > grade 2 or non- bacterial congenital infection. They were equally divided into 3
      groups (L-arginine group, Glutamine group & Control group), 25 neonates per group were
      randomly enrolled.

      L-arginine group included 25 preterm neonates among which 56% were females. Mean for birth
      weight was 1.45kg, mean for gestational age was 31.84 weeks, 72% were delivered via CS.
      Median for APGAR score at 1 & 5 minutes were 6 & 8 respectively.

      As for the glutamine group, among the 25 neonates included, 52% were females, 92% were born
      to CS. Mean for birth weight was 1.45kg while mean for GA was 31.84 weeks. Median for APGAR
      score was 5 in 1st minute (significantly lower than other 2 groups) and 8 at 5 minutes.

      In control group that also included 25 neonates, 56% were females and 88% were born to CS.
      Mean for birth weight was significantly lower if compared to other groups (1.31 kg) while GA
      was comparable to them (30.64). Median for APGAR score in 1 & 5 minutes was 7 & 8
      respectively.

      All study subjects received their usual care and medications according to the treating
      physicians' protocols of management. Additionally, L-arginine group received enteral
      l-arginine supplementation (starting 0.75mmol/kg/day and reaching 1.5 mmol/kg/day when
      enteral feeding reaches 40% of full intake), while glutamine group additionally received
      enteral glutamine supplementations (starting 156mg/kg/day and reaching 312 mg/kg/day when
      enteral feeding reaches 40% of full intake). The additional enteral supplementations where
      added with the start of feeding.

      Study subjects were followed up daily since the time of enrollment till they were discharged,
      died or completed 30 days of life. Daily measurement of weight, blood pressure and blood
      sugar level were done. Feeding protocol of all patients was recorded regarding age on which
      feeding was initiated, daily increment of feeding, frequency of feeding intolerance, and
      stoppage of feeding for any stage of NEC. Frequency of septic episodes and hospital stay were
      also recorded. Plasma l-arginine & glutamine levels were measured at time of enrollment
      (sample 1), after 15 days of enrollment (sample 2) and at time of diagnosis of any stage of
      NEC (sample 3). Staging and diagnosis were done according to Bell's criteria. Transcranial
      ultrasound was done to all study subjects at time of enrollment, before discharge and
      whenever needed.

      Overall incidence of NEC was 12%. Comparing the groups, glutamine group had significant lower
      incidence of NEC while no difference in NEC incidence was found between L-arginine & control
      group. Lower gestational age and birth weight were significant risk factors, however; both
      didn't affect the age of NEC diagnosis. MOD, gender, age on starting feeding and daily
      increment (wither > 20cc or ≤ 20 cc/kg/day) also didn't affect the incidence of NEC.

      Regarding the NEC outcome,3 patients were diagnosed as having NEC in arginine group among
      which one suffered stage 1 (improved), one suffered stage 2 NEC (improved), and one suffered
      stage 2 (died), while in control group, among the 6 diagnosed neonates, one suffered stage 1
      (died), 5 suffered stage 2 (0ne improved & 4 died). Occurrence of NEC significantly increased
      risk of mortality & delayed reaching full oral intake.

      Overall mortality in the whole study was 13.3%. No significant difference between the 3
      groups.

      While age on starting feeding was significantly higher in glutamine group (p<0.05), it had no
      effect on the length of stay or the clinical outcome on the 3 groups. Regarding the frequency
      of septic episodes, length of stay and attacks of feeding intolerance, no significant
      difference was reported between the 3 groups.

      As for plasma levels of l-arginine & glutamine, no significant difference was estimated among
      control and glutamine groups regarding initial glutamine levels while edscap group had
      significantly higher initial l-arginine level compared to l- arginine group. Both l-arginine
      and glutamine levels were significantly higher in sample 2 in all groups when compared to
      sample 1 of same patient. However, their levels in sample 2 were significantly correlated to
      the initial levels rather than their diverse enteral supplementation. No correlation was
      found between l-arginine and glutamine plasma levels at point of diagnosis of NEC to initial
      level, gestational age or birth weight. Reaching the full oral intake was significantly
      delayed in NEC patients, while it wasn't affected by age of initiation of feeding.

      Assessing the side effects that may be contributed to L-arginine, incidence of hypotension
      requiring inotropic management or hyperglycemia requiring insulin therapy showed no
      statistical significance between the 3 groups denoting possible safety.

      Finally, the study supports the finding that enteral glutamine supplementation may be helpful
      in decreasing the incidence of NEC in preterm neonates. However, this beneficial role was not
      proven for arginine against NEC, or for glutamine itself against sepsis. Larger studies are
      needed to confirm the results.
    
  