
    
      Embryo implantation in humans is surprisingly inefficient and represents a major limiting
      factor for enhancement of ART success rates (ref 1-2). Successful implantation requires
      synchronized development between the newly fertilized embryo and the maternal endometrium
      within a specific window of time. In mammals, this coordinated development is accomplished,
      in part, by embryonic secretions which alert the body that fertilization has occurred.

      One of the earliest proteins produced by the embryo is human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG).
      Previous research has shown that hCG maintains progesterone production by the ovary, a
      hormone required for the maintenance of pregnancy. However, very little is known about the
      direct effect of hCG on the human endometrium. Our laboratory has previously shown that
      intrauterine infusion of hCG in the non-human primate can induce endometrial changes that
      mimic the initial stages of early pregnancy (i.e. altered cellular morphology, pre-decidual
      response and increased glandular activity; ref 3-4). These results suggest that
      embryo-derived hCG may also act directly upon the endometrium to "prime" it in anticipation
      of implantation. Research from other labs examining the effect of hCG on endometrial genes in
      vitro support this hypothesis (ref: 5-9). Additionally, a recent study of women undergoing
      ART revealed significantly increased implantation and pregnancy rates when the embryo
      transfer was preceded by intra-uterine infusion of 500IU hCG (ref 10).

      The purpose of this study is to determine whether the endometrial response to hCG seen
      previously in our non-human primate model is also present in women and to characterize this
      effect. Women who plan to undergo controlled ovarian stimulation for the purpose of egg
      donation will be eligible to participate in this research. Subjects in experimental group
      will receive a single intrauterine infusion of hCG (500IU) diluted in IVF media 3 days after
      oocyte retrieval. Control subjects will receive a single intrauterine infusion of IVF media
      only. Two days after infusion, both experimental group and control participants will return
      to the clinic where a sample of endometrial tissue will be obtained via pipelle biopsy and a
      sample of uterine secretory proteins will be obtained via uterine lavage. The uterine lavage
      samples will be examined using ELISA/proteomic analysis to determine the effect of hCG on
      uterine protein secretions. One portion of the endometrial biopsy will be formalin-fixed and
      paraffin-embedded for analysis of morphological and structural changes following hCG
      exposure. The second portion will be used for cellular and molecular analysis to determine
      the effect of hCG on genes and proteins of interest.
    
  