
    
      BACKGROUND

      ORTHOPUS is a french private company founded in 2018 with the mission of increasing access to
      assistive technology like prosthetics care. ORTHOPUS focuses its actions on low and middle
      income countries with a model that mixes social impact (open source, frugal innovation, fair
      pricing) and medical european quality (CE marking).

      Today, over 1 billion people need at least one form of Assistive Technology (AT), but over
      900 million people (90%) do not have access to the AT they require.

      The number of people who need AT is expected to grow to more than 2 billion people by 2050
      according to the WHO "Assistive Technology Fact Sheet 18 May 2018". 80% of these persons live
      in a Low or Middle Income Country (LMIC).

      According to World Health Organization estimation, 0.5% of the populations need these
      services and a report from the United Nations highlights that 0.7% of the Nepalese
      populations are physically disabled - NEPAL: Disabled Population 2011, (UNRCHCO, 2011).
      Prosthetics and Orthotics (P&O) service is the subset of rehabilitation service, and National
      health policy 2019 has identified rehabilitation as core health services .

      Compared to other assistive products such as crutches and walkers, P&O services are very
      scarcely available in Nepal, even-though its need is going higher due to the increasing
      prevalence of NCDs and road traffic injury.

      Living Conditions among People with Disability in Nepal report (SINTEF, 2015) highlights that
      73 percent of people with disabilities do not have access to Assistive Devices.

      According to WHO, failure of health policies, excessive prices of products, provision
      difficulties and insufficient training of health personnel are the 4 reasons for this
      problem.

      RATIONALE

      ORTHOPUS objective is to address some of the problem highlighted by WHO:

        -  To address LMIC product-related problems, ORTHOPUS proposes quality prosthetic solutions
           with a moderate price by designing innovative solutions based on the frugal innovation
           concept

        -  To address Information transmission and Health care practitioner formation, all
           ORTHOPUS' solutions will be shared via a free/Open source licence

        -  In order to guarantee the quality of medical devices, ORTHOPUS follows European
           standards certification process for each and every product.

      Nepal is one of the target countries of the ORTHOPUS objective as the 2011 Nepal Census
      conducted by the government of Nepal reported that 1.94% of the total population of Nepal is
      living with some kind of disabilities. The number will be more if the 'functioning' status of
      the population is considered.

      Moreover, the Living Conditions among People with Disability in Nepal report (SINTEF, 2015)
      highlights that 83 percent of people with disabilities do not have access to rehabilitation
      services and that there is a 72.5% service gap in Assistive Devices.

      Today, according to the Principal Investigator of the trial, the most popular solutions
      provided by healthcare practitioners, in LMICs such as Nepal, for transradial amputation is a
      voluntary opening hand or a passive aesthetics one.

      The voluntary opening hand is a compromise between efficiency and aesthetics according to the
      publication Efficiency of voluntary opening hand and hook prosthetic devices: 24 years of
      development? (JRRD, Volume 49, Number 4, 2012).

      On the other hand, the passive aesthetic solution does not provide any active grasping
      functionalities but has an important social impact for users hiding the limb loss to a
      certain extent.

      In addition, Nepal was chosen for ORTHOPUS first clinical trial thanks to the help of HI
      (Humanity and Inclusion) NGO who has already a program there. HI staff, Yeti Raj Niraula,
      will be the principal investigator of this clinical trial.

      This clinical trial will focus on upper-limb prostheses. ORTHOPUS wants to demonstrate that a
      set of solutions composed of multiple medical devices such as:

        -  a wrist with a possible pronosupination as well as a rotational lock and a quick
           connection/disconnection feature.

        -  an aesthetic articulated hand, similar to usual aesthetic passive hand proposed nowadays
           in Nepal but with an additional articulation feature

        -  a heavy duty work hook used as a working tool to address the shortage of heavy duty
           prosthetic products in the country. The trial aims at assessing if using this solution
           will improve work integration of the user.

        -  a harness used to actuate the work hook allowing the user to open it with muscular
           contraction of the upper part of the torso

      With this trial, improvement of the autonomy of users and on the well-being in everyday life
      will be studied compared to the sole use of a voluntary opening hand or a passive aesthetics
      one.

      GENERAL OBJECTIVE

      The general objective is to show the relevance of using the set of solutions made by ORTHOPUS
      (aesthetic articulated hand, working hook and quick disconnect wrist) compared to the
      widespread solution of a voluntary opening hand or passive aesthetic one.

      SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE

      To establish the effect of the ORTHOPUS prosthetic solution, four primary objectives will be
      studied to address the scientific question by collecting appropriate data:

        -  improvement of grasping capacities

        -  improvement of quality of life

        -  improvement of sociodemographic conditions

        -  evaluation of prosthesis perception

      To address the primary objectives of the trial the following subjective primary endpoints
      will be measured:

        -  improvement of grasping capacities will be evaluated using an adapted to Nepali culture
           OPUS survey (Development and measurement properties of the Orthotics and Prosthetics
           Users' Survey (OPUS): a comprehensive set of clinical outcome instruments, A W
           Heinemann, 2003). Participants will be ranking the ease of realisation of a 30 item list
           using ORTHOPUS prosthetic solution. These ranks will be compared to the one obtained
           using the previous prosthetic solution (if applicable). Studying results to the survey,
           a conclusion on the evolution of the grasping capacities of users will be formulated.

        -  improvement of quality of life will be evaluated using the WHOQoL-BREF questionnaire
           (World Health Organisation, Program of Mental Health. WHOQOL-BREF : introduction,
           administration, scoring and generic version of the assessment : field trial version.
           1996). Participants will be asked to answer 27 questions with ranked propositions before
           and after the test phase of the clinical trial. Scores will be compared to evaluate
           improvements brought by the ORTHOPUS prosthetic solution on the quality of life of the
           user and a conclusion will be drawn.

        -  improvement of sociodemographic conditions will be evaluated using a questionnaire
           written following the guidance of guidelines Standardization and Harmonization of
           Socio-Demographic Variables (2016, GESIS Survey Guidelines). Again a comparison of the
           answers to the 28 entries of the form will be made confronting questionnaires filled
           before and after the clinical trial test phase.

        -  evaluation of prosthesis perception will be conducted using a questionnaire filled by
           participants at the end of the test phase of the clinical trial. Analysis of the ranks
           given to the 90 entries will allow to draw a precise picture of the participants'
           perception of the ORTHOPUS prosthesis solution. With these results a conclusion will be
           drawn on the ORTHOPUS' solution improvements that needs to be performed to improve
           future users' perception.

      Results of evaluations of objectives achievements will be used to feed ORTHOPUS' R&D
      department in order to improve the studied prosthetic solution or to launch development of
      new products.

      RESEARCH HYPOTHESIS

      Nowadays, in Nepal, most of the patients are equipped with either a voluntary opening hand or
      a passive aesthetic one. These solutions present grasping capabilities or aesthetics
      limitations (see additional document attached to the registration: Comparative scheme -
      Standard VS ORTHOPUS prosthetic solutions.pdf) and we hypothesize that the ORTHOPUS
      prosthetic solution will expand it.

      In addition with this grasping capabilities expansion, we hypothesize that, compared to
      previously used prosthetic solution, the set of ORTHOPUS upper limb prosthetics solutions
      will:

        -  improve the autonomy of users (professional reintegration with the ability to perform
           manual work)

        -  improve the well-being in everyday life (social reintegration)

      For the patient selection, we hypothesize that two different cohorts will be enough to
      discriminate the data and make good clinical trial conclusions.

      The first cohort will be composed of prosthetic users usually equipped with aesthetic passive
      hand solutions. The second one with a voluntary opening hand user. Data gathered from both
      cohorts will allow a direct comparison between the use of voluntary opening hand or passive
      aesthetic one (according to the cohort) and the use of the ORTHOPUS prosthetic solution.
    
  