
    
      Chronic hydrocephalus in adults, also known as normal pressure hydrocephalus or normal
      pressure hydrocephalus, occurs with the classic Hakim-Adams triad, gait ataxia, or "magnetic
      gait", urinary incontinence and dementia.

      Most of the cases have an idiopathic origin and are the only potentially reversible cause of
      dementia with surgical treatment (by shunting the cerebrospinal fluid or CSF from the lateral
      ventricles or the thecal sac to the peritoneal cavity or the right atrium), so it is
      especially important to diagnose it and treat it properly.

      Unfortunately, and despite all the diagnostic arsenal, the results of treatment using
      cerebrospinal fluid shunts (lumbo-peritoneal or ventricle-peritoneal), even in the best
      series, show 20-25% of poor results. These poor results have been attributed to many factors,
      including associated cerebral vascular pathology problems, co-existing dementia symptoms not
      always well diagnosed, Parkinson's disease, and, lastly, alterations in ventilatory rhythm.
      during the night, specifically obstructive sleep apnea or OSA.

      In reality, the name of normotensive hydrocephalus or hydrocephalus at normal pressure is
      inaccurate because the intracranial pressure does rise and very markedly during sleep,
      particularly during the REM phase of sleep. What is no longer so well known is because of
      such significant increases in intracranial pressure occur. One possible explanation would be
      that obstructive sleep apnea causes increased intracranial pressure. But it remains to be
      clarified whether all patients with adult chronic hydrocephalus have sleep apnea, the
      mechanism of action, and to what extent the treatment of hydrocephalus acts on sleep apnea
      and vice versa.

      Another aspect to consider is that the cerebrospinal fluid shunts work by the pressure
      gradient between the intracranial cavity and the cavity into which the cephalo-spinal fluid
      is drained66, usually the peritoneal fluid. During sleep apnea, there should be an increase
      in intra-abdominal pressure, which would result in the ventricle-peritoneal and
      lumbo-peritoneal shunts working suboptimally precisely at the time of day when they are most
      needed, that is when intracranial pressure increases. But this correlation has never been
      investigated or at least there are no publications about it.

      Therefore, it is necessary to know the relationship between intracranial pressure, sleep
      apnea, and intra-abdominal pressure at night. With these data, it will be possible to better
      understand the dynamics of the circulation of the cerebrospinal fluid during the night (when
      it is more pathological in chronic hydrocephalus in adults), what type of bypass valve is the
      most indicated (whether or not it must have an anti-system siphon if it must be a
      gravitational or flow valve) and in which patients the implantation of a ventricle-atrial
      shunt may be an option to consider.
    
  