
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To maintain the overall survival (as defined by 4-year "second-event" free survival) for
      subjects with high risk Hodgkin lymphoma at or above 95%.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To maintain 3-year event-free survival for subjects with high risk Hodgkin lymphoma at or
      above 93%.

      II. To maintain comparable overall survival (as defined by 4-year "second-event" free
      survival) between subjects with high risk Hodgkin lymphoma who have a rapid or slow response
      to the initial 2 cycles of ABVE-PC* by intensifying therapy through the addition of 2 cycles
      of ifosfamide/vinorelbine in those with a slow early response.

      III. To investigate whether very early response assessment measured by FDG-PET after 1 cycle
      of chemotherapy identifies a subject cohort that can be studied in future trials and that is
      distinguishable from currently defined RER after 2 cycles.

      IV. To describe the patterns of relapse after ABVE-PC* and risk-adapted radiotherapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      INDUCTION THERAPY (ABVE-PC): Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 1-120 minutes
      and cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 2, bleomycin sulfate IV over at
      least 10 minutes or subcutaneously (SC) and vincristine sulfate IV on days 1 and 8, etoposide
      phosphate IV over 1-2 hours on days 1-3, oral prednisone twice daily on days 1-7, and
      filgrastim* SC or IV daily beginning on day 4 and continuing until blood counts recover.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or
      disease progression.

      NOTE: *Patients do not receive filgrastim on day 8.

      Patients undergo clinical restaging and response assessment after 2 courses of induction
      therapy. Patients with rapid early response (RER) or slow early response (SER) proceed to
      consolidation therapy. Patients with progressive disease go off study.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 consolidation therapy regimens based
      on response to induction therapy. Patients who develop progressive disease after induction
      are taken off protocol therapy.

      REGIMEN I (RER): Patients receive 2 more courses of ABVE-PC in the absence of unacceptable
      toxicity or disease progression.

      REGIMEN II (SER): Patients receive ifosfamide IV continuously on days 1-4, vinorelbine
      ditartrate IV over 6-30 minutes on days 1 and 5, and filgrastim SC or IV daily beginning on
      day 6 and continuing until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2
      courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression. Patients then receive
      2 more courses of ABVE-PC in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

      Patients with a continued response after completion of consolidation therapy proceed to
      risk-adapted radiotherapy.

      RISK-ADAPTED RADIOTHERAPY: Beginning at 3 weeks after completion of consolidation
      chemotherapy, patients undergo radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, for 3 weeks (14
      fractions) in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression. Patients
      classified as RER receive radiation therapy only to sites of bulky disease. Patients
      classified as SER receive radiation therapy to sites of bulky disease and areas that remain
      FDG-PET avid after induction therapy.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up periodically for 10 years.
    
  