
    
      Over the last few years the theory of a damaged microbiome as a cause or promoting factor
      behind chronic rhinosinusitis has gained increasing interest from the scientific community.

      A number of studies aimed at investigating the microbiota of the nose and paranasal sinuses
      in health and disease has been published with very varying outcomes. Furthermore, other
      studies have been aimed at probiotic treatment of sinonasal disease either locally or through
      immunologic manipulation via the gastrointestinal microbiota.

      A problem common to all these studies is that studies examining the normal nasal microbiota
      have identified a great amount of different bacterial species. It is as of today not known
      which individual species or combinations of species that promotes health.

      The probiotic assemblages examined in previous studies have consisted of one or a combination
      of a few bacterial species.

      Probiotic restitution therapy has been proven very effective for intestinal clostridium
      difficile infections. The restitution therapy has then consisted of transplantation of a
      complete microbiome from a healthy donor in the form of a faecal transplant.

      In this study the investigators aim at recruiting patients suffering from chronic
      rhinosinusitis without polyps (CRSsNP) and healthy participants without any history sinonasal
      disease. The patients and the healthy participants will be examined for infectious diseases
      in a manner similar to other medical transplant procedures to minimize the risk for the
      recipients. The patients will then be treated with antibiotics to reduce the bacterial load
      of the nose and the paranasal sinuses. After the patient has finished the antibiotic
      treatment a microbiome transplant will be harvested from the healthy participant as a nasal
      lavage. The raw lavage fluid will then be used to transplant the microbiome to the patient.
      The procedure will be repeated for five consecutive days.

      The outcome measures analysed will focus on subjective sinonasal health and symptoms of the
      patients but also include nasal inflammatory and microbiological indices.
    
  