
    
      The study intervention, combination intervention package (CIP), will contain programmatic,
      structural and psychosocial components including: 1) health care provider training and
      mentorship in IPT provision using a clinical algorithm; 2) identification of HIV-infected
      family members eligible for IPT using a family care enrollment form; 3) review of monitoring
      data on IPT initiation and adherence during monthly multidisciplinary team meetings; 4)
      reimbursement of transportation costs to patients for monthly clinic visits; and 5) real-time
      adherence support using interactive voice response (IVR) via mobile phones and trained peer
      educators.

      Data will be collected from all HIV-infected patients enrolled in HIV care at study sites on
      or after January 1, 2013; from a subset of patients who initiate IPT and enroll into a
      measurement cohort (MC); and from program characteristics surveys conducted at the study
      sites. Routine clinic data from all HIV-infected patients enrolled in HIV care at the 10
      participating clinics on or after January 1, 2013 will be used to measure the following
      outcomes: IPT initiation, completion of IPT, and retention in HIV care. These data will be
      collected by Research Assistants (RA) by abstracting the following information from the
      clinic Pre-ART, ART (antiretroviral therapy) and IPT registers during the period of
      observation on all HIV patients who enrolled in care at a study site on or after January 1,
      2013: date of enrollment in HIV care; IPT initiation (yes/no); date of ART initiation (if
      applicable); IPT outcomes (completion, default, death, stopped, transferred out); TB
      (tuberculosis) screening results; TB treatment (yes/no); TB treatment outcomes (if
      applicable); and retention in HIV care.

      A measurement cohort of 500 HIV-infected patients initiating IPT on or after July 1, 2013
      will be recruited from the 10 clinics (n=250 per study arm). MC participants will be assessed
      at baseline (enrollment) and monthly intervals for six to nine months, depending on the
      duration of IPT. Outcomes to be measured among MC participants include: adherence to IPT;
      adherence to ART (if applicable); change in CD4+ count; and side effects/adverse events. MC
      participants at both SOC and CIP sites will receive the same assessments. RAs will administer
      assessments on the day of regularly scheduled clinic visits, including a Baseline interview
      administered on the day of enrollment (which coincides with the day the participant initiates
      IPT), monthly follow-up interviews completed throughout IPT, and an end of treatment
      interview that is completed on the day the participant ends IPT. Participants who miss a
      study visit will be contacted by study staff and administered the questionnaire over the
      phone within a 1-week window period of the scheduled clinic visit. RAs will also call the MC
      participants between clinic visits to conduct unannounced pill counts to assess medication
      adherence. In addition, 30 MC participants from CIP sites will participate in a qualitative
      interview to assess feasibility and acceptability of the Interactive Voice Response (IVR)
      system, one of the interventions in place at CIP sites. Also, three groups will be recruited
      from CIP clinics to participate in in-depth interviews: IPT initiators, from among
      participants in the Measurement Cohort (n =15), IPT non-initiators (n=15), and healthcare
      providers (nurses and peer educators, n=13). In-depth interviews will assess acceptability
      and preferences of intervention components as well as reasons for IPT non-initiation.

      RAs will conduct an assessment of programmatic activities at each HIV clinic prior to study
      implementation and on a monthly basis thereafter throughout the study period. Clinics in both
      conditions will receive the same assessments. The RA will administer a brief semi-structured
      Program Characteristics survey to the ART nurse, who will be most familiar with the
      day-to-day operations of the HIV clinic. The survey will assess nurse training and mentorship
      in IPT initiation and HIV treatment; availability and use of an IPT clinical algorithm, IPT
      and ART adherence training for peer educators (PEs); IPT health education for patients;
      availability and use of an IPT treatment literacy curriculum, including a flip chart used by
      PEs; reimbursement for transportation costs for patients; provision of mobile phones,
      subscriber identification module (SIM) cards and airtime vouchers for HIV patients on IPT;
      use of IVR messages for medication and appointment reminders and assessment of medication
      adherence and side effects; and provision of community-based adherence and side effect
      monitoring by PEs. These data will be used to assess fidelity with the intervention at CIP
      sites, as well as to measure any potential contamination at SOC sites.

      All clinical care will be performed by the clinic staff (nurses and PEs). All study
      procedures, including participant interviews, pill counts, medical record abstraction, and
      program characteristics surveys will be performed by study staff (research assistants).
      Following routine clinic visits, clinic staff will refer patients initiating IPT to study
      staff, who will screen for eligibility, obtain informed consent, and enroll consenting
      eligible patients into the MC. In addition, RAs at CIP sites will provide parts of the
      intervention, including disbursement of mobile phones, SIM cards, airtime vouchers, and cash
      for transportation reimbursement to eligible patients.
    
  