
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To obtain preliminary data on the efficacy of the Yoga Skills Training (YST) for improving
      the targeted outcomes (primary: fatigue; secondary: depressive symptoms) as compared to the
      attention control (AC).

      II. To explore potential mediators (psychological stress, circadian disruption, inflammation)
      and moderators (gender, dose of the YST, outcome expectancies) of the effects of the YST on
      targeted outcomes.

      III. To qualitatively assess perceived efficacy of the interventions and acceptance of daily
      measurement through semi-structured interviews in a subset of participants.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I (YST intervention): Patients undergo YST intervention comprising four individualized,
      30 minute in-person sessions that instructs skills to enhance mindfulness and promote
      relaxation during outpatient chemotherapy sessions in weeks 2, 4, 6, and 8. Patients practice
      awareness - noticing the current state and establishing relaxed breathing for 5 minutes;
      movement - 7 minutes of gentle movements coordinated with the breath (such as raising and
      lowering the arms); breathing practice - 3 minutes of inhaling cool air as if through a
      straw; and meditation - 5 minutes of focus on letting go of physical and mental tension.
      Patients are given a handout describing the YST and audio recording with devices to play the
      recording to encourage patients to practice daily. Strategies to increase adherence to home
      practice will be implemented and patients will be asked to keep home practice logs.

      ARM II (attention control): Patients attend four 30-minute in-person sessions with an
      interventionist in weeks 2, 4, 6, and 8. During these sessions, patients are encouraged to
      discuss their experiences while receiving chemotherapy and do not receive instruction of
      movement, meditation or breathing practices. Patients will also be asked to write brief diary
      entries daily at home.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.
    
  