
    
      This is an open-label, study of 0.5 mg intravitreal dose of Ranibizumab in combination with 1
      mg/kg/wk subcutaneous dose of Efalizumab in in subjects with AMD. 10 subjects from 1 site
      will be enrolled in this study. Subject accrual into the trial is expected to be completed
      within 6 months.

      All subjects will be evaluated monthly with a full ocular examination, visual acuity
      measurement (ETDRS chart at distance of 4 meters), OCT, and adverse event monitoring.
      Fluorescein Angiography (FA) and fundus photos will be done at BSL, Months 3, 6, 9 and 12.

      Subjects will receive efalizumab 1mg/kg weekly subcutaneous injections for 24 weeks.
      Subcutaneous Efalizumab injections can be self administered after an initial teaching session
      in office on Day 0.

      Subjects will receive six initial doses of 0.5 mg/eye intravitreous monthly injections of
      ranibizumab (Day 0, Months 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5) with scheduled follow-up visits monthly for 12
      months. Re-treatment after the first six injections will be on an as-needed basis, based on
      predefined criteria.

      3.2 RATIONALE FOR STUDY DESIGN

      The rationale for the study is as follows:

        -  Phase III studies of patients with primary or recurrent choroidal neovascularization
           (CNV) secondary to age-related macular degeneration (AMD) treated with repeated
           intravitreal injections of 0.5 mg of ranibizumab showed evidence for bioactivity,
           safety, and tolerability (Rosenfeld 2006);

        -  Phase III studies of patients with chronic moderate to severe plaque psoriasis treated
           with weekly subcutaneous efalizumab injections of 1mg/kg showed evidence for
           bioactivity, safety, and tolerability (Dubertret 2006);

        -  A Phase I study of patients with uveitis treated with subcutaneous efalizumab injections
           of 1mg/kg in patients with uveitic macular edema is currently enrolling
           (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00280826)

        -  Combination therapy of an iCAM-1 inhibitor and an anti-VEGF agent may offer increased
           treatment benefit in the management of age-related macular degeneration.
    
  