
    
      Screening and Recruitment:

      Potential participants undergoing outpatient kidney transplant evaluation at Mayo Clinic
      Rochester will be identified. Patients who express interest in the study will go through the
      informed consent process with a member of the study team, and patients wishing to participate
      in the study will complete written consent. If patients have not had frailty and SPPB testing
      within the two weeks prior to consent, the study team member will perform frailty and SPPB
      testing at baseline in a supervised setting. Patients who are not frail or pre-frail and have
      a SPPB score > 10 will be ineligible for study participation.

      Exercise Intervention:

      Participants will be provided with a pedal exerciser, resistance bands, and exercise
      pamphlets. Participants will be asked to complete an 8-week home-based exercise program with
      a focus on the core components of physical activity counseling and exercise training
      according to guidelines from the American Heart Association and the American Association of
      Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Rehabilitation. Participants will receive an individualized
      exercise prescription. Recommended aerobic exercises will include arm and/or leg ergometry
      using a pedal exerciser, and recommended resistance training will include resistance bands.
      During the program, participants will receive weekly semi-scripted phone calls from an
      exercise physiologist and gradual increases in the volume of physical activity will be
      recommended over time. Participants will be asked to log information regarding their exercise
      sessions.

      Study Measures:

      Participants will complete the Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB), and Fried Frailty
      phenotype at baseline and after completion of the exercise intervention. The SPPB consists of
      gait speed, balance, and repeat chair stand tests. The Fried Frailty Phenotype consists of
      gait speed and grip strength tests, in addition to self-reported measurement of physical
      activity, weight loss, and exhaustion. Participants will also be asked to complete a body
      composition scan, complete questionnaires, and wear a physical activity monitor at baseline
      and after completion of the exercise intervention.
    
  