
    
      Somatosensory deficits are a common symptom after stroke, affecting a high percentage of
      survivors (50-80%). These impairments have a long-term influence on somatosensory capacity,
      motor ability and functional performance. Although several authors have studied the effect of
      sensorimotor retraining on recovery of the paretic upper limb, a few have investigated its
      effect on the paretic lower limb. Furthermore, most of them have done so in the acute and
      subacute phases after stroke. Thus, in this field there is a lack of studies of high
      methodological quality that provide effective physiotherapeutic interventions, especially in
      chronic stroke.

      On the other hand, the importance of motor recovery of the paretic lower limb in order to
      achieve a better balance, gait and independence in the activities of daily living is well
      established. In this regard, sensory loss in the feet may difficult effective motor function
      recovery due to its impacts upon ambulatory activity. After stroke, sensory dysfunction in
      the lower limb has been related to reductions in static and dynamic balance as well as in
      gait speed and symmetry. Therefore, successful recovery of sensory function after stroke may
      allow for the appropriate integration of sensory inputs in order to maintain balance and
      adapt to changing environmental demands during gait.

      Since the current evidence indicates that there may be recovery of sensory loss during the
      chronic phase of stroke, the present study aims to evaluate the effect of a sensorimotor
      retraining program on sensory and functional recovery of the paretic lower limb in chronic
      stroke. The investigators hypothesized that stroke survivors receiving the somatosensory
      training program would demonstrate significantly greater improvement in sensation, static and
      dynamic balance and gait pattern in comparison with the control intervention.

      To cope with the objective of the study, a prospective randomized double-blind clinical trial
      will be conducted. By means of advertisements in supporting groups, rehabilitation facilities
      and the external consultations of various hospitals, subjects who meet the inclusion criteria
      will be recruited. After screening and giving signed consent, participants will be randomly
      allocated to the intervention group or the control group. In addition to the usual physical
      activity, participants will complete fifteen 40-minute sessions of sensorimotor retraining
      (intervention group) or of Jacobson relaxation (control group) over a 5-week period.
      Participants will be assessed prior to treatment and on completion of treatment.
    
  