
    
      Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a rare, life-threatening disease. It is
      characterised by the elevation of pulmonary arterial pressure and pulmonary vascular
      resistance. A remodelling of small pulmonary vessels characterised by the proliferation of
      the adventitia, the hypertrophy of the media and fibrosis of the intima can be observed on
      the microscopic level.

      According to the actual classification of Venice (2003), PAH can be idiopathic, familiar or
      associated to other diseases and conditions (APAH). About 15 different clinical entities
      belong to the APAH group: connective tissue diseases such as systemic sclerosis, mixed
      connective tissue disease, or systemic lupus erythematodes being among the most frequent. The
      development of APAH in these diseases results in decreased survival. Successful therapies
      include prostanoids, endothelin receptor antagonists and phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors,
      however, the effects in associated conditions appear smaller compared to idiopathic PAH. The
      early recognition of APAH may promote better treatment results and prognosis.

      Hemodynamically, PAH has been defined as a mean pulmonary arterial pressure (MPAP) > 25mmHg
      at rest, or > 30mmHg during exercise.

      It is assumed that in the early stages of PAH, pulmonary arterial pressure values may be
      normal at rest, but the remodelling of small arteries leads to stiffening resulting in
      increased pulmonary arterial pressure during exercise (latent PAH).

      Doppler echocardiography, by using the tricuspid regurgitation jet and the simplified
      Bernoulli-equation, is a well established clinical method for the estimation of systolic
      pulmonary arterial pressure at rest (rSPAP). A close correlation between rSPAP values from
      echo and right heart catheterisation (RHC) has been described. A promising non-invasive
      method to detect SPAP during exercise is Exercise Tricuspid Echo Doppler (ETED). Previous
      studies suggested, that SPAP during exercise can be assessed with ETED in patients with
      connective tissue diseases, and it was suggested that a considerable proportion of these
      patients suffered from latent PAH. However, the results of these studies were not controlled
      by the gold standard RHC. According to present guidelines, RHC is needed for the definite
      diagnosis of PAH, which allows the precise measurement of MPAP, pulmonary arterial wedge
      pressure, right atrial pressure and cardiac output, and the calculation of pulmonary vascular
      resistance.

      Cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) is a reliable method to objectively evaluate exercise
      capacity. Patients with latent PAH may suffer from dyspnea and early fatigue during exercise
      and may have a reduced exercise capacity. A low peak O2 uptake was associated with a poor
      prognosis in patients with PAH.

      In the present study we investigate patients with risk factors for PAH by combining ETED and
      CPET and control the results by RHC at rest and during exercise.
    
  