
    
      This will be a randomized, double-blind, three-way crossover study testing glycopyrronium
      (Seebri®) vs. indacaterol (Onbrez®) vs. glycopyrronium+indacaterol. The MCT method used will
      be the two-minute tidal breathing dosing protocol. The investigators plan to enroll thirty
      participants, fifteen asthmatics and fifteen non-asthmatics participants.

        -  Asthmatic Participants Procedure: Each participant will undergo a total of twelve MCh
           challenges. Each MCh challenge will be stopped when the response to MCh reaches a
           plateau, when the participant's FEV1 drops 40% from baseline, when the highest
           concentration of MCh (128mg/mL) has been administered, or if the participant wishes to
           stop (e.g. due to discomfort). For the purpose of this study, a plateau will be defined
           as the last 3 consecutive data points falling within 5%. The first day of testing will
           take approx. 3hrs. and will entail participants undergoing a MCh challenge to determine
           their baseline MCh PC20. They will then self-administer the contents of two Breezhaler
           inhalers. If taking one of the monotherapies, one inhaler will contain active treatment
           (50mcg glycopyrronium or 5mcg indacaterol) and the other inhaler will contain a placebo.
           For the combination treatment arm, both inhalers will contain active drug (one 50mcg
           glycopyrronium and one 75mcg indacaterol). The identity of the treatment administered
           will be unknown to the participants and to the study staff. Participants will then
           undergo MCT post-treatment at 1 hr., 24 hrs., and 48 hrs. Testing at 24 and 48 hrs. will
           take approximately 1-1.5 hrs. Therefore, participants must attend the lab at roughly the
           same time of day for three consecutive days for each treatment arm. Following a minimum
           10-day washout between treatment administrations, the same procedure will be repeated
           with the second study treatment. Following a second 10-day washout, the procedure will
           be repeated with the third study treatment.

        -  Non-Asthmatic Participants Procedure: Each non-asthmatic participant will undergo a
           single MCh challenge, which should take approx. 1-1.5 hrs. This will allow for the
           generation of a "normal" MCh DRC curve to compare with the asthmatic data. The MCh
           challenge will be stopped when the response to MCh reaches a plateau, when the
           participant's FEV1 drops 40% from baseline, when the highest concentration of MCh
           (128mg/mL) has been administered, or if the participant wishes to stop.
    
  