
    
      The primary aim of this birth cohort study is to estimate the incidence of TT-CMV in LBWIs
      who receive a combination of CMV-seronegative + leukoreduced blood products. That is to say,
      the effectiveness of the two strategies coupled together will be assessed in the prevention
      of TT-CMV in at-risk LBWI born to CMV-negative and CMV-positive mothers.

      The following hypothesis relates to this primary aim, that the incidence of TT-CMV is
      elevated in the population of LBWIs born the CMV-positive mothers. According to reports in
      the literature, breakthrough TT-CMV infection will occur at low rates (< 2.5% incidence) in
      LBWIs of CMV-negative mothers transfused with seronegative plus leukoreduced blood
      components.

      The secondary aim of this study is to detect CMV DNA and/or elevated residual WBC counts in
      blood components transfused to LBWIs and to determine whether these results are related to
      episodes of breakthrough TT-CMV in this study population.

      Original sample size considerations were based on estimating and comparing the rates of
      TT-CMV infection in VLBW infants born to CMV-seropositive mothers or CMV-seronegative
      mothers. Assuming a 2.55% TT-CMV rate for infants born to CMV-seropositive mothers and a 0.5%
      TT-CMV rate for infants born to CMV-seronegative mothers, a sample size of 650 infants per
      group would need to be recruited to detect a difference of approximately 2% in the TT-CMV
      rate with 80% power (2-sided Fisher's exact test at the 5% significance level).

      After three years of accrual and follow-up the incidence of TT-CMV was 0%. Sample size
      calculations were revised using a 95% confidence interval for a single group of VLBW infants
      regardless of maternal CMV serostatus. The necessary sample size was 300 transfused VLBW
      infants based on a one-sided exact 95% confidence interval for a single proportion of 0.0
      with an upper bound of 0.01.
    
  