
    
      Rehabilitation, with a particular emphasis on physiotherapy and exercise, is widely promoted
      and strongly recommended after total knee replacement (TKR). The primary goals of
      rehabilitation are to improve knee range-of-motion, muscle strength, functional mobility and
      perceived quality of life. Exercises are usually prescribed and guided by a physiotherapist
      attending to the patient. The intensity of rehabilitation has an impact on clinical outcome.
      A study done by Lee et al in 2012 concluded that higher exercise dose translates to better
      function after TKR, especially in older population and for those with higher pain. Various
      literatures has also strongly recommended twice a day rehabilitation session for patients
      after TKR (Cook et al, 2008; Smith et al 2012). The standard practice in the in-patient
      setting is that physiotherapist will attend to the TKR patients once a day and remind
      patients to perform exercises by themselves, following the exercise booklet given, during
      their free time in the ward to maximise their recovery. However, due to post-operative
      fatugue, pain and fearful of movement, most of the patients are not compliant to the
      exercises given.

      Volunteers have been present in health care settings for centuries. Several studies have
      shown that volunteers can be an essential part of the healthcare system. They are commonly
      involved in non-clinical tasks such as providing emotional support to patients and families
      (Burbeck et al., 2014), assisting with meals (Robinson et al., 2014) and facilitating
      recreational activities in patients with dementia (Hall et al., 2017).

      However, no study has investigated the involvement of volunteers in actual clinical work. Our
      study aim to explore the feasibility of volunteers involvement in teaching and guiding
      exercises which conventionally done by physiotherapists, and to investigate the effectiveness
      of such volunteer service. There is no existing evidence on volunteers dealing with elderly
      patients in acute stage right after surgery as well, and this clinical research will be the
      first to explore that.
    
  