
    
      Improved viral screening assays and more intensive questioning of donors for high-risk
      behaviors have resulted in dramatic declines in the rates of transfusion-transmitted
      hepatitis and AIDS. Nonetheless, there is need for continued vigilance of the safety of blood
      supply. This study will enroll blood donors and prospectively followed blood recipients in
      order to: 1) establish ongoing surveillance of the incidence of breakthrough infections from
      transfusion-transmitted agents for which there are existing donor-screening assays (e.g. HBV,
      HCV, HIV, human T cell lymphotropic virus [HTLV]); 2) monitor the transfusion risk of
      established infectious agents that are not routinely screened in blood donors including CMV,
      parvovirus B-19, and HHV-8 [Kaposi's sarcoma virus]; 3) establish a repository of linked
      donor and recipient samples so that any newly emerging infectious agent can be rapidly
      evaluated for its threat to the blood supply.

      The risk of these blood transmitted infectious agents will be assessed by molecular and
      serologic assays in adult patients at NIH and Suburban Hospital in children at Children's
      National Medical Center. Blood samples from recipients transfused on one occasion will be
      obtained pre-transfusion and 1, 2, 4, 12, and 24 weeks post-transfusion. Recurrently
      transfused patients will have additional samples at 16 and 20 weeks after the index
      transfusion and 24 weeks after the last eligible transfusion. After initial infectious
      disease testing, recipient samples and linked donor samples will be stored in an off-site
      biorepository. The availability of the repository will allow for the assessment of
      transfusion risk for newly emerging pathogens and also for known agents for which there is no
      practical assay currently available. For example, this would allow future testing for prions
      in new variant Creutzfeld-Jacob disease (human variant of mad cow disease) or testing for the
      trypanosome that causes Chagas disease. Informed consent will be obtained to store and later
      test samples in the repository. Testing will be limited to infectious agents that potentially
      threaten the blood supply. No genetic testing will be performed.
    
  