
    
      This study consists of two parts:

        1. The phase I, dose-finding component of the trial, to estimate the maximum tolerated dose
           (MTD) or recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of PTC596 in combination with radiation
           therapy followed by maintenance therapy with PTC596, in children with newly-diagnosed
           DIPG and HGG.

        2. Once the RP2D has been determined, the investigators will enroll a surgical cohort of
           patients with either a. newly-diagnosed DIPG who are amenable to undergo biopsy per
           recommendation of their treating physician OR b. Newly-diagnosed HGG for whom a second
           surgical resection is warranted for further debulking or to achieve a near-total or
           gross total resection after initial diagnosis has been made, but prior to start of
           therapy.

      The primary objectives of the Phase I study will be to determine the MTD or RP2D of PTC596 in
      combination with radiation therapy and to assess pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamics
      studies. Dose-modifying toxicities for maintenance therapy will also be monitored.

      PK studies will be collected on days 1 and 4 (doses 1 and 2) of cycle 1 and day 1 of cycle 2.

      PTC596 will be given twice weekly on Monday and Thursday or Tuesday and Friday, for 6-7
      weeks, during daily radiation therapy. Once radiation therapy with concomitant PTC596 is
      completed, all patients will continue with maintenance therapy which will begin immediately
      after completion of RT for up to 25 cycles.

      The objectives of the Surgical Cohort Stratum are to:

        1. Assess the ability of PTC596 to inhibit BMI-1 activity in tumor and peripheral blood
           mononuclear cells (PBMNCs) of children with newly-diagnosed DIPG or HGG

        2. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of PTC596 in plasma, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and
           tumor tissue of children with newly-diagnosed DIPG or HGG

      Once the RP2D has been established, up to 12 patients will be enrolled on the surgical study.
      Patients eligible for the Surgical Stratum include:

        1. newly-diagnosed DIPG patients who are amenable to undergo biopsy per the recommendation
           of their treating physician OR

        2. newly-diagnosed HGG patients for whom a second surgical resection is warranted for
           further debulking or to achieve a near-total or gross total resection after initial
           diagnosis has been made, but prior to start of therapy.

      Patients on the surgical cohort study will commence treatment with the surgical cycle. During
      the surgical cycle, patients will be treated with two doses of PTC596, on days 1 and 4 of the
      surgical cycle prior to biopsy or re-resection; the second dose of PTC596 should ideally be
      administered 3-6 hours before surgery (but may be up to 12 hours prior to surgery). The
      concentration of PTC596 will then be measured in the tumor and accompanying blood sample by
      mass spectrometry. BMI-1 expression and the effects of BMI-1 inhibition in DIPG and HGG on
      gene regulation through gene expression profiling and epigenetic studies will be assessed in
      tissue and plasma. The PK and PD studies on the surgical cohort study are mandatory. The
      surgical cycle will end when patients begin RT.

      Patients must begin RT at least two weeks after the date of surgery and may restart PTC596 on
      Mondays and Thursdays or Tuesdays and Fridays (twice weekly) after starting RT. Following
      completion of radiotherapy, patients will immediately start maintenance therapy on a Monday
      and Thursday or Tuesday and Friday schedule. Patients can continue to receive therapy with
      PTC596 for up to 25 cycles.
    
  