
    
      1 Clinical Materials 1.1 Diagnostic criteria Acute onset of severe pain and stiffness in
      one-sided neck after sleep; Mostly because of bad sleep posture or cold in neck, shoulder or
      head; Pain or discomfort can radiate to head, arm and back; Any attempt to move neck can
      obviously exacerbate the pain; The head slants to the affected side; Without neck injury
      history or other relative systematic diseases.; Neck X-ray film has no positive signs such as
      degenerative lesions of cervical spine; Trachelismus and rhomboideus major/ minor, levator
      scapulae accessible lumps or streak in muscle. All criteria conformed to the prescription in
      criteria of diagnostic and therapeutic effect of orthopaedic and traumatologic diseases and
      syndromes in traditional Chinese medicine.

      1.2 Inclusion criteria The onset of symptoms and signs are less than 24 hours; Male or female
      aged from 14 to 60 years; No other therapy before grouped; Be willing to participate the
      study and sign the informed consent.

      1.3 Exclusion criteria Stiff neck patients who had diagnosed cervical vertebra or cervical
      spondylosis; Suffered from systemic collagen immune diseases or other acute or chronic
      infection; Use pain-killer drugs may affect the outcome evaluation; Refuse to join the trial;
      Drop out in follow-up visit; Aggravation of disease or complications during the study.

      1.4 Patients All patients were outpatients and be diagnosed with stiff-neck syndrome
      according to the diagnostic criteria. They were randomly allocated into 2 groups (meridian
      group and paste group) according to the visiting time (with digital random table)and their
      wills.

      2.1 meridian group Patients in the meridian group were treated with dredging the same side
      three yang meridians of hand techniques(include the gliding techniques of deep tissue massage
      on the three yang meridians of back hand (the second, fourth and fifth metacarpal bone);
      pinching and kneading the second, fourth and fifth phalanges of fingers of the affected side
      hand; Encourage the patient to try his best to roll his neck to the most tolerable degree
      during dredging the meridians) and the total time was about 3 to 5 minutes according the
      tolerance of every patient and the smooth of three yang meridians of hand. The massage will
      not stop until the meridian route was relatively smooth, soft and thermal. The sequence of
      massage is Hand Yangming meridian(LI) the first, Hand Taiyang meridian(SI) the second and
      Hand Sanjiao(SJ) the last. The frequency of massage was once a day.

      2.2 paste group Patients in the paste group were treated with Nanxing paste on the affected
      region include shoulder, neck or back and no more than 3 pieces. The paste lasted for 24
      hours and then peeled it rested the pasted region for 24 hours and changed another paste on
      the pain region. The therapy duration was 6 days.

      Pain was assessed by visual analogue scale (VAS), the therapeutic effects were compared
      between the two groups in every stage of the therapy and the self-controlled study.The
      evaluation criteria on stiff-neck syndrome is based on criteria of diagnostic and therapeutic
      effect of orthopaedic and traumatologic diseases and syndromes in traditional Chinese
      medicine . Cure: Absence of neck-stiff, neck sore and free functional activities.
      Improvement: partially functional activities with light to moderate pain. Failure: No
      improvement or alleviation of neck stiff and agony. All data will be analyzed by SPSS 16.0,
      the statistical difference is considered if the P<0.05 and the significant difference is
      considered if the P<0.01 .
    
  