
    
      Overview of PD-1 inhibition for locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC Lung cancer (LC) is the
      most common malignancy-related death in the United States (causing deaths in ~ 86,380 men and
      ~71,660 women in 2015. Fifteen percent of LC patients present with Stage I disease, which is
      treated primarily with surgery, leading to a 5-year survival rate of 54%. Approximately 57%
      of LC patients are initially diagnosed with metastatic disease (Stage IV) with a
      corresponding 5-year survival rate of 4.2%.

      More recently, major treatment responses have been observed with the use of immune checkpoint
      inhibitor proteins expressed on the surface of lymphocytes and other immune cells, most
      notably on cytotoxic T-cells. When bound to their specific ligand, often another
      surface-bound protein on a neighboring cell, they can transmit stimulatory or inhibitory
      signals to activate or inhibit the cellular adaptive immune response. Several studies showed
      that the predominant mechanism by which NSCLC evades detection and elimination by the immune
      system is by exploiting one such inhibitory pathway through the expression of programmed
      death ligand 1 (PD-L1, B7-H1). PD-L1 then binds to its receptor, programmed cell death
      protein 1 (PD1), on surveilling lymphocytes and initiates a signaling cascade which leads to
      lymphocyte exhaustion, a state of impaired function. The most successful immune checkpoint
      inhibitors so far are anti PD1 or anti-PD-L1 monoclonal antibodies that prevent PD1-PD-L1
      interaction at the tumor-immune interface. In this pilot study, the investigators will
      investigate if Nilogen's functional ex vivo bioassay can predict therapeutic response to anti
      PD1 (nivolumab, pembrolizumab) or anti PD-L1 (atezolizumab) in advanced non-small cell lung
      cancer (NSCLC).

      Functional bioassay as a potential predictive biomarker. The intent of using anti-PD-1/PD-L1
      as an anti-cancer therapeutic is to block one of the ways that tumors inhibit T cell function
      within the tumor microenvironment, allowing restoration of T cell function. Therefore, the
      investigators hypothesize that a bioassay that directly measures restoration of T cell
      function in the context of all of the elements of the tumor microenvironment could accurately
      predict whether or not a patient will be clinically responsive to a particular
      immunotherapeutic agent that is designed to target the tumor microenvironment. A tumor biopsy
      from a patient who will be clinically responsive to anti-PD-1 will contain inactive T cells
      that may have their functional activity restored by the provision of anti-PD-1/PD-L1 ex vivo,
      much like what is seen in the ex vivo experiments performed at Nilogen using the 3D-EX
      platform (www.nilogen.com). To assess tumor response to nivolumab, pembrolizumab or
      atezolizumab the investigators will use their proprietary immune cell function analysis in
      tumor samples obtained by FNA biopsy upon treatment with nivolumab, pembrolizumab or
      atezolizumab, pembrolizumab or atezolizumab ex vivo.

      Hypothesis

        1. In 80% of patients, FNA samples will provide a sufficient number of viable tumor cells
           to perform ex vivo functional bioassays with nivolumab, pembrolizumab or atezolizumab.

        2. Patients whose tumor FNA samples fail to respond to nivolumab, pembrolizumab or
           atezolizumab, in the 3D Ex-Vivo assays will likely not show a clinical response to
           systemic nivolumab, pembrolizumab or atezolizumab treatment.

      Study Objectives

      Primary Objective To test whether it is feasible to perform the 3D-EX functional response
      bioassay in the context of patients with advanced NSCLC receiving treatment with nivolumab,
      pembrolizumab or atezolizumab in a standard clinical setting.

      Overall study design Eligible patients will have a histologic or cytologic diagnosis of
      NSCLC; advanced-stage disease who are appropriate candidates for therapy with nivolumab,
      pembrolizumab or atezolizumab, and age greater than 18 years. Prior surgery, chemotherapy
      and/or radiotherapy are allowed. Inclusion and exclusion criteria are outlined in the
      appropriate section. All inclusion and exclusion criteria will be assessed within 6 weeks
      prior to the first dose of nivolumab, pembrolizumab or atezolizumab. Baseline radiographic
      studies should be performed within 30 days of screening. This clinical study will require
      central IRB approval. Informed consent will be obtained from each patient prior to screening
      and enrolling in the study.

      Nivolumab, pembrolizumab or atezolizumab will be administered as per the established standard
      of care for the eligible population.

      Prediction of Response to Nivolumab, pembrolizumab or atezolizumab by Nilogen's 3D-EX
      Bioassay.

      In previous preclinical and clinical studies the investigators showed that FNA samples
      provide a sufficient number of viable tumor cells to perform drug sensitivity assays ex-vivo.
      The assay protocol is optimized to process tumor FNA samples, where the tumor
      microenvironment is intact and contains tumor cells and all other tumor-infiltrating
      inflammatory cells as well as specialized tumor stroma. Prior to initiation of therapy, tumor
      samples will be collected by FNA from accessible tumor tissue. For the ex vivo assays,
      aspirates will be obtained from each patient after collection of biopsy samples required for
      SOC. The FNA samples will be immediately shipped to the Nilogen Laboratory. All proposed
      assays will be performed at the Nilogen Oncosystems laboratory in Tampa, FL according to CLIA
      standards.

      Patients who do not have a site of disease that will provide enough tumor cells for analyses
      will be taken off study. In adequate samples, tumor FNA samples will be treated nivolumab,
      pembrolizumab or atezolizumab at clinically relevant concentrations. At the end of incubation
      T-cell activation will be assessed by a proprietary approach including evaluation of
      drug-mediated changes in three parameters: (1) T-cell activation, (2) cytokine release and
      (3) gene expression profiles. The response rate to treatment will be scored for T-cell
      activity and correlated with patient outcome.

      The investigators hypothesize that tumors that fail to respond ex vivo will not be likely to
      be responsive in vivo in cancer patients.
    
  