
    
      This is an open-label, single-arm, multi-center and multi-national Phase 2 study.
      Approximately 68 with confirmed cHL would be enrolled. Response will be assessed by
      PET(positron emission tomography) and computed tomography (CT) scan per the Lugano
      Classification. CT scan with contrast and Positron emission tomography (PET)/CT will occur as
      required by protocol, until progressive disease (PD), new anti-cancer therapy, withdrawal of
      consent, death, lost to follow-up, or end of study (EOS), whichever occurs first. PET/CT
      should be performed at PD suspected clinically or by CT, and CR suspected clinically or by
      CT. Total body magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is allowed if CT with contrast is
      contraindicated. Positron emission tomography (PET)/CT may be used in lieu of a CT with
      contrast only if the CT of the PET/CT has been performed with diagnostic quality and contrast
      is administered. During treatment with immune checkpoint inhibitor such as with tislelizumab,
      pseudo-progression may occur due to immune cell infiltration and other mechanisms as
      manifested by apparent increase of existing tumor masses or appearance of new tumor lesions.
      participants are allowed to continue study treatment if there is suspicion of
      pseudo-progression, provided they are asymptomatic and have radiographic progression only,
      until a second consecutive CT scan demonstrates PD at which time study treatment will be
      discontinued permanently. participants will be evaluated for Adverse Events (AEs) (all Grades
      per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, Version 4.03
      [NCI CTCAE v. 4.03]), serious AEs (SAEs), and any AEs requiring study drug interruption or
      discontinuation. The Safety Population includes all participants who received any dose of
      tislelizumab.

      This will be the population for the safety analyses. The modified Safety Population includes
      all participants in the Safety Population who had centrally confirmed cHL. This will be the
      population for the efficacy analyses.

      The Per-protocol Population (PP) includes participants who received any dose of tislelizumab
      and had no major protocol deviations. Criteria for exclusion from the PP will be determined
      and documented before the database lock for the primary analysis. This will be the secondary
      analysis population for efficacy analysis. The pharmacokinetics (PK) population includes all
      participants who whom valid tislelizumab PK parameters can be estimated.
    
  