
    
      Patients will be randomly allocated to one of two groups. In the 24-session treatments group
      (group A), patients will receive EA 3 sessions per week for 8 weeks. The EA stimulation
      lasted for 30 minutes with a dilatational wave of 2/100 Hz and a current intensity depending
      on the participant's comfort level (preferably with skin around the acupoints shivering
      mildly without pain). It involves having needles inserted into acupoints which are stimulated
      manually for 10 seconds to create "De Qi" sensation and paired alligator clips will be
      attached to the needle holders at LR8-GB33 and two other customized acupoints. Disposable
      needles (Huatuo) and the HANS-200A acupoint nerve stimulator (Nanjing Jisheng Medical Co.,
      Ltd. production) will be used.

      Patients in the 8-session treatments group (group B) will receive EA once per week for 8
      weeks. Other interventions are the same as group A. Assessments will be conducted at baseline
      and 4, 6, 8, 12 and 16 weeks after randomization.

      It is expected that the interventions will alleviate the sufferings of the patient. The risks
      of participation are minimal. Occasionally, acupuncture can make people feel nauseous or
      experience a temporary increase in pain either during or after treatment. Rare side effects
      during acupuncture treatment include fainting, infection and subcutaneous hematoma (pooling
      of blood under the skin). Participants will be warned of these potential side-effects before
      consenting to have acupuncture.

      Patients will be allowed, or required, to back out of the trial based on the following:

        1. A major protocol violation;

        2. Development of a serious disease;

        3. Adverse events related to electro-acupuncture;

        4. Request to be back out of the trial. The purpose of the study is to accumulate clinical
           data, obtain the outcome data of the intervention method and prove the feasibility of
           the study protocol.

      Sixty patients will be selected as the sample size according to clinical experience.
    
  