
    
      This is a prospective, observational, multicenter inpatient units Parisian full time of the
      Etablissement Public Health White House (spread over 4 sites).

      The study seeks to collect, on the one hand the level of AT obtained at the end of
      hospitalization in general adult psychiatry and, secondly, to understand how this one was
      built.

      The AT will be measured:

        -  Firstly by the self-administered questionnaire STAR-P, translated into French by the
           "translation / back-translation" method.

        -  Secondly through semi-structured qualitative interviews, conducted at discharge by a
           health care setting or a specially trained and who did not participate directly in the
           patient's care included. Indeed, the questionnaires allow, through scales to measure the
           AT quantitative way through proposals (items) presented as so, and look for associations
           with some predefined decisive.

      However, it is difficult to explore more complex combination of mechanisms. Conducting
      interviews can meet this goal. An interview grid will be conducted and organized around the
      search for representations and affects related relational patient / nurse(s) and caregiver(s)
      in the context of hospital care. The interviews will be recorded and fully transcribed. A
      thematic analysis will be conducted to identify the objects and themes. The inclusions in
      this qualitative analysis will stop when reaching the saturation process. In this type of
      study, it is generally necessary to include thirty people to reach saturation.

      Finally, semi-structured group interviews (focus group) will be conducted by co-investigators
      and doctoral student psychologist caregivers with the discussion topic imposed: the AT
      construction. They will be directed to paramedics caregivers (nurses and caregivers) are not
      part of the investigation team conducting research but actively involved in care. Their goal
      will be to harvest their representations regarding the quality of the therapeutic
      relationship they're trying to build with patients. A focus group will be conducted by site
      (4 sites), with 5 to 12 volunteers per group.
    
  