
    
      Capsaicin, the compound responsible for the pungency of chili peppers, can induce
      desensitization to nociceptive (1) and pruriceptive (2) stimuli when topically applied. The
      purpose of this study is to determine whether repeated topical applications of
      trans-cinnamaldehyde and L-menthol result in decreased responses to various nociceptive and
      non-nociceptive thermal and mechanical stimuli and to compare potential alterations with
      those caused by repeated topical application of capsaicin. Furthermore, this study
      investigates the temporal profile of said alterations.

      Capsaicin 8% patches, trans-cinnamaldehyde 10%, L-menthol 40% and inert vehicle patches will
      each be applied to 4 4x4 cm predefined areas on the skin of the volar forearms for 1 hour 4
      times on 4 consecutive days. Before each application and the day after the last application,
      cold detection threshold (CDT), warmth detection threshold (WDT), cold pain threshold (CPT)
      and heat pain threshold (HPT) will be assessed using a Medoc Pathway (Medoc, Israel) equipped
      with a 3x3 cm contact thermode. On the last day, mechanical detection threshold (MDT) is
      assessed using a series of von Frey filaments and mechanical pain threshold (MPT) and
      mechanical pain sensitivity (MPS) is assessed using a series of standardized pinprick
      stimulators (Aalborg University).

      Furthermore, full-field laser perfusion imaging (FLPI) will be used to assess the degree of
      neurogenic inflammation in each predefined area before and after each substance application
      and at the last session.

        1. F. Henrich et al. 2015 "Capsaicin-sensitive C- and A-fibre nociceptors control long-term
           potentiation-like pain amplification in humans"

        2. H.H. Andersen et al. 2017 "Antipruritic effect of pretreatment with 8% topical capsaicin
           on histamine- and cowhage-evoked itch in healthy volunteers - a randomized
           placebo-blinded proof-of-concept trial"
    
  