
    
      Real world data regarding the effectiveness and safety of the new COVID-19 vaccines in older
      people are currently lacking. The sparse data from Phase II/II trials suggest a reduction in
      antibody responses in older people compared to younger participants. The over-85 age group
      was the first group to receive the BNT162b2 mRNA Covid-19 vaccine in Greece according to the
      national priority vaccination scheme. The aim of the study is to enhance insight into the
      immunity and antibody generation elicited by the BNT162b2 mRNA Covid-19 vaccine among elderly
      people over age 85. The study population will include both uninfected vaccinated persons and
      persons with PCR-confirmed previous SARS-CoV-2 infection occurring one to 4.5 months prior to
      vaccination. After informed consent a cohort of persons vaccinated in the two vaccination
      centers of the "G. Gennimatas" General Hospital of Thessaloniki will be followed for six
      months post-second dose injection. The immunogenicity of the vaccine will be measured using
      the SARS-CoV-2 IgG II Quant assay to conduct a qualitative and quantitative determination of
      IgGs against the receptor-binding domain (RBD) of the S1 subunit of the SARS-CoV-2 spike
      protein on day 21 after the first dose, day 21 after the second dose and within 3 and 6
      months after the second dose.

      Having set the positivity threshold of the immunoassay (50 AU/ml) as a cut-off point,
      participants will be classified both by history of infection with SARS-CoV-2 and by SARSCoV-2
      IgG II Quant assay outcomes. Subsequently, the IgG geometric mean concentration (GMC) and its
      95% Confidence Interval will be calculated, based on the recorded antibody concentration
      values. Regarding the reactogenicity of the vaccine, on the day of blood collection the
      participants will be asked to report their experienced side effects. Of note, participants
      are asked to officially report all unsolicited adverse drug reactions (ADRs) to the National
      Medicines Organization via the Yellow Card scheme. The study protocol has been endorsed and
      ethical approval was obtained by the ethics committee of the scientific council of the "G.
      Gennimatas" General Hospital (protocol number:2/12.02.2021).

      Regarding the reactogenicity of the vaccine, on the day of blood collection the participants
      will be asked to report their experienced side effects. Of note, participants are asked to
      officially report all unsolicited adverse drug reactions (ADRs) to the National Medicines
      Organization via the Yellow Card scheme.

      The study protocol was approved and ethical approval was obtained by the ethics committee of
      the scientific council of the "G. Gennimatas" General Hospital (protocol
      number:2/12.02.2021).
    
  