
    
      AneurysmFlow R1.0 is an approved (CE labeled, cleared in US, Canada and Argentina), software
      tool intended to provide relevant information on the blood flow in a cerebral aneurysm and
      its parent artery based on angiography. It provides color coded and vector field
      representation of a digital subtraction angiography (DSA). It can quantify blood flow rates
      in the artery based on DSA and 3-D Rotational Angiogram (3DRA) data. It can visualize blood
      flow patterns in an aneurysm based on DSA data. Specifically, it calculates the Mean Aneurysm
      Flow Amplitude (MAFA) ratio to measure the volumetric flow rate quotient before and after
      Flow Diverter Stent (FDS) implantation in the region of interest. It is manufactured by
      Philips Medical Systems bv., a Philips Healthcare company.

      120 subjects with unruptured, >5mm saccular aneurysm(s) located in the anterior intracranial
      circulation and suitable for an endovascular treatment with a Flow Diverter Stent will be
      enrolled in the study. The enrollment period is expected to last for 1 year.

      Physician investigators participating in this study are expected to follow their normal
      clinical practice in enrolling, treating and following patients with intracranial aneurysms
      that are amenable to treatment with flow diverter stents. No additional procedures are
      required of patients in order to participate in this observational study.

      Pre-Screening

      Patients presenting with intracranial saccular aneurysm(s) will be evaluated by the neuro
      interventional team, in accordance with institutional practice, to establish an appropriate
      treatment plan based on the patient's medical condition and available diagnostic screening
      procedures prior to recruitment in the study. More than one aneurysm in a single patient may
      be treated, but only one target aneurysm treated with an FDS device will be considered as
      part of this study. If treatment of the aneurysm with the FDS is deemed appropriate, the
      institution's guidelines regarding their ethics committee and informed consent process will
      be followed.

      Screening

      After obtaining the consent form(s) approved by the local research ethics board (REB), the
      principal investigator will screen the potential investigation subjects for the CARO study.
      The principal investigator or his delegates on the study team will enter data in a
      pre-designed digital Case Report Form (e-CRF). This will include patient demographics,
      relevant past medical and surgical history, and specific target aneurysm data along with
      pre-procedural/screening imaging details.

      Only patients who meet all inclusion and none of the exclusion criteria will qualify for this
      study. The measurement and size of each aneurysm will be verified by the principal
      investigator. If the size of the aneurysm is acceptable, then it will be included in the
      study. It is recommended that this measurement should be done within 180 days before the
      procedure.

      Index Procedure and Discharge

      The investigator will proceed with standard of care procedures on the day of Index Procedure
      (i.e. FDS insertion) for the target aneurysm(s). Then, endovascular treatment procedure
      details should be provided for each eligible patient. Blood flow velocity will be calculated
      using the dedicated software AneurysmFlow (Philips Healthcare, Best, The Netherlands), which
      will be installed on standard of care imaging equipment. For this purpose, digital
      subtraction angiograms will be acquired during the procedure; just before and right after
      placement of the FDS. Calculation of blood flow velocity will be performed automatically on
      the AneurysmFlow software. There are no additional devices or medications required for the
      study. The AneurysmFlow software uses standard-of-care 2D DSA and 3D-RA image sequences to
      determine this flow information. All raw image sequences will be stored for future reference.

      This study will not make any recommendation on patient management or on treatment strategy.
      Also, this software will not disrupt standard-of-care workflow for the interventionalist.

      Follow-Ups (6 and 12 months)

      All registry patients treated with FDS are expected to follow their routine post treatment
      clinical visits, which will include a standard-of-care head imaging (e.g. Computed Tomography
      Angiography (CTA), Magnetic Resonance Angiography (MRA) and/or DSA) test to classify aneurysm
      occlusion (i.e. Raymond-Roy Occlusion Classification I) at 6 months (±49 days) and 12 months
      (±49 days). During the 6 and 12 month follow up visits, patient medical charts will be
      accessed to collect adverse events (if applicable) and document any post-treatment
      neurological deterioration (neurological assessment, modified Rankin Scale). De-identified
      data (i.e. clinical notes, imaging reports etc.) will be entered in the relevant e-CRF
      sections. All (serious) adverse events (i.e. re-operations, ruptures and deaths) whether or
      not related to the investigational device will be collected and reported conform local rules
      and regulations.

      The total duration of the study is expected to take approximately 2.5 years. Patient
      enrollment will take place between September 2018 and September 2019. Each subject will be in
      the study for 1 year (follow-up).
    
  