
    
      Eustachian tube dysfunction (ETD) and middle ear barotrauma (MEB) are common reported
      complications during hyperbaric oxygen treatment. The investigators Phase I study data was
      the first to demonstrate a statistically significant decrease in the occurrence of
      symptomatic ETD and middle ear barotrauma (MEB). The Phase I Trial suggested the total time
      interval and rate (slope) of compression (ROC) may be a determining factor in ETD and MEB.
      This Phase II study investigates an optimal rate of compression to reduce ETD and MEB when
      considering each multiplace treatment (with multiple patients) as the unit of observation as
      a group, rather than for each individual patient.

      Data will be collected prospectively on group patient-treatment exposures. The investigators
      will randomly assign patient-treatment group exposures to four different time interval and
      rate (slope) of compression. All patients, within every patient-treatment group exposure,
      received all 4 compression profiles (CP) on a rotating basis, in effect having patients serve
      as their own controls in a crossover design and to reduce the risk of treatment order on the
      effects observed. These compression rates and slopes were identical to those used in the
      Phase I trial. All patients experiencing symptoms of MEB requiring compression stops will be
      evaluated post-treatment for the presence of ETD and MEB using the O'Neill Grading System
      (OGS) for ETD/MEB.

      For approximately 10 years, the investigators hyperbaric center used a routine daily
      multiplace chamber treatment protocol to a depth of 45 feet of seawater (fsw) (modified U.S.
      Navy Treatment Table 9). The chamber was compressed over a 10-minute time interval
      representing a 4.5 fsw/minute uniform rate of compression. This 4.5-fsw/minute linear rate
      (slope) of compression rate was maintained throughout the total 10-minute time interval of
      treatment and will be used as a baseline compression rate to compare all other compression
      schedules [total compression time interval/compression rates (slopes)]. The investigators
      will prospectively collect data on patient-treatment group exposures after formalizing four
      different compression schedules each including a unique combination of compression rate
      (slope) and time intervals of compression. This was similar to the Phase I study.

      Data will be collected prospectively on all patients recruited and receiving treatment from
      February 11, 2019, and February 10, 2020, and combined with the data obtained in our Phase I
      trial collected from September 8, 2014 to September 8, 2016. This Phase II study defines the
      unit of observations as a multiplace patient-treatment group exposure rather than individual
      patient treatment exposures. This approach was considered appropriate as a treatment stop or
      hold in a multiplace chamber affects all other patient occupants in the same treatment group
      exposure.

      To mitigate the risk of confounding, only the first stop will be used as the stop or hold
      indicator for that particular patient-treatment group exposure. Data will be collected on the
      patient(s) experiencing the stop or hold. All patients will undergo pre-treatment video
      otoscopy with baseline tympanic membrane (TM) photos and video of TM motion documenting the
      patients ability to equalize. This is used to assess potential Eustachian tube patency and
      proper equalization performance to help exclude individual patient technique as a confounding
      variable. Photos will be repeated at the end of treatment on any patient(s) complaining of
      symptoms referable to ETD/MEB that require a stop during compression.

      Multiple stops for the same patient on the same treatment will not be considered. Only the
      first compression stop or hold during each treatment exposure will be recorded or assigned as
      a patient-treatment stop representing that particular patient-treatment group exposure.
      Compression stops will be made when any patient experiences difficulty equalizing (requests a
      stop or complains of ear discomfort of any type).

      Repeat video otoscopy will be conducted on all patients complaining of symptoms referable to
      ETD or MEB to objectively document the grade of barotrauma at the end of the treatment. The
      OGS system will be used to record the severity of the ETD or MEB. The depth of the stop, the
      treatment number for that particular patient, and the actions taken to alleviate the symptoms
      during equalization will be recorded.

      The depth of the compression stop will be recorded in feet of seawater (fsw) as will be the
      ascent (fsw) required for the patient to clear the middle ear pressure and relieve the
      symptoms. The patients symptoms must be resolved, rendering the patient asymptomatic and able
      to continue the treatment compression profile. All team members (physicians, nurses, and
      technicians) present and working on the day of the exposure, are responsible for viewing the
      patients pre and post tympanic membrane photos and determining the grade of barotrauma using
      the OGS criteria.

      All stops were categorized under the respective compression protocol used for that particular
      patient-treatment group exposure. Data will then compared using both descriptive and
      inferential statistical analysis including the risk difference, odds ratio (OR), two-tailed
      Chi Square analysis using α=0.05, and outcomes will be studied separately in a logistic
      regression analysis.
    
  