
    
      Background: Although efforts by VA providers and researchers have improved diabetes care
      quality for Veterans, individuals with persistent poorly-controlled diabetes mellitus (type 1
      or type 2 diabetes with hemoglobin A1c >9.0% for > 1 year despite receipt of medical care)
      have proven refractory to these widespread improvements, and remain at high risk for
      complications and accrued costs. Prior research has illustrated that medication regimen
      complexity, suboptimal self-care, and comorbid depressive symptoms interact to perpetuate
      suboptimal control among individuals with PPDM. Current models of clinic-based diabetes care
      do not meet these Veterans' needs. Without the implementation of care delivery strategies
      that target this population's unique barriers to improved diabetes control, these Veterans
      will continue to be left behind by progress in diabetes management throughout VA, and will
      remain at high risk for complications and high costs. We propose using existing local Home
      Telehealth services to implement Advanced Comprehensive Diabetes Care, a patient-centered,
      evidence-based intervention combining medication management, self-care behavior support, and
      depressive symptom management to Veterans with PPDM.

      Objectives: The specific aims of this RRP are to: 1) evaluate the effectiveness of the
      Advanced Comprehensive Diabetes Care among Veterans with persistent poorly-controlled
      diabetes; 2) utilize a mixed method formative evaluation to assess our main implementation
      strategy, the use of existing Home Telehealth services to administer the intervention; and 3)
      generate data we will use to refine local intervention implementation and inform the
      development of an SDP proposal evaluating broader implementation of the Advanced
      Comprehensive Diabetes Care intervention.

      Methods: We propose a pilot Effectiveness-Implementation Hybrid trial to study the Advanced
      Comprehensive Diabetes Care intervention in Veterans with persistent poorly-controlled
      diabetes. After baseline evaluation, 50 Veterans will be randomly assigned into intervention
      (n = 25) or control groups (n = 25). Veterans randomized to the intervention will be enrolled
      in the Home Telehealth program at Durham VAMC and will receive the study intervention
      (telehealth-based medication management, self-care behavior support, and depressive symptom
      management) for 6 months. Intervention-group Veterans with no depression on baseline
      assessment will not initially receive the depressive symptom management component, but will
      be monitored for new symptoms throughout the study. Veterans randomized to the control arm
      will receive diabetes educational materials and management per their primary provider. The
      primary effectiveness outcome for this study will be hemoglobin A1c. Secondary effectiveness
      outcomes will include measures of diabetes self-care, self-reported medication adherence, and
      depressive symptoms. This RRP will also include a mixed method formative evaluation to
      qualitatively and quantitatively assess patient-level, provider-level, and organizational
      barriers and facilitators influencing intervention implementation. Formative evaluation data
      will be analyzed during the study to consider whether adjustments to the intervention or its
      implementation may be indicated, and findings will also be used to inform future
      implementation efforts.
    
  