
    
      1. MIDCAB procedure introduction

             1. Surgery preparation:

                General anesthesia, double lumen tracheal intubation. In the supine position, tilt
                15° to the right. An automatic defibrillation electrode is attached to the right
                front and left rear chest wall, and the external defibrillator is connected. A
                small incision of 8-10 cm into the left anterior lateral 5th intercostal space was
                performed into the chest.

             2. Internal mammary artery acquisition:

                After entering the chest, the IMA is exposed through a new minimal invasive
                retraction system. Single or bilateral IMA is obtained as needed. Separate the IMA
                From the middle segment (non-fat muscle coverage area) applied with an electric
                scalpel (15J), and the free range was up to the first rib to the fifth or sixth
                intercostal(IMA bifurcation).

             3. Bypass strategy:

                All procedures were performed under a non-cardiopulmonary situation, and vascular
                anastomosis was performed with the aid of a laparoscopic cardiac stabilizer. The
                stabilizer is smaller and does not occupy the operating space. The head of
                stabilizer can be rotated 360 degrees and the target vessel can be fixed at any
                angle. Bilateral internal mammary artery, radial artery and saphenous vein can be
                used as graft vessels. The bypass strategy is not particularly different from
                conventional bypass surgery, including aorta(AO)-saphenous vein graft (SVG) or
                radial artery(RA)-X1-X2-...( sequential anastomosis), left internal mammary
                artery(LIMA)-right internal mammary artery(RIMA) -RA or SVG(Y)-X, RIMA-left
                anterior descending(LAD), LIMA-RA or RIMA or SVG(I)-X1-X2 and so on.

             4. Vascular anastomosis:

                The target vessel is exposed through the pericardial suture, the heart is locally
                fixed with the aid of a cardiac stabilizer, and the target vessel is inserted shunt
                to avoid hemodynamic disorder and arrhythmia. Vascular anastomosis is performed by
                8-0 polypropylene suture.

             5. Aortic exposure and proximal anastomosis:

                Place gauze behind the aorta, expose the aorta with the right pericardial
                suspension suture, temporary block aortic anterior wall with a soft-chain sidewall
                clamp, Punch on the aortic anterior wall with 3.5mm puncher, anastomose SVG or RA
                on AO with 6-0 polypropylene suture.

             6. postoperative management: Patients go to the cardiac ICU ward postoperatively. The
                investigators closely observe the electrocardiogram and myocardial enzyme changes,
                maintain a mean arterial pressure more than 70 mmHg perfusion pressure, and the use
                of nitrate ester drug to relax coronary, Begin with oral aspirin (100 mg, qd)
                antiplatelet therapy as soon as tracheal intubation is removed. Complete chest
                X-ray, cardiac ultrasound and coronary angiography before discharge.

             7. Patient selection Because MIDCAB requires the heart to be exposed through the
                lateral incision, it is necessary to avoid the difficulty of exposure caused by
                thoracic deformity, adhesion or obesity; it is not suitable for MIDCAB in patients
                with extremely low cardiac function and severe heart enlargement; Because of the
                necessity of single-side ventilation, such as patients with severe pulmonary
                dysfunction before surgery, should also avoid small incision surgery. See the
                eligible and exclusion criteria for details.

        2. Baseline matching problem MIDCAB is more rigorous in terms of patient selection, such as
           weight, EF%, and lung function, thus the study will use a propensity score method to
           match the baseline of two groups to eliminate the baseline bias.

           Baseline factor： General: gender, age, BMI History and comorbidities：Smoke, Diabetes
           (diagnostic criteria: oral hypoglycemic agents, insulin therapy, HbA1c greater than
           7.0%, postprandial blood glucose greater than 11.1mmol/L, fasting plasma glucose greater
           than 7.0mmol/L), previous stroke(CT showed large area softening lesion) and presence of
           neurological dysfunction (paralysis, weak muscles, aphasia, paresthesia, and difficulty
           urinating), Hyperlipidemia (administered or admitted to hospital serum cholesterol
           greater than 5.17mmol / L or 200mg / dl), high blood pressure (blood pressure greater
           than 140 / 90 mmHg without medication), renal insufficiency (dialysis or serum
           creatinine level greater than 140mmol / L ), Peripheral vascular disease (preoperative
           ultrasound or CT confirmed peripheral vascular stenosis greater than 50%), previous
           history of cardiac surgery, previous PCI history (balloon dilatation or stent
           implantation)

           Preoperative status: Classification of angina (stable angina pectoris, unstable angina
           pectoris, non st-t segment elevation myocardial infarction, st-t segment elevation
           myocardial infarction), previous myocardial infarction history(pathological Q wave on
           ECG, abnormal segment motion on lesion area accompany with low EF% or clear and
           definitely evidence of elevation of creatine kinase(CK-MB) or troponin(cTnI), New York
           Heart Association(NYHA) heart function classification.

           Preoperative examination:creatinine(Cr), N-terminal pro brain natriuretic
           peptide(NT-proBNP), total cholesterol(TG) and low density lipoprotein(LDL) level,
           preoperative cardiac function (EF%, LVEDmm), SYNTAX score (evaluation by cardiologist).

           Preoperative medication (within 1 week): aspirin, clopidogrel

        3. statistical methods The primary endpoint of 12 months MACCE will be analysis by
           non-inferiority method. The small incision surgery has advantage of little trauma and
           the aesthetics of the incision. According to the results of previous studies and
           literature reports, the 1 year graft's patency is assumed to be 96% in the MICS group,
           96% in the control group, test performance β=90%, in the single-tail test α=0.025,
           △=0.06, the investigators expected the sample size of each group is required to be 168,
           and assume drop rate is about 15%, and finally 190-200 cases are needed in each group.
           In the OPCABG group, considering the propensity score matching efficiency of 0.5, it may
           be need more cases.

      The other primary endpoints of Physical Component Scale (PCS) will be analysis by superior
      effect test. The higher the PCS score of SF-36 scale, the better the patient's physiological
      health. According to previous studies and literature reports, the average PCS score of SF-36
      scale on the 30th day after CABG was 43 with a standard deviation of 10. The PCS difference
      of SF-36 scale with the smallest clinical significance reported in literature was 2. Through
      previous studies, the average PCS score on the 30th day after CABG in MICS group was 50.
      Assuming that the lower line of 95% confidence interval of PCS score difference between
      MICS-CABG group and OPCABG group is greater than 2, it is considered that the PCS score of
      MICS-CABG group is better than OPCABG group, with inspection level α=0.025 (one side) and
      inspection efficiency 1-β=0.80. The sample size of OPCABG group and MICS group is calculated
      to be 65 cases, with an estimated miss rate of 20%, and each group needs to include at least
      82 people.

      Based on the above conclusions, The investigators calculated sample size is 200 cases in each
      group.

      After establishing the database, the logistic regression model will be established，the
      dependent variable is surgery procedure（MICS surgery）, the independent variable are baseline
      factor, and the receiver operating characteristic curve(ROC) will be drawn. The logistic
      regression model will be used to calculate the prone score(PS) of each subject. The nearest
      neighbor matching method will be used to select the thoracotomy OPCABG cases in a 1:1 ratio
      according to the priority matching method.

      According to the basic principles of Intention-to-Treat (ITT), the whole analysis set was
      used. The analysis of the main indicators will include all randomized subjects, whether or
      not they will complete the test, the data will be included in the analysis.

      Statistics data include baseline analysis, primary endpoints, secondary endpoints,
      observations, and compliance indicators. Measurement data that conformed to the normal
      distribution will be statistically described using mean ± standard deviation (χ ± S，using t
      test). Non-normally distributed measurement data will be statistically described using median
      and quartiles (using variance or nonparametric tests). The grade data will be tested using
      rank sum test. The count data will be statistically described as a percentage, and two or
      more independent sample rates will be compared using a chi-square test. Fisher's exact
      probability analysis will be used for indicators with low index positives (expected value
      <5). Survival-related data will be applied by proportional hazards model(COX) regression and
      survival curve risk.

      Describe the missing value processing method: The estimation of the missing value of the main
      indicator is carried forward using the closest observation when selecting the full analysis
      set for statistical analysis,

      5、 Ethics and safety Ethics: This research has been reviewed and filed by the Ethics
      Committee of the Third Hospital of Peking University. Informed consent will be signed before
      each participating patient was enrolled Safety: Through pre-research, MICS is a safe and
      effective new surgical procedure. At present, the investigators have completed more than 200
      MICS operations. Only 2 of these patients died, and the postoperative complications and
      mid-term follow-up results were counted. The rate of graft patency and complications is not
      inferior to thoracotomy OPCABG surgery.

      6、 Quality control Access system: MICS surgery is limited by the operation space. Although
      the multiple minimal invasive bypass surgery can be achieved routinely at present in our
      center, this surgery requires high skill and long learning curve. The cardiac surgery will
      strictly implement the surgeon's access qualification and have regular bypass surgery 300.
      For example, in the case of a small incision, only 50 patients with more than one bypass
      surgery, after a discussion within the department and approved by the core group, can perform
      small incision multi-bridge surgery.

      Safeguard plan: For each case of small incision surgery, the patient's clinical data will be
      evaluate preoperative in our center by more than 3 senior surgeons. The surgical plan is
      strictly according to the standard of admission; Femoral arteriovenous will be routinely
      prepared for emergency cardiopulmonary bypass(CPB) and intraaortic balloon pumping(IABP)
      implantation. Transformation to thoracotomy surgery will be carried out if hemorrhage,
      uncontrollable hemodynamic disorder and malignant arrhythmia occured.

      Termination of research criteria:

      To ensure the safety of all candidates, a quality and safety management team will be
      established to monitor the complications and major safety indicators of the MICS group. The
      data were collected monthly to monitor serious complications (death, MACCE, unplanned
      revascularization, reoperation etc.) Our research will be terminated when any of the serious
      complications happen more than 5 cases .
    
  