
    
      Front-Of-Pack (FOP) nutrition labelling, providing simplified information on nutritional
      content at a glance, in order to help consumer make informed choices, has been identified as
      of major interest by public health specialists of many countries. Modelling studies suggested
      that adoption of effective nutrition labelling would be cost-effective and provide health
      benefits. French health authorities are currently considering the endorsement of a FOP
      nutrition label, but no specific format has yet been determined. A more simplified FOP
      nutrition label has been put forward in France, the 5-Colour Nutrition Label (5-CNL). Recent
      data suggests that the 5-CNL FOP label is well perceived and understood by consumers.
      Moreover, a recent randomized trial, based on an online experimental supermarket, showed that
      the 5-CNL displayed the highest difference in nutritional quality compared to the control
      situation. The introduction of a FOP nutrition labelling system has been identified as
      challenging in certain population groups, due to their lower level of nutrition knowledge and
      unhealthier diets. Subjects with lower levels of income, or the young appear as a key target
      in which the impact of FOP nutrition labels has been poorly explored. Moreover, the impact of
      such a label on subjects suffering from a chronic condition for which dietary modifications
      are part of the treatment should be carefully considered, in order to avoid potential
      undesirable effects of the label in these populations.

      The aim of the investigators is to evaluate the impact of FOP nutrition labels on the
      nutritional quality of the shopping cart in an online experimental supermarket in various
      nutritionally at-risk populations. Two FOP systems will be tested to a control situation
      without FOP labelling: the Reference Intakes (RI), currently in use by some manufacturers and
      present in a portion of food products sold in France, and the 5-Colour Nutrition Label
      (5-CNL).

      Three 3 arm parallel arm randomized trials are designed, each targeting a specific
      population. The methodology and interventions are identical across trials. Trials will be
      conducted in: 1) Working adults between 30-50 years old with low income, 2) Students and 3)
      Older subjects with identified chronic diseases. The intervention consists in the application
      of FOP nutrition labels on all food products, either the RI label, currently in use in some
      products in France, and the 5-CNL label. A control situation with no FOP will also be used.
      Participants will be asked to perform a shopping session in an experimental online
      supermarket, in one of the three experimental conditions described. The main outcome will be
      the overall nutritional quality of the shopping cart, assessed using the mean Food Standards
      Agency Nutrient profiling system score of the items in the shopping cart.
    
  