
    
      Mechanisms of resistance have been studied for many years in various experimental models.
      However, many drugs that are highly effective in experimental models at overcoming resistance
      have been either ineffective or marginally active in preliminary clinical studies. Thus after
      decades of study, most reviews of anti-cancer drug resistance still focus largely on
      experimental models, which may not reflect resistance in humans. However, recent studies have
      demonstrated that clinical resistance occurs in primary and metastatic tumors that may have
      undergone significant molecular evolution due to treatment effects and the selection of
      clones as recently shown in breast cancer.

      Triple negative breast cancer is a subtype that carries a poor prognosis and a high incidence
      of early metastatic recurrence. Furthermore, no target therapy is efficacious up to now in
      this subtype. Thus, identification of mechanisms of resistance to available therapies and
      prediction of tumoral response to various treatments could help in the management of patients
      affected by this particularly aggressive type of breast cancer.

      The goals of this study are two-fold. First, to build a biobank of blood and tissue
      specimens, prior to starting chemotherapy and at a determined time-point (surgery or
      progression of disease), from patients undergoing the chemotherapeutic treatments in the
      neoadjuvant and metastatic settings. Second, to use cutting-edge molecular techniques
      available in several Quebec research centers, to carefully compare these pre and post
      treatment samples to identify "molecular factors of resistance". The discovery of these
      factors will help oncologists in triaging patients to receive the most beneficial therapy by
      recognizing when not to give particular treatment and will be essential for reducing the
      potential for harmful side effects and for avoiding the extremely high cost of modern
      treatments when they can be predicted to be ineffective.
    
  