
    
      Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are a heterogeneous group of clonal hematopoietic stem cell
      malignancies. Somatic cytogenetic and molecular aberrations and the evolution of subclonal
      malignant cell populations are responsible for the development and progression of MDS into
      acute myeloid leukemia.

      Within only one decade the availability of new genome-wide technologies, like next generation
      sequencing (NGS), has revolutionized basic research. The routine clinical use of NGS analysis
      together with well-established diagnostic tools, like chromosome banding analysis or
      fluorescence in situ hybridization, will substantially add to existing diagnostic and
      prognostic criteria. This comprehensive combined approach could revolutionize the way we
      manage patient care. However, little is known about the application of such techniques in
      routine diagnostics and standards for such analyses are still missing.

      In a recent publication from the research group, (Article DOI: 10.1002/ajh.25089) it was
      demonstrated that the analysis of peripheral blood cells (at diagnosis) by NGS is feasible
      and yields data that are equivalent to the results obtained from bone marrow cells (BMC),
      which is currently the gold standard for most molecular diagnostic analyses.

      Not longer depending on the severe and for the patient painful collection of bone marrow
      aspirates we are now able to perform comprehensive genetic analysis at short intervals on
      peripheral blood of MDS patients to detect and closely monitor patterns/pathways of clonal
      evolution of the malignant cell population in a routine diagnostic setting. It is expected
      that the obtained data from this study will substantially add to:

        1. Understand the functional relevance of identified mutations and the implications of
           combined mutations.

        2. Condense the findings from NGS together with data from established genetic methods
           (conventional cytogenetics, FISH) to a comprehensive view on MDS genetics and its
           dynamics considering strengths and weaknesses of each component of this approach.

        3. Demonstrate that peripheral blood could be an appropriate sample to perform NGS
           follow-up studies.

      In a series of very low, low and intermediate risk MDS patients from Spain it is intended to
      retrospectively perform NGS (targeted deep sequencing) of diagnosis and consecutive follow-up
      samples selecting those cases that showed signs of progression of the disease.

      Methodology

      Taking into account the incidence of MDS in the area, it is planned to collect samples from
      100 MDS patients per year (during the first 2 years of the project) categorized as very low,
      low and intermediate risk.

      All collected samples will be analyzed by conventional cytogenetics (routinely performed as
      part of the diagnostic tests) and also SF3B1 mutation analysis will be done in order to
      screen common alterations in low risk patients. In this way, a better characterization of the
      patients will be done and personalized treatment options according to each patient´s risk
      could be offered.

      According to the literature, around 5-15% are expected to progress to high/very high-risk MDS
      subtype or to acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Only those cases that show signs of disease
      progression will be retrospectively analyzed by NGS.

      The following criteria will be taken for patients enrollment:

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Patients categorized as very low, low or intermediate risk according to the Revised
           International Prognosis Scoring System for MDS (IPSS-R).

        -  Patients that meet the previous criteria and are not receiving any treatment or are
           receiving supportive care only (erythropoietin is accepted).

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Patients with "MDS with isolated del(5q)" diagnosis, according to 2017 World Health
           Organization Classification (WHO).

        -  Patients receiving any disease modifying therapies (e.g. hypomethylating agents).

      Definition of progression: evolution to high/very high risk MDS subtype or to AML.

      Peripheral blood (PB) and bone marrow (BM) samples will be collected and stored at the moment
      of diagnosis. PB samples will be collected every 6 months and at the time of progression of
      the disease (before receiving any treatment) BM sample will be also collected.

      DNA extraction will be performed in diagnosis BM samples and SF3B1 gene will be analyzed by
      Sanger sequencing in all cases.

      A total of 40 cases are estimated to be studied by NGS, 20 patients that are expected to show
      a progression of the disease and 20 patients without progression:

        -  Those cases that show progression of the disease will be retrospectively analyzed by
           NGS. Estimating that 10% of patients could progress, it is expected to include 10 new
           patients per year (during the two first years of the project) in the molecular analysis.
           This accounts a total of 20 patients after 2 years of follow-up.

        -  NGS will be performed in DNA from whole BM and PB paired samples at the moment of
           diagnosis and progression. Three PB follow-up samples in between will also be analyzed
           in order to track clonal dynamics. This accounts a total of 7 samples per each patient
           that progress (Figure 1).

        -  Additionally, 20 patients without progression will be analyzed in order to find out if
           there are any differences in the mutational spectrum compared with those disease
           progression cases. The same time points that were taken into account for those cases
           that progressed will be considered for these non-progression cases.

      A panel of genes including disease relevant regions of the following 40 genes will be
      studied:

      ASXL1, ASXL2, BCOR, BCORL1, BRAF, CALR, CBL, CEBPA, CSF3R, CSNK1A1, DNMT3A, EZH2, ETV6, FLT3,
      GATA1, GATA2, IDH1, IDH2, JAK2, KIT, KMT2A (MLL), KRAS, MPL, NF1, NPM1, NRAS, PTPN11, RAD21,
      RUNX1, SETBP1, SF3B1, SMC3, SRSF2, STAG1, STAG2, TET2, TP53, U2AF1,WT1, ZRSR2.

      Patients and related samples data will be registered in a unique database. All clinical data
      will be collected according to the parameters defined by the Spanish Group of Myelodysplastic
      Syndromes (GESMD). All patients enrolled in the project will be requested to fill and sign an
      informed consent form for research purposes approved by the Ethical Committee of the
      ICO-Hospital Germans Trias i Pujol (Badalona, Barcelona, Spain). All protocols will be in
      accordance to the Declaration of Helsinki and the national normative of confidentiality of
      the data (LOPD).

      The bioinformatic analyses will be performed at Josep Carreras Leukaemia Research Institute
      (IJC Campus ICO-GTIP. Badalona, Spain). Due to the amount of data, each analysis needs to be
      run in a cluster computing center, and stored in a special storage system which is follows
      the current laws for data protection in Spain.
    
  