
    
      Since the introduction of optical biometry 1 (IOLMaster, Carl Zeiss Meditec AG, Jena,
      Germany), as a reliable non-contact measurement of the axial eye length the influence of the
      error of axial length measurement on the refractive error decreased from over 50% (when
      measured with applanation ultrasound) to 36%. The mean error of corneal power measurement is
      approximately 22% 2. These results show that the estimation of the post-operative
      intra-ocular lens (IOL) position and therefore the estimated anterior chamber depth (ACD) is
      nowadays the main source of error (35% 3 to 42% 2) in IOL power calculation and therefore for
      the refractive outcome of the patients after cataract surgery. Early IOL power calculation
      formulae, such as the Binkhorst I formula 4, used a fixed ACD value to predict the position
      of the IOL, but the refractive results were not appropriate, because the post-operative
      position of the IOL varied significantly between patients. Later observations showed a
      correlation between the axial eye length and the post-operative ACD (longer=more myopic eyes
      showed a larger ACD post-operatively). 5 These correlations were taken into account in later
      developed formulas (such as the Binkhorst II formula). Olsen et al. 6 measured the
      post-operative ACD and substituted the predicted post-operative ACD with the true,
      post-operative ACD in each case. The result after correcting the IOL position was a highly
      accurate IOL power calculation, where no fudge factors were needed. Nowadays the
      pre-operatively measured ACD is taken into account for several IOL power calculation
      formulas, such as the Haigis formula, the Holladay II formula and the Olsen formula. However,
      this new generation of formulas use the pre-operative ACD, without considering the thickness
      of the crystalline lens. The ACD is measured as the distance between the anterior surface of
      the cornea (anatomically correct would be the posterior surface of the cornea, but in an
      optical context, as in IOL power calculations, the anterior surface is used) and the anterior
      surface of the crystalline lens 2. Therefore the thickness of the crystalline lens has a
      significant impact on the predicted post-operative position of the IOL. This parameter was
      first taken into account by Olsen 7 and later modified by Norrby 8, 9. It should be mentioned
      that IOL power calculations developed from theoretical calculations based on Gaussian optics
      10 to regression formulas, such as the SRK formula 11 that uses retrospective data of a large
      number of patients. All these findings suggest that proper measurements not only of the
      dimensions of the crystalline lens but also of the lens capsule after removing the
      crystalline lens are necessary to improve IOL power calculation.

      Recently a prototype of a combination of an anterior segment OCT (VISANTE; Carl Zeiss Meditec
      AG) and an operating microscope (OPMI 200; Carl Zeiss Meditec AG) was introduced that allows
      measurements of the crystalline lens as well as the lens capsule itself after removing the
      crystalline lens of cataract patients intra-operatively. This device uses OCT technology to
      create high resolution B-scans (=images) of the anterior segment of the eye. The OCT was
      shown to be highly reproducible for ACD measurements pre-operatively 12 and small changes of
      the IOL/crystalline lens can be detected 13.

      In a previous study (EK-10-125-0710) that was recently published in the journal
      "Investigative Ophthalmology & Visual Science" it was shown that intra-operative measurements
      of the anterior lens capsule improve the refractive outcome theoretically.14 However, in this
      previous study conventional eye models were used for IOL power calculation and only the
      intra-operative measurement replaced pre-operative ACD measurements.

      Aim of this study is to observe, whether the postoperative refractive outcome could be
      improved theoretically by using both pre- and intra-operative measurements for retrospective
      IOL power calculation with new eye models.
    
  