
    
      Based upon our published data, 53% of patients who require CS at the time of diagnosis of UC
      will be in CS free remission in the absence of colectomy by the end of 52 weeks. Early
      corticosteroids requirement after the diagnosis of ulcerative colitis diagnosis can predict a
      more severe long-term course of the disease. This work formed the basis of this research
      project. We had postulated that patients requiring steroids early in the course of their
      disease had worse prognosis than those who did not and should be treated more aggressively
      early in the course of their disease to prevent future complications like colectomy.

      The current standard of care for treatment of UC in the VA is as follows:

      At the time of diagnosis all the patients are started on a 5-ASA compound. Those patients who
      have very severe disease are concomitantly started on steroids. If they are very sick they
      are concomitantly started on an anti-TNF compound also with the goal of tapering them off
      steroids. Based upon response to therapy medications are adjusted. If there is no relief with
      5-ASA compounds they can be started on steroids. For those on steroids and who cannot be
      weaned off steroids or are requiring multiple courses of steroids, they will have their
      therapy advanced to an anti-TNF or vedoluzimab. For those failing an anti-TNF they can be
      shifted to vedoluzimab. Thus, at the VA, vedoluzimab is available at the VA thru the
      non-formulary process. It is restricted to GI as 3rd line agent for UC. That is, it is used
      after oral agents fail and after anti-TNF agents (Humira® or Remicade®). The indications for
      Vedoluzimab use in the VA are as follows with regard to failure:

      The patient has had adequate therapeutic trials of ONE of the following treatments, unless
      the patient has a contraindication, risk factor for serious adverse event*, or intolerance to
      the agent(s):

      Criterion 1 is an option with or without therapeutic drug monitoring.)

      A TNFI and an antimetabolite immunomodulator, separately or in combination. OR An initial and
      second TNFI, if therapeutic drug monitoring after secondary nonresponse to TNFI therapy
      indicates high titers of anti-TNFI antibodies.

      OR

      A TNFI, when either of the following apply:

      Induction therapy with an agent from a different biologic class is needed to treat an
      inadequate response (with confirmed active inflammation / persistent disease) following TNFI
      induction therapy (i.e., primary nonresponse) and therapeutic drug monitoring shows
      therapeutic or high trough TNFI serum concentrations.

      The patient lost response (i.e., secondary nonresponse not due to adverse reaction) to the
      initial TNFI in association with therapeutic or high trough TNFI serum concentration.
    
  