
    
      Objectives:

      Primary objective:

      To assess the safety and tolerability, describe any dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) for MEDI9447

      Secondary objective:

      To determine the pharmacokinetics (PK) characteristics of MEDI9447 To determine the
      immunogenicity of MEDI9447 To evaluate candidate biomarker of MEDI9447 activity in archival
      tumor biopsy specimens To describe the preliminary antitumor activity of MEDI9447

      Exploratory Objective:

      To explore profile of biomarker status, with MEDI9447 treatment

      Overall design:

      This is a phase I, open-label study to assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and
      preliminary anti-tumor activity of MEDI9447 in Japanese patients with advanced solid
      malignancies.

      This study consists of 2 cohorts. Cohort (dose level 1) and Cohort 2 (dose level 2).

      At least 3 or up to 6 evaluable Japanese patients with advanced solid malignancies will be
      enrolled in each cohort. The total number of subjects will depend upon the available data in
      each cohort and Safety Review Committee (SRC)'s decision.

      Study Period:

      The study is expected to start in October 2018 and end in July 2019.

      Number of Subjects:

      Maximum 12 evaluable patients will be enrolled in this study.

      Treatments and treatment duration:

      Subjects will receive MEDI9447 on Day 1 and Day 15 in a 4-week cycle. Subjects participating
      in the study may continue to receive study treatment(s) as long as they are continuing to
      show clinical benefit, as judged by the Investigator, unless the subject has progressive
      disease (PD) with either clinical deterioration and/or no further benefit from treatment,
      experiences unacceptable toxicity, or should discontinue for any other reason. In such cases,
      the Investigator needs to consult with the sponsor and they agree to continue study treatment
      in advance.

      Statistical methods:

      The primary objective of this study is to assess the safety and tolerability profile of
      MEDI9447.

      All safety data will be summarized using the safety analysis set (All subjects who received
      at least 1 dose of MEDI9447). Evaluations of safety and tolerability will include, but not be
      limited to, AEs, physical examinations, laboratory findings (including clinical chemistry,
      hematology, and urinalysis), vital signs (including blood pressure and pulse), and
      electrocardiograms using summary statistics.

      For secondary and exploratory efficacy endpoints, all analyses will be descriptive, and no
      formal statistical testing will be performed. Data will be summarized and plotted
      appropriately according to data type.

      PK concentration data for MEDI9447 will be listed for each subject and each dosing day, and
      summary statistics will be tabulated. Immunogenicity results will be listed by subject, and
      summaries of the number and percentage of subjects who develop detectable antidrug antibodies
      (ADAs) against MEDI9447 will be provided. The immunogenicity titre will be listed for samples
      confirmed positive for the presence of ADAs. Neutralizing ADAs may be reported for samples
      confirmed positive for the presence of ADAs.

      All analyses and reporting will be conducted for each cohort.
    
  