
    
      There are no evidence-based guidelines for insulin glargine (Lantus) dosing in the
      perioperative setting. Insulin glargine provides peakless 24-hour coverage of basal insulin
      needs for people with both Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes. Insulin glargine may be used as the
      sole insulin or in combination with other rapid-acting insulin to achieve glycemic control.

      Anesthesia literature recommends that blood sugar values on insulin-dependent patients be
      maintained between 120-180 mg/dl in most surgeries. Symptoms of low blood sugar are
      undetectable in anesthetized patients, and blood glucose is tested at least hourly. Since
      patients are still awake and alert toward hypoglycemic symptoms in the preoperative area, the
      admission target study values are 100-179 mg/dl. Glucose values greater than 200 mg/dl have
      been associated with increased rates of infection, and exacerbated complications if a major
      cardiovascular event happens.

      Frequently insulin glargine is administered in the evening. Patients who are scheduled for
      surgery in the morning are asked not to eat or drink after midnight. Some endocrinology
      experts recommend that all or part of the patient's usual insulin glargine should be given to
      avoid high blood sugar; however, whenever insulin is given without food, the possibility of
      low blood sugar exists.

        1. Patients in Group 1 will administer 80% of their usual insulin glargine dose.

        2. Group 2 patients will contact their own diabetes care physician and follow those
           recommendations for the dose.

        3. Group 3 patients will take 50%, 80%, or 100% of their usual insulin glargine dose. Which
           of those three percentages will be determined by the midpoint of the patient's usual
           self-reported fasting blood sugar (FBS) range and whether the patients is also taking a
           rapid-acting insulin.
    
  