
    
      NSCLC is one of the malignancies with high incidence and mortality. In recent years, surgery
      become the preferred treatment for early stage of NSCLC. Patients with high risk stages IB to
      IIIA may undergo radical surgery and complete 4-6 cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy. 5 year
      survival rate increased from 43.5% to 48.8%, but some patients will end chemotherapy because
      of the side effects of chemotherapy. Comprehensive rehabilitation program may alleviate the
      side effects as an effective treatment which including rehabilitation training and TCM.

      The investigators performed a multi-centered, randomized, placebo-controlled, prospective
      clinical trial on the effect of comprehensive rehabilitation program plus chemotherapy to
      improve quality of life(QOL) and long-term survival of postoperative patients who need
      complete postoperative chemotherapy with high risk stages IB to IIIA. Patients are randomized
      into A observational group (chemotherapy plus rehabilitation training and TCM), B
      observational group(chemotherapy plus rehabilitation education and TCM) and control group
      (chemotherapy plus rehabilitation education and placebo). The treatment should be last three
      months and the patients will be followed up regularly. The primary efficacy assessments are:
      (1) QOL (QLQ-LC43 scale); (2) Pulmonary function test(PFTs): 1) Forced vital capacity (FVC);
      2) Forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1); 3) Forced expiratory flow rate from 25% to
      50% (FEF25-50); 4) Residual volume (RV); 5) Total lung capacity (TLC). Secondary efficacy
      assessments are: (1) 2 years disease-free survival; (2) TCM symptoms changes; (3) Tumer
      markers (CEA, CA-125 and CYFRA21-1); (4) Exercise tolerance; (5) Toxicity, side effects and
      security of the treatments will be assessed at the same time. The investigators plan to
      enroll 354 cases in 3 years (118 cases for chemotherapy plus rehabilitation training and
      traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), 118 cases for chemotherapy plus rehabilitation education
      and TCM,118 cases for chemotherapy plus rehabilitation education and placebo), expecting that
      comprehensive rehabilitation program plus chemotherapy has a better efficacy on improving QOL
      and long-term survival.
    
  