
    
      This is a non blinded prospective randomized clinical trial to define the efficacy of a new
      technology developed at the Cleveland Clinic to improve the positioning of the glenoid
      component in total shoulder arthroplasty. The Cleveland Clinic research team has worked on
      the development and validation of this new technology for the last six years. The
      investigators have validated the pre-operative planning software and published the results in
      the peer review literature (1, 7, 8, 9). The investigators have used this software in the
      planning of total shoulder surgery over the last three years. The investigators have
      validated the accuracy and reproducibility of the patient-specific instrumentation in both
      cadaver shoulders and Sawbones models of the shoulder using multiple surgeons. These studies
      also validated our ability to precisely measure component position using 3D CT scan imaging
      after placement of the implants in a pre-clinical cadaver study, thereby validating our
      ability to accurately measure and compare component position between the groups described in
      this proposed clinical trial. The investigators have also proven the ability of the software
      and techniques to produce an accurate representation of the glenoid morphology in patients
      with osteoarthritis or rotator cuff deficient arthritis in 13 patients. This was an IRB
      approved patient safety study performed at the Cleveland Clinic. The investigators have
      performed extensive studies of the materials and processes for the fabrication, sterilization
      and packaging of the patient specific instruments. The investigators have selected materials
      and processes that have met all of the FDA requirements for use of these materials and
      processes as clinical devices in vivo. These devices (non implanted instruments) are
      generally classified by FDA as a Class I device not having significant clinical risk. The
      investigators have studied the materials and process to produce accurate instruments that
      meet the clinical specification for fit onto the surrogate glenoid surfaces and maintain this
      shape and fit after sterilization. These same patient specific instruments have been tested
      in pre-clinical trials (Sawbones and Cadavers), demonstrating their ability to perform the
      functions specified with a high level of accuracy and much better than the use of standard
      generic instruments.
    
  