
    
      Cardiac rehabilitation (CR) is an integral part of cardiovascular disease management
      incorporating aspects of scientifically constructed appropriate physical exercise, dietary
      intervention, secondary prevention by pharmacotherapy, and psychological intervention. CR has
      been repeatedly shown to significantly improve functional capacity, depression and wellbeing,
      even following short term interventions (6-8 weeks in accordance with the date of surgery
      determined for the patient.) Functional capacity is closely related to frailty, a key
      prognostic factor in subjects undergoing cardiac surgery. Small studies have demonstrated
      possible benefits of pre-habilitation - a multidisciplinary intervention aimed at improving
      frailty in the weeks prior to surgery.

      We intend to enroll 50 stable subjects with valvular heart disease scheduled for surgical
      intervention. Following a comprehensive clinical and physiological evaluation subjects will
      be randomized (1:1) to a Prehab arm (PHB) vs. usual care (UC). Subjects in the prehab arm
      will receive a hybrid institution and home-based exercise prescription, nutritional and
      psychological intervention and periodic calls. Adherence will be assessed and encouraged by
      smartwatch and matching smartphone software. In the usual care arm subjects will receive
      general recommendations following the baseline stress test performed by both groups (prehab
      is not standard of care or guideline based). Another stress test will be performed days prior
      to valve surgery.

      Our hypothesis is that the Prehab group will improve their functional capacity to a greater
      degree than the usual care group, possibly associated with better clinical outcomes.

      The primary efficacy outcome will be exercise capacity (assessed by symptom limited stress
      test - estimated METS) change from baseline (enrollment) to pre-surgery evaluation visit
      (pre-op test).

      Secondary measures:

      Compare the 2 study arms in regard to:

        1. Length of ICU and hospital stay

        2. Perioperative adverse events

        3. 30-day mortality or re-hospitalization

        4. QOL and satisfaction

      Patient / Group numbers: A total of 50 patients with established valvular disease will be
      enrolled to PHB or UC after eligibility verification by cardiothoracic surgeon

      Hardware: Standard off the shelf Polar sports watch (M430) with matching smartphone software.
      No clinical or identifiable data will be inputted into these systems (coded subject ID only).

      Clinical data and the entire program will be managed through the hospital electronic medical
      record (EMR). All clinical decisions \ recommendations and events will be recorded in the
      EMR.

      Intervention: Patients will be randomized to pre-operative usual care or rehabilitation
      program comprising of on-site (Sheba MC) and off-site training sessions. Adherence to the
      rehab program will be assessed and a structured motivational program and follow-up will be
      provided in order to maximize goal completion.

      Following the standard rehabilitation intake process (stress test, physician visit, nurse
      intake), the subjects in the prehab arm will receive physiologic consultation based on
      clinical stress tests and clinical data passed from the physician. Subjects in the prehab arm
      will receive an exercise prescription and execution will be assessed and periodically
      adjusted in accordance to data received from the wearable device. Intensity and type of
      exercise will be moderate and will comply with exercise recommendations provided by ESC
      guidelines. A dedicated application will be installed on the mobile phone for patients in the
      research group and they will receive a smart sports watch.

      Periodic encouragements and consultations will be provided by exercise trainer, physiologist
      and nurse from the cardiac rehabilitation center. A physician will be available for
      consultations.

      In addition to monitored physical activity, patients will receive nutritional and
      psychological counseling. This is part of a multi-professional rehabilitation program
      accepted by the rehabilitation center.

      The control group will receive recommendations for a healthy and active lifestyle and
      physician follow-up

      All subjects will undergo a stress test at baseline post enrollment and again prior to
      surgery.
    
  