
    
      The purpose of this study is to investigate how well Roflumilast improves mucociliary
      clearance in people with chronic bronchitis. Several studies show that roflumilast may
      modulate (change) mucociliary function. This study is designed to determine if these
      favorable effects lead to improved mucociliary clearance (MCC) in people with chronic
      bronchitis, thereby, reducing the potential for acute infections and hospitalizations.
      Daliresp® (roflumilast) is a drug currently marketed (approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) for use in humans) in the U.S. and is indicated (used) for treatment of
      people with severe COPD to treat the symptoms of cough and excess mucous linked to chronic
      bronchitis. Roflumilast is used to reduce the risk (chance) of COPD exacerbations (increase
      in symptoms such as cough, mucus secretions, and shortness of breath, that can be life
      threatening and reduces the ability to breathe) linked to chronic bronchitis (swelling of the
      airways in the lungs). Roflumilast is FDA approved to decrease the number of flare-ups of
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in patients with severe COPD with chronic
      bronchitis and a history of flare-ups. The exact way Roflumilast does this is not known.
      Although Roflumilast is an FDA approved drug, in this study the drug is not being used for
      its FDA-approved indication.

      If you agree to be in this study, you will receive no new COPD treatment other than the drugs
      provided for the study. You will also be given a tablet to take once a day, which will be
      placebo for at least part of the study. A placebo is a substance that looks like the study
      drug but that contains no active ingredients.

      The study is a double-blind study. Double-blind means that neither you nor the study doctor
      will know which study regimen (roflumilast or placebo) you are receiving throughout the
      study. However, this information can be made available if medically necessary and as
      determined by the participant's study. You will undergo baseline mucociliary Clearance (MCC)
      Measurements then will be randomized (by chance, like the flip of a coin) to receive either
      roflumilast or placebo for 4 weeks, then there will be a 4 week wash-out phase, and a second
      4 week period of roflumilast/placebo depending on initial randomization. Mucociliary
      Clearance (MCC) Measurements will be conducted at the beginning and at the end of each 4 week
      study regimen phase. You will be in the study for about 12 weeks and there will be up to 12
      visits. At baseline, and prior to each MCC Procedure, you will have health assessments which
      may include Physical Examination, Health and Demographic Interview, Exhaled Carbon Monoxide
      (eCO) Testing, Spirometry (Breathing Test), Expectorated Sputum Collection, Pregnancy Testing
      and Mucociliary Clearance (MCC) Measurements.
    
  