
    
      The overarching hypothesis of this work is that the lack of shared decision making (SDM) for
      prosthetic design and failure to match patient expectations with a prosthetic design plan
      result in poor health outcomes for patients with LLA. Shared decision making (SDM) is where
      clinicians and patients share the best available evidence for comparing options in order to
      achieve informed preferences for making health decisions. A patient's involvement in their
      health care process is known to affect their satisfaction, adherence to care programs, and
      health outcomes. Clinical decision aids (DAs) support patients in SDM and making informed
      health decisions, by providing information on the available options and associated outcomes.
      DAs are intended to help patients clarify their values associated with the options and
      potential outcomes, to create a platform for communication with healthcare providers. DAs
      have been shown to improve patient knowledge and realistic expectations for given health
      options. This project aims to examine how to better align patient and clinician values and
      expectations by developing a DA for prosthetic design decision options, to support SDM
      between patients receiving their first prosthesis and prosthetic care providers. This
      proposal will be guided by the International Patient Decision Aids Standards (IPDAS).

      Aim 1: Qualitatively define the key determinants and decisional needs of new prosthetic
      patients (n=14) and prosthetic care providers (n=20- 24) during prosthetic design, via semi
      structured interviews with patient participants and focus groups with prosthetist
      participants.

      Expected Result 1.1: Key determinants and decisional needs for prosthetic design will be
      defined using content analysis guided by the Ottawa Decision Support framework9 for patients
      making health decisions, and the Model for Shared Decision Making in Clinical Practice.

      Expected Result 1.2: Key stakeholders who contribute directly to prosthetic design decisions
      (e.g., patients with LLA, prosthetists, physicians, caregivers, close friends or family
      members) will be identified via purposive sampling, to inform the target end users of a DA
      prototype.

      Aim 2: Synthesize the evidence for prosthetic design decision options to develop a DA
      prototype.

      Expected Result 2.1: Via systematic literature review, a DA prototype will be developed from
      the evidence on prosthetic design decision options associated with decisional needs
      identified in Aim 1.

      Aim 3: Assess the DA prototype's accuracy, comprehensibility, and usability through alpha
      testing with an expert working group of patients with LLA and prosthetic care providers.

      Expected Result 3.1: Quantitative results from a Likert scale measurement of the DA
      prototype's accuracy, comprehensibility and usability will inform revisions to the DA prior
      to use in a pilot clinical trial.

      Expected Result 3.2: Qualitative feedback on the DA prototype's accuracy, comprehensibility,
      and usability will inform directed iterative revision for the DA prototype and implementation
      methods for use in a pilot clinical trial.
    
  