
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      Behavioral activation (BA) is an evidence based intervention that has been found to be
      effective in treating depression (ref). It has the advantage of being low cost and can be
      used by people with low literacy. BA can be easily delivered in low and middle income
      countries like Pakistan, if appropriately adapted.

      We have developed a single player card game that is based on principles of behavioral
      activation. The game was used with crisis and transitional case management clients, with
      positive feedback. This is a pilot study using a RCT design to test the effectiveness of this
      game.

      Objective To assess effectiveness of ACE4, for depression against care as usual. Study design
      and duration This study is a Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) which aims to assess
      effectiveness of ACE4 against care as usual for depression. Study participants will be
      randomly assigned to two groups the intervention group will receive ACE4 and TAU, while the
      control group will receive only TAU.

      ACE4: Introduction Intervention focuses on behavioral activation. Although ACE4 is a single
      player game, it can be facilitated by a carer. The game comes with 15 cards in four colour,
      with each colour representative of an activity area (for example, Creative activities,
      recreational, self care and work, social and spiritual activities). The idea is to choose
      equal number of activities from each colour. Every card has a number. Patients have to write
      this number on activity calendar that comes with this game, along with the time activity was
      performed. The aim of the game is to score maximum points at the end of the 6 weeks. Those
      with scores in high range get ACE4 badge (in addition to getting an improvement in their
      mood)

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria All those who fulfill the diagnostic criteria of Depressive
      episode (F32) or Recurrent depressive disorder (F33 except 33.4 ) using ICD10 RDC (based on
      interviews using SCAN Urdu version), are between the ages of 18 to 65, score 8 or more on
      HADS, Depression Subscale, will be approached. Patients will be asked to attend a further
      appointment at the end of study period and will be assessed again.

      The exclusion criteria include; excessive use of alcohol or drugs (using ICD 10 RDC for
      alcohol or drug abuse or dependence) significant cognitive impairment (for example learning
      disability or dementia) and active psychosis.

      Procedure Patients who have been referred for the study will be provided brief information
      about the study. Those who meet the criteria and consent will be then asked to join the study
      and will be allocated to one arm of the trial after randomization.

      Sample size This is a feasibility study. We will take 40 patients, with 20 in each arm.

      Randomization Randomization will be performed distantly by a statistician, from the list of
      all the patients who have been accepted for each group. After randomization patients will be
      allocated to either treatment or the control arm. Randomization will be performed for each
      group separately.

      INSTRUMENTS The assessments will be carried out at the base line and then at the end of
      therapy (8 weeks). Control group will receive care as usual.A number equal to intervention
      group will be employed in this group. Blind raters will be used to assess the change in
      depression.

      The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HAD) (Zigmond and Snaith, 1983) is a 14 item, self
      assessment scale designed to measure anxiety and depression. It has a high internal
      consistency, face validity and concurrent validity. Even-numbered questions relate to
      depression and odd-numbered questions relate to anxiety. Each question has 4 possible
      responses. Responses are scored on a scale from 3 to 0. The maximum score is therefore 21 for
      depression and 21 for anxiety. A score of 11 or higher indicates the probable presence of the
      mood disorder with a score of 8 to 10 being just suggestive of the presence of the respective
      state. The two subscales, anxiety and depression, have been found to be independent measures.
      In its current form the HADS is now divided into four ranges: normal (0-7), mild (8-10),
      moderate (11-15) and severe (16-21).

      The Clinical Outcome in Routine Evaluatoin (CORE) is is a client self-report questionnaire
      designed to be administered before and after therapy. The client is asked to respond to 34
      questions about how they have been feeling over the last week, using a 5-point scale ranging
      from 'not at all' to 'most or all of the time'. The 34 items of the measure cover four
      dimensions: Subjective well-being, Problems/symptoms, Life functioning and Risk/harm. The
      responses are designed to be averaged by the practitioner to produce a mean score to indicate
      the level of current psychological global distress (from 'healthy' to 'severe'). The
      questionnaire is repeated after the last session of treatment; comparison of the pre-and
      post-therapy scores offers a measure of 'outcome' (i.e. whether or not the client's level of
      distress has changed, and by how much) (Evans, 2000).

      Brief Disability Questionnaire (BDQ) was developed by the WHO to measure disability due to
      physical and psychological problems and has been used extensively in research (Von Korff et
      al., 1996).

      A data form will be used to collect information from the client.

      Study sites Crisis and the TCM services in Kingston, ON, Canada.

      Data entry and analysis Statistical analyses would be carried out using an intention to
      treat. Analyses will be carried out using SPSS v16 . Both parametric and non parametric tests
      will be carried out as appropriate to compare groups. An analysis of covariance will be used
      to measure the differences between the two groups at three time points, where the data is
      normally distributed. A t test will be used to compare groups, both paired and un-paired.
      SPSS frequency and descriptive commands will be used to measure descriptive statistics. SPSS
      explore command will be used to measure normality of the data, using histograms and
      Kolmorogov Smirnov test. If the therapy is proved to be more effective than the control, we
      will also use a binary logistic regression analysis to explore factors which predict good
      outcome. An intention to treat analysis will be performed. Number Needed to Treat (NNT) will
      be calculated to assist clinicians with clinical decision making.

      Research in clinically naturalistic settings It is recognized that such research is most
      likely to provide results that are relevant to routine clinical practice; the current study
      provides a more rigorous evaluation for an intervention that can be provided in current
      service in Pakistan and at no extra costs.
    
  