
    
      -  Arm I:

             -  Induction therapy: Patients receive oral tretinoin twice daily and arsenic trioxide
                IV over 2 hours on days 1-60. Patients achieving hematological complete remission
                go on to receive consolidation therapy.

             -  Consolidation therapy: Patients receive oral tretinoin twice daily on days 1-14.
                Treatment with tretinoin repeats every 4 weeks for up to 7 courses. Patients also
                receive arsenic trioxide IV over 2 hours on days 1-5 in weeks 1-4. Treatment with
                arsenic trioxide repeats every 8 weeks for up to 4 courses.

        -  Arm II:

             -  Induction therapy: Patients receive tretinoin as in arm I induction therapy and
                idarubicin IV over 20 minutes on days 2, 4, 6, and 8. Patients achieving
                hematological complete remission go on to receive consolidation therapy.

             -  Consolidation therapy: Patients receive oral tretinoin twice daily on days 1-45,
                idarubicin IV over 20 minutes on days 1-4 and day 31, and mitoxantrone
                hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 16-20.

      Marrow samples are collected after completion of consolidation therapy and analyzed by
      reverse transcriptase-PCR for molecular remission. Patients achieving molecular remission
      (PML-RARa negative) go on to receive maintenance therapy.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Patients receive oral mercaptopurine once daily and methotrexate
           intramuscularly once weekly for 3 months. Treatment with mercaptopurine and methotrexate
           repeats every 3 months for 7 courses. After completion of course 1 of mercaptopurine and
           methotrexate, patients receive oral tretinoin once daily on days 1-15*. Treatment with
           tretinoin repeats every 3 months for 6 courses.

      NOTE: *Patients do not receive mercaptopurine and methotrexate during tretinoin
      administration.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for 5 years.

      As of 14th September 2010, all patients needed to evaluate the primary endpoint (162
      patients) have been recruited but the trial accrual continued in order to assess one
      secondary outcome (QoL)."
    
  