
    
      Introduction Pulmonary Embolism (PE), the most serious complication of Deep Vein Thrombosis
      (DVT), is a relatively common and potentially fatal disease. Its diagnosis usually requires
      multiple approaches based on diagnostic imaging such as ventilation/perfusion lung scanning
      (V/Q) or Computed Tomography (CT). However, the performance of such imaging cannot
      immediately be performed in case of night or week-end referral; in this situation, attending
      physicians have to decide whether to treat incompletely assessed patients or to hospitalise
      them until confirmatory tests can be carried out. In lack of guidelines, empirical protective
      anticoagulation with Low Molecular Weight Heparins (LMWH), drugs showing a more favourable
      pharmacodynamic profile in comparison to UnFractionated Heparins (UFH), is usually given to
      patients. However, no clear-cut information is available about the need of such
      anticoagulation, its dosage and duration, or the time over which deferral of diagnostic
      procedures can be considered as safe. It seems more appropriate and safer, though, a
      management based on a preliminary evaluation of the actual risk of thrombosis.

      We have recently demonstrated that in patients clinically suspected of venous
      thromboembolism, Pre-test Clinical Probability (PCP), D-dimer and the use of LMWH can be
      safely used for delaying diagnostic tests for up 72 hours (Siragusa S et al. Arch Intern Med
      2004;164:2477). Our paper was mainly focused to patients suspected of Deep Vein Thrombosis
      (about 80% of the patients' cohort) which are considered a category at lower risk for
      complications than PE patients.

      Critically, data are lacking to guide the management of patients clinically suspected of
      having PE who cannot undergo immediate diagnostic imaging.

      We plan to perform a prospective clinical trial aimed at evaluating whether data derived from
      PCP and D-dimer testing, together with the use of LMWHs, permit safe management of patients
      with suspected PE when objective assessment is not available.

      Materials and Methods Patient Population Out-patients presenting with suspected acute PE,
      when diagnostic imaging were not immediately available (during nights or week-ends), will be
      considered eligible for the study. The study will be conducted in three Institutions
      (University Hospital AOUP "Paolo Giaccone" of Palermo, IRCCS Policlinico S. Matteo, Italy and
      IRCCS Ospedale Maggiore di Milano, Italy) with the same protocol. Exclusion criteria included
      the following: 1) life-threatening conditions, or serious co-morbidities that required
      immediate hospitalisation ; 2) relapse of a previously documented PE episode; 3) current use
      of oral anticoagulant therapy; 4) history of bleeding or any other contraindication to
      heparin; 5) age younger than 18 years; 6) life expectancy of less than 3 months; 7) refusal
      to give informed consent.

      Algorithm of intervention Patients will be evaluated and managed according to the clinical
      assessment protocol. PCP for PE will be assessed first (using a previously reported clinical
      model, followed by the D-dimer test.

      Patients considered at "low-risk", in case of low PCP or moderate PCP with a negative D-dimer
      test result, will be discharged without anticoagulant therapy. Conversely, patients with
      moderate PCP and a positive D-dimer test or with high PCP , will be considered as being at
      "high risk" and will receive therapeutic doses of LMWHs as 'protective anticoagulation'.
      Physicians have indeed the option of admitting patients to the hospital irrespective of PCP
      and D-dimer test results. All patients, either managed as in or out-patients, havo to undergo
      diagnostic imaging within 72 hours of PCP and D-dimer test assessment.

      Diagnostic assessment protocol for PE Diagnosis of PE will be assessed as described; briefly,
      all patients will undergo Ventilation-perfusion (V/Q) lung scanning or lung CT within 72
      hours from the patient referral. In case of not diagnostic imaging, patients undergo
      ultrasonography of the lower limbs. Patients weill be diagnosed as having PE if they have a
      high-probability V/Q scan or an abnormal imaging result showing venous thrombi. All
      diagnostic tests will be performed by operators unaware of D-d assay results or PCP
      assessment. In cases of a positive diagnostic imaging test results, patients will be managed
      accordingly and they will receive full dose of anticoagulants.

      Blood drawn for the D-dimer assay will be mixed with tri-sodium citrate (1 vol) and tested by
      technicians unaware of other test results. We will use a semi-quantitative latex assay
      (Dimertest®, Dade Behring, Deerfield Ill) performed as described.

      Follow-Up Patients will be monitored for 2 periods of follow-up: short-term and long-term.
      Short-term follow-up is defined as the time between patient referral and the completion of
      the diagnostic procedures (within 72 hours). Patients will be trained to return or to contact
      physicians during this period in case of: 1) worsening of respiratory symptoms; 2) signs and
      symptoms suggestive of developing deep venous thrombosis of the legs; 3) major and minor
      bleeding during protective anticoagulation; 4) any other reason for hospitalisation due to
      VTE-related symptoms.

      Long-term follow-up (3 months) is used to record the incidence of PE in those patients for
      whom this diagnosis will be ruled out.

      At any follow up time, in case of signs or symptoms suggestive of the aforementioned events,
      patients will undergo objective assessment through imaging.

      Statistic analysis We estimate that the primary event rate (PE and major bleeding) during the
      short-term follow-up would be less than 2%. We plan to include a sufficient number of
      patients to ensure that the upper limits of the 95% Confidence Intervals (CI) were less than
      2.5%. This resulted in a projected sample size of at least 300 patients.

      The rate of occurrence of any thromboembolic event during the short- or long-term follow-up
      will be determined and 95% CI will be calculated. The proportion of patients who developed
      VTE in each PCP group and the relative 95% CI will be determined, as were the proportions of
      patients who develope events during the long-term follow up. Paired "t" and Pearson 2 tests
      were used as indicated; P < .05% (2-tailed) was considered statistically significant.
      Diagnostic accuracy of D-dimer assessment will be calculated in terms of sensitivity,
      specificity, and positive and negative predictive values with corresponding 95% CIs (9).
    
  