
    
      The term "high ankle sprain" refers to injury to the syndesmotic ligaments of the ankle. It
      has become a much more common injury comprising up to 24.6% of all ankle sprains , with an
      incidence of 2.4 per 1000 athlete exposures. These can present a significant therapeutic
      challenge for the sports physician and typically result in a prolonged morbidity and delayed
      return to activity. The literature shows a lack of information for definitive care of these
      athletes. Typical recovery for the high ankle sprain is almost twice as long as the more
      common lateral ankle inversion sprain with a mean time to return to play of 45 days. There is
      also a higher incidence of residual chronic pain comparing high ankle sprains to an isolated
      lateral ankle sprain. The current standard for treatment of this injury has been to depend on
      symptomatic treatment with an initial phase of rest and protected splinting. This is followed
      by the use of NSAID's with a graduated rehabilitation program to reduce swelling, improve
      range of motion, and regain strength and proprioception of the ankle. This is followed by
      protective taping or bracing and return to activities as tolerated. Inflammation is one of
      the body's first reactions to injury. Release of damaged cells and tissue debris occurs upon
      injury. These expelled particles act as antigens to stimulate a nonspecific immune response
      and to cause the proliferation of leukocytes. Local blood flow increases to transport the
      polymorphonuclear leukocytes, macrophages, and plasma proteins to the injured area. A
      redistribution of arteriolar flow produces stasis and hypoxia at the injury site. The
      resulting infiltration of tissues by the leukocytes, plasma proteins, and fluid causes the
      redness, swelling, and pain that are characteristic of inflammation. Initially, the
      inflammatory reaction serves several important purposes. The influx of leukocytes facilitates
      the process of phagocytosis and the removal of damaged cells and other particulate matter.
      Pain and tenderness remind the patient to protect the injured area; however, the inflammatory
      reaction eventually becomes counterproductive. The mechanism of corticosteroid action
      includes a reduction of the inflammatory reaction by limiting the capillary dilatation and
      permeability of the vascular structures. These compounds restrict the accumulation of
      polymorphonuclear leukocytes and macrophages and reduce the release of vasoactive kinins.
      They also inhibit the release of destructive enzymes that attack the injury debris and
      destroy normal tissue indiscriminately. Additionally, new research suggests that
      corticosteroids may inhibit the release of arachidonic acid from phospholipids, thereby
      reducing the formation of prostaglandins, which contribute to the inflammatory process. There
      are no previous prospective, randomized studies that look at utilization of corticosteroids
      in treatment of the high ankle sprain. Only anecdotal information is available in simple case
      reports for treatment. There was one study looking at treatment with platelet rich plasma
      injection which demonstrated shorter return to play times and less long term residual pain.
    
  