
    
      -  Main objective of the study: to determine if the combination between visual and auditory
           cues improve spatial navigation and memory of patients with a traumatic brain injury
           (TBI).

        -  Secondary objective of the study: to determine if the number of patients (%) with no
           trajectory mistakes with combined cues differs significantly from the one of healthy
           controls.

        -  Investigation centers: 4 : Rehabilitation Unit of Raymond Poincaré Hospital (Garches,
           France); Rehabilitation Unit of the University Hospital of Bordeaux (France);
           Rehabilitation Unit of the University Hospital of Rennes (France); Rehabilitation center
           of Kerpape (France)

        -  Study description: prospective, clinical, randomized, controlled

        -  Inclusion criteria: for the patients: history of moderate or severe traumatic brain
           injury with no other previous neurological history; for the healthy controls: no
           neurological history.

        -  Exclusion criteria: deafness (more than 40 decibels at one ear); low non-corrected
           visual acuity; severe comprehension issues; severe behavioral issues (DSM IV
           definition); epileptic seizures during the 6 months preceding the inclusion in the
           present study, except the 14 days after the TBI; a non-stabilized acute disease; absence
           of social assurance; ongoing legal protection; age under 18; pregnancy and
           breast-feeding

        -  Procedure: 1) Selection of patients by the investigators in each center. Verification of
           the inclusion and the exclusion criteria, and delivery of the information note.

           2) Visit 1: At least 24 hours later, investigators will gather the written consent of
           the participants. Then, participants will have to reproduce actively with a joystick
           three different paths including 6 intersections that they have previously seen on a
           computer screen representing a virtual district. One path will be done without cues, one
           with visual or auditory cues, and one with combined cues (visual+auditory). The order of
           the paths will be randomized. Auditory cues consist on beeping sounds indicating the
           direction at each intersection. Visual cues consist on salient landmarks (red and
           blinking) positioning at each intersection. The virtual district used looks like a
           North-American medium-sized town. Duration: 1h30 maximum.

           3) A second visit will be organized less than 15 days after the Visit 1. It will consist
           of a classical neuropsychological evaluation, assessing global cognitive efficiency
           (using the Mini Mental State Examination), memory (using the Gröber and Buschke test and
           the Rey Figure), executive functions (using the Frontal Assessment Battery and the
           Stroop test), attentional functions (using the Zazzo test), visuo-spatial functions
           (using the Rotation Mental test, the Santa Barbara Questionnaire and a mental imagery
           test developed by Maurer and Descloux) and neglect (using a barrage test and the
           Catherine Bergego scale). Duration: 2 hours maximum.

        -  Duration of the study: 18 months

        -  Number of participants included (using a calculation for the number of participants): 45
           patients with a traumatic brain injury, and 20 healthy controls

        -  Statistics: comparisons between conditions will be done using ANOVA tests, then 2-by-2
           using t-tests (if normality is established; if not, Kruskall-Wallis tests and Wilcoxon
           tests will be used). Correlations (Pearson or Spearman tests) will be done between
           spatial navigation performances and neuropsychological results at pencil-and-paper
           tasks.

        -  Ethics: The consent of an Ethics Committee has been requested (pending). A clinician
           Research Associate will monitor the results. A meeting with the investigators of the 4
           centers will be planned every 6 months.

        -  The Source data verification will be done by the Clinician Research Associate for each
           participant.

        -  Reporting for adverse effects: the possible adverse effects are fatigue, headache,
           cyber-sickness (the same effect that can occur during the use of a computer) and
           exceptionally epileptic seizure (risk limited by the shortness of the exposure with the
           computer; 8 minutes per path on average). If a severe adverse effect occurs, like an
           epileptic seizure, it will be immediately reported to the sponsor, and a formulary will
           be send to a specific cell (named "Cellule Vigilance de la Fédération de Recherche
           Clinique"). The participation of the subject to the study will be immediately stopped.

        -  Plan for missing data: the presence of missing data or lost participants has been taken
           into account in the calculation for the number of participants. The data will be
           analyzed in "intention-to-treat".
    
  