
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a common cause of stroke, especially ischemic stroke. So far, all
      available data that demonstrate a beneficial effect of oral anticoagulation for stroke
      prevention have been collected in populations with AF documented by conventional ECG
      recordings. It is well established that a large proportion of AF episodes remain undiagnosed
      ("silent AF"), and many of these patients present with a stroke as the first clinical sign of
      AF. Earlier initiation of anticoagulation could prevent such events. Continuous monitoring of
      atrial rhythm by implanted devices could close this diagnostic gap. Pacemakers,
      defibrillators, and cardiac resynchronisation devices already provide automated algorithms
      alerting to the occurrence of highly organised atrial tachyarrhythmia episodes, also called
      "subclinical atrial fibrillation" or, more commonly, "atrial high rate episodes" (AHRE). Data
      from large prospectively followed patient cohorts demonstrated that stroke rate is increased
      in patients with AHRE. A sizeable portion of these patients develops clinically detected AF
      over time. In these patients, AHRE can be considered as an early manifestation of paroxysmal
      AF. A few AHRE patients do not develop clinically overt AF, and the absolute stroke rates are
      lower in patients with AHRE when compared to stroke rates in patients with clinically
      diagnosed AF. In light of the bleeding complications associated with oral anticoagulant
      therapy, there is thus uncertainty about the optimal antithrombotic therapy in patients with
      AHREs.

      The Non-vitamin K antagonist Oral anticoagulants (NOACs) provide similar or slightly better
      stroke prevention, and appear slightly safer compared to vitamin K antagonists (VKAs). In
      addition, no individual therapy adjustment of NOACs has to be performed. Edoxaban, a newly
      introduced NOAC, at a dose regime of 60 mg once daily (OD) has a favourable profile compared
      to dose-adjusted VKA therapy: In the ENGAGE-TIMI 48 trial, edoxaban prevented strokes at
      least as effectively as VKA therapy but caused less major bleeding events than VKA therapy.
    
  