
    
      Depression increases the risk for cardiac morbidity and mortality 2-4 fold in patients with
      coronary heart disease (CHD). Recent clinical trials have tested standard treatments for
      comorbid depression in patients with CHD, and some have evaluated their effects on cardiac
      morbidity and mortality. Most of these trials have shown that standard treatments have only
      modest effects on depression and have produced relatively small differences between the
      intervention and control condition. Consequently, they have been unable to determine whether
      effective treatment of depression can improve cardiac outcomes. Low dietary intake and low
      plasma phospholipid or erythrocyte levels of two omega-3 fatty acids(FAs), eicosapentaenoic
      acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), are associated with depression and other cardiac
      risk markers. There is growing evidence from small psychiatric trials that the efficacy of
      standard antidepressants can be improved by coadministration of an omega-3 FA formulation
      containing at least 1 gram of EPA. The purpose of the proposed research is to determine
      whether antidepressant augmentation with this omega-3 formulation is superior to
      antidepressant therapy alone for major depression in patients with CHD. The proposed study is
      a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind clinical trial. Consenting patients with
      established coronary heart disease who meet the Diagnostic Statistical Manual (DSM)-5
      criteria for a major depressive episode will undergo a baseline evaluation and then be
      randomly assigned to receive either 50 mg/day of sertraline plus omega-3 FA or 50 mg/day of
      sertraline plus placebo for 10 weeks. At baseline and after 10 weeks, participants will
      complete assessments of depression, 24 hour ambulatory ECG monitoring to measure 24 hour
      heart rate and heart rate variability, and blood draws to measure procoagulant and
      proinflammatory markers and blood levels of EPA, DHA, other omega-3 FAs, and the omega-6 FAs.
      If sertraline plus this omega-3 formulation significantly reduces depression compared to
      sertraline plus placebo, and if it improves or at least does not worsen other cardiovascular
      risk markers, this study will provide a strong basis for proposing a multicenter clinical
      trial of sertraline augmented with omega-3 to determine whether treatment of depression can
      improve survival in patients with CHD and depression.
    
  