
    
      This pilot study seeks to test the efficacy of a resilience skills training intervention for
      former football players who experience chronic pain. Chronic pain threatens quality of life,
      and the culture of elite athletes is poorly adapted to the chronic condition of pain.
      Innovative strategies that are both culturally acceptable and effective are needed to address
      the needs of players who may have a reluctance to engage traditional treatment approaches.

      The overarching goal is to strengthen the capacity for former football players to maintain
      adaptive engagement in valued activities despite chronic pain. Responding to recent findings
      from the Harvard Football Player Health Study (HFPHS) that identified pain as a significant
      challenge, we propose a pilot study that tests a resilience skills training intervention with
      former football players who currently experience chronic pain.

      This proposed study builds on previous work conducted at Morehouse School of Medicine
      engaging retired professional football players and ongoing resilience intervention research
      involving veteran and community-based populations. The specific aim of this study is to test
      an intervention to decrease chronic pain and co-morbid symptoms and improve a broader
      adaptive level of functioning through Goal-Directed Resilience Training (GRIT) for chronic
      pain in a sub-sample of Atlanta-based former players.

      The investigators hypothesize the following:

        1. GRIT training intervention versus control training will be associated with reduced
           chronic pain and related symptoms of insomnia, anxiety, depression, improved emotional
           functions, and improved neurocognitive functions.

        2. Improved self-reported physical health, quality of life, personal relationships, and
           personal growth will be evident for intervention versus control participants.

      This pilot study has the potential to advance strategies to improve the well-being and
      functional status of former players impacted by pain.
    
  