
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of yttrium Y 90 monoclonal antibody Lym-1
           administered with cyclosporine and paclitaxel followed by autologous peripheral blood
           stem cell transplantation in patients with refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this treatment regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, dose escalation study of yttrium Y 90 monoclonal antibody
      Lym-1 (Y90 MOAB Lym-1). Patients are assigned to one of four cohorts.

        -  Cohort I: Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) beginning 4 days prior
           to peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) mobilization and continuing until adequate PBSC are
           collected. Patients receive unlabeled monoclonal antibody (MOAB) Lym-1 IV followed by a
           tracer dose of indium In 111 MOAB Lym-1 (In111 MOAB Lym-1) IV on day 0 and unlabeled
           MOAB Lym-1 IV followed by Y90 MOAB Lym-1 IV on day 7. Patients also receive oral
           cyclosporine every 12 hours on days -2 to 14. Patients may undergo autologous PBSC
           transplantation, if necessary, no earlier than day 17 and receive G-CSF SC beginning at
           the completion of PBSC re-infusion and continuing until blood counts recover.

        -  Cohort II: Patients undergo PBSC mobilization and receive treatment as in cohort I.
           Patients also receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 9.

        -  Cohort III: Patients undergo PBSC mobilization and receive unlabeled MOAB Lym-1, In111
           MOAB Lym-1, Y90 MOAB Lym-1, and cyclosporine as in cohort I and paclitaxel as in cohort
           II. Patients undergo autologous PBSC transplantation no earlier than day 17. Patients
           receive G-CSF after transplantation as in cohort I.

        -  Cohort IV: Patients undergo PBSC mobilization and receive treatment as in cohort III.
           Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 1 to 3 patients receive escalating doses of Y90 MOAB Lym-1 until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which 1 of 3 patients
      require PBSC transplantation, or the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 patients experience
      dose-limiting toxicity.

      Patients are followed monthly for 3 months, every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 1
      year, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 40 patients will be accrued for this study within 36 months.
    
  