
    
      This cluster randomised controlled study will be conducted in the context of funded 4CMenB
      vaccine offered to all students in years 10, 11, and 12.

      Year 10 and 11 students will undergo baseline and 12 months posterior pharyngeal swabs. Year
      12 students will undergo baseline posterior pharyngeal swabs only.

      Randomisation will take place at the school level and will be stratified by school size
      ((<60, 60 to 119, and ≥120 students per year level) and school socio-economic status (SES),
      as measured by the Index of Community Socio-Educational Advantage (ICSEA); (ICSEA <970, 970
      to 1020, >1020) For the purposes of the study a school is defined as an educational
      institution at which students in years 10, 11, 12 physically attend school during the week.
      All 260 schools in metropolitan and rural SA will be approached to participate in the study.
      All schools agreeing to participate will be randomised to 4CMenB vaccine in 2017 or 2018.
      Students at schools randomised to receive the vaccine at baseline will receive the 4CMenB
      vaccine in 2017. Students at schools randomised to receive the vaccine at the 12 month
      posterior pharyngeal swab will receive the 4CMenB vaccine in 2018.

      Primary Objectives

      • Estimate the difference in carriage prevalence of disease causing genogroup of N.
      meningitidis (A, B, C, W, X, Y) following the 12 month pharyngeal swab in year 10 and 11
      students who received two doses of Bexsero®, compared to unvaccinated students.

      Secondary objectives

        -  Estimate the difference in carriage prevalence of each disease causing genogroup of N.
           meningitidis (A, B, C, W, X, Y) following the 12 month pharyngeal swab in year 10 and 11
           students who received two doses of Bexsero®, compared to unvaccinated students.

        -  Estimate the difference in carriage prevalence of all genogroups of N. meningitidis
           following the 12 month pharyngeal swab in year 10 and 11 students who received two doses
           of Bexsero ®, compared to unvaccinated students.

        -  Estimate the difference in acquisition (negative at baseline, positive at 12 month
           followup) of carriage of disease causing genogroups of N. meningitidis (A, B, C, W, X,
           Y) over a 12 month period in students who received two doses of Bexsero ®, compared to
           unvaccinated students.

        -  Estimate the difference in acquisition (negative at baseline, positive at 12 month
           followup) of carriage of all genogroups of N. meningitidis over a 12 month period in
           students who received two doses of Bexsero ®, compared to unvaccinated students

        -  Identify characteristics associated with carriage prevalence of all genogroups N.
           meningitidis in South Australian school students at baseline and 12 months.

        -  Identify characteristics associated with carriage prevalence of disease causing
           genogroups of N. meningitidis (A, B, C, W, X, Y) in South Australian school students at
           baseline and 12 months.

      Exploratory objectives

        -  Describe changes in invasive meningococcal rates (attack rates) across all age groups
           pre and post 4CMenB vaccine intervention in South Australia.

        -  Describe N. meningitidis carriage density in year 10, 11, and 12 students using qPCR at
           baseline and 12 months in both vaccinated and unvaccinated students.

        -  Describe genome sequencing of N. meningitidis disease causing (A, B, C, W, X, Y)
           sequence types in year 10, 11, and 12 students at baseline and at 12 months.

        -  In schools randomized to Group A, describe the association of carriage prevalence of
           disease causing genogroups and vaccine uptake at school level following implementation.

        -  In schools randomized to Group A, describe the association of carriage prevalence of all
           N. meningitidis and vaccine uptake at school level following implementation.
    
  