
    
      Nearly all trauma patients admitted to an intensive care unit (ICU) are anemic (low red blood
      cell counts). Anemia is an independent risk factor for poor outcomes, including infection,
      impaired wound healing, and death. Current therapies for ICU anemia are unsatisfactory: Red
      blood cell (RBC) transfusion is associated with an increased risk of immune suppression,
      infection, and organ failure. Furthermore, use of both hemoglobin replacement products and
      erythropoietin are limited by expense as well as unfavorable side effect profiles.

      One principal cause of anemia in trauma ICU patients involves disturbances in iron
      metabolism. Iron is necessary to make RBCs, and a lack of iron delivered to the bone marrow
      results in anemia. Trauma causes diversion of iron from the bone marrow into storage, where
      it cannot participate in the generation of RBCs. This diversion of iron is caused by
      inflammatory proteins released as a result of tissue injury.

      Previous work by the principal investigator among ICU patients suggested a benefit to oral
      iron supplementation administered in dosages similar to those used in a standard
      multivitamin. However, many patients were not able to tolerate oral medications, and this
      study was not specific to trauma patients. Additional research has suggested that intravenous
      iron supplementation is effective in treating anemic patients with other inflammatory
      conditions, such as cancer and inflammatory bowel disease. However, the benefit of
      intravenous iron supplementation has never been tested among anemic ICU patients, including
      trauma patients.

      The current clinical trial will evaluate the risk/benefit profile of intravenous iron
      supplementation among anemic trauma ICU patients. The study will take place over several
      academic trauma centers with a long history of participation in translational research.

      Anemia remains a devastating complication of trauma. Current treatment options are limited.
      Intravenous iron supplementation represents a targeted, cost-effective solution to this
      pervasive problem, the efficacy of which remains undefined.
    
  