
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of GSK1120212 (trametinib) combined with
      standard chemoradiation in unresectable non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and safety as
      measured by the rate of grade 3 or worse non-hematological toxicities occurring prior to the
      beginning of consolidation therapy (including all toxicities attributed to chemoradiation
      occurring within 10 weeks of the start of radiation therapy).

      II. Pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis of carboplatin, paclitaxel, and trametinib.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Response rate based on computed tomography (CT) or fludeoxyglucose F 18 (FDG)-positron
      emission tomography (PET)/CT imaging response assessment after completion of chemoradiation.

      II. Biomarker correlate to response and resistance. III. Overall survival. IV. Patterns of
      recurrence. V. Determine dose delay and the percentage of dose delivered for each agent.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of trametinib.

      CONCURRENT CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients undergo intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) or
      three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy (3D-CRT) once daily (QD) 5 days a week for 6 weeks.
      Patients receive trametinib orally (PO) QD and carboplatin intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes
      and paclitaxel IV over 1 hour once weekly. Treatment continues for 6 weeks in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients without disease progression after
      completion of chemoradiation proceed to consolidation chemotherapy.

      CONSOLIDATION CHEMOTHERAPY: Beginning 3 weeks after completion of concurrent chemoradiation,
      patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and
      22. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year,
      every 4 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months for 2 years.
    
  