
    
      Nearly half of our 22 million US military Veterans are age 65 and older and, within this
      population, low back pain is common, costly and often disabling. The prevalence of low back
      pain in those 85+, the most vulnerable and fastest growing segment of society, is estimated
      at 44%. Chronic low back pain (CLBP, i.e., present for 6 months or more) is associated with
      the overwhelming majority of healthcare resource utilization and personal suffering. Treating
      back problems cost Americans more than $30 billion in 2007- up from $16 billion in 1997 (in
      2007 dollars). Despite these staggering data, there is no evidence that the care of patients
      with CLBP has improved, and the use of invasive, potentially morbid, and often ineffective
      interventions (e.g., epidural corticosteroid injections and spine surgery) continues to
      skyrocket. Primary care providers (PCP) who are tasked with treating CLBP without adequate
      education often use advanced imaging (most commonly magnetic resonance imaging [MRI]) to
      guide care. Imaging-identified pathology (e.g., degenerative disc and facet disease, bulging
      discs) is ubiquitous in older adults, even in those that are pain-free. It is not surprising,
      therefore, that imaging-guided treatments often lead to suboptimal outcomes and potential
      morbidity. In contrast to how CLBP is often conceptualized and treated, the investigators
      conceptualize CLBP as a syndrome, that is, a final common pathway for the expression of
      multiple contributors that often lie outside the spine itself, for example, hip
      osteoarthritis, fibromyalgia syndrome, and anxiety. Treating CLBP and ameliorating disability
      in older adults necessitates addressing multiple conditions and risk factors; however, the
      expertise to evaluate and treat all of the disorders that can contribute to CLBP typically
      resides in multiple specialty silos, making a comprehensive approach to treating CLBP
      difficult to implement.

      Through the support of a 2-year Rehab R&D Merit Review pilot award, the investigators have
      laid the essential foundation for delivering more comprehensive and patient-centric care to
      older Veterans with CLBP. The investigators have:

        -  1) synthesized, through a modified Delphi process, evidence on evaluating and treating
           11 key conditions that commonly drive pain and disability in older adults with CLBP

        -  2) created algorithms to be used in the clinical setting to treat these 11 conditions

        -  3) successfully trained geriatrician providers in a practical structured assessment of
           the 11 conditions, and

        -  4) validated the prevalence of these conditions specifically in older Veterans

      In the current application, the investigators are proposing a 2-site pilot study to explore
      the impact of delivering patient-centered comprehensive evaluation and treatment (PCCET) as
      compared with imaging-associated usual care (IAUC) to older Veterans with CLBP. In addition
      to examining whether PCCET is more effective than IAUC for reducing pain and functional
      limitations when delivered by geriatricians in 2 VA medical centers, the investigators will
      evaluate PCCET's impact on health-related quality of life and health care utilization. The
      investigators also will collect data to identify barriers and facilitators to implementing
      PCCET from the perspective of patients and providers.
    
  