
    
      Endoscopic pancreatic duct stenting has been increasingly used for the treatment of a variety
      of pancreatic disorders including chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic duct stricture, drainage
      of pseudocysts, and the prevention of pancreatitis following endoscopic retrograde
      cholangiopancreatography (ERCP). Several randomized, controlled trials and meta-analyses have
      proven a significant reduction in incidence and severity of post-ERCP pancreatitis (PEP) with
      prophylactic pancreatic duct stenting. The US and European guidelines recommend that
      pancreatic duct stents (PDS) be placed between 7-10 days and 5-10 days, respectively, in
      order to prevent PEP in some situations. Therefore, the placement of PDS has been an
      established essential procedure for preventing a fatal complication, PEP. Furthermore, PDS
      placement can facilitate difficult common bile duct cannulation. It may help not only to
      straighten papillary anatomy but also to identify the location of the biliary orifice.

      However, PDS tends to become occluded easily due to protein content, calcium carbonate
      crystals, and bacteria in the pancreatic juice. The occluded PDS can cause acute pancreatitis
      or abdominal pain. For this reason, the guidelines recommend PDS be placed within 10 days.
      Because of this policy, the patient must take the inconvenience of undergoing another
      endoscopic procedure to remove the PDS. However, all patients with occluded PDS do not have
      symptoms such as pain. In one series, only 6 percent of patients with clogged PDS developed
      symptoms. The low incidence of symptoms despite a high rate of stent occlusion suggests that
      the stent may function as a wick around which pancreatic juices continue to drain. In
      addition, the rate of spontaneous stent dislodgement was relatively high (65-86%) within 30
      days according to a previous study. A recent study also reported that prolonged retention of
      prophylactic pancreatic stents is not associated with increased complications.

      Taken together, PDS placed during ERCP do not need to be removed until any symptom develops.
      In particular, if the investigators can observe PDS for about a month without removing them,
      the PDS are more likely to pass out spontaneously, which could reduce unnecessary procedures.
      However, to date, there have been few randomized controlled studies on the optimal placement
      duration of PDS inserted during ERCP.
    
  