
    
      Patients with true gynecomastia, attending Al-Kindy Teaching Hospital and private hospitals,
      Baghdad, Iraq, from January 2010 to January 2016 were enrolled in the study. Grading of
      gynecomastia was done according to Cordova and Moschella classification (6). Patients with
      Grade I were excluded because of no skin excess, while grade IV were excluded due to the need
      of more extensive procedures. The study protocol was reviewed and approved by the Scientific
      and Ethical Committee of Al-Kindy College of medicine and Al-kindy Teaching hospital in the
      committee number 6 in 20-5-2019 (Ethical approval number and Date). Written informed consents
      were obtained from all patients as an action on acceptance. All enrolled patients were
      operated by the same surgeon. Patients were randomly assigned to one of the following
      surgical technique: Group A; included patients who underwent subcutaneous mastectomy using
      periareolar incision with lateral and medial extension as needed according to Webster(12).

      Group B; included patients who were treated by the proposed Modified Benelli Technique (MBT)
      using the following operative procedure:

      First ask the patient to stand up and draw the a line referring to the midline of the chest
      then mark the ideal breast meridian at 18 cm from midclavicular point to show the position
      where the nipple should be placed (point X) with skin marker pen and assess the quantity of
      surplus skin to be excised. After that, ask the patient to lie down on the couch and a
      periareolar line was marked ( line A) above and medial to the areola and a second radial line
      above it and parallel to it passing in the point (X) was made and named line B. The ends of
      this line is curved to approximate and connect to both ends of the line A . Then, the patient
      is given general anesthesia and the two incisions were made on the lines A and B i.e.
      periareolar incision above and medial to the areola with a second incision above it and
      connecting both ends . Next, the whole thickness of the excess skin between line A and the
      line B was excised (Simon classification 2A, 2B and 3) and subcutaneous mastectomy was done
      and sent to histopathology. Later on, bleeding control was done by good hemostasis and
      suction drain was put in its proper site. Finally subcuticular suturing was done by
      approximation of two incisions using Nylon 3/0. Lastly, sterile pressure dressing was placed.
      The result of both groups were compared in terms of operating time, nipple-areola complex
      location, post-operative complications including, pleating of the skin at suture line,
      hematoma, bruising at the site of incision, , soft tissue deformity, seroma, hypoesthesia of
      nipple-areola complex, wound dehiscence, areolar epidermolysis, and hypertrophic scarring.
    
  