
    
      Myositis, an autoimmune muscle disease, likely develops as a result of environmental
      exposures in genetically susceptible persons. Preliminary data suggest a trend for an
      increasing incidence in myositis in military personnel over the last decade for unknown
      reasons. Although a few environmental exposures have been preliminarily associated with
      myositis in the civilian population, these have not been confirmed. In addition, no study has
      assessed exposures that might result in the development of myositis in military personnel.
      Military personnel experience a number of intense, unique exposures, often over a relatively
      short interval, which include different stresses, novel vaccines, distinct occupational
      exposures, battlefield injuries and unique chemicals during field deployment, that differ
      from those exposures in non-military populations. Therefore, we propose a protocol that
      consists of three complementary approaches to attempt to determine the environmental factors
      associated with the development of myositis in active duty military personnel and an initial
      understanding of the possible mechanisms involved. In the first approach, we will assess risk
      factors in a case-control study of 300 patients who developed myositis while on active duty
      by comparing them to 1500 active duty military personnel (randomly selected, but matched 5:1
      by gender, race, and age and military service within 10 years) who have not been diagnosed
      with an autoimmune disease or chronic muscle disease. For this first approach, we will
      analyze existing military databases for information on medications, vaccines, infections,
      co-existing medical conditions, military occupations, deployments, and worldwide active duty
      locations. In the second case-control approach, we will attempt to define environmental
      factors associated with the development of myositis that developed in military personnel
      (n=150) by comparing them to 150 similarly matched military personnel who have not been
      diagnosed with an autoimmune disease or chronic muscle disease. This second approach will
      differ from the first approach, in that subjects will be prospectively enrolled and assessed
      during a single clinic visit to confirm diagnoses and examine patient questionnaires on
      focused environmental exposures, including those not captured in the military databases. A
      third laboratory approach will identify, in an exploratory study, the global DNA methylation
      epigenetic changes, microRNA and mRNA profiles in peripheral blood and muscle tissues from 18
      subjects (six PM and six DM compared to six non-myositis controls enrolled in the second
      approach) and assess the effects of selected environmental exposures on these parameters.
      These complementary approaches should enhance the understanding of environmental factors and
      possible mechanisms associated with the development of myositis in the military, and provide
      insights into environmental risk factors that may also be relevant to the development of
      myositis in non-military populations.
    
  