
    
      Trial design and statistics:

      This is a multi center- phase II open comparative trial. "Patients" - Those who choose
      prophylactic contralateral breast irradiation. "Controls" - Those that do not opt for
      prophylactic irradiation or mastectomy. Objective - to compare the rate of contralateral
      breast cancer in "patients" versus "controls".

      Assuming that 2/3 of the eligible carrier breast cancer patients refuse the procedure: To
      detect a difference of 10% vs. 25% in the incidence of contralateral breast cancer with power
      = 80%, alpha = 0.05, 80 patients and 160 controls need to be enrolled.

      Treatment:

      Chemotherapy, Hormonal therapy and XRT to the affected breast as per treating institution.

      Radiation therapy:

      Patients will undergo a pre-treatment planning CT with 5mm cuts in the treatment position, on
      a breast board, with both arms extended above their head. The organs at risk (heart, lungs)
      will be contoured on the CT scan.

      The affected breast (with the index lesion) and associated lymphatic drainage will be treated
      according to the treating physician decision. The contralateral breast will be treated with 2
      tangent fields, using 1.8-2 Gy/fx to a total dose of 50-50.4 Gy. The whole breast will be
      treated according to traditional guidelines and as described in the RTOG/NSABP B39 study. The
      heart should be completely blocked for left sided breasts, included lung tissue should be
      reduced to minimum. No overlapping field is allowed on the skin between the two breast fields
      in the midline. Maximal dose should not exceed 110%.

      Follow up:

      The treating physician will follow the patient every 2 weeks during the radiation treatment.
      Side effects will be scored and recorded in the patients chart according to the Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v3.0.

      Subsequent follow-up schedule according to the treating institution and ASCO guidelines.
      Patients will undergo annual mammogram and breasts US. Annual breasts MRI and bilateral
      salpingo-oophorectomy will be recommended.

      Ipsilateral and contralateral breast cancer will be recorded and reported. Any subsequent
      malignancy other than breast cancer will be reported. Long-term radiation side effects will
      be recorded.
    
  