
    
      NPI-0052 (also known as marizomab) is a second generation proteasome inhibitor being
      developed as an anticancer agent. Proteasomes are responsible for degrading substrates such
      as damaged and aged proteins, tumor suppressors, and cell cycle regulators, and for
      regulating NF-κB activation by degrading its inhibitor, IκB. Blocking the proteasome pathway
      results in accumulation of proteins, which can cause cell death, particularly in tumor cells
      (Kisselev, 2001).

      The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the first proteasome inhibitor (bortezomib;
      Velcade®) in 2003 for the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma (MM) and subsequently
      for treatment of patients with mantle cell lymphoma in 2006. Although this compound has
      demonstrated efficacy in both of those indications, resistance and toxicity develop with
      continued therapy. Resistance may result from a variety of mechanisms. Bortezomib toxicity
      (primarily neurological with peripheral neuropathy and neuralgia, and also thrombocytopenia
      and neutropenia) can result in treatment discontinuation (about 25% of patients in a clinical
      trial conducted in patients at time of first relapse required cessation of therapy due to
      adverse events).

      NPI-0052 inhibits the chymotrypsin-like (CT-L), caspase-like (C-L), and trypsin-like (T-L)
      activity of human erythrocyte-derived 20S proteasomes. Also known as salinosporamide A,
      NPI-0052 is a novel chemical entity discovered during the fermentation of Salinispora tropica
      NPS021184, a marine actinomycete, and is manufactured by saline fermentation. NPI-0052 was
      shown in nonclinical studies to have increased potency and duration of biological effects
      compared with bortezomib and may provide a significant therapeutic advantage, particularly if
      toxicity is less at therapeutic doses.

      This was the first-in-human study of NPI-0052, and was conducted in cancer patients.
    
  