
    
      Objective: This study will evaluate the effect of combined Armeo®spring pediatric and
      Constraint Induced Therapy on neuro-motor and functional recovery in children with unilateral
      cerebral palsy.

      Background: Children with unilateral cerebral palsy (CP) tend not to use their impaired arm
      and hand throughout life. This disuse of a limb during postnatal development can stunt the
      activity-dependent structural and functional development of the motor system. Enabling young
      children to more readily use their affected extremity is likely to increase the competitive
      ability of the affected side and can improve the functional and anatomical integrity of the
      motor system.

      Several studies have shown that applying a restraint to the less affected hand with intensive
      repetitive use of the more affected hand has significant effect in overcoming learned
      non-use. There is evidence that suggests that CIT produced significant cortical
      reorganization in adults with chronic and sub-acute cerebrovascular accident (CVA) and
      patients with chronic traumatic brain injury and for the lower limb of patients with CVA.

      The associations between motor physiology and motor performance in children with hemiplegic
      CP are being examined. Recent study shows that children whose impaired hand is controlled by
      contralateral connections from the unaffected motor cortex show greater improvement to
      intensive hand training than children whose impaired hand is controlled by ipsilateral
      connections from the affected motor cortex.

      In order for future therapies to be applied selectively to brain regions most important in
      mediating recovery, it is important to determine the location of plastic changes produced by
      intensive practice.

      Subject Population: Children with CP Hemiplegia

      Design: Participating children enrolled will engage in intensive CI therapeutic activities
      along with 30-45 minutes of Armeo®Spring based activities at progressively increasing levels
      of difficult, 6 h/day for 5 days a week for three weeks. Each child's performance will be
      tracked and activities will be modified based on performance.

      Hand function would be assessed using functional hands test (AHA, Box & Blocks test, Jebsen
      Taylor hand function test) and TMS at three time points: before, after and six months after
      completion of the training protocol.

      Outcome measures: Outcome variables of TMS will be measures of corticomotor excitability
      using single-pulse TMS. Motor evoked potentials (MEPs) will be recorded via surface
      electromyography (EMG).

      Significance: Understanding how rehabilitation can modulate brain areas associated with motor
      deficits in CP.
    
  