
    
      The incidence reports of road crash involvement among medical doctors in Malaysia have
      steadily increased in frequency by 28%. Despite the gravity of the situation, there is an
      obvious absence of further information regarding the causes of such occurrence. A deeper look
      into literature regarding the phenomenon worldwide indicates that the prevalence of road
      crash involvement among doctors are less reported on, much less the factors associated with
      it.

      hence, investigators constructed a research to investigate the prevalence of road crash
      involvement and its associated factors (fatigue, demographic factors, sleep quality, and
      mental health status, number of working hours) among medical doctors in Malaysia.

      It is a cross sectional study where the study population consists of Malaysian Medical
      Association (MMA) members who are fully or partially registered with the Malaysian Medical
      Council (MMC) and their contacts.

      Respondents will be selected via non probability random sampling among MMA registered member
      list and their network. The sample will be doctors who are partially or fully registered with
      the Malaysian Medical Council and following the inclusion and exclusion criteria. The
      participants who are eligible will need to answer via an online survey link.

      Inclusion criteria

        -  Malaysian citizen

        -  Full or partial registration with MMC

        -  Work a minimum of six (6) months in public healthcare sector in Malaysia. Doctors who
           have just been working for less than six months are still adapting to the duties and
           atmosphere of the hospital, and the responsibilities they hold are also different from
           those of a senior doctor making them not suitable to include in this study.

      Exclusion criteria

        -  Medical doctors currently on a long leave. As investigators only have a short period of
           data collection, so investigators will exclude this group of subject.

        -  Does not self-commute to work

      CALCULATED SAMPLE SIZE = 288.

      This study will be in collaboration with Malaysian Medical Associations (MMA) on recruiting
      sample for this research along with other medical NGOs. MMA will help in dissemination of
      information throughout their website as well as distribute/email the questionnaires to all
      MMA members and their contacts.

      The questionnaire will be created by using Google Form and then saved on Google Drive. Then
      MMA will share the form to all their members through email. All responses will be saved in
      the file stored in Google Drive. Once enough sample acquired, the form will be closed and
      results will be download for data analysis.

      Data entry and analysis will be undertaken by using the 'Statistical Package for Social
      Sciences' (SPSS) programme, Version 22.0. The statistical significance level is taken at the
      p value <0.05 with 95% of confidence intervals (CI). The continuous variables will be
      summarised by using means and standard deviation (SD) and predominantly categorised as
      required and presented as the number (n) and percentage (%). The statistics analysis will
      utilise the Pearson Chi-square test for obtaining the statistical difference of the
      categorical variables.

      Lastly, logistic regression analysis will be used to describe the strength of association
      between the outcome and factors of interest, adjusting for covariates or confounders. It also
      allows one to determine the important factors affecting the outcome and generate the final
      model for the factors being studied as the predictor for the outcomes.

      Study Instrument: Questionnaire/scoring & Pilot study

      This study's approval for ethical clearance will be obtained from Medical Research Ethics
      Committee (MREC), "University Putra Malaysia" (UPM). Informed consent will be obtained from
      each study participant and it will be stated at the beginning of the questionnaire.
    
  