
    
      All included patients in this study will be assessed for the following:

        1. Data Collection

             -  Complete history taking (age, sex, illness, medications, etc.).

             -  Complete physical examination (Glasgow coma scale (GCS), temperature, blood
                pressure, urine output, heart rate, respiratory rate and chest auscultation).

             -  SOFA score, APACHE II score, and Quick SOFA (qSOFA).

             -  Routine laboratory investigations and Coagulation profile.

             -  C-reactive protein (CRP), and Serum lactate.

             -  Complete sepsis workup (chest x-ray, urine analysis, abdomen and pelvis ultrasound,
                microbiological cultures) to identify the source of sepsis.

        2. Renal Biomarkers

           - Serum and urinary samples will be collected directly at time of enrollment (within 2
           hours from admission). It will be assayed for serum creatinine, serum neutrophil
           gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL), urinary NGAL and serum Cystatin C (CysC). Then,
           it will be repeated at day 3.

        3. Ultrasound evaluation of kidneys and renal Doppler

             -  In each patient, both kidneys will be examined with real-time ultrasound (US) with
                a 3.75-MHz transducer (ACUSON X 300). Pulsed Doppler US evaluation of the
                intrarenal arteries will be obtained at the same respective scanning frequencies.
                The color Doppler functions are set for a study focused on interlobar arteries,
                that is, the highest gains possible, the use of the lowest filters and a low pulse
                repetition frequency (PRF) of 1-1.5 kHz that must be preferred while always
                limiting the aliasing phenomenon.

             -  The renal resistance index (RRI, [peak systolic frequency shift-minimum diastolic
                frequency shift]/ peak systolic frequency shift) will be calculated from calibrated
                software. (26) All measurements will be performed by the same examiner.

             -  The renal resistive index (RRI) will be measured at time of enrollment (within 2
                hours from admission) and 24 hours after admission.

        4. Treatment All patients will receive the standard treatment for management of sepsis on
           the guidelines of SCC (sepsis-3). The protocol of treatment will not be changed during
           the study time.

        5. Follow up - All patients will be followed up using urine output (UOP), serum creatinine,
           KDIGO (Kidney Disease Improving Global Outcomes) classification, the use of vasopressors
           and need for renal replacement therapy (RRT).
    
  