
    
      In acute pulmonary embolism (PE), normotensive patients with acute RV dysfunction on
      echocardiography or computed tomography and with myocardial troponin elevation may have an
      adverse outcome. Thrombolysis rapidly reverses RV pressure overload in PE, but it increases
      the possibility of bleeding and it remains unclear whether it may improve the early or
      long-term clinical outcome of these selected normotensive patients.

      In our previous study, we found that low dose (50mg/2h) recombinant tissue plasminogen
      activator (rt-PA) regimen had less bleeding tendency than the 100mg/2h regimen (3% vs.10%),
      it is worthwhile to reveal whether low dose rt-PA plus Low Molecular Weight Heparin (LMWH)
      can rapidly reverses RV pressure overload in PE, but not increase bleeding and other adverse
      events.

      In this prospective, multicenter, randomized, control study, we compare low dose rt-PA plus
      LMWH vs. LMWH alone in acute normotensive pulmonary embolism patients with RV dysfunction.
      The primary efficacy outcome is the composite of death from any cause or treatment failure,
      improvements of right ventricular functions on echocardiogram and pulmonary artery
      obstruction on CT angiographs within 7 days of randomization. Second efficacy outcome is the
      recurrence of pulmonary embolism and deep venous thrombosis. Safety outcomes include serious
      life threatening bleeding such as cerebral hemorrhage and other major bleeding episodes, also
      include mild bleeding. In addition, 90-day clinical and echocardiographic follow-up will be
      performed, the recurrence of pulmonary embolism and deep venous thrombosis will be recorded.
      The study is expected to enroll approximately 460 patients.

      By determining the benefits vs risks of Low dose rt-PA plus LMWH compared with LMWH alone for
      the treatment in submassive or intermediate-risk PE, this trial is expected to reveal the
      worth of Low dose rt-PA plus LMWH treatment and what kind of PE patients are suitable for
      thrombolysis.
    
  