
    
      There will be two study conditions; patients will be assigned to PENS treatment or to the
      control group.

      Study arm 1 - 15 Patients (may be expanded) will receive stimulation with the following
      parameters:

        -  20-minute session, to each affected knee, 3 times per week for 12 weeks.

        -  PENS for 20 minutes:

             -  Tri-phasic Lower Extremity stimulation pattern based on activation timing of the
                quadriceps and hamstrings for strength training (50 Hz impulses for 200 ms every
                1500 ms).

             -  Minimal twitch for 5 minutes.

             -  Moderate to strong, but well-tolerated twitch contractions for 15 minutes.

        -  Electrodes placed on quadriceps and hamstrings.

      Study arm 2 - 5 Patients (may be expanded) will receive stimulation with the following
      parameters:

        -  20-minute session, to each affected knee, 3 times per week for 12 weeks.

        -  Placebo PENS for 20 minutes:

        -  Electrodes placed on quadriceps and hamstrings.

      A previous study was performed by the principal investigator to compare treatment of knee
      osteoarthritis with exercise vs a control group. The data from that study will be used to
      historically compare exercise with PENS treatment.

      Primary Endpoints The following endpoints will be evaluated (between and within groups):
      Change in WOMAC osteoarthritis-specific status from baseline to end of treatment phase (12
      weeks); Change in VAS.

      Secondary Endpoints The following endpoints will be evaluated: Change in biochemical Synovial
      Fluid markers from baseline to end of treatment phase (12 weeks); MRI Data; Muscle strength;
      Change in pressure algometry of the knee joint; Change in patient self-reported and
      physician-reported global assessment from baseline to end of treatment (12 weeks); Change in
      pain intensity from baseline through the end of treatment phase (12 weeks); Change in
      physical function indices from baseline to end of treatment phase (12 weeks); Number of
      patients reporting 20% or more improvement in pain intensity; Number of patients recording
      20% or more improvement in self-reported osteoarthritis overall questionnaire score; Number
      of patients indicating 20% or more improvement in self-reported and in physician-reported
      global assessment score.

      Other Observations The following will also be monitored: Changes in prescription and
      over-the-counter medication usage (type used and amount taken); Adherence to treatment
      protocol (data from clinical treatment records); Safety of electrical stimulation and knee
      aspiration.

      Primary Outcomes: Primary outcomes for this study is osteoarthritis-specific functioning,
      (WOMAC).

      Osteoarthritis-specific functioning will be evaluated with the Western Ontario and McMaster
      Universities Osteoarthritis Index version 3.1 (WOMAC 3.1). The WOMAC 3.1 is a 24-item patient
      self-reported questionnaire assessing pain, stiffness, and physical function disability. The
      WOMAC is available in a Japanese version.

      Pain intensity will be measured using a 10-centimeter visual analog scale (VAS scale). The
      scale will be anchored at one end with "0" and labeled "no pain at all," and at the other
      "10" and labeled "worst pain possible."

      Secondary Outcomes: Secondary outcomes for this study are pain intensity, global assessment
      of function, physical functioning and safety.

      Biochemical markers in knee joint fluid will be evaluated for change related to electrical
      stimulation. Synovial fluid will be aspirated, at baseline and after 12 weeks of electrical
      stimulation, from the osteoarthritic knee receiving stimulation. Fluid volume and acidity
      (i.e., pH), chondroitin 6-sulfate and chondroitin 4-sulfate concentrations, and hyaluronan
      (concentration, molecular weight and viscosity) will be assessed. Chondroitin sulfate isomers
      will be evaluated using high performance liquid chromatography. Hyaluronan viscosity will be
      determined using a capillary viscometer, molecular weight determined from viscosity, and
      concentration by protein assay.

      MRI will be taken to evaluate the volume of the muscle group, thickness of the cartilage, and
      glucosaminoglycan content

      Global assessment of function will be addressed with a single question; one for the patient
      and one for the treating physician. On a 10 cm visual analogue scale the following or
      similarly worded question will be rated: Considering all the ways OA has impacted your life
      {your patient's life} in the last month, how would you rate your {your patient's} condition
      today? The scale will be anchored at one end with "0" and the label "very poor," and at the
      other end with "10" and the label "very good."

      Physical performance (objectively measured data) will be assessed using a timed up-and-go
      test. Quadriceps strength will be evaluated using a mechanical dynamometer.

      Muscle strength should be conducted prior to the other physical performance measures to
      reduce bias due to fatigue. Responses to all questionnaires should be obtained prior to
      physical measurements, and then the physician should aspirate the treated knee.

      Prescription medication regimen for the patients will be reported by the physician or study
      coordinator. The patient will report over-the-counter medication use.

      Patient adherence to the stimulation protocol will be monitored through the clinical record.

      Safety of electrostimulation and of the fluid aspiration procedure will be monitored via
      adverse events reports from the physician or study coordinator. Serious adverse events (i.e.,
      fatal, life threatening, needing hospitalization) are not anticipated for electrostimulation
      or for aspiration of the knee. Anticipated adverse events for electrostimulation are minor
      (e.g., skin irritation), while for knee aspiration adverse events may include knee pain,
      swelling, stiffness, vasovagal or syncopal reaction.
    
  