
    
      50 females will be included in this study. they will be divided into 2 groups (study group
      which will include 25 postmenopausal females - and control group which will include
      premenopausal females)

      For testing gustatory function, a whole mouth above threshold taste test will be carried out
      in which a concentration of sucrose, sodium chloride, citric acid and quinine hydrochloride
      solutions were used for sweet, salty, sour and bitter types of taste respectively . Five
      concentration levels (in ½ log steps) of sodium chloride (0.01-1.0 mM), citric acid
      (0.32-0.032 mol l-1), quinine hydrochloride (0.01- 1.0 mM) and sucrose (0.01-1.0 mM) will be
      prepared in 5 ml samples. All the solutions will be made with distilled water. The intensity
      threshold of taste perception of each solution will be determined by scoring the lowest
      concentration as 5' and the highest concentration as 1'. The solutions will be given in
      increasing concentrations. The patient then should identify the quality (salty, sour, sweet,
      bitter or tasteless) and intensity of each test solution . Quality judgments for each
      solution will be coded as correct, incorrect or tasteless by asking subjects to name the
      taste they perceived.

      Saliva will be collected in the morning between 9:00 am and 11:00 am. Patient will be
      instructed to stop eating and drinking at least 2 h before sample collection. Chewing 1 g of
      gum base will be used to stimulate salivary flow. The saliva that will be collected for the
      first 2 min will be discarded, and then Stimulated whole saliva will be collected for the
      next 10 min with the mechanical chewing stimulation.

      Two milliliters of Stimulated whole saliva from each participant will be collected and added
      to RNA stabilizing solution and used for RNA extraction. The SWS samples will be centrifuged
      at 10,000 g for 20 min at 48C to remove any cellular debris. The clarified supernatants will
      be aliquoted and frozen at 70 C for analytic experiments.

      this is to determination of oral mucosal epithelial MUC1 expression level
    
  