
    
      In the twenty-first century, transportation disasters and subsequent injuries are on the
      rise, in particular air travel, and, thus, contributing significantly to the morbidity and
      mortality of this millennium. However, information regarding injuries sustained by air crash
      survivors is lacking. As the number of commercial and non-commercial flights are increasing,
      health care facilities are faced with a rise in the number of patients with air crash
      injuries. Consequently, management guidelines must be formulated for the treatment of
      patients with these air crash injuries.

      According to the South African Civil Aviation authority, 565 aviation accidents and incidents
      were reported from 2011 to 2019. The injuries and outcomes of patients involved in these
      accidents are unknown. There is little data to describe injury patterns and outcomes of
      patients in aviation accidents within our setting. Consequently, to find data on the
      frequency distribution of aviation injury patterns in hospitalized patients, one must use
      other data sources Injury patterns from several aircraft disasters have been previously
      described. Some authors have described injury patterns and fatalities from aviation accidents
      based on their patients and aircraft data. Friedman et al. described that when a plane
      impacts with the ground, the landing gear of an aircraft may be retracted, resulting in
      energy being directly transmitted from the aircraft to the passengers, through the body of
      the aircraft from the bottom going upwards along the axial skeleton causing vertebral column
      injuries that are coming with air crash patients. Therefore, it is of utmost importance that
      such survivors of crashes be transferred to an adequately equipped trauma center.

      In 2009, Baker et al. aimed to explore the configurations of aviation-related injuries in
      hospitals in the United States of America (USA) whilst comparing them to the aviation deaths
      over the same time frame (2000 - 2005). This revealed just over 4500 aviation-related (87%
      non-commercial aircraft, and 7% commercial aircraft) deaths occurred in the USA - an average
      of 753 per year, with one death for every 1.3 hospitalizations. This represents the largest
      number of patients reported to date. Lower limb fractures/injuries were the most common
      sustained injuries, followed by head injuries, various open soft tissue wounds, upper
      extremity fractures/injuries, and lastly internal organ injuries. Head injuries were the
      cause of most fatalities. This study's case-fatality showed that 39% were due to vascular
      injuries, 13% due to burns, followed by 8% from head injuries.

      Rautji et al. discussed the injury pattern examined in the post-mortem findings in eight
      occupants of a light executive jet aircraft crash. One body was severely burnt, but the other
      seven were intact. On serum blood toxicology, it was established that there was no
      carboxyhemoglobin present. Therefore, all burns were sustained post-mortem; concluding that
      the cause of death in all these cases was polytrauma. This evaluation found that the most
      commonly occurring fractures were ribs (72.3%), skull (55.1%), facial bones (49.4%), tibia
      (37.9%), and pelvis (36%) [9]. The common organ injuries were liver (48.1%), lung (37.6%),
      heart (35.6%), spleen (30.1%), and hemorrhagic cerebral and pulmonary injuries being 33.3%
      and 32.9%, respectively. Once again, injuries of sudden deceleration transmitted in a
      vertical fashion were also described, resulting in vertebral column injuries and extensive
      visceral damage.

      A report discussed by Afshar et al. illustrated that up to 85% of injuries of survivors of a
      Boeing 727 flight were extremity injuries (particularly lower limb injuries), followed by
      vertebral column injuries at various levels, and a minority sustained internal organ injuries
      . Similarly, Rowles et al. (1990) concluded that most M1 Kegworth air crash injuries were
      orthopedic in nature, approximately 85%, and 3.8% were general surgical procedures
      (laparotomies, thoracotomies, vascular repair, and a tracheostomy).

      Aviation related deaths are often fatal, with most patients dying at the scene; however, with
      increased safety and improvement in medical management, patients are surviving aviation
      accidents. Among the aviation-related deaths reported between 1980 and 1990, polytrauma was
      listed as the immediate cause of death in 42% of fatalities, followed by head injuries (22%),
      internal organ injuries of the thorax, abdomen, pelvis (12%), burns (4%), and drowning (3%) .

      Analysis and interpretation of aviation-pattern injuries may provide healthcare facilities
      with planning information on the spectrum of possible injuries that may be expected, and,
      furthermore, tools for a protocol and guidelines on the comprehensive and complete management
      of such patients.

      Aim of the study was to describe the injury patterns, and mortality rate resulting from air
      crashes presenting at a level 1 trauma centre in Johannesburg, South Africa
    
  