
    
      Cancer is one of the leading causes of deaths in the world, with an estimated incidence of
      14.1 million per year (2012) in the world, and 355,000 in France. Despite an increase in
      survival rates after cancer treatment, the psychological impact of the diagnosis and the
      aggressiveness of treatments such as chemotherapy tend to significantly decrease the quality
      of life of patients during and after cancer care.

      Helping patients to support regular treatment is a crucial point in increasing compliance
      with treatment and thus increasing the cure rate, and many supportive care have been
      developed and implemented. Physical activity, now regarded as a non-drug therapy, provides
      many benefits, both in tertiary and secondary prevention during cancer treatment. Many
      studies have shown a decrease in mortality with physical activity during and after treatment,
      especially for breast, colon and prostate cancer. Regular physical activity during treatment
      increases patients' quality of life, for many types of cancer. The prevalence of fatigue
      during cancer is well described, as well as the need to effectively treat cancer related
      fatigue in order to enable patients to better withstand their treatment. Within the last
      decade, it has been pointed out that physical activity is one of the most efficient ways to
      combat cancer related fatigue.

      From a psychological point of view, physical activity can decrease anxiety, depression and
      stress, and can also increase self-esteem, perceived control, and overall mental health.

      Exercise physiologically increases physical capacity, strength, endurance and flexibility,
      and decreases physical symptoms such as pain and nausea. Biologically, physical activity
      often results in beneficial changes in the circulation level of adiponectin, leptin, insulin,
      and C-reactive protein, especially during breast, prostate and gastric cancer. Overall,
      physical activity during cancer treatment results in improvement in general quality of life,
      including mental, physical and social dimensions.

      Although physical activity during cancer treatment is known to induce many benefits,
      depending on the cancer and the type of treatment, it is difficult to clearly investigate the
      effects of physical activity during cancer and how they interact or are sequential.

      A better understanding of the close relationship between the psychological and physiological
      aspects might allow us to better understand the effects of physical activity during cancer.
      Exercise programs used during cancer treatment vary from one study to another in their
      duration, intensity and frequency. Furthermore, not all patients are included and not all
      types of cancers and treatment are considered.

      Our study, named Institut Paoli Calmettes Adapted Physical Activity, was developed to
      understand the different biopsychosocial effects of a physical activity program carried out
      with patients suffering from various type of cancers, and to facilitate and improve the
      implementation of this type of activity in health care facilities.
    
  