
    
      The WHO informs us that more than 80% of patients in Africa use traditional/herbal medicines
      as their primary source of health care. The Mayo Clinic stated that nearly 40% of adults
      reported using complementary and alternative medicine (CAM). Many of these herbal medicines
      as well as dietary supplements have effects on the coagulation cascade and have been
      identified as such using laboratory tests including aPTT, PT, INR, light transmission
      aggregometry and impedence aggregometry to mention but a few.

      This study wishes to evaluate coagulation abnormalities using viscoelastic point-of-care
      coagulation monitoring in this population. This test is readily available in large hospitals
      and academic settings and is increasingly being used in perioperative medicine. It provides
      information on coagulation and thrombolysis with minimal delay when compared to other
      laboratory-based coagulation tests.

      The dietary supplements which will be evaluated in this study are ginger, garlic, gingko
      biloba and ginseng. These four herbal supplements were identified as the most commonly used
      substances known to modulate the coagulation system. These herbal supplements will be
      investigated within their maximum daily allowance dosages.

      A five-armed placebo-controlled study will be undertaken and study subjects will be recruited
      on a volunteer basis. Subjects will be divided into five groups and each group will receive
      one of the four dietary supplements and the fifth group placebo, for a two week period.
      Rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM) studies will be performed on blood samples obtained
      from each participant at baseline and at the end of the treatment period to identify
      coagulation abnormalities. Most of these herbal medicines have been identified to affect
      platelet function and this study will specifically look at platelet function determined by
      maximum clot firmness (MCF) in the ROTEM analysis.

      Viscoelastic point-of-care coagulation monitoring in patients using herbal medicines and
      dietary supplements will aid decision making regarding cause of perioperative haemorrhage and
      need for specific blood products. It will therefore assist with goal-directed management of
      perioperative haemorrhage. It will also aid the anaesthetist wishing to employ a regional
      anaesthetic technique in this patient group.
    
  