
    
      The 'SILVERMAN' 1 Trial Single Incision Laparoscopic Versus Existing Resection (Minimal
      Access) for Neoplasia- A Multi-institutional Randomised Controlled Trial

      Applicant:

      Professor Desmond C Winter, Institute for Clinical Outcomes Research and Education (iCORE),
      St. Vincent's University Hospital, Elm Park, Dublin 4, Ireland.

      winterd@indigo.ie

      Background Colonic cancer is the third commonest cause of cancer mortality in women and men
      in the developed world[1]. Old age, adenomatous colorectal polyps, inflammatory bowel
      disease, low intake of dietary fibre and family history of colorectal cancer all predispose
      to the development of colonic cancer[2-4]. Certain genetic syndromes such as Hereditary
      Non-Polyposis Colon Cancer (HNPCC), Familial Adenomatous Polyposis (FAP), Peutz-Jeghers
      Syndrome (PJS) and Juvenile Polyposis have a significant lifetime risk of developing colonic
      cancer[5-8]. Historically, open surgery has been the mainstay of treatment for localised,
      potentially curable colonic cancer. Laterally, minimally invasive or laparoscopic surgery has
      largely supplanted open surgery in the management of colonic cancer[9,10,11]. Published data
      have shown that laparoscopic assisted resection has equivalent oncological outcomes in terms
      of long term survival when compared to conventional open surgery. Similarly, Level 1 evidence
      from the major randomised controlled trials in this field suggests that laparoscopic colonic
      resection confers advantages over the open approach during the perioperative period in terms
      of reduced requirement for parenteral narcotics and oral analgesics, earlier restoration of
      intestinal function, earlier ambulation, and shorter hospital stay. To date there remains no
      consensus or accepted guidelines on the surgical management of potentially curable right
      colonic cancer. The NHS published guidelines on management of colorectal cancer simply state
      that surgeons offering their patients potentially curative laparoscopic resections should be
      appropriately trained in such specialist techniques12. Currently, surgeons competent in
      minimal access surgery favour laparoscopic right hemicolectomy as the technique of choice for
      right colonic resection. Intestinal continuity can be restored intracorporeally, or
      extracorporeally by exteriorising the mobilised segment of ileum/right and transverse colon.

      The advent of "single incision laparoscopic surgery" (SILS) has further advanced the
      minimally invasive approach to the management of complex surgical diseases. SILS, currently
      in the embryonic stages of development, utilises a single incision to insert a single access
      device into the abdominal cavity under direct vision. Typically, the device is inserted in
      the midline and utilises a 2-3cm incision around the umbilicus, itself an embryonic natural
      orifice.

      The optical and operating trocars are inserted through the access device and the procedure is
      carried out as a conventional laparoscopic procedure. Many short case series and reports have
      been published describing the feasibility of SILS in performing complex surgical procedures
      for both benign and malignant disease[13,14,15]. Specialised, complex colorectal procedures
      such as proctocolectomy with ileal pouch-anal anastomosis (IPAA), ileocolic resection for
      terminal ileal Crohn's mass and colonic resection for cancer have been successfully performed
      using single incision laparoscopic surgery[16,17,18,19]. To date, several short series of
      SILS right hemicolectomy have been published in the literature[20,21].Thus, rather than a new
      or novel technique, SILS is a derivation of laparoscopic surgery, performed through a single
      incision. There is no evidence in the literature that SILS colectomy confers any
      disadvantages over conventional laparoscopic surgery and to dtae, there are no reports of
      SILS putting patients at increased risk of complication. Postulated benefits of SILS
      colectomy over conventional laparoscopic colectomy include reduced number of incisions,
      improved cosmesis, less pain, faster return to normal activities/work and shorter hospital
      stay. Heretofore, there has been no randomised controlled clinical trial comparing SILS and
      standard laparoscopic right hemicolectomy for cancer. Having previously demonstrated the
      benefits of laparoscopic resection over open resection in the treatment of colon cancer we
      feel the time is ripe to further extrapolate these data by comparing laparoscopic right
      hemicolectomy with a proposed new treatment modality, single incision laparoscopic right
      hemicolectomy, in the format of a multicentre, international randomised controlled clinical
      trial.

      Knowledge transfer/implementation Current evidence regarding the optimal surgical approach to
      potentially curable right colonic cancer is based on numerous, well designed randomised
      controlled clinical trials. Currently, eminence based opinion suggests that an alternative
      surgical technique, SILS, may improve short and long term outcomes after minimally invasive
      right colonic resection. A true, prospective analysis comparing standard of care
      (laparoscopic right hemicolectomy) and this "new" therapy(SILS) has yet to be published.
      Having established the optimum treatment modality the minimally invasive approach to right
      colonic tumors the results will be communicated at national and international meetings.
      Findings will be submitted to an international surgical journal to ensure maximal
      communication of results and will be made available to national and international academic
      societies to enable the establishment of guidelines of best practice for surgical management
      of right colonic cancer.

      Objective

      To compare patient outcome following standard of care (laparoscopic right hemicolectomy) and
      an alternative, established, recognized therapy (SILS right hemicolectomy) for the treatment
      of right colonic tumors. Specific research questions include:

        1. Which treatment modality confers least perioperative morbidity and mortality in the
           surgical management of right colonic tumors?

        2. Does treatment influence length of time to discharge home and return to activities of
           daily living?

        3. Are treatment modalities equivalent in terms of extent of resection (lymph node yield,
           resection margins etc)?

      Strategy An Irish based, multi-centre, international trial will be performed with the aim of
      comparing two treatment modalities for patients presenting with right colonic cancer.
      Pre-operative details, intraoperative findings and post-operative course will be
      prospectively accrued by the operating surgeon. Each surgeon has previous experience in
      performing this procedure and currently offer SILS colectomy to their patients outside of a
      clinical trial setting. All patients will be followed up and primary and secondary end-points
      will be recorded.

      Primary End-points

        1. Qualitative - Lymph node yield

             -  Histopathological grade of specimen

             -  Conversion rate

             -  30 day mortality

             -  Cancer free survival

           Secondary Endpoints

        2. Quantitative- operative time

             -  pain scores (visual analog scale)

             -  cosmesis satisfaction

             -  earlymorbiditywound/respiratory /urosepsis, thromboembolic,cardiorespiratory,
                anastomotic leak, intra- abdominal abscess and reoperation

             -  Intravenous narcotic/ oral analgesic requirements

             -  Resumption of intestinal function/ diet

             -  Duration to discharge home

             -  Return to normal activity

      Study Design The study will be an international multi-centred ,randomized controlled trial.
      Ethical approval will be sought prior to study implementation.

      Inclusion criteria

        1. Age 18-85 years

        2. Histologic confirmation of right colonic cancer

        3. Informed consent

      Exclusion criteria

        1. Inability to give informed consent (e.g. dementia)

        2. Previous midline laparotomy incision

        3. T4 tumour diagnosed on pre-operative imaging or intra-operatively

        4. Previous pelvic irradiation

        5. FAP/ HNPCC

        6. Colonic carcinoma against a background of ulcerative colitis.

        7. Emergent surgery for perforated/obstructing right colonic cancer

      Study outline All patients with histologically confirmed right colonic tumours will be
      eligible for the study. Individual patient consent will be sought. Each patient will be
      randomized at the pre-operative visit the day prior to surgery; thus, each patient will know,
      in advance, which procedure they are undergoing.

      Patients should be staged pre-operatively with Computed Tomography of abdomen and pelvis to
      facilitate therapeutic and operative strategy. All patients will be given prophylaxis against
      deep vein thrombosis (sequential intermittent pneumatic compression devices/compression
      stockings and low molecular weight heparin).

      A single, prophylactic dose of antibiotics will be given perioperatively; the choice of
      antibiotic will be determined according to institutional guidelines. Operative procedure will
      be according to standard practice.

      At laparoscopic right hemicolectomy, pneumoperitoneum will be established following insertion
      of a 12mm umbilical port. Two or 3 further operating trocars (5mm) will be inserted; the
      number and position will be at the operating surgeons discretion. When it is necessary to use
      more than two 5mm trocars to complete the procedure this will be recorded. Ligation of the
      vascular pedicle must be performed intracorporeally using an endovascular stapling device,
      endoclips or an electrothermal coagulation device. If the major vessels are ligated
      extracorporeally when the mobilised colon has been exteriorised for resection the procedure
      will be classified as "laparoscopic assisted"- i.e. converted to an open procedure- for the
      purposes of this trial. Intestinal continuity will be restored extracorporeally using end to
      end, end-to side or side-to side anastomosis. The type of anastomosis will be at the
      surgeons' discretion (stapled vs. handsewn) and will be recorded.

      Patients having SILS right hemicolectomy will receive the same perioperative care as those
      undergoing conventional laparoscopic resection. The SILS access device is inserted through a
      4-5cm incision (max 6cm incision), 2cm above and 1 cm below the umbilicus. The access device
      utilises three 5mm trocars facilitating entry to the peritoneal cavity. The choice of access
      device will be at individual surgeons' discretion. In the event of additional ports being
      required to complete a SILS minimally invasive procedure the number of additional trocars
      used will be recorded. Oral fluids will be commenced on the evening of surgery and diet will
      be introduced the following morning, depending on clinical status. Urinary catheters will be
      removed on post-operative day 1 and ambulation encouraged.

      Data Collection Data collection will be performed by the operating surgeon, a designated
      member of the surgical team (present at time of operation) or Dr. Martin, Co-PI on the study,
      and recorded on an electronic pro-forma and submitted to an on-line database (the iCore
      website- Institute for Clinical Outcomes in Research and Education). Each patient enrolled in
      the study will be given a study number and all data will be registered under this number.
      Patients will thus be deidentified. Any data that could potentially identify patients such as
      D.O.B/ date of surgery, date of discharge will be excluded . It will include patient
      demographics (age, sex), American Society of Anaesthesiologists (ASA) grade and specific
      co-morbidities, intervention performed, operation performed, number of ports used, technique
      for ligation of vascular pedicle, type of anastomosis, re-intervention during index admission
      (radiological or operative) in-hospital morbidity (myocardial infarction, deep vein
      thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, wound infection, abscess requiring drainage, urosepsis, renal
      failure or respiratory insufficiency), mortality, analgesic requirements, time to return to
      diet, time to discharge to home. Further details will be recorded at post-operative visits
      including the number of days alive following discharge, reinterventions within 12 months and
      patient satisfaction. Each patient will be seen at 3 and 12 months post-operatively. For
      those patients from out of state who prefer to be followed up locally we will perform a
      telephone interview at the timelines outlined. Patient satisfaction will be determined using
      the Short Form (SF-36) questionnaire at 3 and 12 months.

      Sample Size The main short-term endpoints of the study are both qualitative (lymph node
      yield, grade of specimen) and quantitative (operative time, cosmesis satisfaction, resumption
      of normal diet/intestinal function, length of hospital stay). Cancer-related survival is the
      main long-term primary end-point. The working hypothesis is that there will be no significant
      differences in this variable between SILS and conventional laparoscopic right hemicolectomy,
      but that differences in variables related to the short-term outcome (i.e. morbidity and
      duration of hospital stay) would favour SILS. We assume that a difference in cancer-related
      survival of less than 15% between treatments indicates an equivalent efficacy. Assuming a 70%
      5-year cancer-related survival in the laparoscopic colectomy group, a minimum of 100 patients
      per group is required to show that both surgical techniques are equivalent with an α level of
      0•20 and a β error of 0•05. Recruitment of patients is not expected to be difficult because
      evidence to date is convincing of at least equivalent outcome and we believe that most
      patients would hope to be assigned to the SILS group, with potentially shorter hospital stay,
      less pain and improved cosmesis. From a surgeon's perspective, SILS is technically feasible
      and represents only a slight modification of the conventional laparoscopic procedure.

      Hospital Inclusion and Patient Accrual All eligible patients (see exclusion criteria)
      presenting to participating hospitals with right colonic tumors will be recruited for the
      trial. . Each patient will be randomized at the pre-operative visit the day prior to surgery;
      thus, each patient will know, in advance, which procedure they are undergoing.

      Patients will be furnished with a patient information leaflet and will have the implications
      of inclusion in the trial explained to them by the operating surgeon. It will be explained
      that non-willingness to participate in the trial will not have any negative impact on their
      treatment. If the patient is willing to participate in the trial, verbal and written consent
      will be obtained prior to transfer to the operating theatre.

      Randomisation schedules will be in blocks, with the proposed treatment delivered in writing
      in sequentially numbered, opaque, sealed envelopes. If inferiority of efficacy is
      demonstrable on preliminary statistical analysis, the trial will be stopped prematurely to
      prevent harm to patients. We aim to perform a preliminary analysis of the pooled data at
      6/12/18/24 months or when 100/150/200 patients have been entered into the trial; whichever
      comes first will prompt preliminary analysis. Each adverse event will be included in the
      electronic file of each patient in the study. The data will then be communicated with the PI
      at each site participating in the study. In the event of one technique being of greater risk
      to patients, the lead center in Dublin, Ireland will terminate the study prematurely.
      Similarly, in the event of a PI in the study being unhappy with the outcomes of the study,
      they are free to withdraw from the trial at any time. This withdrawal will be reported in
      publishing the data.

      Statistical Analysis Data will be assessed according to the intention-to-treat principle.
      Because the scope of the study is non-metastatic colon cancer, patients in whom metastases
      are detected intra-operatively will not be included in the analyses of long-term outcome.
      Survival is calculated from surgical resection of primary tumour to the last visit or death.
      For cancer-related survival, patients who die from other causes will be censored from the
      study at time of death. Probability curves will be constructed with the Kaplan-Meier method
      and compared with the log-rank test.

      We will use proportional-hazards modeling with forward selection to determine the influence
      of patients' baseline characteristics on cancer-related survival and other variables. The
      surgical procedure and any variable reaching a p value of less than 0•10 in the univariate
      analysis will then undergo multivariate analysis to identify independent predictors.

      Categorical variables will be compared by χ2 test, with the Yates correction when necessary.
      Continuous variables will be compared by the Student's t test or the Mann-Whitney U test,
      depending on their distribution.

      All p values will be two-sided with a p value of less than 0•05 indicating a significant
      difference. All calculations will be performed with SPSS (version 18.0 for Windows).
    
  