
    
      Introduction. In June 3rd, 2020, the Italian government started the so-called "Phase 2",
      which included the re-opening of working and social activities. In this framework, the issue
      of how to identify the asymptomatic individuals who, unwittingly, can spread SARS-CoV-2
      infection and pose a threat to public health has been raised worldwide. The mondial
      population are now experiencing the phase 3 of the pandemic with a rapid increase in the
      spreading of infection and in the occurrence of new cases. It is now imperative to guarantee
      the health and safety of the people called back to work and to create a safety protocol in
      commercial and meeting spaces, which means preventing infected people from causing new
      epidemic outbreaks. For this purpose, a well-established mass screening program is required
      to meet several needs: first, it should provide the result in a few minutes, it should be
      easily delivered on the territory, non-medical healthcare professionals should perform it in
      a simple way also, and should be non-invasive, repeatable and reliable.

      To date, the diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 infection is made by identifying the viral RNA in
      samples collected through a nasopharyngeal swab or other respiratory samples. This technique,
      however, has several limitations for its application in a mass screening, among which the
      most important ones are the time necessary for the diagnosis, the crowding of those centers
      appointed to analyze the specimens, and the non-negligible risk of viral transmission to the
      healthcare workers.

      Point-of-care testing with rapid turnaround times would allow more effective triage in
      settings where patient management and infection control decisions need to be made rapidly.

      Recently, it has been developed a new method of acquitting the occurrence of severe Sar-COV-2
      infection and resulting COVID-19, detecting the early rise in leukocyte levels which has a
      characteristic set of ratios of leukocyte types, which identify the viral pathogen and
      distinguish it from a number of others. This test allows prediction of positives from full
      blood count results, sensitive up to 14 days earlier than real-time quantitative PCR
      (RT-qPCR), at a cost at least an order of magnitude lower than other tests such as RT-qPCR
      and antibody tests.

      Aim of the study. Primary aim of the Diagnostic Accuracy study is to validate the use of the
      point-of-care characteristic Differential Leucocyte Count (CLDC) device and algorithm to
      detect SARS-CoV-2 infection in both symptomatic and asymptomatic individuals as a preliminary
      approach to a mass screening program. The comparison is represented by the nasopharyngeal
      swab molecular testing, the gold standard of COVID-19 diagnosis, for algorithm validation and
      hematological cytometric analyses by Coulter HMX, Beckman Coulter, for device validation.

      Secondary aims are to define if CLCD methods is able to detect SARS-CoV-2 infection earlier
      as compared to swab molecular testing and to perform a contact tracing study on all
      double-positive patients to estimate their original date of infection to determine the curve
      of test sensitivity against initial infection.

      Methods. Subjects who undergo the nasopharyngeal swab procedure for the diagnosis of
      SARS-CoV-2 infection will be consecutively recruited at the Clinic Laboratory of IRCCS
      Neuromed in Pozzilli and Diagnostica Medica Spa in Avellino, Italy. Subjects at low and high
      risk of Sar-Cov-2 infection will be tested: healthcare workers, patients to be electively
      hospitalization for reason other than COVID-19 or other infectious disease, persons who had
      direct contact with infected patients.

      At the same time of the nasopharyngeal swab procedure in the morning, each recruited subject
      will be also tested using CLDC device and algorithm (CLCD 2). On a voluntary base, subjects
      will also undergo blood drawing (3 ml) for hematological cytometric analyses by Coulter HMX,
      Beckman Coulter and will be tested using only CLDC algorithm (CLCD 1).

      The outcome assessors are blinded, since the results of the rRT-PCR analysis require at least
      6 hours before being available. Research personnel will administer a questionnaire on COVID
      19 symptoms and risk factors and for contact traicing (day, mode) Subjects testing positive
      on either CLDC test but negative at the swab will undergo on a voluntary basis new swab
      testing after two, 5 and possibly 8 days if still negative.

      Independent blinded clinicians through real-time reverse transcription (rRT)-PCR, will
      analyse the nasopharyngeal swab accordingly to the International guidelines.

      For device validation, Full Blood Count (FBC) will be analyzed both by measuring Full Blood
      Count and entering the results into the Medichain CLDC-1 portal for rapid analysis and
      through the point-of-care device connected to the smart-phone (the Medichain CLDC-2
      smartphone microscope - the Adstock Test).

      The Medichain CLDC-2 smartphone microscope, a device that clip onto a standard smartphone
      will be used to analyse drops of blood of approximately 1µl smeared on a microscope slide
      (version 2 - Adstock Test) illuminated in phase-contrast mode. Images will then be sent from
      the devices to Medichain for analysis on servers in the UK and manual cross-checking.

      Then a preparatory algorithm Athena S3ER capable of measuring input specific FBC parameters
      analyzes data from this result and returning an output; taking into account abnormal
      occurrence in numbers of specific FBC parameters at the onset of infection. The basic test
      portal for this study (known as the S3ER algorithm) would be at http://cldc.medichain.online.
      The preferred extended portal is the research portal at http://cldc.medichain.online/research
      Nasopharyngeal swab analysis. Samples will be subjected to viral thermal inactivation for 1
      minute at 90 °C. RNA extraction from the nasopharyngeal swab will be performed with the
      Abbott mSample Preparation System (Promega corporation) and an automated extraction system
      (Extraction m2000SP, Abbott Molecular). The extracted RNA will be amplified with GeneFinderTM
      COVID19 Plus RealAmp PCR kit (ELITechGroup), a one-step rRT-PCR system targeting SARS-CoV-2
      RdRp, E, and N genes. All recruited subjects will undergo the nasopharyngeal swab, thus
      Partial verification bias will beabsent. The CLDC test and nasopharyngeal swab procedures
      will be performed at the same moment to avoid disease progression bias. Being the CLCD test
      and the nasopharyngeal swab analyzed by independent blinded clinicians, information bias will
      be avoided when interpreting the rate-PCR results of the swabs. The index test is completely
      independent of the reference test, so to avoid the Incorporation bias. Inconclusive results
      will be recorded.

      Sample size and statistical analysis. The incidence of positivity for COVID-19 is presently
      estimated at 15% in the general population and 20% in high-risk people. Therefore, it
      estimates to find between 150 and 200 positives in a population of 1000 subjects at different
      risk of infection.

      A sample size of 1000 with a prevalence of 15% of positive nasopharyngeal swabs would suffice
      to estimate a sensitivity of around 0.75 with a precision of 0.15 for the 95% confidence
      interval and a power of 0.8.

      Demographic and clinical features of the eligible participants will be summarized by using
      mean and standard proportion, or absolute and relative frequencies, for continuous and
      discrete variables, respectively. For descriptive purposes only, the same statistical
      analyses will be reported also in positive and negative nasopharyngeal swab subjects. In case
      of technical failure of testing without the possibility to repeat the procedure, the
      participants will be excluded from further analyses. In the other subjects, the sensitivity
      and specificity for the CLDC (index test) when compared to the nasopharyngeal swab (reference
      test 1) or to FBC (reference test 2) will be estimated, and their 95% confidence interval
      will be calculated from the exact binomial distribution. These analyses will be also
      replicated according to main subject characteristics. The participants will be characterizing
      as true positives (TP), false positives (FP), as well as false negatives (FN) and true
      negatives (TN), in terms of prevalence of positive CLDC-PCR, CLDC-FBC results. The null
      association of no difference across TP, FP, FN and TN will test using a Kruskal-Wallis test.
    
  