
    
      Essential tremor (ET) is a common progressive neurological disorder and is the most common
      movement disorder. Worldwide , up to 5% of the population suffer from this disorder with an
      increased incidence with advanced age.

      The proposed mechanism that underlies ET, the central oscillating network, is mainly composed
      of the olivocerebellar system, thalamus and motor cortex. An interruption in this circuit
      limits the ability of the cortex to reorganize and restore ET. a case of 76 year old female
      with essential tremor that disappeared following a cortico-subcortical prerolandic stroke
      despite complete motor recovery highlights the role of the motor cortex in the production and
      possible therapeutic role of the transcranial direct current stimulation.

      Study design A randomized, sham-controlled, double blind and crossover study.

      Study procedure:

      The first visit is an inclusion visit Prior to starting the first tDCS session, the patient
      will be asked to fill his/her first TRG essential tremor assessment (TETRAS) scale. The
      physician will then quantitatively analyze the tremor on the most affected side using an
      accelerometer. Cathodal tDCS will be administered on the area representing the primary motor
      cortex and the anode over the contralateral supraorbital area. tDCS stimulation (cathodal and
      sham) will be done daily for 5 consecutive days during weeks 1 and 5. Each stimulation
      session will last 30 minutes. tDCS will be performed while the patient is at rest, without
      any concurrent cognitive or motor task.The two tDCS sessions will be separated by a 23 day
      washout period.

      Patient will be asked to fill out their TETRAS at days 1 and 5 of each tDCS session (cathodal
      and sham), and days 12 and 19 after each tDCS session (cathodal and sham).

      Accelerometer assessment of the tremor will be performed at days 1 and 5 of each tDCS
      stimulation session (cathodal and sham).
    
  