
    
      This two-arm, parallel, comparative, observer blind, randomised study will be performed in
      adult subjects both male and female ≥18 years of age who present with acute odontogenic
      infection with or without abscess. A total of 472 subjects will be randomised in 1:1 ratio to
      get 205 evaluable subjects in each study arm. After obtaining informed consent, subject will
      undergo surgical intervention including surgical incisions, drainages, removal of the
      involved tooth, debridement, puncture lavage or trephination, if deemed necessary by the
      Investigator. These surgical interventions will be performed before the start of study
      treatment. On Day 0 after confirming the eligibility, subjects will be randomised to either
      of the study arms. The treatment duration of the study will be at least 5 days which may
      increase to 7 days, if Investigator feels the need of continuing the treatment at Day 5. In
      such cases clinical assessment will be done again at Day 7. Thus the efficacy evaluation will
      be performed at baseline (Day 0) prior to study drug administration and on Day 5 and/ or 7.
      Safety laboratory evaluations will be performed at Screening Visit and will be repeated at
      end of study treatment i.e. either on Day 5 or Day 7. On Baseline, Day 2, Day 5 and/ or Day
      7, Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) will be used to measure amount of pain and swelling that a
      subject will experience. This scale has numerical ratings from 0 to 10. Zero would mean "No
      pain" and 10 would mean "Worst possible pain". The subject will be asked to choose the most
      appropriate score on VAS which best describes his/her pain status over last 24 hours. While
      using VAS for swelling, zero would mean "No swelling" and 10 would mean "Maximum possible
      swelling". The Investigator will choose the most appropriate score on VAS which best
      describes subject's swelling.

      Sample for microbiological culture will be obtained at the discretion of Investigator while
      performing the surgical procedure. When microbiological culture is indicated and feasible,
      two sets (each consisting of aerobic and anaerobic media) will be obtained. This sampling
      will be done in approximately 80 subjects randomly who will provide consent at Screening. The
      sample will be collected and dispatched in appropriate transport medium to the central
      laboratory for culture and antibiotic susceptibility.

      Protocol waivers or exemptions will not be allowed.

      The total duration of each subject's participation will be 6-9 days including Screening
      period of 0-1 day (Day -1 to Day 0) and Treatment period of 5-7 days (Day 0 to Day 5-7).

      The primary objective of the study is to compare clinical efficacy (cure and improvement) of
      both the treatment arms which uses VAS for assessment of pain and swelling. Since the
      clinical efficacy parameters are subjective, it is mandatory to keep the
      observer/Investigator blinded during the study assessment. In addition, designing blinded
      study is challenging owing to different dosage regimen and formulation of study drugs. The
      study design of double blind double dummy is not recommended in view of increased pill burden
      which in turn can have an impact on treatment compliance. The possibility of
      over-encapsulation is ruled out due to large pill size of amoxicillin + clavulanic acid.
      Therefore to maintain blinding of Investigators, the study is designed as observer blind with
      Investigator remaining blinded throughout the study period. An unblinded study team member
      will be appointed for each site who will be involved in dispensing of the study drugs to
      subjects. The unblinded study team member will remain present during subject assessment for
      all study visits and will ensure that Investigator remains blinded to treatment assignment.

      Study treatment includes amoxicillin + clavulanic acid (875mg/125mg) two times daily or
      clindamycin (150mg) four times daily for 5-7 days both administered orally with meal.
      Augmentin™ (amoxicillin + clavulanic acid) from GSK and Dalacin-C (clindamycin) from Pfizer
      will be used as study treatments. The contents of the label will be in accordance with all
      applicable regulatory requirements.

      Patients can receive additional medical therapy such as analgesics or anti-inflammatory
      drugs. However, opioid analgesics and any other antibiotic apart from study drugs will not be
      permitted during entire study period.

      This study will be conducted in accordance with ICH GCP, all applicable subject privacy
      requirements, and the ethical principles that are outlined in the Declaration of Helsinki
      2008, including IRB/ IEC review and approval of study protocol and any subsequent amendments,
      subject informed consent and Investigator reporting requirements.
    
  