
    
      This trial platform aims to support the repurposing of promising therapeutic assets with
      prior use in humans but without prior information on use in COVID-19, to determine the PK-PD
      profile of the agent, compared to standard of care supportive therapy, in small cohorts of
      COVID-19 patients. The results of these studies are intended to provide initial safety,
      pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data and experimental medicine data to support further
      evaluation in existing national and international trial networks for candidates demonstrating
      appropriate impact on the dynamic marker of interest. The key interception is to mitigate the
      lung damage in patients with COVID-19 that leads to respiratory failure. As such, the assets
      in this programme will focus on abrogating putative mechanisms implicated in COVID-19
      respiratory disease.

      Existing approaches in clinical trials involve novel or repurposed antivirals or
      immunomodulatory approaches involving agents such as corticosteroids, interferon-β or
      hydroxychloroquine. A major limitation in the design of many early clinical trials is the
      limited amount of mechanistic data from patients with COVID-19. Mechanisms have been inferred
      from animal models, related infections or clinical syndromes. These approaches have
      infrequently translated to human disease. For example, remdesivir efficacy in animal models
      of Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) did not translate to human disease and hydroxychloroquine
      antiviral affects in vitro have not translated to humans against other viruses. Some drugs,
      such as repurposing of the anti-retroviral protease Kaletra, are still being pursued despite
      uncertain mechanism and despite evidence that this aspartyl protease cannot bind to the
      cysteine chymotrypsin-like protease that is Kaletra's putative target in COVID-19.

      There is a clear and urgent need to pursue experimental medicine studies in humans to
      establish a solid mechanistic basis for rapid evaluation, including in existing clinical
      trial platforms against COVID-19 (e.g DoH RECOVERY and NIHR-CLRN industry adopted studies).

      The trial will be as flexible as possible to ensure a broad range of patients can be
      recruited and candidate therapies can be added or removed as evidence emerges. The interim
      trial results will be monitored by an independent DMC to evaluate any patient safety signals.

      As COVID-19 follows a variable clinical path in individual patients, the protocol is designed
      to enable inclusion of patients across the disease stages. The trial is intended to provide
      mechanistic data from patients receiving standard of care therapy and from patients treated
      with the therapy candidates. The study will enable delivery of pharmacokinetic information
      and effects of standard of care and candidate agents on surrogate biomarkers of the disease
      process and the specific drug target.
    
  