
    
      The most of advanced colorectal carcinoma are underwent postoperative chemotherapy. Adverse
      events (AE) during chemotherapy disrupt treatment and impair the patients' quality of
      life(QoL). Under usual care, the patients are largely required to self-monitor symptoms at
      home. Patients can lack confidence in making decisions between obtaining clinical support or
      self-managing and can delay seeking medical advice, heightening the risk of symptom
      escalation and hospital admissions and impact the efficacy of chemotherapy finally. There is
      growing evidence that the utilisation of patient-reported outcome(PRO) measures can aid the
      timely identification of physical and psychosocial disorders, facilitate patient-doctor
      communication and assist decision-making. There has been a drive to develop electronic
      systems(ePRO) to allow remote real-time patient monitoring during cancer therapy. Positive
      patient benefit (including QOL and survival) was recently reported in a US trial of an online
      system for metastatic cancer treatment.

      The trial is a prospective randomised two-arm parallel group design study with repeated
      measures and mixed methods. Participants (adult patients with colorectal cancer on adjuvant
      chemotherapy) are randomised to receive the ePRO intervention or usual care over 24 weeks of
      treatment. Participants in the intervention arm receive training in using the ePRO APP system
      to provide routine weekly adverse event reports from home. Hospital staff can access ePRO
      reports via APP and use the information during consultations or phone calls or message with
      patients. The overall target sample for the trial is N = 270. The primary outcome of is
      quality of life (EORTC QLQ-C30/CR29) with secondary outcomes including the proportion of
      completed chemotherapy, AE, DFS, OS and patient self-efficacy. Outcome data is collected at
      baseline, 3, 6 and 12 months. The intervention is also being evaluated via end of study
      interviews with patient participants and clinical staff.
    
  