
    
      This is a prospective randomized controlled single center clinical trial. This trial include
      patient over 18 year hospitalized in ICU and ventilated more than 5 days and/or with
      denutrition after 5 days of no food intake in ICU without shock and/or respiratory distress.
      The randomization is awebsite randomization with stratification on age, presence of sepsis at
      inclusion, renal failure The day of the resumption of the oral feeding (J0), realization of a
      protocolized swallowing test then randomization and creation of a control and intervention
      group

      Control group:

        -  Nutrition in resuscitation according to medical prescription: food recovery with a light
           meal consisting of soup and desserts and evolution to a normal meal according to the
           capabilities of patients

        -  Daily quantification of ingesta (calories and proteins) by a dietitian until the exit
           resuscitation. Comparison with caloric-protein targets.

        -  Nutritional evaluation before the release of resuscitation.

      Intervention group:

        -  NAP: "Customized Adapted Nutrition"

        -  Daily quantification of ingesta (calories and proteins) by a dietitian until the exit
           resuscitation. Comparison with caloric-protein targets.

        -  Therapeutic education.

        -  Nutritional evaluation before the release of resuscitation.

        -  Creation at the exit of resuscitation of a nutritional linkage sheet with instructions
           food

      The prospects for optimizing oral replenishment are multiple:

        -  reduce morbidity and mortality within 3 months after a stay in intensive care unit.

        -  improve autonomy and quality of life after a stay in intensive care.

        -  improve the privileged relationship with the patients' families.

        -  strengthen links within the resuscitation team and with downstream services.

        -  Educate patients on a nutritional level.
    
  