
    
      1. Study name: Intensive management of blood pressure and cholesterol in elderly Chinese
           with hypertension and atrial fibrillation (IMPRESSION)

        2. Medicine: amlodipine/atorvastatin (5/10mg tablet); amlodipine/atorvastatin (5/20mg
           tablet); allisartan (240mg/tablet).

        3. Rationale: controlling blood pressure and cholesterol are both effective means to reduce
           cardiovascular risks, however, it is still unknown whether high cardiovascular risk
           patients with atrial fibrillation would benefit from intensive management of blood
           pressure and cholesterol.

        4. Objective: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of intensive management of blood pressure
           and cholesterol, especially in hypertensive patients with atrial fibrillation.

        5. Study design: This study is a multi-center, randomized and controlled clinical trial
           with four equally sized treatment groups: amlodipine/atorvastatin (5/10mg tablet);
           amlodipine/atorvastatin (5/20mg tablet); amlodipine/atorvastatin (5/10mg
           tablet)+allisartan (240mg/tablet); amlodipine/atorvastatin (5/20mg tablet)+allisartan
           (240mg/tablet).

        6. Study population: Men or women aged over 65 years (n=1200) will be screened for atrial
           fibrillation. Atrial fibrillation patients who never took antihypertensive drugs or stop
           antihypertensive drugs for more than 2 weeks with systolic blood pressure of 140-179
           mmHg and / or diastolic blood pressure of 90-109 mmHg or who is on monotherapy for at
           least 2 weeks with systolic blood pressure of 140-179 mmHg and / or diastolic blood
           pressure of 90-109 mmHg will be recruited. Before randomization, two visits should be
           performed and 6 clinic blood pressures should be recorded. The average of the 6 clinic
           blood pressures should be 140-179 mmHg in systolic and/or 90-109 mmHg in diastolic.
           Regardless of whether the office blood pressure meets the enrollment conditions, a
           one-week home blood pressure measurement should be performed before randomization.
           Patient should sign the written consent form before screening and be able to go to the
           clinic by him/herself. Exclusion criteria included: suspected or confirmed secondary
           hypertension; history of coronary heart disease, myocardial infarction, heart failure,
           stroke or dementia; taking other drugs that might affect blood pressure; liver
           dysfunction, serum creatinine ≥1.5 mg/dL (133 μmol/L), urine protein positive; serum
           potassium >5.0 mmol/L or <3.5 mmol/L; uncontrolled diabetes (HbA1c >8%); BMI ≥35kg/m²;
           elderly care patients; or patients who are participating in other clinical trials.

        7. Randomization and treatment: After stratification by centers, eligible patients will be
           randomly divided into four groups, taking amlodipine (5 mg/tablet)+ once a day or
           amlodipine besylate tablets (5 mg/tablet) + hydrochlorothiazide tablets (25 mg/tablet)
           once a day.

        8. Follow up: Sitting office blood pressures and electrocardiogram should measured by an
           OMRON device. Medical history should be recorded. Clinical examinations including home
           blood pressure, electrocardiogram, blood and urine routine tests and biochemical tests
           should be performed. Patients should be followed up every three months. Before the
           follow-up, patients should perform a one-week home blood pressure monitoring.

        9. Sample size and statistical analysis: At least 300 eligible patients should be enrolled
           in each group, and a total of 1200 patients should be enrolled in total. Data will be
           analyzed by using the SAS software. ANOVA will be used to compare the parameters between
           groups and the difference between the four groups with the calculation of 95% confidence
           interval. In addition, a covariance analysis will also be used in the analysis of
           baseline parameters.

       10. Timeline: After obtaining the approval of Ethics Committee of Ruijin Hospital in
           September 2019, recruitment will start. Patients enrollment will be performed between
           October 2019 to October 2020. All patients should be followed up before December 2023.
           Database construction and statistical analysis will be conducted at the same time,
           appropriate domestic and international conferences will be selected to publish the
           research results. The main results will be published in international professional
           medical journals.

       11. Organization: The Centre for Epidemiological Studies and Clinical Trials, Ruijin
           Hospital, Shanghai, China.
    
  