
    
      A. Objectives Healthcare in the United States is costly, does not result in high patient
      satisfaction and is in need of reform. It is well known that the current state of healthcare
      delivery is trapped in a paradox with higher spending and poorer outcomes compared to other
      countries. To bring American healthcare back on course, the focus must shift to value. Health
      care value relies on quality and cost with the following equation: value = quality รท cost.
      Quality incorporates clinical outcomes, safety, and patient satisfaction. Routinely,
      hospitals and providers are rated on their postoperative care using the Consumer Assessment
      of Healthcare Providers and Systems (S-CAHPS) endorsed by the Agency for Healthcare Research
      and Quality (AHRQ). (https://cahps.ahrq.gov) In this equation, value increases by improving
      quality with increasing patient satisfaction and/or lowering costs without negatively
      impacting outcomes and maintaining safety. All healthcare stakeholders including patients,
      payers, providers, and suppliers benefit from working towards improving value.

      The value of routine, interval post-operative visits is unknown. Post-operative clinical
      visits are considered a "gold standard" based solely on tradition. Postoperative care of
      patients over the telephone has been utilized in place of traditional outpatient
      postoperative visits in the pediatric and adult surgery literature. Retrospectively, this
      form of postoperative care has proven to be safe, effective, and reduces patients' nonmedical
      costs with improvements in patient satisfaction as measured on non-validated global scales.
      However, a prospective trial evaluating patient satisfaction and the safety of phone call
      postoperative visits has not been undertaken. A key gap in assessing the value of
      Urogynecologic care is assessing the value of routine postoperative visits.

      The specific aims for this study include the following:

        1. Compare patient satisfaction with their postoperative care among women randomized to
           telephone calls versus routine outpatient visits at 3 months as measured by the
           postoperative domain of the S-CAHPS. Hypothesis: The investigators hypothesize that
           patients receiving postoperative care with telephone calls will report non-inferior
           satisfaction on the S-CAHPS as women who have in-person postoperative clinic visits.

        2. Compare adverse events at 3 months between patients randomized to telephone calls versus
           postoperative visits. Hypothesis: The investigators hypothesize that adverse events will
           not differ between the two groups.

        3. Determine the cost-effectiveness of postoperative care with telephone calls versus
           visits at 3 months using patient and societal perspectives. Hypothesis: The
           investigators hypothesize that postoperative care with phone calls is more
           cost-effective than in-person visits from both the patient and societal perspectives.

      Ultimately, the long-term goal is to institute novel approaches to postoperative care that
      adds value to healthcare delivery. The overall objective is to replace routine postoperative
      visits with telephone follow-up in a non-inferiority randomized controlled trial of
      postoperative patients after surgery for a pelvic floor disorders. The central hypothesis is
      this novel use of telephone follow-up calls versus clinic visits in uncomplicated
      post-operative patients after surgery for pelvic floor disorders will result in non- inferior
      satisfaction for their care as well as significantly reduce patients' direct and indirect
      nonmedical costs for postoperative care. The hypothesis has been formulated on the basis of
      other retrospective, observational studies in the pediatric and adult surgery literature. The
      rationale for the proposed research is that, once it is established that postoperative care
      with telephone calls offers similar rates of satisfaction among patients for their
      postoperative care, that this new approach for healthcare will offer an alternative to
      routine postoperative care.

      B. Study Design The investigators will conduct a randomized non-inferiority trial to compare
      patient satisfaction between outpatient visits and telephone calls for post-operative care.
      The investigators will recruit women pre-operatively at the UNM Urogynecology clinic who are
      undergoing surgery for pelvic floor disorders including urinary and/or anal incontinence
      and/or pelvic organ prolapse and/or pelvic pain, and/or mesh exposure/complications. All
      women will give written informed consent. Patients will be randomized at the time of
      discharge to either telephone follow-up or outpatient visits. Computer generated
      randomization will be assigned by research staff uninvolved with recruitment and will be
      stored in opaque, sequentially numbered envelops. Follow-up for both randomization arms will
      be scheduled at 1-2 weeks, 6 weeks, and 3 months post-operatively, as these are common
      timeframes for routine postoperative visits in our practice.

      C. Number of Subjects The recruitment goal for this study is 120 patients to allocate 60
      patients in the clinic visit group and 60 patients in the telephone follow-up group.

      The sample size for this study is determined by our primary objective, patient satisfaction
      measured by the Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems (S-CAHPS) survey. The
      investigators will conduct a non-inferiority patient satisfaction study comparing
      postoperative care with clinic visits versus telephone calls.

      The investigators have been able to identify two publications that have used the S-CAHPS;
      both of these reported scores for individual items, as well as composites of "top box"
      responses for individual items. For example, responses for the question, "After your surgery
      did the surgeon listen carefully to you?" has three responses: 1. Yes, definitely, 2. Yes,
      somewhat, and 3. No. A top box response is "Yes, definitely". The global satisfaction with
      their surgeon is a single item, ranging from 0 (worst surgeon possible) to 100 (best surgeon
      possible), with "top" box responses of 100. "Top" box responses in prior studies ranged from
      56-100% with the majority of responses about 90%. Assuming both the control and experimental
      groups are equivalent in patient satisfaction, a non-inferiority calculation can be applied
      using 90% as the percentage "success" in the control group and experimental groups with 80%
      power, an alpha of 0.05, and 15% non-inferiority limit. In this equation, if there is truly
      no difference between the control and experimental groups, then 100 patients for total sample
      size are required to be 80% sure that the upper limit of a 90% two-sided confidence interval
      will exclude a difference in favor of the control group of more than 15%. The primary outcome
      measure is the global composite for the surgeon rating, which has been used in the previous
      studies. This sample size will provide similar power for comparison of other items and scale
      of the S-CAHPS between groups. The investigators anticipate that up to 10% of women who are
      recruited will have complications that preclude them from participation after consent and
      prior to randomization, such as poorly controlled pain, complications or surgeon concerns. In
      addition, the investigators anticipate that 10% of women will be lost to follow-up. Therefore
      the plan is to recruit a total of 120 women, 60 per group.
    
  