
    
      The influence of the transversus abdominis plane block on the intensity of postoperative pain
      and the concentration of proinflammatory and pain factors after laparotomy for gynecological
      procedures

      Showing the problem

      Hysterectomy is one of the most commonly performed surgical operations. Indications for
      hysterectomy are numerous and include benign and malignant etiology. Symptomatic leiomyomas,
      pelvic organ prolapse, abnormal uterine bleeding, endometriosis, chronic pain, and
      premalignant lesions are the most commonly benign indications for hysterectomy. The uterus
      can be removed using an abdominal, vaginal or laparoscopic approach. Each of these approaches
      is related to postoperative pain as well as on an increase in inflammatory factors that may
      adversely affect the recovery of patients. Therefore, pain management has become one of the
      major quality of life issues in the postoperative period. Post-operative pain is not only a
      limitation for the patient but the long-term pain can have deleterious effects on
      respiratory, cardiocirculatory and neuroendocrine function. Adverse physiological changes due
      to inadequate or insufficient postoperative analgesia can lead to increased morbidity and
      mortality to the patients.

      The main assumption of the so-called "preventive analgesia" is to try to prevent the influx
      of nociceptive stimuli (surgical trauma) to the spinal cord and thus reduce postoperative
      pain. For this purpose, various anesthesiologic regional techniques (epidural analgesia,
      transversus abdominis plane block) are used for trying to reduce the activation of
      postoperative pain. Timely application of "preventive analgesia" and its long enough and
      intense action are essential as they could be captured all afferent nociceptive impulses. In
      the choice of optimal analgesia, the type and location of the procedure, the duration of the
      analgesic therapy required, individual risk factors and contraindications are of great
      importance. Preventive analgesia may be initiated immediately before the onset of tissue
      injury (eg epidural or spinal analgesia), immediately after surgery using regional blocks or
      intravenous analgesia for a well-defined period of time (eg at intervals of 3 to 6 hours).
      The goal of quality treatment of acute pain is not only optimal analgesia, but also for
      reducing complications. One of the newer techniques for postoperative analgesia is a
      transversus abdominis plane block (TAP), which is part of regional anesthesia techniques. It
      is a peripheral nerve block that blocks nerves located in the fascia layer between the m.
      transversus abdominis and the m. obliqus internus, which innervate the anterolateral
      abdominal wall. These nerves include the intercostal (Th7-Th11), subcostal (Th12),
      iliohypogastric and ilioinguinal (L1) nerves. A local anesthetic administered in the layer
      between the m. transversus abdominis and the m. obliqus internus results in anesthesia of the
      anterolateral abdominal wall. This technique achieves analgesia of the skin, subcutaneous,
      muscle, and parietal peritoneum in a given region. The blockage of these nerves is useful
      primarily for postoperative analgesia after abdominal surgery, including gynecologal too.

      In major surgical procedures such as uterine removal (hysterectomy), pain and stress caused
      by surgical tissue injury stimulate a strong pro-inflammatory response, so establishing
      effective postoperative analgesia which adequately relieved the pain is of great importance.
      In this study, investigators will evaluate the effect of a transversus abdominis plane block
      on the severity of postoperative pain as well as its effect on proinflammatory and pain
      factors in patients following gynecologic surgery performed with a laparotomy approach. The
      investigators will also compare the use of standard systemic multimodal analgesia and the TAP
      block (as well as their combination) in the control of postoperative pain. Studies have shown
      that both approaches are effective in controlling postoperative pain, but comparative studies
      are rare, and none has so far examined the concentration of proinflammatory and pain factors
      in operated patients.

      Hypothesis

      The basic hypothesis is that a transversus abdominis plane block reduces postoperative pain
      in patients after gynecologic surgery performed with a laparotomic approach. The expectation
      is that the concentration of proinflammatory and pain factors in patients treated with a TAP
      block will be lower and the quality of recovery will be better than that of patients
      receiving standard analgesic therapy (systemic multimodal analgesia).

      Objectives of the research

        1. Compare the three forms of postoperative analgesia dividing patients in the three groups
           (TAP block only, systemic multimodal analgesia only and combined TAP block with systemic
           multimodal analgesia) after gynecological surgeries to show which one has the highest
           value in controlling postoperative pain.

        2. Analyze the impact of the TAP block on postoperative pain, using a visual analogue scale
           (VAS) in patients after gynecological surgery.

        3. Analyze the impact of TAP block combined with systemic, multimodal analgesia on
           postoperative pain, using the VAS scale, in patients after gynecological surgery.

        4. Analyze the concentration of proinflammatory cytokines and pain factors (IL-1ß, IL-6,
           cortisol, catecholamines) in the plasma of patients who will receive a TAP block after
           gynecological surgery.

        5. Analyze the impact of the TAP block on the quality of recovery, measured with quality of
           recovery (QoR) questionnaire in patients after gynecological surgery.

        6. Correlate values of subjective assessment of postoperative pain intensity using VAS
           scale with concentration of proinflammatory and biomarkers for pain (IL-1ß, IL-6,
           cortisol, catecholamines) in patients in whom postoperative pain after gynecological
           surgery will be treated with TAP block or systemic multimodal analgesia.

      Construction of the study

      The structure will be a prospective, randomized, single-blind study.

      Subjects (Material)

      The number of women enrolled in the study will be 75. Patients will be interviewed in detail
      prior to surgery to be informed of planned anesthesia, surgery and postoperative pain
      control, and will sign informed consent and consent to participate in the study.

      From each patient by standard technique venous blood will be taken out from peripheral vein
      at certain intervals after surgery. The patients will be asked by the examiner to complete
      VAS scale or and the QoR questionnaire.

      Methods

      Hysterectomy and / or adnexectomy will be performed in patients included in the study due to
      benign gynecological pathology with a laparotomy approach. Baseline patient data will be
      determined based on a detailed medical history and medical records, clinical examination of
      each patient and imaging tests. A definitive diagnosis of benign gynecological pathology will
      be obtained after a histopathological analysis of the tissue. A detailed interview will be
      done with the patients before surgery, and patients will be informed about the planned
      anesthesia, surgery and postoperative pain control. After that patients will sign an informed
      consent and the consent for participating in the study. For the purpose of the study,
      patients will be randomized into three groups regarding to the treatment technique for
      postoperative pain. The doctor ( researcher) will, by the computer program Datlnf Ranolist do
      the randomization. So that way the researcher will determine the type of analgesia the
      patient will receive. In the first group, patients will receive intravenous, systemic,
      multimodal analgesia: paracetamol 1 gram and ketoprofen 100 mg every 8 hours for 24 hours.
      Analgesia will start immediately after surgery. If the pain persists, the patient will be
      given "rescue" analgesia: tramadol 50 mg intravenously up to a maximum dose of 400 mg / 24 h
      and other analgesics if needed. In the second group there will be patients in who will be
      given the TAP block. The TAP block will be given postoperatively before waking. It will be
      given bilaterally in the before mentioned anatomic region (the so-called lateral TAP block)
      of 0.25% levobupivacin in 40 ml bilaterally. If such analgesia is not satisfactory, tramadol
      50 mg intravenously, up to a maximum dose of 400 mg / 24h, and other analgesics will be given
      at the request of the patient. In the third group there will be patients who will be treated
      with TAP block in addition to systemic, mutimodal analgesia. If such analgesia is not
      satisfactory, tramadol 50 mg intravenously, up to a maximum dose of 400 mg / 24h, and other
      analgesics will be given at the request of the patient. The standardized protocol will
      determine the general information of each patient to be included in the study: ID, age and
      gender. 25 patients will be included in each group. The research will be based on completing
      a questionnaire (VAS scale and QoR questionnaire) and taking peripheral blood out. Blood will
      be taken from the peripheral vein by standard technique in a volume of 10 ml before surgery
      and 6, 24 and 48 hours after surgery. VAS scale (at rest and in motion) will be determined
      before surgery and 3, 6, 12, 24 and 48 hours after surgery. The QoR questionnaire will be
      examined before surgery, 24 hours after surgery and 30 days after surgery. The concentrations
      of individual cytokines (IL-1ß, IL-6) and hormones (catecholamines, cortisol) related to
      inflammation and pain will be determined by standard laboratory methods from peripheral
      blood. Cytokine and hormone concentrations will be determined by enzyme immunofluorescence
      method according to the manufacturer's instructions. All results obtained through the
      questionnaire or blood test will only serve for the purpose of the study and will not have
      diagnostic, therapeutic or prognostic value for the patients included in the study.

      Statistical methods

      Statistical data processing will be performed in the Statistica 12.0 computer program
      (StatSoft, Inc., Tulsa, OK, USA). When calculating differences between experimental groups,
      investigators will use the Kruskal Walis ANOVA nonparametric test for small independent
      samples. Changes will be considered statistically significant with p <0.05. We will use the
      Mann-Whitney U test subsequently to determine between which two of the more comparable groups
      there is statistical significance. Correlations will be examined by Pearson or Spearman
      correlation test, depending on the results of the data distribution analysis. Differences
      between variables expressed at nominal level will be examined using the chi-square test.
      Image and spreadsheet views of the results will be made in Microsoft Excel and Statistica
      12.0.

      Expected scientific contribution

      It is hoped that the results of the proposed study will shed light on the impact of various
      anesthesiologic techniques (transversus abdominis plane block, intravenous systemic
      multimodal analgesia and their combination) on postoperative pain and the concentration of
      proinflammatory and pain factors after gynecologic surgery performed with a laparotomy
      approach. Investigators expect that the use of regional analgesia technique (TAP block) will
      lead to a reduction in postoperative pain and proinflammatory factors and pain factors
      examined, thereby contributing to a faster recovery and better outcome of their treatment.
    
  