
    
      Severe sepsis and septic shock are the cause of significant morbidity and mortality
      worldwide. An estimated 751,000 (3 per 1,000 population) cases of severe sepsis occur in the
      United States each year, resulting in approximately 215,000 deaths. Septic shock is
      characterized by hypotension, hypermetabolic state, lactic acidosis, and potentially death.
      In addition, the economic burden on the health care system for patients suffering from severe
      sepsis is striking. Weycker et al. report that patients suffering from severe sepsis will
      require an average of $45,000 dollars of medical care cost on their index admission and up to
      $78,500 dollars in the first year post-diagnosis. These figures rival such entities as acute
      myocardial infarction, trauma, and stroke. Whereas a significant amount of research and
      therapeutic interventions have been focused on the "early hours" of diseases such as acute
      myocardial infarction, stroke, and trauma, less attention has been given to the initial
      stages of severe sepsis and septic shock.

      Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) is a safe and feasible medicinal intervention with a strong scientific
      rationale for use in septic shock. CoQ10 is a key component of the mitochondria, serving as
      an electron transport medium between complex I/II and complex III. A lesion at this point in
      the electron transport chain results in an inadequate production of ATP (adenosine
      triphosphate) for the cell. In septic shock, CoQ10 levels are profoundly decreased and
      therefore production of energy may be compromised. CoQ10 has two essential roles in
      critically ill patients with sepsis: 1) production of ATP and 2) reduction of free oxygen
      radicals. CoQ10's key role in the electron transport chain may prevent the well-described
      mitochondrial dysfunction that occurs in patients with septic shock. Thus, these two
      essential roles form the pathophysiological basis for this proposed study.

      In the following proposal, the investigators plan to perform a pilot study to evaluate the
      capacity for ubiquinol (reduced form of COQ10) to attenuate mitochondrial injury, to
      attenuate inflammation/vascular endothelial injury, the effect on the human metabolome, and
      to be absorbed. The overall goal of this line of research will be to determine if CoQ10 will
      attenuate oxidative injury and improve mitochondrial function leading to overall improved
      outcome in patients suffering from septic shock. In order to achieve this long-term goal, the
      investigators propose this pilot and feasibility trial to determine CoQ10 absorption in
      critical illness, capacity to mitigate inflammatory injury and oxidative injury, and ability
      to maintain mitochondrial electron transport chain functionality. This pilot study will also
      provide key feasibility data on blinding and other logistical issues necessary for execution
      of a larger-scale investigation.
    
  