
    
      Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality,
      especially in patients with autoimmune disorders such as systemic lupus erythematosus (lupus)
      and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). We have found that immune and inflammatory mediators promote
      atherosclerosis by disabling mechanisms that prevent cells of the artery wall from being
      overloaded with cholesterol, leading to formation of lipid laden foam cells. This proposal
      seeks to identify which specific components in the blood of patients with lupus and RA make
      them vulnerable to ASCVD and to explore potential novel therapeutic approaches utilizing our
      finding that the naturally occurring anti-inflammatory molecule adenosine can restore normal
      cholesterol outflow to cells that line the artery wall.

        1. A 40 cc blood sample will be taken from each subject by venipuncture. The plasma will be
           added to cell culture media (25 and 50% vol/vol) and used for incubation with THP-1
           monocytic leukemia cells and/or human monocyte-derived macrophages and/or human aortic
           endothelial cells so that the effect of exposure to various disease and control plasma
           on cholesterol homeostatic protein expression by the cultured cells can be assessed.
           PBMC will be isolated from a portion of the sample by Ficoll hypaque gradient
           centrifugation.

           Subject Inclusion & Exclusion Criteria

             1. Normal Controls Normal healthy volunteers, age 18-65, not on corticosteroids or any
                other immune-modifying medications. Because SLE is a disease with >90% female
                prevalence and RA has a similar gender bias towards the female sex, our data in men
                will be exploratory only and we will not be able to examine sex differences in
                effects on our outcome measures (1, 2).

             2. Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients Patients age 18-65 who satisfy at least 4 of the 7
                revised criteria (1987) for the classification of rheumatoid arthritis (3).

             3. Active SLE patients Patients, age 18-65, must fulfill the 1982 revised criteria of
                the American College of Rheumatology (formerly the American Rheumatism Association)
                for classification of SLE (4). SLE activity status will be designated using the
                SLEDAI disease activity index (5). Patients with previous documentation of a
                diagnosis of a connective tissue disorder other than SLE will be excluded. Patients
                will have had no statin treatment in the prior three months.

             4. Psoriatic Arthritis Patients Diagnosed according to criteria described by McGonacle
                et al (6). Defined as an inflammatory arthritis associated with psoriasis

                40 patients will be recruited for each group. Anti-C1q antibodies will be measured
                in all subjects by a solid-phase enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.

        2. Protection of Human Subjects- Informed consent will be obtained from all subjects and
           patient confidentiality will be maintained at all times. The protocol and consent form
           will be approved by the Winthrop University Hospital IRB. We are not using a case study
           approach so all data will be pooled and anonymity will be preserved. To further ensure
           anonymity, all records and blood specimens will be numerically coded, and the
           translation table will be accessible only to the PI. Patients will be asked by their
           physicians during routine visits to participate in the study.

        3. Sources of research material- Blood sample (40 cc) drawn during routine outpatient
           visits to the faculty practices offices of Winthrop University Hospital Academic
           Rheumatologists. Patient charts will be utilized to obtain information on disease
           activity status, medication regimen, age, sex and cardiovascular disease history. All
           such information is collected in the patient chart as part of standard medical
           recordkeeping.

        4. Potential Risk to Subjects The studies proposed only require the donation of blood
           samples (40 cc each) by the subjects and impose only the minimal risk to the subjects of
           blood drawing. These risks include hematoma formation and, very rarely, infection at the
           puncture site. No interventions or special measures are involved. Furthermore, as
           patients with the diagnoses of SLE and RA require frequent monitoring of blood
           parameters, whether in relation to their disease activity or for monitoring the side
           effects of the treatments they receive, the acquisition of the blood samples for the
           study impose no additional discomfort to them than what they would experience in their
           routine medical care. The course of treatment for the subjects will not be changed in
           any way by participation in this project. All blood specimens will be handled carefully
           and with full blood precautions.

        5. The Risks of this Study are no more than those involved in any routine blood drawing.
           Donating blood may occasionally cause pain, bruising, fainting or a small infection at
           the puncture site.

        6. Potential Benefits of the Proposed Research to the Subjects and Others At this time,
           there is no direct benefit for enrolled subjects. However, we hope to gather information
           that may help people in the future by reducing morbidity and mortality from
           cardiovascular disease.

        7. The Importance of the Knowledge to Be Gained Although the patients will see no direct
           personal benefit, the knowledge to be gained has immense potential to benefit SLE and RA
           patients because it may eventually lead us to an understanding of the role of
           immunological mechanisms in the pathogenesis of premature cardiovascular disease. This
           understanding will pave the way for the development of life-prolonging preventive and
           therapeutic interventions.
    
  