
    
      "Bio-identical" hormones, which are compounded plant-based hormones synthesized into
      structurally similar to human estradiol and progesterone molecules, became popular in 2004 by
      celebrity, Suzanne Somers, who let women know there were natural alternatives to the drugs
      with hormone-like activity. Compounding hormones makes it easy to make dose adjustments in
      order to manage symptoms. Using this form of hormone delivery, it is possible to try and
      replicate a normal physiological reproductive pattern of replacement akin to thyroid
      replacement, etc. Current short-term studies with bio- identical transdermal estradiol and
      progesterone have not supported increased breast cancer or other issues such as venous
      thrombosis7. Even the WHI stated that the increase in breast cancer was due to stimulation of
      cancers already present.

      This study of bio-identical physiologic restoration and dosing of estradiol, testosterone and
      cyclical transdermal progesterone attempts to replicate the reproductive hormone patterns and
      levels of a premenopausal woman. This dosing schedule has higher doses and levels than
      current standard estradiol and progesterone hormone therapy for post menopause women.
      Research shows that the estradiol peak of a menstrual cycle has an impact on cell signaling
      and receptor response. For example, TP53, the gene major tumor suppressor gene is under
      estrogen and progesterone control. At the peaks of estradiol and progesterone, TP53 is up
      regulated conferring cellular protection against mutations8-14.

      Physiologic Restoration (PR) with bio-identical rhythmic dosing was originally developed by
      S.T. Wiley, who developed a template of hormone doses over time and was meant to be adjusted
      to the individual women depending on their symptoms and, absorption, metabolism, and response
      to the program. This study will utilize this concept with some improvements to the original
      proposed template (Sex, Lies, and Menopause, 2004). This regimen has been in national
      clinical practice since 2004 and has not been formally studied until now. There is
      unpublished observational data from Dr. Taguchi's high risk population of oncology patients
      (Santa Barbara Cottage Hospital IRB# 19-71ix) showing that PR is feasible and manages
      menopause symptoms well without seemingly more adverse effects and better sense of well being
      and excellent reversal or improvement of osteoporosis.
    
  