
    
      Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a serious complication after cardiovascular surgery.
      Pharmacologic interventions to prevent postoperative AKI have been, in general, unsuccessful.
      N-Acetylcystein (NAC) is a scavenger of reactive oxygen species that prevents renal
      dysfunction caused by radiocontrast agents but its ability to prevent AKI in cardiovascular
      surgery remains controversial. Lack of dose standardization and route of administration
      contributes to conflicting results in the literature. ln a earlier prospective, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled study 1 the investigators showed that high-dose NAC reduced the incidence
      of AKI in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery. In this research the
      investigators aim to validate the results of the abovementioned work in a larger group of
      patients undergoing cardiac valve replacement, using the same protocol. Methods: This will be
      a unicentric, prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled investigation. The Institutional
      Review Board has already approved the study protocol and all participants will sign a written
      informed consent. Adult patients of both sex scheduled to undergo elective cardiac valve
      replacement (aortic and/or mitral) at the Heart Institute, University of São Paulo Medical
      School, will be considered for inclusion. Exclusion criteria: patients younger than 18 years,
      dialysis, and participation in other studies, allergy to NAC, active infection, emergency
      cardiac surgery and malignancies. One-hundred fifty-four patients will be randomly allocated
      (1:1 ratio) to receive either NAC (Fluimucil, Zambon Laboratories, São Paulo, Brazil) 150
      mg/kg in 500 mL 0.9% IV saline in 2 hours, started 2 hours before surgery, followed by NAC 50
      mg/kg in 500 mL 0.9% IV saline over 6 hours (NAC group) or 0.9% IV saline (control group) at
      the same volume. This dose was selected because it is the highest dose sanctioned for
      clinical use 2 and because it has been shown to reduce the oxidative burst response to
      Cardiopulmonary Bypass (CPB). Allocation will be based on random computer generated numbers.
      Patients and investigators will be blinded to treatment assignment. Blood samples will be
      collected 24 hours before surgery and up to 1 week postoperatively. Serum neutrophil
      gelatinase associated lipocalin (NGAL) and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances will be
      determined at the same intervals.2 The primary outcome is the incidence of AKI, as defined by
      the KDIGO and Acute Kidney Injury Network classification 3 , stages 1, 2, or 3, in the first
      72 hours after surgery. The secondary outcomes are death by any cause, cardiovascular events
      (myocardial infarction, stroke, heart failure, and life-threatening arrhythmia), time in the
      intensive care unit, time of hospitalization and need of dialysis. The investigators will
      determine thiobarbituric acid reactive substances to verify if changes in renal function
      would coincide with changes in oxidative stress and NGAL as an additional marker of renal
      damage. Patients will be followed up until death or hospital discharge. The renoprotective
      effect of NAC is attributed to its ability to attenuate the oxidative stress burst associated
      with cardiac surgery and Cardiopulmonary BYPASS (CPB). The present investigation pretend not
      only to address this problem, but also to offer evidence that NAC abolishes the increase in
      circulating reactive oxygen species thus giving a plausible explanation for the
      renoprotective effect of NAC. Given the clinical relevance of AKI associated to cardiac
      surgery, lack of dependable methods to prevent that complication and the reduced number of
      prospective, randomized studies addressing the problem, this work has potential practical
      relevance.
    
  