
    
      Review of literature Databases and websites as PubMed, Google scholar were searched for
      relevant literature until October 2017 with key words "Child abuse, Child maltreatment,
      Physical child abuse, Violence against children, Dental students " .

      Thomas et al., 2006 conducted a study to explore dental and dental hygiene students'
      educational experiences and knowledge toward child abuse. Data were collected by 233 dental
      (116 male/117 female) and 76 female dental hygiene students at the University of Michigan
      through a self -administrated questionnaire. The results showed that 94.7 %of the dental
      hygiene and 70.5 % of the dental students reported having learned about child abuse in
      classroom settings, and 15.8 %of the dental hygiene and 29.3 % of the dental students
      reported having learned about it in clinical settings .Only 5.5% of the dental and 16.7 %of
      the dental hygiene students defined child abuse correctly; 32.2 %of the dental and 13.2 %of
      the dental hygiene students did not know their legal responsibility concerning reporting
      child abuse and 82.4% of the dental and 78.9% of the dental hygiene students did not know
      where to report child abuse. Dental and dental hygiene curricula should be improved to ensure
      that students are well prepared for their role in child protection.

      Al-Jundi et al., 2010 conducted a study to assess eductional experiences ,attitude and
      knowledge of Jordanian dental students toward child physical abuse. Data were collected
      through a self-administered questionnaire completed by 441 undergraduate and postgraduate
      dental students in both dental schools in Jordan. study indicated that both undergraduate and
      postgraduate dental students are not sufficiently prepared to undergo their role in
      protection of children from abuse.

      Jordan et al., 2012 conducted a study to assess the educational experiences and knowledge of
      a group of Croatian dental students regarding child abuse and neglect. Questionnaires were
      completed by 544 students (153 male &391 female) from all six years at the University of
      Zagreb School of Dental Medicine with a response rate of 74.9%. The results indicate lack of
      knowledge of the signs of physical and sexual abuse of children. Students from more senior
      teaching years have a greater amount of knowledge related to child abuse and neglect compared
      to students from more junior teaching years. In conclusion, dental students should be better
      educated and prepared for their important role in protecting children from abuse .

      Hashim et al., 2013 conducted a study to assess educational experience, attitudes and
      knowledge toward child physical abuse among a group of dental students in United Arab
      Emirates. a self-administered structured questionnaire completed by 578 under graduate dental
      students ,The results indicated that there was lack of knowledge of reporting procedure,
      signs of physical abuse and social indicators among all participants. Over 80 % of the
      students agreed that dentists should report abuse cases and 94.3 % of the participants
      believed they had an ethical duty to report child abuse. Most students indicated that their
      dental school was the main source of information on child physical abuse. The majority of the
      respondents expressed a need for further training.

      Hazar Bodrumlu et al., 2016 conducted a study to assess dental students' knowledge and
      attitudes towards child abuse at the Faculty of Dentistry of the Ondokuz Mayis University.
      The data were collected through a self-report questionnaire administered completed by dental
      students (137 female/111 male) in three different dental classes (third, fourth and fifth
      study years) with 100 % response rate. About 67.74% of the third year, 40.71% of the fourth
      year and 16.67% of the fifth year believed that they could detect child abuse cases. However,
      there is a lack of knowledge of social indicators, signs of physical abuse and reporting
      procedure amongst all participants. The assessment of the total correct answers indicate
      significant differences amongst third-, fourth- and fifth-year students' answers. Fifth-year
      students had the highest rate of correct responses (P < 0.05). Most students wanted to
      receive more knowledge about child abuse.

      Aim of the study :

      The aim of this study is to:

      assess knowledge ,attitude and educational experiences of a group of Egyptian dental students
      regarding physical child abuse.

      PO:

      (P) Population: dental students (3rd to 5th classes) from Faculty of Dentistry ,Cairo
      University.

      (O) Outcomes :Knowledge, attitude, educational experience of dental students toward physical
      child abuse.

      Research question What is the knowledge ,attitude and educational experiences about physical
      child abuse among a group of Egyptian dental students(3rd to 5th classes) from Faculty of
      Dentistry ,Cairo University ? Study design: Cross-sectional study.

      Study settings:

        -  Questionnaires ,Appendix 1will be distributed to the students and give them 30 minutes
           to answer it.

        -  All questionnaires will be collected at the same day, to prevent any of the participants
           to search for the answers of questions that related to their knowledge.

        -  Participants during answering the questionnaire are not allowed to ask their colleagues,
           to ensure accuracy of the answers of knowledge questions.

        -  The researcher is not allowed to help the participant in answering the questions.

        -  Participants are allowed to ask the researcher any question either to clarify any part
           of the questions or anything about the survey.

        -  The researcher will deal with the participant personally, so there is no risk of the
           same dentist to complete more than one questionnaire.

      After the participants finish answering the questionnaires, it will be collected and
      subjected to data analysis.

      Study size:

      the investigator is going to apply a convenient consecutive sampling ;it will include all
      dental students (3rd to 5th classes) at faculty of Dentistry ,Cairo University. Students will
      be invited to complete the questionnaire. All number of students will be reported , response
      rate will be calculated and no attempt is made to follow up with dentists who were absent in
      the day of the survey.

      Statistical methods:

      The data will be analyzed using the statistical analysis software SPSS version 20.the
      individual scores will be summed up to the yield total score. Descriptive statistic will be
      calculated as mean scores,standar deviation and frequency distribution.

      The difference of knowledge ,personal views and experiences betwwen different categories will
      be assessed by students t-test or ANOVA according to the number of categories .

      The difference between male and females doctors will be assessed by students t-test. P value
      <0.05 will be considered significant : All test will be two tails.

      Ethical consideration

        -  A permission letter, explaining the aim of the study will be presented to the Pediatric
           Dentistry and Dental Public Health Department Head - Cairo University granting approval
           to conduct this survey among faculty of dentistry students.

        -  An informed consent explaining the aim of the study will be signed by the participants.
    
  