
    
      Objective: To assess the antihypertensive efficacy of adding spironolactone to the
      antihypertensive treatment of patients with resistant hypertension.

      Background and Rationale: The proportion of hypertensive patients meeting the definition of
      resistant hypertension is growing rapidly as doctors use more combination antihypertensive
      treatments in order to reach lower target blood pressures. Spironolactone is often used in
      specialist clinics for patients with resistant hypertension although it is currently only
      licensed in the UK for use in hypertension complicated by primary hyperaldosteronism.
      Uncontrolled studies suggest that spironolactone is a very effective antihypertensive in the
      modern management of resistant hypertension but we could find no randomised trials in this
      setting. In the Sheffield Hypertension Clinic spironolactone is currently used as one of the
      drugs of choice in patients with resistant hypertension, particularly in women and is
      anecdotally often very effective.

      Study methods. The study will be a double- blind randomised placebo controlled trial with a
      parallel group design assessing the addition of 25mg spironolactone to existing
      antihypertensive treatment, titrated to 50mg if necessary in 40 patients with resistant
      hypertension (20 patients per group) over a period of 6 weeks. Resistant hypertension will be
      defined as: blood pressures not adequately controlled (systolic blood pressure (SBP) >140
      mmHg and/or diastolic blood pressure (DBP) >85 mmHg in clinic and on ambulatory blood
      pressure monitoring) despite treatment with the maximum tolerated dose of three
      antihypertensive agents. All patients' current antihypertensive treatment will include a
      thiazide diuretic and at least one of a beta-blocker, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor
      or angiotensin II receptor antagonist. The primary endpoint will be the difference between
      the spironolactone and placebo groups in change in daytime average systolic blood pressure on
      24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring from day 0 to day 42.
    
  