
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES I. To compare the levels of epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) in
      nonmalignant bladder tissue from patients with bladder cancer treated with oral polyphenon E
      800 mg EGCG or polyphenon E 1200 mg EGCG once daily for 14-28 days.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the levels of EGCG in nonmalignant versus malignant bladder tissue samples from
      these patients.

      II. To examine the dose-response modulation of surrogate intermediate endpoint biomarkers
      (e.g., Proliferating Cell Nuclear Antigen [PCNA], Matrix Metallopeptidase 2 [MMP2],
      clusterin, Vascular endothelial Growth Factor [VEGF], p27, and ODC) in malignant and
      nonmalignant samples of bladder tissue from these patients after administration of polyphenon
      E.

      III. To correlate EGCG levels in samples of serum, urine, and tissue from these patients.

      IV. To examine the levels of other catechins (i.e., epicatechin, epicatechin gallate, and
      epigallocatechin) found in polyphenon E in samples of serum, urine, and tissue from these
      patients.

      V. To compare the metabolism of EGCG by Catechol-O-Methyltransferase (COMT) and
      Uridinediphosphate-Glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) in relation to pharmacogenetic polymorphisms
      in COMT and UGT in samples of serum, urine, and tissue from these patients.

      VI. To examine the changes in serum Insulin Growth Factor 1 (IGF-1) and IGFBP-3 levels after
      administration of polyphenon E in these patients.

      OUTLINE:

      This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to tumor site and disease
      invasiveness (invasive vs noninvasive). Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      Arm I: Patients receive six oral placebo capsules once daily for 14-28 days in the absence of
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Arm II: Patients receive four oral polyphenon E capsules and two oral placebo capsules once
      daily for 14-28 days in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      Arm III: Patients receive six oral polyphenon E capsules once daily for 14-28 days in the
      absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients undergo trans-urethral resection of bladder
      tumor or cystectomy.

      Blood, urine, and tissue samples are obtained at baseline and at the end of study treatment
      for correlative laboratory studies. Samples are evaluated for pharmacokinetics of polyphenon
      E using high performance liquid chromatography. Levels of epigallocatechin-3-gallate [EGCG]
      and other catechins found in polyphenon E are assessed for correlation in serum, urine, and
      tissue. Intermediate endpoint biomarkers are evaluated for dose-response modulation in serum
      (i.e., IGF-1 and IGFBP-3) via ELISA and in bladder tissue obtained at the time of bladder
      surgery (i.e., PCNA, MMP2, clusterin, VEGF, p27, and ODS) via IHC. Patients at the University
      of Wisconsin undergo additional biopsy of bladder tissue for matrix-assisted laser desorption
      quadrupole time-of-flight (O-MALDI-qTOF) analysis of EGCG pharmacokinetics. Tissue samples
      are examined for intracellular concentration and distribution of EGCG. Genotyping studies for
      pyrosequencing of UGT and COMT polymorphisms are also performed.
    
  