
    
      CONSULT-BP will adapt and test a theory-based, 'awareness, exposure and skill-building'
      intervention, applied in the safety of a simulation-based learning center, to improve
      providers' interaction skills with minority and poor patients. We will use our established
      platform of community-based participatory research to implement CONSULT-BP in an academic
      medical center with a large, safety-net health system that serves a minority and poor
      population. The CONSULT-BP project will: 1. recruit and hire Community Advisors (CA)
      representing diverse underserved populations who will participate in the adaptation of
      evidence-based hypertension communication tools and the design, development, and
      implementation of the training curriculum; 2. use online self-assessments of clinicians'
      implicit bias for race and patient compliance to raise bias self-awareness and to examine the
      effect of bias on knowledge and skill development; and 3. hire Community SPs to (a) conduct
      face-to-face, simulated clinical encounters with medical trainees and NP students, and (b)
      provide evaluation and feedback about communication skills along with trained CA observers
      and faculty facilitators. The educational intervention is a program of two, 180-minute,
      sessions, spaced 5 weeks apart that combine online learning with in-person skill practice.

      To understand how much training exposure is required to 'move the needle' of clinical skills
      and patient outcomes, we will assess the effect of CONSULT-BP by conducting two, sequential,
      randomized trials. Trial 1 will evaluate the effectiveness of one-time CONSULT training on
      outcomes, and Trial 2 will evaluate the effect of repeat, booster training on outcomes. To
      support training feasibility in Trial 1, CONSULT-BP will train cohorts of IM, FM, and NP
      trainees over a 3-year period, and will target advanced (2nd or 3rd-year) trainees within a
      given academic year for one-time exposure to the training intervention. Within each academic
      year, we will randomize training times to 1 of 5 start dates using a stepped wedge design to
      accommodate pre-existing training schedules and to mitigate the effect of temporal trends in
      clinical skill proficiency. Trial 2 will randomly assign continuing trainee participants from
      Trial 1 to a second CONSULT-BP booster training exposure versus no booster training. The
      primary outcome for both trials will be patient BP control. Secondary process outcomes will
      include trainees' communication skills and patient adherence to medications, visits, and diet
      changes. We will also examine effect modification by patient characteristics (baseline BP
      control) and trainee characteristics (implicit bias and awareness of bias). Trainee measures
      will be from trainee self-report (implicit bias, bias awareness), community SP report
      (trainee communication skills), and clinic patient surveys (trainee communication quality and
      patient adherence). Clinical BP outcomes will be from the EMR. We will use analytic mixed
      effect models accounting for patient and clinician characteristics, patient correlations
      within randomization clusters and within clinicians, and repeated measures within patient.
      The CONSULT-BP multi-staged, community-engaged, education model will change how medical
      educators think about helping providers develop bias-aware, patient-centered, communication
      skills.
    
  