
    
      We searched MEDLINE and PubMed with the following phrases: "oral mucositis", "oral toxicity",
      "cryotherapy", "myeloma", "autologous haematopoietic stem cell transplantation", "randomised
      trial" and "high-dose melphalan".

      Oral mucositis, which is a side effect of high-dose chemotherapy, has a major negative impact
      on the quality of life and survival of patients who undergoing autologous haematopoietic stem
      cell transplantation (auto-HSCT). For patients with myeloma cryotherapy gives a significant
      reduction in oral mucositis. The mechanism of action is suggested to be vasoconstriction that
      is induced by the cooling of the oral mucosa, thereby protecting it from the cytotoxic
      effects of the chemotherapy. The therapeutic efficacy of cryotherapy in this setting has been
      confirmed in several trials, it is currently regarded as the standard of care prophylactic
      regimen for oral mucositis in patients undergoing auto-HSCT for myeloma. However, the long
      duration of the treatment (7 hours), as reported in the original, placebo-controlled study in
      2006, has been associated with significant discomfort for the patients, with negative
      consequences for compliance.

      Uncontrolled trials have previously tested cryotherapy for less than 7 hours in patients with
      myeloma who receive auto-HSCT. At the time of the planning of the current study in 2014,
      those results were not yet confirmed in any randomised trial. However last year a randomised
      trial was published, showing that 2-hour cryotherapy is equally as effective as 6-hour
      cryotherapy in preventing oral mucositis in patients with myeloma who are treated with
      high-dose melphalan. The present prospective, randomised study aimed to investigate whether 2
      hours of cryotherapy is as effective as 7 hours of cryotherapy in protecting against oral
      mucositis those patients who are subjected to high-dose melphalan as a conditioning agent for
      auto-SCT for myeloma.
    
  