
    
      Research Procedures: If a patient choose to take part in this research study, they will
      undergo these research procedures:

      The patient will participate in a total of two meetings and four phone calls over the course
      of the study (two and a half years). The meetings will be held at the beginning and end of
      the two and a half year period. The first part of each meeting will take place at Beth Israel
      Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC) where they will sign this consent form and then be
      interviewed for medical history, given a physical examination, and have blood tests described
      below. The patient will then be transported to Judge Baker Children's Center (JBCC), where
      they will have lunch, complete questionnaires, and participate in taped interviews
      (approximately 4 hours). The phone calls will be approximately every six months and the
      patient will be contacted by the people at JBCC. More detailed information on the study
      procedures is outlined below and on the JBCC consent form for the study.

      Interviews, Questionnaires, and Phone calls: These aspects of the study are covered in the
      Judge Baker Children's Center consent form. Briefly, the patient will be asked to discuss
      relationships with their partner, family, and friends, their career, their current goals in
      life, their health status, etc. These sessions will be recorded so that the patient's answers
      can be coded and analyzed at a later time. All information will be kept strictly
      confidential.

      Medical Examination: The patient will arrive fasting to the medical examination. During the
      medical exam, a physician will ask the patient questions about their physical health and
      family history. The doctor will then conduct a physical examination which includes:

        1. Glucose finger stick for diabetes screening

        2. Vital signs (such as blood pressure) and anthropometrics (such as waist circumference).

        3. Measuring the amount of fat in the patient's body using bioelectrical impedance
           analysis. This test will measure the resistance to the naturally occurring flow of
           electrical currents within the nerves and muscles using a few electrical sensors
           (similar to the EKG) attached to the patient's wrist and ankle for less than a minute.
           This procedure is not painful and uses the same principle as weighing oneself on a scale
           that provides body mass index.

        4. Measuring the patient body's ability to use sugar through an oral glucose tolerance test
           (OGTT). A nurse will place an intravenous (IV) catheter (a small tube) in the patient's
           arm. It will be taped to stay in place for approximately four hours. The patient will
           drink a mixed nutrient drink called Boost. The patient's blood will be drawn through the
           catheter 15 min after the Boost is given and then at 30-minute intervals for 3 hours to
           measure how they metabolize the nutrient drink.

        5. EKG
    
  