
    
      Sleep apnea, in particular obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), is one of the most common breathing
      disorders and is associated with major comorbidities such as higher risk perioperative
      complications. This is particularly concerning given that about 40-80% of people with
      moderate-severe OSA remain undiagnosed. Due to the resource-intensive assessments required to
      diagnose OSA and the significantly increased risk of car accidents and perioperative
      complications associated with undiagnosed OSA, there is a critical need to develop a more
      effective method to screen for OSA quickly and reliably.

      The most widely used clinical OSA screening tool is the STOP-Bang questionnaire, which is a
      quick and easy-to-implement inquiry form that has a high sensitivity to detect moderate and
      severe OSA (>93%), but it has a very high rate of false positives (>63%). Thus, a significant
      number of patients without OSA will continue to be referred for PSG, which contributes to a
      strain on the healthcare system. Therefore, a quick and reliable screening tool for OSA and
      its severity during wakefulness is very appealing but challenging, as people with OSA do not
      show any apparent symptoms during wakefulness.

      We have developed a novel screening algorithm for OSA based on the analysis of tracheal
      breathing sounds recorded from an individual during wakefulness, called AWakeOSA. It can
      predict OSA with a sensitivity (86%) similar to STOP-Bang, but with a much higher specificity
      (84%) for detecting individuals without OSA. The AWakeOSA technology still needs significant
      research and quality improvements to become a reliable home-care device for screening under
      unsupervised conditions, which is the central purpose of this project. In addition, we are
      interested to investigate the breathing sound changes from wakefulness to sleep in both
      groups of healthy and apneic population. For that, we need to record PSG data and breathing
      sounds during sleep in addition to recording breathing sounds during wakefulness.

      We have also designed a specialized hardware device, called ASAD-3, capable of recording
      breathing sounds with high quality during both wakefulness (short-period recording) and
      during sleep (long hours recording) that uses two small microphones that are placed in
      contact with the skin over the trachea and lung, respectively. The hardware device will be
      utilized to optimize the AWakeOSA algorithm and work towards achieving a reliable home-care
      device for screening under unsupervised conditions.

      The proposed technology will enable a reliable and quick diagnosis of OSA that can be either
      used in a clinician's office during wakefulness and/or used at home by people to monitor
      their own OSA. The outcomes of this study will benefit the health care system and society
      significantly as it will: 1) reduce the financial burden of OSA on the healthcare system by
      reducing the need for PSG and unnecessary preoperative resources; and 2) provide a quick and
      reliable personal OSA home-care monitoring system for better OSA treatment management.
    
  