
    
      Patients with diastolic heart failure often have high pressure in their heart and lungs and
      many symptoms such as shortness of breath, low energy, fluid retention, and fatigue.
      Decreasing the pressure in the heart and lungs may help these patients feel better. The drug
      nesiritide was designed to help treat heart failure. It has also been shown to help decrease
      the pressure in the lungs.

      Before treatment starts, you will be asked questions about your medical history and about any
      medications you are currently taking. You will have a complete physical exam. You will have
      an electrocardiogram (ECG - a test that measures the electrical activity of the heart) and
      routine blood tests (about 2 teaspoons). You will have an ultrasound on your heart called an
      echocardiogram to measure your heart function and the pressures in your lungs. Your ability
      to breathe will be evaluated. With the aid of the research nurse, you will have a 6-minute
      walk test. You may stop or sit down at any time during the test. This test is being done to
      evaluate your energy level. You will also be asked to complete a questionnaire about your
      symptoms. This questionnaire should take no more than 10 minutes to complete.

      In order to measure the pressure in your heart and lungs, you will have a procedure called a
      "right heart catheterization". This is a procedure that may have been done as part of your
      standard of care even if you were not enrolled in this study. For this procedure, a small
      tube will be placed in a vein in your neck. A longer tube will be inserted into the first
      tube and fed through the vein and into your heart. This tube will be used to measure the
      pressure in your heart and lungs. After the pressures are measured, you will receive
      treatment with nesiritide during the right heart catheterization procedure.

      Nesiritide will be given as a continuous infusion (for 48 hours) by vein. The pressures in
      your heart and lungs will be measured again at 15, 30, then 60 minutes after you begin to
      receive nesiritide. The tubes will then be removed from your heart. You will be awake during
      this procedure and lying flat on your back. An anesthetic will be used to numb the area of
      your neck where the tube is placed. The entire procedure (including treatment) should take no
      longer than 1 hour. You will have an ultrasound of your heart performed immediately before
      and after the right heart catheterization.

      Within 15 minutes of the end of the procedure the echocardiogram, the 6-minute walk test, and
      the questionnaire about your symptoms will be repeated and your breathing will be
      re-evaluated.

      The nesiritide infusion will remain going through a vein in your arm for the next 48 hours.
      During this infusion you will remain in the hospital on telemetry floor so that researchers
      can monitor your blood pressure and watch for irregular heartbeat. After you have received
      this drug for 48 hours, the drug will be stopped. Within 24 hours after stopping treatment,
      an echocardiogram and a 6-minute walk test will be performed. You will also answer questions
      about your breathing and your quality of life. These should take no more than 15 minutes of
      your time to complete.

      You will be taken off study if your condition gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      At 2 and 4 weeks after your hospitalization and the right heart procedure, you will have
      follow-up visits scheduled. At these visits, you will have a complete physical exam, and
      possibly have blood work done if required by the doctor as part of your routine care. A blood
      test to check a BNP (B-type natriuretic peptide) level will also be performed . This is a
      special blood test to give researchers information about your heart and how much extra fluid
      you may be carrying with you because of your heart disease. Only 1 teaspoon of blood is
      needed for this test although up to 3 teaspoons of blood may need to be drawn depending of
      what blood tests your doctor orders at the follow-up visits.

      This is an investigational study. Nesiritide is FDA approved and is commercially available
      for the treatment of heart failure. However, the use of nesiritide for diastolic heart
      failure is under research. About 20 patients will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at UTMDACC.
    
  