
    
      Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is the leading cause of death in children in the US. According
      to the CDC, 7440 children died of TBI in 2005, but this likely underestimates the full burden
      of the disease. Based on the current best estimates for severe pediatric TBI (20% mortality,
      50.6% unfavorable 6 mo outcome, mean age 9 y), each year 37,200 children suffer a severe TBI
      with up to 1.3 million life-years potentially adversely affected.

      Incremental improvement in outcomes could make enormous differences for the health of
      children, but such advances have remained elusive. Dozens of injury mechanisms have been
      identified after experimental TBI, yet no mitigating treatments have been translated into
      clinical practice. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of therapies, from steroids to novel
      pharmaceutical agents to hypothermia, have failed for adult and pediatric TBI victims.
      Single-center experiences have contributed to understanding, yet these largely remain
      insufficiently powerful to change practice. Recently, evidenced-based guidelines for 15
      aspects of pediatric TBI were published that provide no level I and only 4 Level II
      recommendations - with such recommendations indicating therapies that "must be done" or
      "should be considered" based on the literature, respectively. Disappointingly, 3 of these
      recommendations advised against specific interventions (hypothermia, steroids and
      immune-enhanced diets) - emphasizing the uncertainty of the effectiveness of many commonly
      used therapies that leads to wide variations in clinical practice. Unsurprisingly,
      significant variations of clinical outcomes and basic treatment strategies for TBI have been
      observed. The IMPACT study merged data from over 9000 adults with TBI from 11 trials and
      demonstrated significant variations in outcomes from clinical sites. Similar variations in
      outcomes in children with TBI can be found using various administrative databases, with
      mortality rates varying between 12.2% - 34.4% in 11 US states. There are also variations in
      strategies within an international consortium and a recently completed RCT - with marked
      variations in strategies for first-line intracranial hypertension treatments, prevention of
      common secondary insults and metabolic support after pediatric TBI.

      The paucity of data to create robust guidelines, the failure of RCTs that tested a
      wide-variety of putative mechanisms and variations in outcomes and in clinical practices
      argues that the current understanding of contemporary therapies is inadequate. Because
      neither retrospective analyses from available databases nor self-reported variations in
      practices can determine optimal therapeutic strategies for these contemporaneous strategies,
      a new approach is urgently needed.

      ADAPT is a large, prospective, observational cohort study using an international consortium
      including sites from the US, EU and UK. Children with severe TBI [Glasgow coma scale (GCS)
      score ≤ 8 with intracranial pressure (ICP) monitoring, n = 1000, >32 sites] will be studied.
      The local standard of care at each site will be used and extensive data collection over the
      first 7 days after TBI will be performed to interrogate the effectiveness of strategies for
      intracranial hypertension, mitigation of specific secondary insults and metabolism.

      Several statistical approaches, often used in comparative effectiveness research (CER) to
      control for measured confounding effects, will test the following aims:

      Specific Aim 1: Compare the effectiveness of first-line intracranial hypertension strategies
      on outcome. Intracranial hypertension management is a mainstay of TBI care yet evidence for
      utilization the first-line therapies of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) diversion and use of
      hyperosmolar solutions, is incomplete.

      Aim 1a: Determine the effect of CSF diversion strategies (continuous drainage, intermittent
      drainage and none) on outcome. Aim 1b: Determine the effect of hyperosmolar therapies
      (hypertonic saline, mannitol) on outcome.

      Specific Aim 2: Compare the effectiveness of strategies that mitigate specific secondary
      insults on outcome. Prophylactic hyperventilation (HV) and hypoxia may worsen outcome after
      TBI but have been inadequately studied.

      Aim 2a: Determine the effect of prophylactic HV (CO2 < 30 mm Hg) on outcome.

      Aim 2b: Determine the effect of hypoxia detection with brain tissue oxygen monitoring (PbO2)
      on outcome.
    
  