
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine if acupuncture can reduce aromatase inhibitor (AI)-associated
           musculoskeletal symptom severity, in terms of function and pain, in woman with stage
           0-III breast cancer.

      Secondary

        -  To assess if acupuncture decreases oral analgesic use in these patients.

        -  To assess if acupuncture decreases the proportion of patients who change or discontinue
           AI therapy.

        -  To assess if acupuncture improves menopausal symptoms, mood (i.e., depression or
           anxiety), sleep quality and sleep disturbance, and overall quality of life of these
           patients.

        -  To assess if acupuncture changes plasma concentrations of estrogens (i.e., E1, E2, and
           E1S), cytokine profile, and beta endorphin.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to participation in
      the aromatase inhibitor trial, "A Multicenter Randomized Clinical Trial Correlating the
      Effects of 24 Months of Exemestane or Letrozole on Surrogate Markers of Response With
      Aromatase Polymorphism" (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (control): Patients receive 8 weekly sessions of sham acupuncture treatment
           comprising 20 minutes of a non-penetrating device consisting of a retractable needle and
           an adhesive tube on the skin using the Park Sham Device (PSD) in 14 non-acupuncture
           points. Patients may receive 4 free acupuncture sessions (not sham) after the 12-week
           (previously 24-week) follow-up visit.

        -  Arm II (treatment): Patients receive 8 weekly sessions of acupuncture treatment
           comprising 20 minutes of needle insertion in 15 acupuncture points including CV 4, CV 6,
           CV12 and bilateral LI 4, MH 6, GB 34, ST 36, KI 3, BL 65.

      Quality of life is assessed periodically to measure changes in symptoms that may be related
      to hot flashes and estrogen deprivation (i.e., menopausal symptoms, mood [depression and
      anxiety], sleep quality, and overall quality of life using the menopausal symptoms
      checklist); the Hot Flash Related Daily Interference Scale (HFRDI) and the Hot Flash Daily
      Diary; the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI); the Center for Epidemiologic Studies
      Depression Scale (CESD); the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS-A); and the EuroQOL.

      Patients complete questionnaires including the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) and
      visual analog scales (VAS) to assess both pain and global health status at baseline, after 4
      and 8 weeks of acupuncture or sham acupuncture, and at follow-up at 12 weeks (previously 24
      weeks). The average amount of daily oral analgesic usage is assessed at weeks 0, 4, 8, and
      12(previously 24).

      Patients undergo blood sample collection periodically for correlative studies. Samples are
      analyzed for plasma concentrations of estrogen (i.e., estrone E1, estradiol E2, and estrone
      sulfate E1S) via HPLC-MS/MS, level of 35 serum cytokines via addressable laser bead
      immunoassay (ALBIA) or classical sandwich ELISA, cytokines and their soluble receptors via
      classical sandwich ELISA techniques, and Beta-endorphin via competitive ELISA.

      All patients are followed for 12 weeks(previously 24 weeks). Patients in arm I may be
      followed for an additional 4 weeks if they choose to receive the free acupuncture sessions.
    
  