
    
      Erector Spinae Plane (ESP) block has emerged as a new regional anaesthesia technique which
      has had promising early results in attenuating severe acute pain associated with Minimal
      Invasive Thoracic Surgery (MITS). In a recent randomised control trial among MITS patients,
      single-shot ESP block improved Quality of Recovery score (QoR-15) and reduced overall
      complications at 24 hr compared with single-shot serratus anterior plane block (SAP).

      Paravertebral block (PVB) has been widely used for analgesia after thoracic surgery for over
      two decades because it reduces postoperative pain and opioid requirements. When compared with
      systemic analgesia and alongside with epidural analgesia, it is considered the "gold
      standard" for thoracic regional analgesia techniques. Both ESP and PVB have usually been
      described as a single-shot technique. However, catheter techniques offer the prospect of
      flexibility and prolonged analgesia.

      Placement of a thoracic PVB catheter can be achieved by an anatomical landmark or ultrasound
      technique. Ultrasound technique has a higher success rate and safer profile when compared to
      the landmark technique but is technically challenging. However, in MITS an opportunity arises
      for directly visualised placement of a PVB catheter by the surgeon under thoracoscopic
      guidance. Insertion of the PVB catheter and verification by the surgeon under direct vision
      could be a more reliable and safer method, but there are limited randomised controlled trials
      examining the efficacy of this technique. Also, there are limited clinical effectiveness
      trials on the catheter-based ESP analgesia technique using patient-centred outcomes.
      Furthermore, no study has evaluated the effect of acute analgesia over 24-48 hr with
      continuous regional nerve block on CPSP at 3 months after MITS.

      Therefore, the investigators aim to complete a multicentre, prospective, double-blinded,
      randomised controlled clinical trial to test the hypothesis that
      Anaesthesiologist-administered, ultrasound guided ESP catheter analgesia is equivalent to
      surgeon-administered, video-assisted PVB catheter analgesia, in terms of early recovery
      (QoR-15), respiratory spirometric function at 24-48 hr, and CPSP at 3 months after MITS
      surgery.

      Study setting: This study will take place between three level four academic hospitals in the
      Republic of Ireland (Mater Misericordiae Univeristy Hospital-MMUH, St Vincent's University
      Hospital-SVUH and St Jame's University Hospital-SJH).

      Standard of care: Standard of care will be identical in both groups. The only difference will
      be that one group will receive an anaesthesiologist ultrasound guided placement of an erector
      spinae (ESP) catheter and the other will receive a surgeon video-assisted placement of a
      paravertebral block (PVB) catheter. Patients in both groups will be given a general
      anaesthetic as part of their care. All patients will be intubated with a double-lumen
      endotracheal tube and a radial arterial line will be sited for continuous haemodynamic
      monitoring. Venous access will be at the discretion of the consultant anaesthesiologist. The
      haemodynamic goal will be to maintain a systolic blood pressure within 20% of baseline and to
      avoid a heart rate greater than 100 beats per minute. Persistent hypertension and or
      tachycardia above this point will trigger an opioid (oxycodone, morphine or fentanyl) to be
      given intravenously. The frequency and dosage of this will be at the discretion of the
      anaesthesiology team.

      Study intervention: Participants will be randomised into either the ESP or PVB group. No
      other forms of regional analgesia techniques (e.g. Intrathecal opioids, epidural analgesia,
      and subcutaneous infiltration of local anaesthetic) will be used during this trial.

      Safety reporting: Any unexpected complications that may arise from this trial will be
      documented and reported to the principal investigator, surgical consultant and the relevant
      hospital patient safety board.

      Sample size and justification: The primary outcome will be the QoR-15 score at 24 hours post
      operatively. The established minimum clinically important difference in QoR-15 is 8.0 and the
      SD of QoR-15 scores is typically between 10-18. [range of QoR score is 1-150]. We have chosen
      a SD of 13 to reflect our study population. Therefore, assuming Type I error = 0.05 and Type
      II error = 0.2 (80% power to detect this difference), then n=42 patients will be required in
      each group. We aim to enroll n=45 each group to allow for loss to follow up or withdrawal of
      consent.

      Recruitment: Potential participants for this trial will be identified by a member of the
      surgical, anaesthetic or research team. A list of patients scheduled to have MITS will be
      made available the day before the procedure. These patients' electronic medical records will
      undergo a preliminary review to determine if they are potential candidates for this trial,
      i.e. if participants meet the inclusion criteria and have no exclusions.

      The suitable patient will be approached the evening before surgery if available.
      Alternatively, patients will be approached on the ward on the morning of surgery and their
      suitability to participate in the trial will be confirmed. The purpose of the trial,
      peripheral nerve blocks (including benefits and risks) and method of follow up will be
      explained to the patient. A comprehensive and informative leaflet will be given to each
      patient and they will be afforded an adequate amount of time (minimum 10 mins) to study it.
      Participants will be informed that their participation in the study is entirely voluntary and
      they will have the opportunity to withdraw from the study at any time and this will not
      affect the quality of care they receive. Following this, participants will be offered an
      opportunity to ask any relevant questions and voice any potential concerns. If he/she
      professes an interest in participating in the trial written consent will be obtained. This
      process will be completed before transferring the patient to the theatre environment.

      Study participants will be followed on Day 1 and Day 2 postoperatively for QoR-15 and
      spirometric score. A member of the research team will phone the patient at 3 months after the
      date of surgery and they will be asked to complete two questionnaires to assess for CPSP (BPI
      and SF-12)

      Record Keeping: All patient data collected will be handled in accordance with European Union
      General Data Protection Regulations (EU 2016/679). Data will be initially collected manually
      and then transcribed onto Microsoft excel. Data collected from each hospital site will be
      stored securely in the Department of Anaesthesiology at the respective hospital, on a
      password-protected desktop computer stored in a locked office, such that only investigators
      assigned to data processing and analysis will have access to.

      Statistical analysis: The collected raw data will be initially inspected for any errors, this
      includes but is not limited to double-entry errors, missing data and data that was
      incorrectly entered. Patients with missing or incorrect data will be excluded from the trial
      and this data will not be included in the final analysis. The data will be tested for normal
      distribution according to the Shapiro-Wilk test. Normally distributed data will be compared
      between the two groups using the unpaired student t-test and non-normal distributed data will
      be compared by using Mann-Whitney U test. All data will be summarised as mean + standard
      deviation and p value <0.05 will be considered statistically significant.

      Financing and Insurance/Indemnity: Investigators in each hospital will be covered by the
      clinical indemnity scheme (CIS). No funding has been sought to conduct this clinical trial.
      Existing resources available to the investigators are sufficient to meet the aims of the
      study.
    
  