
    
      The standard radiotherapy technique for delivering radiation therapy to the pelvis following
      a hysterectomy involves a technique which also causes a large amount of normal tissue to
      receive radiation. This can cause both early and late side effects, which may be severe. The
      new technique of intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) has been used to help spare normal
      tissue, especially tissue of the small bowel. This is an advanced new technology that
      delivers the high-dose of radiation to the target area but avoids the normal tissue. Using CT
      scans, the target is outlined by the doctors before treatment. However, sometimes organs in
      the pelvis move throughout the course of treatment. Using CT scans during treatment and
      re-outlining the target may help to deliver more radiation to the cancer tissues and less to
      the surrounding normal areas.

      During the study, you will have additional CT scans that will be performed on a special
      scanner in the radiation treatment room. You also will have additional CT scans twice a week
      during the 5 weeks of radiation treatment. The first 12 participants enrolled will receive
      the standard radiation therapy taking into account the maximum possible movements of the
      bladder. No adjustments will be made according to the results of the additional CT scans. The
      next 12 participants may have their radiation therapy adjusted according to the CT scans in
      an effort to target less of the normal tissue without missing cancer tissue. To reduce
      movement of your bladder due to different amounts of fluid in your bladder, you will be asked
      to drink 3 glasses of water before treatment and to come for treatment with a full bladder.

      The volumes of your bladder and rectum will also be studied, and any side effects of the
      treatment will be recorded. You will be asked to fill out a short questionnaire about the
      side effects of your treatment 3 times per week during treatment. It should take around 5
      minutes to complete the questionnaire.

      Patients will be followed for at least 2 years. (Every 3 months for 1 year and 4 months for
      second year according to usual clinic practice.)

      This is an investigational study. IMRT radiation therapy is an approved method of treating
      some types of cancer. However, adjusting the radiation treatment according to the movement of
      the internal organs is investigational. Initial CT scans for treatment planning are part of
      standard treatment. Up to 24 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled
      at M. D. Anderson.
    
  