
    
      Study population: The study will take place on the Navajo Reservation and within Navajo Area
      IHS clinical facilities. The Navajo Reservation covers over 27,000 square miles in rural New
      Mexico and Arizona. The proposed evaluation will occur at the six sites, including two which
      are currently implementing COPE as well as four sites which will implement COPE in the next
      two years. The health care centers included in this evaluation represent a mix of federally
      and tribally operated programs and together provide care for over 200,000 individuals. All
      sites use a common suite of software applications to record electronic health care data: the
      IHS RPMS (Resource Patient Management System).

      Study Design: The research is aligned with PCORI's definition of patient-centered research by
      answering questions that will allow patients and other stakeholders to make informed health
      care decisions. This will be completed by incorporating patient input at all stages;
      comparatively assessing the benefits and weaknesses of COPE; capturing the "voice" of
      stakeholders through qualitative methods; choosing outcomes that have been cited as relevant
      to patients' own priorities and decision-making; and studying cross-site variation to capture
      individual and community factors associated with impact. The study will address the following
      questions:

        1. Do clinical outcomes (hemoglobin A1c, blood pressure, cholesterol, and body mass index)
           improve more among COPE participants, compared with similar patients who do not
           participate in COPE?

        2. Do COPE patients experience improvements in self-rated overall health, quality of life,
           empowerment and satisfaction compared with similar patients who do not participate in
           COPE?

        3. As COPE is implemented in six different service units across the Navajo Nation, can we
           identify any factors among patients, CHRs, and hospitals that are "key ingredients" for
           COPE to be effective?

        4. Does COPE benefit the health system and population served from diverse stakeholder
           perspectives including CHRs, providers, and the local health care delivery system?
    
  