
    
      Aims: establish a long term multidimensional follow up of a large COPD cohort of COPD
      patients in Kingston, Ontario.

      Specific Objectives: 1. established a simple and easy to apply follow up protocol in COPD
      patients. 2. Hire a research assistant 3. Set up the database.

      Data source: Patients included in the present cohort will be those usually follow at the
      Respirology clinic at Hotel Dieu Hospital in Kingston Ontario.

      Inclusion Criteria: 1. Patients ages between 40-85 years old. 2. Smoking history of at least
      10 pack year history 3. Active of former smokers 4. Diagnosis of COPD according to the GOLD
      definition (4): post bronchodilator spirometry FEV1/FVC ≤0.70, including those with other
      associated respiratory diseases like asthma, bronchiectasis, stable lung cancer or
      Interstitial Lung Disease. 5. Ability to perform all study procedures (complete pulmonary
      function tests, six minute walking test (6MWT) and chest computed tomography) and
      provide/sign informed consent.

      Exclusion criteria: 1. Patients not willing to sign the consent form 2. Patients with a life
      expectancy of less than 3 yrs. 3. Patients in palliative care. 4. Patients with chronic
      airway obstruction ie: FEV1/FVC≤0.70 of other etiology and without a smoking history of less
      than 10 packs year history. 5. Patients unable ort not able to perform the pulmonary function
      test, the 6MWT or the chest CT.

      Data elements: this will include clinical, laboratory, physiological and radiological data.

      Clinical: baseline and yearly evaluation. The following information will be collected and
      registered: Age, gender, history of prematurity and low weight at birth, maternal smoking
      during pregnancy, history of infections or wheezing during infancy, pack year history: (age
      of smoking initiation, years smoking, packs per day, age of quitting if quit), active or
      former smokers, use of vaping or marihuana?, registration of Comorbidities using the Copd
      cOmorbidiTy indEx COTE index, use of medications: LABA, LAMA, dual, LABA/ICS, ICS,
      Roflumilast, Erithromycin, NAC, etc, use of O2 at home: lt/min and duration, CPAP and BiPAP
      and pressures, degree of dyspnea measure by the Medical Research Council scale, height,
      weight, Body Mass Index, Free Fat Mass Index determined by electrical bioimpedance, handgrip,
      abdominal and pelvic girth.

      Laboratory: baseline and yearly The following information from the patient chart will be
      collected and registered: CBC (including differential specifically eosinophilia), CRP,
      baseline alfa 1 AT levels (only baseline), fibrinogen, basal ABG.

      Physiological information: yearly evaluation The following information will be collected and
      registered: FEV1, FVC, FEV1/FVC, TLC, IC/TLC, RV/TLC, DLCO, KCO. MIP, MEP, 6MWD with and
      without O2 in those O2 Sat 90% or lower. In a sample of interest full Cardiopulmonary
      exercise test.

      Radiological information: Yearly Low dose chest CT The following information will be
      registered from the final reports of the chest CT: Emphysema presence, type, extent and
      localization, PulmArt/Ao diameter ratio measurement, presence of bronchiectasis (type and
      localization), presence of air trapping, presence (type and localization) of interstitial
      changes, presence of coronary calcifications, presence of osteoporosis, presence of lung
      nodules---- Lung cancer.

      Data storage and identification Data will be stored in an encrypted file behind a firewall in
      a KGH server. For research purpose patient's information will be anonimized by using a study
      ID number that will be linked to the CR number of every patient in a different encrypted
      file. There will be no personal identifiable information during the entire process of each of
      the proposed studies.

      Statistical analysis plan The description of the characteristics of the participants will
      follow the following methodology: qualitative data will be described using relative
      frequencies. We will use the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test (K-S) to determine if a quantitative
      variable has a normal distribution. Quantitative data with a normal distribution will be
      expressed using the mean and the standard deviation (SD).

      When comparison between groups is planned the following methodological plan will be applied:
      quantitative data with non-normal distribution will be described with the median and the
      interquartile range (IQR). Differences will be compared with chi square for qualitative data
      or student t test and Mann-Whitney U test for quantitative data according to each variable
      distribution.
    
  