
    
      The COOLIEF™ system components utilized in the study are the same in form and function
      regardless of specific product branding (COOLIEF* or SInergy*). The COOLIEF™ system is
      comprised of three primary components (collectively known as 'disposables') and is used in
      conjunction with the Pain Management generator, pump unit, connector cables (collectively
      known as 'Hardware') and dispersive electrodes (also known as 'grounding pads'):

        -  Cooled Radiofrequency Sterile Tube Kit (sterile, single use, non-body contact): It is
           used for closed-loop circulation of sterile water through a Halyard Health* Cooled
           Radiofrequency Probe. It includes a burette and tubing.

        -  Cooled Radiofrequency Introducer (sterile, single use): It is to be used with the Probes
           only. The Cooled Radiofrequency Introducer provides a path for the Probe to the targeted
           nervous tissue.

        -  Cooled Radiofrequency Probe (sterile, single use): It is inserted through an Introducer
           into or near nervous tissue. The active tip extends 4mm from the introducer and delivers
           energy. Sterile water circulates internally to cool the Probe while it delivers
           radiofrequency energy. A thermocouple in the Probe measures the cooled electrode
           temperature throughout the procedure.

      The product is comprised of an electrically insulated shaft with an active tip that functions
      as an electrode for radiofrequency energy delivery, a handle, tubes with luer locks and a
      cable with a 7-pin connector. The Introducer includes an insulated stainless steel cannula
      and a stylet. The Tube Kit is comprised of a burette and flexible tubing fitted with luer
      locks for connection to the Probe. The Probe, Introducer, and Tube Kit are ethylene oxide
      sterilized and supplied sterile. These components can be packaged together in a kit or as
      separate components. The devices should be stored in a cool, dry environment. The
      Instructions For Use (IFU) documents (Appendix 1) are included in each kit.

      Halyard Health maintains a list of all model numbers and sizes for the system components.

      The control product/device, Synvisc-One® (hylan G-F 20) (HA), is an elastoviscous high
      molecular weight fluid containing hylan A and hylan B polymers produced from chicken combs.
      Hylans are derivatives of hyaluronan (sodium hyaluronate). Hylan G-F 20 is unique in that the
      hyaluronan is chemically crosslinked. Hyaluronan is a long-chain polymer containing repeating
      disaccharide units of Na-glucuronate-N-acetylglucosamine.

      Synvisc-One is a single injection regimen therapy indicated for the treatment of pain in
      Osteoarthritis of the knee in patients who have failed to respond adequately to conservative
      nonpharmacologic therapy and simple analgesics, e.g., acetaminophen.

      Following treatment, subjects in the CRF treatment group will follow up at 1, 3, 6 and 12
      months. These subjects will then have the option to return for two additional visits at 18
      and 24 months. Subjects initially randomized to the comparison (HA) group will follow up at
      1, 3, and 6 months, and then be given the option to receive crossover CRF treatment. If
      crossover CRF treatment was received, subjects will return for follow up visits at 1, 3, and
      6 months post-treatment. If crossover treatment was not received, subjects will return for
      their final 12 month visit.

      Study Duration:

        -  Treatment Group: Up to 24 months following index procedure

        -  Control Group: Up to 13 months, depending upon receipt of cross-over procedure.

      Effectiveness Endpoints:

        -  Numeric Rating Scale (NRS, Usual Level of Pain)

        -  Western Ontario & McMaster University Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC)

        -  EQ-5D-5L Health-Related Quality of Life Questionnaire

        -  Global Perceived Effect Scale
    
  