
    
      Alopecia areata (AA) is one of the most common forms of non-scarring alopecia involving the
      scalp and/or body. Estimated incidence of alopecia areata is 20.9 per 100,000 person-years
      with a cumulative lifetime incidence of 2.1%.

      The exact pathophysiology of alopecia areata remains unknown. The most widely accepted
      hypothesis is that alopecia areata is a T cell-mediated autoimmune condition that is most
      likely to occur in genetically predisposed individuals.

      Although, alopecia areata is a benign condition and most patients are asymptomatic, it can
      cause emotional and psychosocial distress in affected individuals.

      First-line therapies include intralesional corticosteroids, topical corticosteroids,
      minoxidil, anthralin, topical immunotherapy, prostaglandin analogues, topical retinoids
      bexarotene, and capsaicin. Second- and third-line treatments include topical and systemic
      immunomodulatory therapies such as oral and topical psoralen plus UVA radiation and
      photodynamic therapy.No treatment is either curative or preventive. Since no single treatment
      option is certain to treat alopecia areata, the need for new therapies is mounting.

      Intralesional corticosteroids, most commonly triamcinolone acetonide are considered a
      first-line treatment method for limited disease and can be used as adjunctive therapy in
      extensive disease. Because triamcinolone is only emulsified temporally to the water, usually
      it is delivered by the painful intralesional injection.

      Platelet-rich plasma (PRP) has emerged as a new treatment modality in dermatology, and
      preliminary evidence has suggested that it might have a beneficial role in hair growth.

      Drugs applied topically have the advantage of fewer side effects, and bypassing the
      first-pass effect. However, transepidermal dermal drug delivery has limitations, including
      decreased penetration of larger and water-soluble molecules.

      Several strategies have been used to improve many drug penetrations into the skin:
      microneedling, ultrasound, and more recently transepidermal drug delivery (TED). TED is a
      technique based on applying a medication following an ablative method (CO2 laser, erbium
      lasers or ablative radiofrequency), which create vertical channels to assist the delivery of
      topically applied drugs into the skin. The use of nonablative lasers as well as microneedling
      technique has been reported with the same purpose.

      Fractional laser-assisted drug delivery of corticosteroids for resistant alopecia areata is a
      new concept in dermatological therapy.

      Microneedle devices, such as Dermaroller and Dermapen, are minimally invasive devices that
      bypass the stratum corneum barrier, thus accessing the skin microcirculation and achieving
      systemic delivery by the transepidermal route.

      Trichoscopy, hair and scalp dermoscopy, is a fast, non-invasive method useful in the
      diagnosis and therapeutic monitoring of scalp and hair diseases.
    
  