
    
      Randomization and the treatment arms I-II: The patients are randomized to two treatment arms
      I) ASA- desensitization po tablet daily for 11 months (n=36) II) Placebo po tablet daily for
      11 months (n=18).

      ASA challenge and desensitization (Primaspan) /Placebo: is conducted according to modified
      international protocol. FEV1 should be at least 1.5 L and > 60% of predicted before challenge
      or desensitization. On the first day every patient will receive 25 mg + 25 mg ASA at a
      hospital setting. On the second day every patient will receive 50 mg + 25 mg ASA at a
      hospital setting. On the third day every patient will receive 75 mg + 25 mg ASA at a hospital
      setting. On the fourth day every patient will receive 100 mg + 25 mg ASA at a hospital
      setting.

      During the ASA challenge, patient who is ASA-challenge positive is then randomized and starts
      the trial so that he/she uses blinded ½ tablet of 250 mg ASA or ½ tablet of placebo daily at
      home for the next 1 month. After this period of 1 month, the dosing is increased at hospital
      setting, so that the patient receives blindly 250 mg ASA 1/2 tablet + 1/2 tablet or placebo
      1/2 tablet + 1/2 tablet. Thereafter he/she will continue using blindly 250 mg ASA 1 tablet or
      placebo 1 tablet daily at home for the next 10 months. If the patient does not tolerate the
      up-dosing of ASA/placebo, he/she will continue using blindly ½ tablet of 250 mg ASA/placebo
      daily at home for the next 10 months. The total duration of the ASA/placebo treatment is 11
      months. We additionally take nasal, blood and urine samples during the trial.

      Follow-ups. The symptom questionnaire and interview of side-effects are performed during each
      visit. Lung function (eNO, nNO, PEF, spirometry) is monitored and the patient will visit
      doctor and/or nurse at 1, 5, 11, and 12 months post-starting with the treatment. Samples are
      taken during recruitment visit, before and after ASA-challenge and at 5, 11 and 12 months
      post-starting with the treatment. We also monitor side-effects, exacerbations, need of
      medication (po. cortisocteroids; antibiotics) and satisfaction to treatment.

      Primary end point is change in nasal endoscopic nasal polyp score at -4 days vs. +11 months
      post-randomization. Secondary end point is change in Sinonasal Outcome Test -22 (SNOT-22)
      score at -4 days vs. +11 months post-randomization, and change in relative Forced expiratory
      volume in 1 second (FEV1 %) without bronchodilator at -1 month vs. +11 months
      post-randomization.

      Safety (complications, adverse effects), costs and loss of productivity between study arms
      will be compared.

      Trial medication will be discontinued, if surgery is needed before the end of follow-up.
    
  