
    
      Background and Rational

      Hip fractures are an important cause of morbidity and mortality in the elderly. Surgery (i.e.
      total hip fracture surgery or replacement) is associated with better outcome; however these
      elderly patients have other comorbidities which put them at risk for non surgical
      perioperative complications .

      Peri-operative myocardial infarction (MI) is associated with increased mortality and
      morbidity . Peri-operative MI currently diagnosed by presence of either symptoms or ischemic
      ECG changes, together with an elevated troponin level as measured by conventional assay.

      The new highly sensitive troponin T (HS Tn T) assay, permitting measurement of concentrations
      that are lower by a factor of 10 than those measurable with conventional assays .

      Research Objectives

      The fundamental objective of our research is to further elucidate the magnitude and clinical
      relevance of minor perioperative TnT elevations.

      Our specific objectives are:

      A.To determine what is the frequency of HS Tn T elevation in patients undergoing hip fracture
      surgery.

      B.To determine whether the presence of perioperative Tn T elevation using the HS assay is
      associated with higher mortality and morbidity.

      Primary end points:

        1. The number of patients with elevated HS Tn T levels postoperatively.

        2. Cardiac mortality at 3 moths, 6 months and 1 year.

      Secondary end points:

        1. Total mortality at 3 moths, 6 months and 1 year.

        2. Hospitalization for ACS and/or CHF at 3 months, 6 months and 1 year.

      Methods

      Patients admitted with traumatic femoral neck fracture will be recruited if surgery is
      planned.

      Clinical evaluation for symptoms and signs of myocardial ischemia will be performed prior to
      surgery and 24 hrs after surgery.

      Serum Tn T levels will be tested prior to surgery 48 hrs and 72 hrs after surgery, using HS
      Tn T assay.

      ECG monitoring will be performed prior to surgery and 24 hrs after surgery. Patients will be
      followed for 1 year.
    
  