
    
      Design and Methods A unique feature of this study is that assessments, reminders, and symptom
      management strategies will be delivered by an Interactive Voice Response system (IVR). This
      system has been tested in a previous trial and in a pilot study of medication adherence; it
      received high satisfaction ratings from patients.

      All patients will complete intake (baseline), 4 week, 8 week, and 12 week interviews for
      symptom severity, depression, beliefs about oral agents, self-efficacy, and pill count.
      Following the intake interview a computerized procedure will randomize patients to one of two
      groups: experimental and control. Patients in both arms will receive 12 weekly assessments of
      adherence to their oral cancer medications and symptom severity delivered by the IVR.

      In addition, patients in the experimental group will receive daily reminder calls for 4 weeks
      delivered by the IVR. At the end of week 4 patients will be offered the option to reduce
      calls to every other day, or continue with daily reminders for weeks 5-8. Reminder calls will
      be tailored to the cycle of each medication. Daily reminder calls include a question to
      determine if medication changes have occurred. If this occurs, reminder calls are stopped
      and/or adjusted to the revised prescription. Patients in the experimental group will be
      mailed a Toolkit. Patients who report symptoms above designated thresholds during a weekly
      assessment call will be referred to the Toolkit to assist with self-management.

      The control group will not receive IVR reminder calls during the first 8 weeks. Control group
      patients, who report difficulty taking their cancer medications as prescribed, will be
      randomized following the 8 week interview to either receive 4 weeks of daily IVR reminder
      calls during weeks 9-12, or to continue in the control group. Patients randomized to receive
      daily IVR reminder calls will receive a Toolkit following randomization (and if during their
      weekly assessment calls they report symptoms above designated thresholds they will be
      referred to the Toolkit to assist with self-management). Patients randomized to continue in
      the control group will receive a Toolkit upon completion of the 12 week interview.

      Medical records will be audited for oral cancer medication changes during the study period as
      well as adverse toxic events noted, and scripts written.

      Implications & Impact This research will identify and explore the factors (symptom severity,
      medication complexity, patient characteristics) affecting adherence to oral cancer
      medications and how symptom management might improve levels of adherence. This will allow
      patients to engage in their care and potentially transform the safety and quality of cancer
      care for patients on oral cancer medications.
    
  