
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify maximum tolerated dose (MTD) for the combination treatment of nivolumab and
      veliparib in patients with advanced refractory solid cancers and lymphoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of nivolumab and veliparib in patients with
      advanced refractory solid cancers and lymphoma with and without mutations in selected DNA
      repair genes.

      II. To evaluate the efficacy of treatment with nivolumab and veliparib in this population by
      objective response rate (ORR, defined as partial response [PR] + complete response [CR]),
      clinical benefit rate (CBR, defined as stable disease [SD] for >= 12 weeks, PR, + CR), and
      progression free survival (PFS, defined as the time from treatment initiation to documented
      disease progression) using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria
      version (v)1.1 or Lugano criteria.

      III. To evaluate efficacy of treatment with nivolumab and veliparib in this population by
      ORR, CBR, and immune-related PFS (irPFS) using irRECIST criteria.

      IV. To evaluate overall survival (OS) in this population at 3 years from the start of
      treatment.

      V. To evaluate the proportion of patients alive and progression free at 24 weeks in this
      population.

      VI. To evaluate ORR to nivolumab and veliparib in patients with prior exposure to single
      agent PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate if any of the following predict response to veliparib in combination with
      nivolumab: tissue PD-L1 protein expression, immune cell infiltration markers.

      II. To demonstrate the pharmacodynamic effects of veliparib and nivolumab on biomarkers
      including PD-L1, TILs, T cell subpopulations, and T cell receptor genotype.

      III. To explore the pattern of clonal changes through circulating cell free DNA assay.

      IV. To assess the dynamic change in both immune and genomic biomarkers in blood that may
      correlate with response to veliparib.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of veliparib.

      Patients receive veliparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on day 1 and nivolumab intravenously
      (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1 and 15 of courses 1-4 and IV over 60 minutes on day 1 of
      subsequent courses. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  