
    
      Inclusions will take place from August 2014 to February 2015. We plan to include 165
      consecutive patients with TAVI through a femoral approach.

      At the inclusion, clinical baseline and electrocardiographic data will be collected. During
      the procedure, baseline ECG data as well as conduction disorders will be recorded. An EP
      study will be performed (measure of AH and HV intervals) before and after TAVI. Aortic
      surface area, transvalvular mean gradient, presence of periprothetic leak and LV ejection
      fraction will be determined by echocardiography within the first 24 hours.

      After the procedure, a 24-hour ECG monitoring will be done in ICU. A pacemaker will be
      implanted in case of persistent severe conduction disorders at 24 hours post-TAVI . All
      patients will be implanted with SORIN Group KORA DR devices to benefit from the AAI-SafeR
      mode and the AVB episodes automated analysis. All implanted pacemakers will be settled with
      identical parameters to allow appropriate patient data analysis (AAI-SafeR for sinus rhythm
      patients and VVIR in chronic atrial fibrillation patients).

      In patients with 24-hour persistence of bundle branch block onset after TAVI, a repeated EPS
      with HV recording will be performed. If HV interval is > 70ms, a pacemaker will be implanted
      and the patient will be added to the pacemaker-implanted patients. In the absence of
      persistent conduction disorder 24h after the procedure, no specific supervision will be done.

      All patients will have a 2-month follow up. At this time, clinical, ECG and echocardiographic
      data will be collected. Additional 24-hour Holter ECG monitoring will be performed in
      non-implanted patients and additional device control will be performed in implanted patients.
      Pacemaker implantation will be confirmed if there is more than 1% of ventricular pacing or at
      least one DDD mode switch.

      In non-implanted patients, the non-indication for pacing was confirmed in the absence of
      clinical event and 24-hour Holter ECG recording abnormality.

      The secondary endpoint of the study is to define a posteriori risk factors for pacemaker
      implantation after TAVI included in the liste hereafter:

        -  Clinical data: age, drug-induced bradycardia, hypertension, ischemic cardiomyopathy,
           creatinin clearance, troponin value.

        -  Electrocardiographic data: QRS duration, PR interval, preexisting bundle branch block or
           AV block, QRS axis, sinus rhythm

        -  Echocardiographic data : aortic surface area, LV ejection fraction, aortic
           annulus/prothesis ratio, aortic annulus/balloon diameter ratio

        -  Electrophysiological data : HV interval before and after TAVI
    
  