
    
      Introduction: Post-operative atrial fibrillation (POAF) is frequently observed after
      open-heart surgery,1-3 and atrial fibrillation (AF) is frequently complicated by stroke.4-6
      During AF, the electrical activity is uncoordinated and the atrial contraction is reduced,
      increasing the risk of thrombi formation. Subsequently, the thrombi can enter the general
      circulation, reach the small intracerebral arteries and block blood flow resulting in
      ischaemic damage.5,7 Anti-coagulant medicines efficiently prevent ischaemic strokes,8 however
      many patients are asymptomatic or have vague symptoms why diagnosis can be difficult to
      obtain.5 Furthermore, AF that occurs secondarily to surgery is currently considered
      self-limiting and continuous anti-coagulation is not necessarily recommended.4,9 However,
      cumulating evidence suggest that secondary AF in patients with known heart disease increases
      the long-term risk of stroke and transitory ischaemic attack, recurrent AF and
      mortality.10-15 In patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) new-onset AF is
      associated with increased long-term risk of stroke and mortality compared to patients without
      AF.14,15 Though there are well-established risk factors for AF, such as age, arterial
      hypertension, heart failure, myocardial infarction, heart valve disease and diabetes
      mellitus, the pathophysiology of AF is complex and not fully understood.6,16,17 Both
      structural remodelling of the atria and electrical pathways, as well as oxidative stress,
      calcium overload, myofibroblast activation, microRNAs and inflammation, are mentioned as
      possible factors involved in initiation and progression of AF.6,16-18 Attempts to create and
      improve risk stratification models for AF and stroke has previously been done, both in
      community based cohorts and patients undergoing cardiac surgery, e.g. CHA2DS2-VASC, FHS AF
      risk score, ARIC risk prediction tool, CHARGE-AF risk model, HAVOC score, SYNTAX score, POAF
      score and POAF prediction model.19-27 However, it remains challenging to accurately predict
      occurrence of AF both perioperatively and in the subsequent years.28,29

      A recent systematic review and meta-analysis concluded that p-wave terminal force in lead V1
      (PTFV1), p-wave duration and maximum p-wave area, are all correlated with stroke,30 and a
      recent review similarly suggest that short and prolonged p-wave and PTFV1 is correlated with
      AF.31 sp-ECG by Myovista (Southlake, Texas, USA) is a novel advanced ECG utilizing continues
      wavelet transform signal processing and can detect left ventricular diastolic dysfunction
      (LVDD) which is associated with AF and post-operative heart failure in other studies.17,32-35
      LA strain and E/LA strain indices predicted new cardiovascular events including strokes, in a
      stroke population36 In patients undergoing catheter ablation for AF, LA strain can identify
      patients at risk of AF recurrence37,38 POAF has furthermore been predicted in a cohort of
      patients with severe aortic stenosis by LA strain indexes.39

      Aim: We aim at characterizing patients with AF occurrence by novel, easy, and accessible
      methods such as electrocardiogram (ECG), signal processed surface ECG (Myovista, wavECG) and
      transthoracic echocardiography (TTE).

      Methods: Explorative, prospective cohort study of adult patients undergoing first-time
      elective open-heart surgery at Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery at Copenhagen University
      Hospital, Rigshospitalet. One hundred consecutive patients enrolled in the Left Atrial
      Appendage Closure by Surgery-2 (LAACS-2) trial (NCT03724318) fulfilling the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria are included in the current study.

      The study is approved by the Regional Committee on Health Research Ethics and all procedures
      followed are in accordance with the ethical standards of the responsible committee on human
      experimentation and with the Helsinki Declaration. All patients have signed informed consent
      prior to study enrolment.

      Study timeline: One day prior to surgery; patient charts are reviewed, and ECG, wavECG and
      TTE are obtained. Anaesthesiologists will report AF occurred during intra-operative cardiac
      monitoring. Post-surgery cardiac rhythm monitoring is applied for at least 48 hours. At
      discharge patient charts and monitoring are reviewed for any occurrence of new-onset AF.
      Three months after surgery, patient charts are reviewed, and patients are invited for a
      single visit at Department of Cardiology at Frederiksberg hospital, where a control ECG,
      wavECG and TTE are performed. Deviation of the examination programme is accepted, i.e.
      patients can decline parts of the pre- or post-surgery examinations and remain in the study
      for follow-up.

      Statistics: Precise sample size calculations are not applicable in this explorative study
      with LVDD in sp-ECG as primary end-point. One previous study has been performed where wavECG
      identified patients with LVDD in a population (n=188) referred for computed tomography
      coronary angiography.32 LA strain measured by TTE predicted POAF in 26 of 60 patients
      undergoing open-heart surgery for severe aortic stenosis.39 P-wave indices from pre-operative
      ECGs have predicted POAF in a population of 105 cardiac surgery patients.40 The study will
      include 100 consecutive patients undergoing open-heart surgery. Expected distribution of
      patients are n=10 for pre-surgery AF (corresponding to the incidence in the background
      population 1%6), POAF n= 35-50 (corresponding to the incidence in previous cardiac surgery
      populations; 35-50%1-3), and non-AF n=40-55 (remaining population). Follow-up will be three
      months.

      Parametric statistics is used as normal distribution is expected (e.g. two-sample unpaired
      Student's t-test) and data is presented with mean ± standard deviation. All tests are
      two-sided and a P-value < 0.05 is considered statistically significant. IBM SPSS version 22
      will be used for statistical analyses.
    
  