
    
      Adjacent segment pathologies (ASP), including radiological adjacent segment degeneration
      (ASDeg) and adjacent segment disease (ASDis) after lumbar fusion surgeries have been
      troubling complications. The development of ASDis greatly reduces postoperative quality of
      life, and revision surgery may be required in severe cases. Several risk factors for ASP have
      been reported, such as age, sex, pre-existing adjacent degeneration, multilevel fusions,
      sagittal imbalance, the type of fusion, facet tropism and laminar inclination. Previous
      studies have reported asymptomatic pre-existing spinal canal stenosis (SCS) as a risk factor
      for ASDis that requires additional surgery. Appropriate strategy needs to be explored for the
      treatment of asymptomatic pre-existing spinal canal stenosis.

      Limited decompressions, including partial laminotomy and flavectomy, have been proved to have
      the role of enlargement in spinal canal. Therefore, we hypothesize that limited
      decompressions at adjacent segment with asymptomatic pre-existing SCS will have the
      preventive effect on ASP.

      This prospective study will be limited to patients with the same preoperative pathology, the
      same fusion segments (L4-5 and L5-S1), the same fusion technique (PLIF). Dynamic X-ray and
      MRI examinations of lumbar will be completed to evaluate the imaging manifestations of the
      responsible and adjacent segments before surgery. Patients with asymptomatic pre-existing
      canal stenosis factors (cerebrospinal fluid occlusion grade 1) at L3/4 segment will be
      enrolled. Patients will be randomly divided into two groups according to different
      strategies. NS Group includes patients who simply receive responsible segments fused (L4-S1).
      LD Group includes patients who receive responsible segments fused (L4-S1) plus limited
      decompression at adjacent segment (L3/4). In terms of limited decompression at the adjacent
      segment, partial laminotomy, flavectomy, and bilateral medial facetectomies up to the pedicle
      will be performed. Complete laminectomy and destroy of posterior ligament complex will be
      avoided.

      The patient's age, gender, preoperative body mass index (BMI), American Society of
      Anesthesiologists classification of anesthesia (ASA grade) will be recorded during the
      hospital stay. Surgical data including operation time, blood loss, perioperative
      complications (including cerebrospinal fluid leakage, wound infection, postoperative
      neurological dysfunction, and perioperative secondary surgery, cardiopulmonary complication,
      cerebral infarction/hemorrhage, etc.), and length of hospital stay are also recorded.
      Preoperative clinical function questionnaires, including visual analog scale (VAS) of low
      back, VAS of the legs, and Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) scores for patients were completed
      on admission for surgery without any assistance. All the patients enrolled will finished the
      follow-up from date of surgery at 1,2, 5 and 10 years. The clinical outcomes and ASP will be
      recorded.
    
  