
    
      It is clearly demonstrated that Emotional Regulation interventions are very important in
      cancer patients in any stage of the disease.

      Great emotional burden has also been described in case of main caregivers and other relatives
      of the patients.

      Diagnosis, treatment and survival of cancer patients are related to a complex set of
      stressors that have their own effects on the results of the treatments: activity daily life
      changes, social impairment, role changes, thought about the possibility of a relapse and
      possibility of death…

      It has been elucidated that psychological interventions, as cognitive therapy or other types
      of psychotherapy, may improve the psychosocial outcomes (for example, quality of life).

      During the last years, many researches have assessed the effect of Mindfulness interventions
      on cancer patients. Mindfulness is defined as the intention of paying full attention, moment
      to moment, to your experiences, without judgement.

      Regular Mindfulness practice cultivates an acceptance state, improves emotional regulation
      strategies, improves quality of life, reduces rumination thinking, anxiety and depression.

      The general aim of the present investigation is studying the effect of an Emotional
      Supportive based-mindfulness Program versus an Emotional Supportive Program (without
      Mindfulness component). Both programs are offered to cancer patients in an advanced stage of
      disease, admitted in the oncology section of the Hospital Universitario La Paz, and their
      relatives.

      The investigator's hypothesis are:

        -  Both programs will reduce emotional distress, decreasing from 4 to 5 points out of 10 on
           average on the Distress thermometer (DT).

        -  Both interventions will improve moderately the score on Quality of Life measures (EORTC
           QLQ-15-PAL), obtaining 10-20 more points than at the initial assessment.

        -  Both interventions will reduce the emotional burden of the main caregiver (ZARIT
           short-form), obtaining a score under 17 points, which indicates "no familiar giving-up".

        -  Emotional Supportive based-Mindfulness Program will improve the scores on Philadelphia
           Mindfulness Scale (PHLMS) and acceptance, more than the Emotional Supportive Program
           will do.

      The investigators will conduct a Randomized Controlled Trial with two treatment arms in an
      advanced-cancer patients sample of patients under hospitalization at Hospital Universitario
      La Paz, Madrid.

      After all recollection of data is done, the investigators will conduct statistic analysis in
      order to accept or refuse our hypothesis.
    
  