
    
      Hyperglycaemia in hospitalized patients is becoming a common clinical problem due to the
      increasing prevalence of diabetes mellitus . Hyperglycaemia in this cohort can also occur in
      patients with previously undiagnosed diabetes, or during acute illness in those with
      previously normal glucose tolerance. As a result, the prevalence of acute or stress
      hyperglycaemia in hospitalised patients has been widely reported. A growing body of evidence
      currently suggest that the degree of hyperglycaemia upon admission and the duration of
      hyperglycaemia during their illness are associated with adverse outcomes.In-patient
      hyperglycaemia is now widely recognised as a poor prognostic marker in terms of morbidity and
      mortality, increased length of stay and cost to the healthcare system.

      The current management of in-patient hyperglycaemia in non-critical care is still far from
      ideal, and vary widely between different centres. The discordance between clinical evidence
      and practice is due to a number of factors which could potentially undermine patient care and
      safety. Of these, hypoglycaemia remains one the biggest barriers to managing in-patient
      hyperglycaemia. There is therefore a need to develop and validate a more effective and safer
      system to manage in-patient hyperglycaemia.

      A closed-loop insulin infusion system has previously been tested and reported to be feasible
      and safe in intensive care patients. Its utilisation in non-critical patients in the general
      medical and surgical wards currently remains unproven. Its use in this cohort however could
      potentially be of significant practical and clinical value, especially in a busy ward
      environment. The Model Predictive Control (MPC) algorithm developed by our group at the
      University of Cambridge utilises fundamental glucoregulatory processes and predicts future
      glucose excursion resulting from projected insulin infusion rates. The algorithm can also
      account for the patient's meal intake and the duration of action of the short acting insulin
      used. This has the distinct advantage over the "reactive" approach of sliding scale insulin
      protocols, which treats hyperglycaemia after it has already occurred.

      The MPC algorithm has been studied in intensive care and cardiac surgery patients, and
      results from these studies to date have been encouraging. It is shown to be associated with a
      significantly higher percentage of time within the blood glucose target range, without
      increasing the risk of severe hypoglycaemia. The expectant role of a closed-loop system using
      the MPC algorithm in non-critical care patients would therefore be to provide clinicians with
      an effective and safe method to manage hyperglycaemia in hospital.

      In early 2017, faster-acting insulin aspart (Fiasp, Novo Nordisk, Copenhagen, Denmark)
      received marketing authorisation from the European Commission. Due to the more favourable
      pharmacokinetic profile, Fiasp has the potential to further improve safety and efficacy of
      fully automated closed-loop glucose control.
    
  