
    
      The aim of the study is to improve the loco-regional control rate and overall survival of
      locally advanced head and neck squamous carcinoma (HNSCC). We hypothesize that the addition
      of nimotuzumab (a recombinant humanized murine immune antibody that blocks both epidermal
      growth factor (EGF) and transforming growth factor (TGF)) to the current gold standard of
      concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) (7)(8), an adjuvant setting in patients after resection
      of their locally advanced HNSCC will confer therapeutic advantage. We have designed a phase
      III randomized study that includes a placebo arm. We assume a 10% increase in 2 year disease
      free survival (from 60% to 70%). To achieve statistical significance at 90% power, we
      calculate the need for 355 patients per arm, assuming also a 10% dropout rate. We aim to
      accomplish this study with the involvement of a multidisciplinary team of surgical, radiation
      and medical oncologists actively involved in the management of HNSCC coming from multiple
      institutions and spanning at least 12 different countries. For quality assurance we will have
      the involvement of Singapore Clinical Research Institute who will lead the data coordination
      and ensure fidelity of data collected and statistical analysis; the European Society of
      Therapeutic Radiation Oncology (EQUAL-ESTRO) for radiation dose and fields and an
      international independent panel of medical oncologist, radiation oncologist and
      biostatistician for the Data Monitoring Committee (DMC). This committee will monitor
      significant events and advise on continuation or termination of trial. Concurrent with the
      randomized trial, we will be collecting bio specimens including blood, tumour and saliva,
      pre-treatment and on completion of surgical resections. We hypothesize that there are
      important biomarkers including clusters of genes, cancer stem cells that will predict
      prognosis and treatment response. The analyses performed will be very powerful because of the
      large sample size, the specimens are collected prospectively and because the statistical
      analyses will be multivariate, incorporating not only treatment but biological and staging
      data.
    
  