
    
      A Data Steering Committee (DSC) will blindly assess the recruitment rate, the variability of
      RH-PAT within and between centres, and the safety on a regular basis.

      Sequential approach:

        -  In the first phase (Phase A) of the study, 180 patients will be enrolled in order to get
           at least 50 completers after 12 months of treatment. A statistical evaluation of the
           primary endpoint will be done by an Independent Biostatistician after approximately 50
           patients have completed the study in accordance with the protocol.

        -  The results will be examined by an Independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMC)which
           will assess the results and advise the sponsor as to:

             1. Continue the study if the primary objective has not been achieved but the
                difference between the two groups is at least 10% (difference considered clinically
                significant). In this case, the sample size will be recalculated by the Independent
                Biostatistician taking into account actual difference and variability. The total
                number of patients to be enrolled in addition in Phase B will be calculated with
                precision. Depending on IDMC recommendations, the number of investigating centres
                will be increased or not for Phase B. If the right number of patients has already
                been enrolled, Phase B will not start. The study will stop when all enrolled
                patients have completed the one-year treatment period.

             2. Terminate the study, if the difference between the two groups is less than 10%.

             3. Consider the study as completed if the primary endpoint has been achieved.

      Treatment allocation: Balanced allocation between molsidomine and placebo (1:1) with a
      stratification for consumption of statins, for the type of stent (drug-eluting stent or
      bare-metal) and for consumption of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs).

      Data collection: Electronic Case Report Form (eCRF).

      Duration of study: A minimum of 30 months (16 months for inclusion and 14 months for the
      study) for Phase A.

      Number of investigational centres:

        -  Up to 10 centres for Phase A

        -  To be determined for Phase B based on Phase A.
    
  