
    
      The evidence from previous literature shows importance of the blood pressure control in T2DM.
      About 20% (16-29%) reduction in microalbuminuria development can be reached by continuously
      lowering blood pressure level from 154/87 mmHg to 144/82 mmHg (the UKPDS), to 134.7/74.8 mmHg
      (the ADVANCE study), and even to 119.3/64.4 mmHg (the ACCORD study). However, several
      limitations are also inherent in the above well-known studies. First, most of the recruited
      participants previous trials were Caucasians. Although 3293 Chinese patients were recruited
      in the ADVANCE study, they only accounted for 29.6% of total enrollees in that trial. The
      representative of Asian population is inadequate. There is also lack of domestic
      evidence-based guideline designated for Taiwanese T2DM patients in optimizing their blood
      pressure control. In addition, some characteristics in Asian T2DM population are different
      from what have been observed in the Caucasian T2DM patients. For example, there is BMI
      discrepancy between T2DM in Western and Eastern countries, more ACEi/ARB side effects (e.g.,
      cough) observed in Asian population, and the possible difference in CKD/ESRD incidence in
      T2DM between different ethnic groups.

      Moreover, the enrollees in most well-known trials (e.g., ADVANCE and ACCORD studies) were
      those who suffered from at least one cardiovascular risk factor for secondary prevention. To
      our best knowledge, there is no study designed to evaluate effectiveness of blood pressure
      control for T2DM patients without previous CV events. Therefore, we initiated a prospective
      randomized controlled trial to investigate the renal protection effect for tight blood
      pressure control for Taiwanese T2DM patients without previously diagnosed CV events. We set
      our primary outcome for the prevention of microalbuminuria development to partly respond to
      the urgent need for this society in solving the huge burden caused by the high incidence and
      prevalence of diabetic nephropathy in Taiwan.

      The study includes two parts: (1) a RCT trial, (2) an observational cohort study. The
      recruitment period of this study is from 2013 Oct to 2019 Dec. The RCT trial will be ended in
      2019 Dec. In addition, we also intend to continuously follow up all our recruited
      hypertensive diabetes patients for at least 10 years to observe their clinical outcomes
      including cardiovascular, renal, retinal outcomes and mortality (the part of the
      observational cohort study).
    
  