
    
      PURPOSE:

      The Transitioning Rural Adolescents to Adult Care (TRAAC) Study is a mixed-methods randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) evaluating the impact of a Telehealth-based nurse-led transition
      intervention in combination with access to a CHD website, versus the CHD website alone, on
      preparing rural-based adolescents living with congenital heart disease (CHD) to successfully
      transition from pediatric to adult cardiology care.

      OBJECTIVES:

      The primary objective is to determine the impact of a nurse-led transition intervention in
      combination with access to the iHeartChange website, versus iHeartChange alone, on
      adolescents' self-management skills.

      The secondary objectives are to:

      (i) evaluate the impact of the nurse-led intervention on adolescents' self-efficacy

      (ii) measure iHeartChange use by participants , and

      (iii) explore potential influences on intervention effectiveness, using qualitative data.

      RESEARCH METHOD:

      Participants will be recruited through the Stollery Children's Hospital Outreach Pediatric
      Cardiology clinics. After discussion with the Research Coordinator, the participant will be
      emailed an online consent form, and baseline questionnaires through REDCap as well as an
      email from the iHeartChange website after the baseline questionnaires are complete.

      At the 1 month and 6 month post enrollment, participants will receive the link to complete
      the questionnaire via email. Should they not complete the questionnaire within the first 2
      weeks, they will receive reminder emails at 2, 4 and 6 weeks post initial send out. At the
      completion of the 1 month and 6 month questionnaires, the participant will receive a small
      incentive.

      For those assigned to the intervention group, a one-on-one telehealth session with the nurse
      will be set up. The session will take ~ 1 hour. Prior to the session the participant will
      receive a mail out transition package of additional written resources containing a "When
      You're 18 booklet" with transition specific information, disease specific information sheets,
      adolescent mental health resources, +/- endocarditis information if applicable.

      Participant heart history information will be collected as well as demographics by accessing
      their paper charts, eClinician, Netcare and Connectcare electronic medical records. Baseline
      data we are collecting includes current height, weight, date of birth, cardiac diagnosis,
      cardiac surgery and procedure information, medications, cardiology visits and other
      information from the cardiology clinic letters.

      DATA ANALYSIS:

      Each participant will be assigned an alphanumerical code and pseudonym. All qualitative data
      (nursing logs, text/email transcripts) will be transcribed, anonymized, and analyzed for
      codes, categories and subcategories. The unit of analysis will be the nurse-led session; all
      data for each session will be analyzed together to get a sense of what happened, what
      influenced what happened, and whether the intervention was successful. Categories will be
      given descriptors that use words as close to the data as possible; eventually, categories
      will be grouped into main categories. Thematic analysis will be used to define broader
      categories of potential influences on intervention effectiveness with the unit of analysis
      being the entire set of coded session data.

      The results of quantitative analyses will be compared with qualitative results to explore the
      extent to which there is agreement. Priority will be given to quantitative data; a nuanced
      understanding of what influenced intervention effectiveness will be sought through a process
      of integration.
    
  