
    
      To evaluate the importance of providing guidelines to patients via active telephone calls for
      blood pressure management and the discontinuation of treatment in hypertensive patients,
      using two treatment regimens with low-dose medications, which were offered for free to avoid
      the influence of the financial factor. We opted for a regimen called "traditional" based on
      diuretics and beta-blockers, and another one called "current" treatment based on the
      angiotensin II antagonist and calcium channel blocker.

      Patients and Methods The patients studied were those with essential hypertension who could
      receive telephone calls to be reminded of the dates of their medical appointments and to
      receive guidance about hypertension; patients were of both genders, from any ethnic
      background, over 18 years old and with body mass index below 40 kg/m2, and were enrolled in
      the study after signing a free and informed consent term. The study was approved by the
      Ethics Committee of the Board of Directors in the General Hospital at the São Paulo
      University School of Medicine.

      Exclusion criteria were patients with blood pressure < 140/90 mm Hg without antihypertensive
      medication, pregnant women or nursing mothers, patients with secondary hypertension,
      white-coat hypertension with systolic pressure ≥ 140 mm Hg and/or diastolic pressure ≥ 90 mm
      Hg at the doctor's office and awake mean systolic pressure < 135 mm Hg or awake mean
      diastolic pressure < 85 mm Hg without antihypertensive medication, malignant hypertension,
      presence of liver dysfunction evidenced by the patient's clinical history or by one of the
      liver function tests with levels twice the normal values (alkaline phosphatase, total
      bilirubin, aspartate aminotransferase), patients with clinical conditions that might
      interfere with the total conformity with the study or those who might have increased risk for
      participating in the study, patients with previous history of hypersensitivity reaction to
      the study medications, patients with a history of alcoholism, drug abuse or mental disorders
      that might invalidate the free and informed consent or limit the patient's ability to meet
      the protocol rules, patients who had participated in any other studies involving
      investigational drugs or drugs already marketed within the previous month, before enrollment
      in this study or concomitantly with this study.

      Measurement of blood pressure was performed five times by the nursing staff in right upper
      limb, with patient sitting, using a cuff of appropriate size to the arm and a validated
      automatic oscillometric device (Dixtal, DX 2710, São Paulo, Brazil) The mean of the last two
      measurements was calculated and recorded as long as the difference between these measurements
      was less than 4 mm Hg. If after the 5 measurements the difference between the last two ones
      was higher than 4 mm Hg, the measurement was repeated until the difference between the two
      measurements was less than 4 mm Hg.

      The diagnosis of hypertension was made when the mean values of the last two measurements
      were: systolic pressure ≥ 140 mm Hg and/or diastolic pressure ≥ 90 mm Hg with or without
      medication in the initial visit (Visit 0). Patients who were receiving antihypertensive
      medication at the initial visit and had systolic pressure < 140 mm Hg or diastolic pressure <
      90 mm Hg were re-evaluated 8 weeks after discontinuation of their medication and introduction
      of placebo, and they were included in the study when the mean values were systolic pressure ≥
      140 mm Hg and/or diastolic pressure ≥ 90 mm Hg.

      All the patients underwent Ambulatory Blood Pressure Monitoring (ABPM) performed with a
      validated oscillometric device (SpaceLabs 90207, SpaceLabs Inc, Richmond, WA, USA) , 5 weeks
      after start of the placebo to eliminate the cases of patients with white-coat hypertension
      and in patients who did not receive placebo to identify the white coat effect.

      Patients were assigned to two groups: a) "uncomplicated" - composed of hypertensive patients
      without complications and without other concurrent diseases; and b) "complicated", including
      patients with severe hypertension (mean diastolic pressure > 110 mm Hg with or without
      medication) or comorbidities such as diabetes mellitus 7, renal failure (serum creatinine >
      1.4mg/dL), coronary insufficiency, congestive heart failure or prior history of
      cerebrovascular accident.

      All patients, from both the complicated and the uncomplicated group, were open block
      randomized to receive active telephone calls ("phone calls" group) or not to receive
      telephone calls ("no phone calls" group) and to follow two treatment regimens: "traditional"
      and "current".

      Thus, after the first visit and randomization, patients from the "phone calls" group were
      invited to enroll by telephone in the program called "Biosintética Assistance" supported by
      Biosintética Laboratory. The patients who subscribed started receiving active telephone calls
      from appropriately trained operators as well as magazines with health-related information,
      which were sent periodically by mail. There were 6 contacts by telephone during the study.
      The patient was reminded to attend the next visit; he/she received instructions about
      hypertension as well as any necessary clarifications. All the patients randomized to the
      "phone calls" group were invited to attend occasional informative lectures with the
      participation of a multidisciplinary team.

      At the initial stage of treatment, the "uncomplicated" group received, after 8 weeks of
      treatment with placebo, one of the following treatment regimens: a) "traditional" treatment
      with hydrochlorothiazide 6.25 mg 2x/day and atenolol 25 mg 2x/day; and b) "current" treatment
      with losartan 25 mg 2x/day and amlodipine 2.5 mg 2x/day. If blood pressure could not be
      controlled during the visits, the medications had their doses doubled or another
      antihypertensive was added. The "complicated" group did not undergo the treatment period with
      placebo and was randomized to receive "traditional" or "current" drug regimens similar to the
      ones administered to the "uncomplicated" group, considering the specificity of each
      condition. The addition of other antihypertensive agents in the "uncomplicated" group, as
      well as the specificities of regimens of patients in the "complicated" group, were performed
      according to the guidelines from the V Brazilian Guidelines on Arterial Hypertension. 5 All
      the patients were instructed to take the medication every day at 7:00 am and 7:00 pm, with a
      variation of up to one hour. All the medication necessary for 12 months of treatment was
      supplied to the patients by the physician at the end of the visit in sufficient amount at no
      cost until the next visit, in order to eliminate the financial factor in this analysis.
      Patients were instructed to bring the remaining pills during their subsequent visit to be
      counted by the nursing staff, without the patients' knowledge of this procedure.

      Doctors' visits, preceded by the nursing staff visit, took place every 8 weeks for 56 weeks
      with measurements of blood pressure, heart rate and weight. The weight was checked with the
      patient wearing light clothes and barefoot on a scale (model 2096PP, Toledo do Brasil, São
      Paulo, SP, Brazil).

      Study withdrawal was characterized by non-attendance to the medical visit up to 3 months
      after the scheduled date. The patients who returned within 3 months after the scheduled date
      would continue in the study and be evaluated in an unscheduled visit.

      The tests performed during the treatment with placebo and after 40 weeks of active treatment
      included: fasting glucose, urea, creatinine, total cholesterol, fractions of cholesterol,
      triglycerides, uric acid, total bilirubin, CPK, Na+, K+, hemoglobin, TSH, alkaline
      phosphatase, AST, ALT and urinary excretion of sodium in 24 h.
    
  