
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess and compare the progression-free survival of patients with stage IIIB or IV
           squamous cell non-small cell lung cancer treated with gemcitabine hydrochloride and
           carboplatin with vs without MK-0646 as first-line therapy.

      Secondary

        -  To assess and compare the objective tumor response rate in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  To assess and compare the duration of response in patients with objective tumor response
           treated with these regimens.

        -  To assess and compare the time to progression and time to treatment failure in patients
           treated with these regimens.

        -  To assess and compare the 1-year overall survival of patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  To assess and compare the clinical toxicities of these regimens in these patients.

        -  To compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      Tertiary

        -  To collect blood and tumor specimens for future evaluation of pharmacogenetic and
           proteomic markers of tumor response and toxicity to therapy.

        -  To assess the relationship between ht-SNPs in genes that mediate
           chemosensitivity/resistance to gemcitabine hydrochloride (e.g. ribonucleotide reductase)
           and IGF1R pathway genes.

        -  To bank paraffin-embedded tissue blocks/slides for future histochemistry evaluation and
           DNA extraction as part of ongoing research for NCCTG lung studies.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to prior adjuvant
      therapy, neoadjuvant therapy, or chemoradiotherapy (yes vs no), and ECOG performance status
      (0 vs 1 vs 2). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8,
           carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1, and MK-0646 IV over 60 minutes on days 1, 8,
           and 15. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 4 courses, patients with stable disease or
           partial or complete response may then receive MK-0646 alone on days 1 and 15. Treatment
           with MK-0646 repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride and carboplatin as in arm I.
           Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity. Patients may crossover to arm I upon disease progression.

      Blood and tissue samples may be collected for pharmacogenetics and further laboratory
      analysis.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and periodically during study.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for up to 5 years.
    
  