
    
      The objective of this clinical investigation is to evaluate, in a controlled setting, the
      long-term safety and efficacy of the combination therapy with the Luminor DCB and the
      iVolution stent post CE-certification and according to the indications of the Instructions
      for use (IFU) with focus on the treatment of TASC C and D femoropopliteal atherosclerotic
      lesions.

      Patients will be selected based on the investigator's assessment, evaluation of the
      underlying disease and the eligibility criteria. The patient's medical condition should be
      stable, with no underlying medical condition which would prevent them from performing the
      required testing or from completing the study. Patients should also be geographically stable,
      willing and able to cooperate in this clinical study and remain available for long-term
      follow-up. A patient is considered enrolled in the study after obtaining the patients
      informed consent, if there is full compliance with the study eligibility criteria and after
      successful guidewire passage through the study target lesion.

      Prior to the index procedure the following tests and clinical data will be collected:
      informed consent for data collection, demographics, medical history, medication record,
      physical examination, clinical category of chronic limb ischemia (Rutherford category) and
      resting ankle-brachial index (ABI).

      During the procedure, the vascular access can be achieved to the investigator's standard
      clinical practice. After successful lesion passage, diagnostic angiography of the lesion area
      and distal run-off is performed and angiographic measurements (vessel diameter, percentage
      stenosis and lesion length) are collected. All inflow-limiting lesion will be treated
      according to the investigators standard clinical practice before treatment of the target
      lesion. Pre-dilatation of the target lesion is mandatory with the Oceanus balloon. After
      pre-dilatation, a least one Luminor DCB will be inflated and at least 1 iVolution stent will
      be deployed at the target lesion. At the physician's discretion, post-dilatation can be
      performed. No other adjunctive therapies (atherectomy, laser) are allowed. The complete
      femoropopliteal vasculature should be treated in one single session, staged interventions are
      not allowed. All outflow-limiting lesions must be treated according to the hospital treatment
      standard.

      The regular follow-ups are necessary to monitor the condition of the patient and the
      procedure. Patients will be invited for a follow-up visit at 1, 6, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 60
      months after the index procedure. The 24, 36, 48 and 60 month follow-up can be conducted via
      a phone call. The following data will be collected during these follow-up visit: medication
      record, physical examination, rutherford categorization, ABI and color flow doppler
      ultrasound.
    
  