
    
      STUDY DESCRIPTION OVERVIEW. Our goal in this study is to determine the feasibility,
      acceptability and preliminary estimate of effect size of a multi- level intersectional
      stigma-reduction intervention on HIV testing among MSM in Ghana. This study has two phases: a
      formative phase and a test phase. The eight-step ADAPT-ITT framework will guide our approach
      to enhancing the interventions' content to address intersectional stigma and combine the
      three separate interventions into one multi- level approach. Aim 1 will encompass steps 1-7,
      leading to the combined multi-level intervention adapted to deepen intersectional stigma
      content and step 8 in which the study team will conduct a waitlist-controlled RCT of the
      adapted intervention for feasibility and acceptability. In Aim 2, data generated in the RCT
      will be used to estimate the effect size of the multi-level intervention on HIV testing among
      MSM (primary outcome) and intersectional stigma reduction (secondary outcome) among the MSM
      and HCF staff. In deciding on the RCT with wait-list control was considered with other
      designs such as factorial designs and a classic RCT design with time and attention-matched
      controls. It was determined that the RCT with wait-list control was superior to the other
      designs because our study is premised on the need for combined interventions. Since it is not
      intended yet to seek to isolate which component of the intervention had the greatest effect
      on our outcomes, a factorial design was not scientifically justified for our proposed study.
      Additionally, ethical and budgetary considerations informed our decision to forgo using a
      structurally equivalent control in favor of a wait-list control for the intervention given
      the evidence of each interventions' efficacy for reducing stigma among HCF staff and
      improving HIV testing among MSM.

      FORMATIVE PHASE STEP 1: ASSESS Focus group discussions (FGDs) and in-depth interviews (IDIs)
      will be conducted with MSM and HCF staff to inform the adaptation of the three existing
      interventions to deepen intersectional stigma content and their integration with each other
      to address intersectional stigma at multiple levels. FGDs were chosen because of their
      demonstrated suitability in studies of sexual health and to capitalize on the spontaneous
      conversational interaction that occurs in groups. This re-creation of the social dynamic with
      the HCF staff and MSM is critical to the understanding of intersectional stigma from the
      social organization of these two groups. There are also plans to conduct a limited set of
      individual interviews to examine more in-depth, topics that elicit intimate personal accounts
      that may not be suitable for sharing in groups. For example, MSM PLHIV are targeted for IDIs
      to gain insight into whether and how intersectional stigma experiences influenced their pre-
      diagnosis prevention behaviors, access to prevention services, timing of HIV testing and
      linkage to care post-diagnosis.

      Qualitatively, the following will be investigated:

        1. the drivers and manifestations of HIV, same-sex and gender non-conforming stigmas
           (intersectional stigma) within HCFs and MSM peer groups

        2. how these intersecting stigmas undermine HIV testing

        3. perspectives on strategies for reducing intersectional stigma within HCFs and among MSM
           peer groups. This information will guide to what degree and how these stigmas are
           addressed within the intervention.

      In each study city (Accra and Kumasi), 2-4 FGDs will take place in each with HCF staff and
      MSM, as well as IDIs with HP+ trainers from the pilot phase (n=10) and MSM with HIV (n=8).
      The purpose and expectations of involvement in the study will be explained to prospective
      participants.

      STEP 2: DECIDE Guided by the formative research results, the team will meet to discuss what
      specific intervention activities should be modified to address intersectional stigma. An
      updated scoping review of research literature to identify innovative evidence-based options
      to enhance focus on intersecting stigmas, with special attention to technology and social
      media options. This will include a review of the current intervention activities and
      discussion of how they can be refined to address intersecting stigmas. In consultation with
      our civil society partners, the team will then incorporate these changes into the curriculum,
      identify gaps/errors in logic and make corrections in preparation to conduct a workshop of
      the intervention with key reference groups.

      STEP 3: ADMINISTER After initial modifications, a facilitated simulation workshop of the
      intervention activities with a combined group of HP+ HCF staff (n=4) and client trainers
      (n=2) who delivered HP+ in other health facilities in Ghana and MSM (n=8) who received the
      original 3MV and HIVE3 interventions will take place. Then, the team will conduct a joint
      workshop session because it is consistent with the concept that the intervention must retain
      relevance to MSM at all points along the HIV testing pathway, including in the HCF and among
      their peer-groups. The next step will be produce a revised combined version of the original
      intervention manuals before the workshop and conduct a series of facilitated simulation
      exercises with role-play over a 4-day period. Participants will work through each of the
      intervention levels, focusing on the intersectional stigma content and reviewing our approach
      to linking the different levels and creating opportunities for safe contact between HCF staff
      and MSM.

      STEP 4: PRODUCE Based on the feedback from the simulation workshop participants and our
      observations of their engagement with the activities, the study team will determine what
      content and approaches to incorporate into the adapted intervention manual and which content
      and processes to edit or forego. In our decision-making process, the study team will give
      priority consideration to maintaining components that have the highest consistency with
      scientific literature on intersectional stigma, local cultural relevance, and likelihood to
      be fun/enjoyable-key requisites for successful intervention uptake.

      STEP 5: TOPIC The study team will engage topic experts to review the adapted manual and
      provide feedback on its congruence with the original intervention and local sociocultural
      relevance. A copy of the adapted, combined multi-level intervention manual will be provided
      to the principal investigators of the original separate level interventions. Ghanaian MSM who
      lead PORSH and YAHR (our two civil-society organization partners that work with Ghanaian MSM)
      will give feedback that is key to the local cultural relevance and intervention
      implementation.

      STEP 6: INTEGRATE In this step, feedback provided by the topic experts will be taken and
      summarized in a report that will be distributed to the entire investigative team, including
      our key local partners. The feedback will be discussed to develop follow-up clarifying
      questions to the topic experts, as necessary, before making final revisions to the
      multi-level intervention manual.

      STEP 7: TRAIN The study team will also produce a training manual to standardize training and
      permit future replication of the intervention in other settings. This will provide
      comprehensive training to study staff whose roles are dedicated to delivering the
      intervention. In addition, the development of multi-faceted training will take place to
      facilitate comprehension and retention of training concepts, using strategies that Drs.
      Nyblade and Nelson has successfully deployed in other HIV prevention research projects. This
      will include conducting a joint (including teams from both cities) rehearsal of the protocol
      prior to implementation in the RCT with HCF staff and MSM who are not part of the trial.

      RANDOMIZATION PROCEDURES Matched pairing of study facilities: the study will assign four HCFs
      in each study city to intervention and control groups by matching the size of HCF facility
      staff censure. In every city, the plan is to first stratify four clinics into a pair of two
      larger clinics and a pair of two smaller clinics, and then randomly assign one larger and one
      smaller clinic to either arm. HCFs will be assigned using a randomization sequence created in
      SAS 9.4 with a 1:1 allocation using random block sizes of four by an independent research
      assistant. A separate research assistant will open the sealed envelopes to identify group
      assignment immediately after completion of baseline data collection.

      Random assignment of MSM participants. Consented/eligible MSM will be randomized in a 1:1
      ratio to intervention versus control arm. A block-randomization approach using a random
      numbers generator to assign participants to the study arms will be employed, which ensures
      that the number of participants assigned to the intervention arm in each of the two study
      cities (or blocks) is approximately equal to the control arm.
    
  