
    
      Anxiety, pain and discomfort are situations of great stress in the daily routine of clinical
      practice, and especially in the practice of the dental emergency sector. Several studies have
      concluded that low-intensity laser therapy has been shown to be effective in pain management.
      However, the majority report the use of laser in the treatment of chronic pain, few studies
      show its application in acute pain and only one study evaluated the effect of low laser on
      acute pain of pulp inflammation, but with other parameters. In addition, because of the
      inflammatory process and several factors of unknown origin, the anesthetic agent can not
      always promote complete analgesia, especially when faced with mandibular molars. Therefore,
      the present study has the objective of evaluating whether the previous therapy with low
      intensity laser, through its analgesic effect, can promote a greater comfort specifically for
      this type of patient. 75 patients with pain from mandibular molar pulpitis will be selected
      for this study (randomized and double blind) and divided into 3 groups (n = 25): Group 1 -
      Pulse Laser (880nm, 30mW, 3,6J / cm², 25Hz) ; Group 2 - Continuous Laser (880nm; 30mW; 3.6J /
      cm²); Group 3 - Placebo. The pain will be evaluated by means of an VAS score in 6 different
      times: initial pain, immediately after and 10 minutes after irradiation with the laser, 10
      minutes after inferior alveolar nerve block (IANB), during conventional endodontic treatment,
      after the end of the procedure. (T0, T1, T1 ', T2, T3 and T4). The efficacy of the laser
      application will be assessed using the VAS scale 10 minutes after the laser application,
      immediately before the blockade is performed. The use of the laser will be considered
      effective if the patient reports a reduction in the VAS scale of 2 points, between the
      initial moment and 10 minutes after the laser application. Analgesia will be evaluated during
      the pulpectomy procedure with the use of the verbal analogue scale 0 to 3. Analgesic effect
      will be considered if the professional can finish the procedure without the patient reporting
      2 or 3 on this scale. The data obtained between the different groups and schedules will be
      compared statistically, and the statistical test chosen will depend on the normality of the
      data. The data obtained between the different groups and times will be compared
      statistically, and the statistical test chosen will depend on the normality of the data.
    
  