
    
      This study aims to answer the common clinical question of whether or not to stop PGA after
      routine cataract surgery. Cataract surgery is the commonest operation performed on the NHS
      and the prevalence of glaucoma is 5% in the population over 80 years old. Thus the clinical
      dilemma is a common one.

      A current literature search reveals that a divided opinion over whether PGAs do increase the
      incidence of CMO. No study has yet established a causal relationship between the use of PGAs
      and the development of CMO. Anecdotal reports and small case series have associated
      peri-operative PGA use with the occurrence of CMO (Henderson BA et al, 2007 J Cataract
      Refract Surg 33:1550-1558; Moroi SE et al, 1999, Ophthalmology 106:1024-1029). Whilst, in
      direct contrast, other authors argue CMO as a rare phenomenon and the causative relationship
      is debated (Schumer RA et al 2000, Curr Opin Ophthalmol 11:94-100; Miyake K et al 2003 J
      Cataract Refract Surg 29:1800-1810)

      The most similar previous study to the one proposed, was by Miyake K et al. (Arch Ophthalmol
      1999, 117:34-40). The key difference, though, is in the postoperative drop regime of
      fluorometholone and diclofenac in that paper and current UK clinical practice of using
      dexamethasone. In terms of study design, this paper used an invasive method of investigating
      CMO by fundus fluorescein angiography compared to OCT proposed here.

      A recent case report by Agange N & Mosaed S (Journal of Ophthalmology, 2010) concludes with
      'conclusions about causal relationships cannot be made without well-designed, prospective
      clinical trials addressing this issue'.

      This study will therefore use drops that are routinely used in current UK clinical practice
      and add to the body of evidence that helps answer the question should PGAs be continued after
      cataract surgery so as to prevent the progression of glaucoma in patients.

        -  Aim

             -  This study investigates if the occurrence of CMO after cataract surgery is affected
                by the use of PGA drops by patients with glaucoma

             -  The null hypothesis states there is no increase in the incidence of CMO on OCT
                scanning in the 4 weeks following cataract surgery whether PGA eye drops continue
                or are stopped.

        -  Design

             -  Randomised control study with parallel group design

             -  Single masking of outcome assessors
    
  