
    
      Background The World Health Organization (WHO) defines overweight as a body mass index (BMI)
      of ≥25 kg/m2 and obesity as a BMI of ≥30 kg/m2. Overweight and obesity are rising
      dramatically worldwide. In fertile women, the prevalence of obesity is one third in the
      United States, 20% in the United Kingdom, and 12-13% in Denmark. The association between
      obesity in pregnancy and the risk of gestational complications increases with increasing BMI.
      Among other complications, obesity in pregnancy is associated with increased risk of
      caesarean delivery. Delivery by caesarean section further adds significant risks of wound
      infection or other infectious morbidity in obese women as compared to normal weight women.
      The longer the woman is pregnant, the longer the risk of pregnancy complications remains. In
      an otherwise low-risk pregnant woman at term, it is an on-going clinical dilemma, whether the
      benefits of elective induction of labor (eIOL) and termination of the pregnancy will outweigh
      the potential harms from the concomitant induction and delivery process. Regarding delivery
      complications, based on data from historical cohorts, eIOL has traditionally been associated
      with an increased risk of caesarean section and instrumental delivery. Therefore, expectant
      management has been the preferred clinical option. This interpretation has now been
      challenged by a randomized trial (ARRIVE) with >6000 low-risk pregnant women where eIOL at 39
      weeks of gestation was associated with lower caesarean delivery rates. There are no
      randomized studies in obese women, but two larger observational studies did find lower odds
      of caesarean delivery in obese women with eIOL as compared to awaiting labor onset. Hence, a
      randomized trial that would compare caesarean delivery among obese women whose labor is
      induced with those expectantly managed is warranted. The proposed study will provide new and
      important knowledge into the area of induction of labor among overweight and obese women with
      potential great international impact for the future raising number of pregnant women in this
      subgroup.

      With this trial, the investigators aim to compare the risk of caesarean section in obese (BMI
      ≥ 30 kg/m2), but otherwise low-risk women with eIOL as compared to expectant management.

      Materials and methods

      The study is a multicenter randomized controlled trial with an allocation ratio of 1:1 in the
      two following arms:

        -  Intervention arm/elective induction of labor in pregnancy at 39 gestational week and 0
           to 3 days: Induction is performed according to local policy for induction of labor.

        -  Comparison arm/expectant management: Waiting for spontaneous onset of labor unless a
           situation develops necessitating either induction of labor or caesarean section.

           1900 low-risk pregnant women with a pre- or early pregnancy BMI ≥ 30 carrying a
           singleton pregnancy will be recruited from the Danish delivery wards. In each trial
           site, a physician investigator will be responsible for the enrolment, the electronically
           randomization, and data collection.

      The primary endpoint is the caesarean section rate. Among others there will be secondary
      endpoints on instrumental delivery, onset of labor, methods of induction, perinatal and
      postpartum complications both maternal and neonatal along with data on women's experience on
      birth measured by a questionnaire survey four to six weeks post-partum.

      Ethics The study will be conducted in accordance with the ethical principles outlined in the
      latest version of the 'Declaration of Helsinki' and the 'Guideline for Good Clinical
      Practice' related to experiments on humans. The Central Denmark Region Committee on
      Biomedical Research Ethics, and The Danish Health Authorities have approved the study.

      Perspectives In perspective, more than 39% of the world's population is overweight and 13%
      are obese by the WHO classification. Pregnant overweight women are at increased risk of
      pregnancy and delivery complications, and there is a need to improve maternity care for this
      subgroup of women. The results of this trial have the potential to generate important
      knowledge for the improvement of delivery in obese women and they will add key information to
      an on-going discussion of the effects of labor induction before term. Any possible harm or
      disadvantage to the individual study participant is outweighed by the possible benefit to the
      increasing number of obese women who will be pregnant in the future.
    
  