
    
      The Burden of Cardiovascular Disease

      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) remains the major cause of mortality in the developed world,
      accounting for almost 40% of all deaths in both the United States and Canada. It represents a
      substantial financial drain on society and contributes a significant burden to health care
      systems that are already under strain. Major modifiable risk factors for CVD include elevated
      blood pressure, cigarette smoking, elevated total plasma cholesterol and low high-density
      lipoproteins, diabetes, obesity, and sedentary lifestyle, at least one of which is present in
      80% of Canadians. Circulatory diseases (particularly heart disease, stroke and hypertension)
      cost the Nova Scotia health care system an estimated $961 million dollars per year. In Nova
      Scotia cardiovascular disease kills an estimated 2,900 Nova Scotians every year accounting
      for nearly 36% of all deaths in the province.

      Cardiovascular Disease Prevention in Primary Care Settings

      There is strong evidence linking improved risk factors among populations to improved health
      outcomes, and both epidemiological and community research have illustrated that the bulk of
      non-communicable diseases (NCDs) such as CVD are preventable, or at least their occurrence
      can be postponed. Because primary care physicians are most often the first point of contact
      for individuals in need of health care, general practice is well placed to facilitate change
      in patients' risk factor status and ensure more effective treatment of risk factors such as
      hypertension and hyperlipidemia. Currently primary care service delivery is expanding to
      include a broader network of providers such as nurses, dieticians, and pharmacists to enable
      more effective risk factor identification and management, and health promotion and disease
      prevention efforts across the continuum of care.

      Nova Scotia Context

      Currently in Nova Scotia, population health and disease prevention initiatives are underway
      that will support and reinforce the work of the current study, including primary health care
      transition fund initiatives, and strategic directions from the Office of Health Promotion
      that address major risk factors for cardiovascular disease. These provincial initiatives
      together with local projects ongoing in several communities provide an ideal opportunity for
      interfacing with a primary care global risk reduction initiative.

      Study Purpose and Design

      The goal of this study is to improve CVD risk in a primary care adult population, with the
      following primary objectives

        1. To improve management of global cardiovascular risk of patients within two primary care
           practices, thereby improving their overall cardiac health.

        2. To increase patient compliance with lifestyle and pharmaceutical interventions aimed at
           decreasing global cardiovascular risk.

      Secondary objectives of the study are:

        1. To examine the utility of a process to improve the management of global cardiovascular
           risk of patients within two primary care practices.

        2. To explore the utility of a process that links primary care practices with existing
           community resources in order to manage cardiac risk factors better among individuals
           within those primary care practices.

        3. To determine the economic impact of a global risk assessment and management process
           within a primary care setting.

      The intervention will be led by a study coordinator in each primary care setting and consist
      of a recruitment strategy, global risk factor assessment, behaviour change counseling, and
      risk factor management strategies based on the 5A's framework (assess, advise, agree, assist
      and arrange follow-up). Supports will be provided to study participants in making behaviour
      changes including counseling and follow-up, behaviour change tools, print resources, group
      education sessions, and an inventory of and links to community programs. Medication reviews
      and physician referrals will also be completed as required.

      A Steering Committee will guide the project and includes membership from the Principal
      Investigators, representatives from Pfizer Canada, Capital District Health Authority, the
      Cape Breton District Health Authority and the Nova Scotia Department of Health; and community
      stakeholders including community pharmacy, a physician and/or nurse from each site, other
      relevant allied health professionals (e.g., nutritionist) and the CEO from the Heart and
      Stroke Foundation of Nova Scotia. The initiative will be conducted over a three-year period
      and will comprise three phases as outlined in the following table.

      Research Methodology

      This is a pre-intervention and post-intervention longitudinal, prospective pilot study to
      evaluate study participants achievement of CVD risk factor reduction. The research will
      include a combination of quantitative and qualitative data to judge effectiveness of the
      interventions and to describe the intervention as it is implemented. The effectiveness of the
      approach will be examined using pre and post measures of key outcome variables. In addition
      to these outcome measures, process evaluation will monitor and assess the implementation of
      the interventions. The study will include baselines measurement, periodic assessments of
      process measures, outcome measurement and follow-up measurement. Following the baseline
      measurement through the GRA, patients will receive risk management interventions.

      The data will be analyzed using both quantitative and qualitative methods. Pre and post
      outcome measures will be analyzed using descriptive analytical techniques comparing means for
      continuous measures and proportions for categorical measures. Qualitative data will be
      managed and analyzed either manually or via QSR NUD*IST (Qualitative Solutions and Research
      Non-numerical Unstructured Data Indexing Searching and Theory-building) software. The
      qualitative analysis will consist of both content and thematic analysis.

      Sustainability and Dissemination

      The project will involve collaboration and integration with primary health care renewal
      efforts and community resources to build on existing infrastructure and thereby help to
      facilitate sustainability. Capacity building within primary care settings and mobilization of
      existing resources will also help to ensure a sustainable resource. Steering Committee
      members and other partners will ensure the project results and products are shared with their
      organizations and networks, and also more widely across the province. Project findings will
      be published in appropriate peer reviewed publications to further share the learning and
      disseminate findings.
    
  