
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by the destruction of
      specific neurons population involved in movement control. Pain is one of the non-motor
      symptoms still poorly known and misdiagnosed. In addition to this fact, its management is
      complex. At present, the medical community has no effective solution to reduce pain to an
      acceptable level in terms of intensity or frequency.

      Pain is a personal, subjective experience with an affective and cognitive dimension. The
      context and its psychological impact can amplify as well as alleviate the pain. Thus,
      non-pharmacological treatment (NPT) that influence the psychological state (mood, level of
      stress, ...) can also modulate the pain experience through the brain matrix of pain. Among
      them, foot reflexology, which by stimulating reflex zones located on the feet, makes it
      possible to modify the perception of the pain and to modify the subjective / emotional
      valence of the pain. In this study, we propose to evaluate this technique, by postulating
      that it should reduce the chronic pain of patients with Parkinson's disease.

      This project is innovative and original in two dimensions : On the one hand, the pain of
      patients in PD is still often underestimated, there is in the mere fact of devoting a study a
      real dynamic of change in the consideration of the patients concerned and in the management
      of this non-motor symptom. On the other hand, the increasing use of NPT requires that
      clinical studies be conducted. To date, it is clear that very few or no reliable studies have
      been conducted on the subject. We wish to develop complementary non-pharmacological
      management to provide concrete help to Parkinson's patients and thus initiate the scientific
      validation of NPT as recommended by the High Authority of Health.

      The study hypothesize that through a comparison of the evolution of different parameters,
      quantitative and qualitative, this study will allow to identify biomarkers and highlight the
      specific effect of FR on pain, compared to sham massage.
    
  