
    
      The study is designed with healthy patients, first-time mothers, in childbearing dynamics,
      term pregnancy and nullipary. The epidural technique was performed with dose test of 3ml of
      bupivacaína 0,25 % with vasoconstrictor and a manual bolus of 0,1ml/Kg of ropivacaína 0,2%
      with fentanilo 5ug/ml.

      As soon as the informed consent about the epidural anesthesia was signed, the patient was
      informed of the possibility of taking part in the study and there is offered him the sheet of
      information of the patient. So in one group they were administered Programed Intermittent
      Epidural Boluses (PIEB) and in other group continuous Epidural Infusion (IC) plus PIEB
      according to the usual clinical practice of each anesthesiologist. In both cases the
      perfusion was of ropivacaína 0,1 % more fentanilo 2ug/ml, so that in the first group it was
      administered PIEB of 10ml every hour and in the second group a continuous infusion to 3ml/h
      plus PIEB of 7ml every hour. Also if during the period of dilatation an AVE (Analogical
      Visual Escale) greater than or equal to 4 appeared (inadequate analgesia) the patient could
      administer a 5ml PCEA bolus of the same solution (interval of closing of 20min and maximum
      dose for hour of 15ml), as it is done in according to the usual clinical practice. And if
      after two boluses of PCEA the analgesia was still ineffective a clinical bolus of 4ml of
      lidocaína to 1 % was administered by the anesthesiologist.

      In addition, in the group that was administered only PIEB, the standard infusion system was
      compared with the high-flow infusion system.

      In all patients it was evaluated and noted on the epidural record sheet the intensity of the
      pain as the analogical visual scale (AVE), the grade of motor blockade as the modified scale
      of Bromage and the sensitive level in different periods of time. Also registered the total
      doses of anesthetic, the way of the childbearing finishes, the Apgar of the newborn, the
      grade of maternal satisfaction and the side effects. Also through the software of the pump it
      was verified if the patient had been administered rescue analgesia (PCEA or clinical
      boluses).
    
  