
    
      Rationale:

      International health authorities universally recommend adherence to low-risk lifestyle
      behaviors for health promotion and prevention of chronic or non-communicable diseases (NCDs).
      Systematic reviews and meta-analyses of prospective cohort studies have shown that adherence
      to any one low-risk lifestyle behavior, including a healthy body weight, healthy diet,
      regular physical activity, smoking cessation, moderate alcohol intake, or adequate sleep, is
      associated with less risk of chronic disease. Although individual prospective cohort studies
      have shown that adherence to a combination of these low-risk lifestyle behaviors is
      associated with an even greater benefit, there are no systematic reviews and meta-analyses
      assessing whether it holds across different definitions of low-risk lifestyle behaviors,
      levels of exposure, populations, geographical regions, background risks, and chronic disease
      outcomes. To inform recommendations for the role of low-risk lifestyle behaviors in chronic
      disease prevention, the Canadian Cardiovascular Society (CCS), as part of the Dyslipidemia
      Guidelines Update, commissioned a series of systematic reviews and meta-analyses using the
      Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) approach of the
      association between adherence to a combination of low-risk lifestyle behaviors and (1)
      cardiovascular disease (CVD), (2) diabetes, (3) cancer, and (4) all-cause mortality outcomes.

      Objectives:

        1. To conduct a series of systematic reviews and meta-analyses of the association between
           adherene to a combination of low-risk lifestyle behaviors and 4 chronic disease outcomes
           (1) cardiovascular disease (cardiovascular disease (CVD) incidence and mortality,
           coronary heart disease [CHD] incidence and mortality, and stroke incidence and
           mortality), (2) diabetes, (3) cancer (cancer incidence and cancer mortality), and (4)
           all-cause mortality.

        2. To assess the quality and strength of the evidence using GRADE.

      Design:

      The planning and conduct of the proposed systematic reviews and meta-analyses will follow the
      Cochrane handbook for systematic reviews of interventions. The reporting will follow the
      Meta-Analysis Of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (MOOSE) and the Preferred Reporting
      Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) statements.

      Data sources:

      MEDLINE, EMBASE, and The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (Clinical Trials;
      CENTRAL) will be searched using appropriate search terms. These searches will be supplemented
      by manual hand searches of the bibliographies of included studies and existing review
      articles.

      Study selection:

      Prospective cohort studies investigating the relation of at-least three low-risk lifestyle
      behaviors, one of which must include a healthy diet, with incident cardiovascular disease,
      diabetes, cancer or all-cause mortality will be included. Studies will be excluded if
      low-risk lifestyle behaviors are combined with biomarkers.

      Data extraction:

      Two independent reviewers or more will independently extract relevant information about study
      design, sample size, subject characteristics, low risk lifestyle behaviors,
      duration/person-years of follow-up, adjustments of models. Risk ratios for clinical outcomes
      will be extracted or derived from clinical event data across quantiles of exposure.

      Risk of bias:

      Two independent reviewers or more will assess risk of bias of (ROB) of each of the included
      prospective cohort studies using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale (NOS) by . Up to 9 points can be
      awarded based on cohort selection (max 4 points), the comparability of cohort design and
      analysis (max 4 points), and adequacy of the outcome measures (max 3 points). Studies that
      receive ≥6 points will be considered as higher quality.

      Outcomes:

      Each of the four proposed systematic reviews and meta-analyses will assess a different
      chronic disease outcome: cardiovascular disease (CVD incidence and mortality, CHD incidence
      and mortality, and stroke incidence and mortality), (2) diabetes, (3) cancer (cancer and
      cancer mortality), and (4) all-cause mortality.

      Data synthesis:

      Risk estimates of extreme comparisons (all who adhered to low-risk behaviors versus none)
      will be pooled using inverse variance random effects models and expressed as risk ratios (RR)
      with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Between-cohort heterogeneity will be assessed by the
      Cochran Q (chi-square) statistic and quantified by the I2 statistic. The significance level
      will be set at p<0.10 and an I2 ≥ 50% will be considered evidence of substantial
      heterogeneity. To explore sources of heterogeneity, the investigators will conduct
      sensitivity analyses, in which each study is systematically removed with recalculation of the
      summary estimates. If there are >=10 studies, then the investigators will also explore
      sources of heterogeneity using a priori subgroup analyses by underlying disease status, sex,
      number of lifestyle factors, follow-up (<10 years, ≥10 years), level of adjustment of models,
      NOS, ascertainment of outcome, and individual domains of NOS Meta-regression analyses will
      assess the significance of categorical and continuous subgroups analyses. Dose-response
      analyses will be undertaken using random-effects generalized least squares trend estimation
      models (GLST) to assess linear relationships and spline curve modeling (the MKSPLINE
      procedure) to assess non-linear relationships. If ≥10 cohort comparisons are available, then
      publication bias will be assessed by visual inspection of funnel plots and formally tested
      with the Egger and Begg tests at a significance level of p≤ 0.10. If publication bias is
      suspected, then the investigators will attempt to adjust for funnel plot asymmetry by
      imputing the missing study data using the Duval and Tweedie trim and fill method.

      Quality of evidence:

      Evidence profiles will be produced the overall strength and quality of the evidence will be
      assessed using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE)
      system. This system grades the evidence as "high quality", "moderate quality", "low quality",
      or "very low quality". The included prospective cohort studies will start at "low quality" by
      default and then be downgraded or upgraded based on pre-specified criteria. Criteria to
      downgrade will include study limitations (weight of studies show risk of bias by NOS),
      inconsistency (substantial unexplained inter-study heterogeneity, I2>50% and P<0.10),
      indirectness (presence of factors relating to the population, exposures, and outcomes that
      limit generalizability), imprecision (95% CI are wide or cross a minimally important
      difference of 10% [RR 0.9- 1.1]), and publication bias (significant evidence of small-study
      effects). Criteria to upgrade will include a large magnitude effect (RR>2 or RR<0.5 in the
      absence of plausible confounders), a dose-response gradient, and attenuation by plausible
      confounding effects.

      Knowledge translation plan:

      The results will be disseminated through interactive presentations at local, national, and
      international scientific meetings and publication in high impact factor journals. Target
      audiences will include the public health and scientific communities with interest in
      nutrition, physical activity, lifestyle modification, diabetes, cancer and cardiovascular
      disease. Feedback will be incorporated and used to improve the public health message and key
      areas for future research will be defined.

      Significance:

      The proposed project will aid in knowledge translation related to the effects of low-risk
      lifestyle behaviours on cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer, and all-cause mortality,
      strengthening the evidence-base for recommendations and improving health outcomes through
      informing consumers and public health policy makers, stimulating industry innovation, and
      guiding future research.

      Role of the funding sources:

      The funding source will have no role in the research question, design, analysis, results and
      interpretation of the results of this study.
    
  