
    
      Patients who have been under mechanical ventilation for 48 hours are invited for
      participation in this study. Once participants are identified and his/her legal
      representative has decided to participate through an informed consent, subjects are randomly
      assigned to the experimental or conventional group.

      Data collection begins with registering individual information into a data collection form
      that has been designed for the study; muscle strength is measured as Maximum Inspiratory
      Pressure (MIP). Then, patients are assigned either to experimental or group control using
      opaque sealed envelopes. Stratified randomization is performed, using SEPSIS status as
      strata, and within each category randomization block size is 4 and 6 respectively. Once
      sepsis status has been established, green envelopes are opened for patients with sepsis, and
      blue envelopes are opened for patients without sepsis. Finally intervention is performed
      according to group assignment.

      Interventions

      Conventional Therapy Group Control group receives conventional intervention of
      Cardiopulmonary Physical Therapy which has been established by institutional protocols, and
      consists of Cardiopulmonary Physical Therapy every 6 hours, physical therapy and mechanical
      ventilation management

      Measuring Respiratory Muscle Strength

      Respiratory muscle strength is measured by Maximum inspiratory pressure (MIP) following
      American Thoracic Society (ATS) and European Respiratory Society (ERS). protocols. MIP
      measures are performed in both groups, experimental and control. To measure MIP, we ask the
      patient to do a maximum inspiration and then hold it for 5 seconds; this inspiration begins
      from functional residual capacity (FRC). We will perform 3 measures with each patient and
      register the highest value obtained, using a Manuvacuometer for this measure.

      Experimental Group

      The experimental group will receive conventional treatment plus a respiratory muscle training
      protocol. Respiratory muscle training utilizes a Threshold device (IMT from Respironics
      Inc;Murrysville, USA), this device has been validated both in healthy subjects and in chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients

      Study Setting

      This study is being conducted at the Adult Intensive Care Unit in Valle del Lili Foundation,
      a private health institution level IV, located in the south of Cali, this is a referral
      centre for the southwest of Colombia.

      Data Collection

      Instrument design and pilot study

      The researchers designed data collection tool to register data from clinical records and
      intervention, this tool is being used for both groups. The data collection tool includes
      demographic, clinical and intervention variables.

      A pilot trial in a group of patients with similar characteristics to the study sample was
      conducted and then some aspects of the data collection tool and measuring protocols were
      adjusted

      Research team and field personnel training

      Four physical therapy specialists who had more than 4 years of experience in intensive care
      were recruited as monitors and data collectors.

      In order to standardise and to determine validity of MIP measuring protocol, principal
      researcher conducted a training session with the physical therapists and then intra and
      inter-rater validity in 30 healthy subjects was established.

      The primary source of information was the data collection tool, which was filed during
      intervention with each subject. The secondary source of information is the electronic medical
      record, recorded data are reliable because they are a basis for decision making in critically
      ill patients.

      Patient recruiting and monitoring is performed by four physical therapists mentioned before.
      Data collection occurs from Monday to Sunday between 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 pm. Main researcher is
      not involved in data collection or intervention.

      The variables obtained on patient admission to the study are: type of intervention, age,
      gender, medical history, diagnosis at admission, Severity Index (Apache II), hours of
      mechanical ventilation, weaning hours, cumulative dose of sedative received, cumulative dose
      of analgesics received, cumulative dose of relaxant received, cumulative dose of steroids,
      socioeconomic status and educational level.

      The variable obtained during follow-up is: respiratory muscle strength.

      The variables obtained at the end of follow-up are: Number of sessions of respiratory muscle
      training received, mechanical ventilation time (in hours), total hours of weaning, cumulative
      dose of sedatives, cumulative dose of pain medication received, cumulative dose of steroids,
      received physical therapy, number of physical therapy sessions, pulmonary rehabilitation
      received, number of pulmonary rehabilitation sessions, Non Invasive Ventilation requirement,
      pulmonary rehabilitation number of sessions, death, reintubation requirement, reintubation
      date, number of extubated hours because of reintubation, tracheotomy, tracheotomy date,
      septic shock, date of septic shock, death, date of death, decision not to continue in the
      study (date).

      Data Quality

      A monthly checking of data collection tools is performed by the principal investigator, using
      a checklist and comparing data recorded in the tool with medical records of subjects, this
      procedure is done before transcribing information on to the study database. Additionally,
      every data collection tool is reviewed using a checklist that includes three quality
      indicators: days between follow-up completion and closing of tool, number of empty boxes,
      number of diagnoses that are inconsistent; this procedure is also a responsibility for the
      principal investigator. Monthly meetings with the study team are held to talk about recording
      faults and how to improve quality of data collection and registration.

      Database design and management

      Once the data in the data collection tools have been checked, information is registered in an
      Epi Info database and then this will be exported to STATA 12 for analysis. Data registering
      in the Epi Info database will be done after every data collection tool has been closed and
      checked by the main researcher. Data registering will be performed by a person hired and
      trained for these procedures. Database management and analysis is performed by the principal
      researcher.

      Data Analysis Plan

      Patient recruitment and following-up are described using a flowchart designed according to
      CONSORT statement 2010. A preliminary exploratory data analysis will be conducted to evaluate
      data performance and basic assumptions required to implement statistical tests (normality,
      linearity and homoscedasticity). This analysis will also allow us to identify errors and
      biases in data collected, as well as outliers and missing data.

      Sociodemographic and clinical characteristics of patients at study entry will be analysed
      descriptively according to measurement level of every variable using central tendency,
      dispersion measures, frequency tables and 95% confidence intervals. An analysis of clinical
      and sociodemographic characteristics of eligible patients who met inclusion criteria but were
      not included in the study will also be performed, as well as the reasons for not being
      included; this analysis will allow us to identify selection bias.

      Finally univariate and multivariate analysis will be performed according to study objectives.
      Analysis will be performed on an intention to treat basis for all patients.

      Respiratory Muscle Strength (MIP): Presuming that there is data normality, at univariate
      analysis, a difference between final MIP means of experimental group and control group will
      be analysed using a t-student. Differences in MIP means within every group will be analysed
      using linear regression. If normality, error independency and homoscedasticity are not met,
      we will consider data transformation for MIP variables. Once linear regression is performed a
      diagnostic test will be done to evaluate if the model represents or mimic observed data. In
      order to control for potential confusing factor an adjustment of variables will be done, we
      are considering as confusing factors: i)Cumulative medicament doses received before
      intervention, ii)Cumulative medicament doses received, iii) Time in ventilation mode before
      intervention, iv)Time in every ventilatory mode during intervention, v) Admission diagnoses.
      Additionally we will evaluate effect modification between variables mentioned before.

      Ventilation time and weaning time: we will perform univariate analysis of total weaning time
      and total ventilation time between experimental and control group using a survival analysis
      (Kaplan-Meyer). We also intend to do multivariate analysis of total weaning time and total
      ventilation time using Cox regression adjusting potential confusing factors that we
      considered with other variables. We will verify Cox model assumptions about hazard
      proportionality during following-up. Need for reintubation: We are doing univariate analysis
      of need for reintubation using a comparison of proportions with Chi-square or Fischer exact
      test. Need for reintubation Relative Risk (RR) will also be determined for patients in both
      groups (Control and Experimental). We are doing multivariate analysis for the need for
      reintubation with logistic regression adjusting for potential confusing factors mentioned
      before.
    
  