
    
      Subacromial pain (SAP), also referred to as subacromial impingement syndrome, is
      characterized by pain in the shoulder joint, which is aggravated by elevation of the arm and
      / or during overhead activities. Subacromial pain has been suggested to be an "end station"
      to numerous pathologies of the shoulder and can be considered to include a variety of
      symptoms, and not to be seen only as a single diagnosis. In Denmark, SAP is frequently
      reported as a cause of pain in the shoulder joint, and based on studies from Sweden and the
      Netherlands, is estimated to cost the Danish society around 1.35 billion. DKK annually.

      The primary aim of this study is to compare central nervous system sensitization (central
      sensitization), shoulder muscle function and shoulder pain distribution in patients with
      subacromial pain to that in pain free healthy matched controls.

      The secondary aim of this study is to investigate if (symptom) dose/response relationships
      exist between shoulder symptom duration and: central sensitization, shoulder muscle function
      and shoulder pain distribution in patients with subacromial pain.

      Although the present study is exploratory, it is the working hypothesis that i) patients with
      subacromial pain have increased central sensitization, reduced shoulder muscle function, and
      increased pain distribution when compared to healthy controls, and ii) symptom dose/response
      relationships exist, indicated by increased central sensitization, reduced shoulder muscle
      function, and increased pain distribution with longer symptom duration in patients with
      subacromial pain.

      The methodology includes: surface EMG recordings to quantify shoulder muscle activity;
      dynamometry to quantify maximal voluntary contraction force and submaximal isometric force
      steadiness; mechanical and computer-controlled algometry to quantify CNS sensitization;
      computerized pain drawings to quantify pain distribution; and patient-reported assessments of
      shoulder pain (SPADI) and catastrophizing (PCS).

      The study does not include any intervention.

      The present study is considered exploratory and the first in a line of studies using these
      outcome measures in this patient population. All outcomes listed below are valued equally, as
      the study is exploratory. All analyses will be used to indicate effect sizes in order to plan
      for subsequent follow-up studies.

      Although the study is considered exploratory, the statistical approach includes the
      pre-defined primary and secondary analyses outlined below.

      Primary analysis: The primary analysis will compare 36 included patients to 36 matched
      healthy controls regarding the 3 main outcomes: shoulder muscle function, CNS sensitization
      and shoulder pain distribution.

      Secondary analysis: The secondary analysis will compare the three subgroups of patients
      differing in their symptom duration (0.5-3 months of pain, 3-6 months of pain and +6 months
      of pain), regarding the 3 main outcomes: CNS sensitization, shoulder muscle function, and
      shoulder pain distribution, to indicate (symptom) dose/response relationships, using
      descriptive statistics. The symptom duration groups may be redefined, if recruitment is slow
      for one or more of the groups outlined above.

      Collaborators:

      Thomas Bandholm, PT, Professor, PhD. PMR-C.

      Kristian Thorborg, PT, Associate Professor, PhD. Department of Clinical Medicine, University
      of Copenhagen, Amager/Hvidovre Hospital.

      Thomas Graven-Nielsen, Professor, Director. CNAP.

      Michael Skovdal Rathleff, PT, PhD. Department of Health Science and Technology Aalborg
      University.

      Shellie Boudreau, Associate Professor. Department of Health Science and Technology Aalborg
      University.

      Louisa Wilquin, PT. School of Physiotherapy, Metropolitan University College Copenhagen.

      Mikkel Bek Clausen, PT, PhD-fellow. Department of Clinical Medicine, University of
      Copenhagen, Amager/Hvidovre Hospital.

      Markus Due Jacobsen, PhD. National Research Center for the Working Environment.

      Lars Andersen, Professor, PhD. National Research Center for the Working Environment.
    
  