
    
      Background: Patients with mild-to-moderate renal failure have an increased risk of
      cardiovascular disease (CVD), which is not fully explained by the presence of classical
      cardiovascular risk factors. Oxidative stress has been proposed to play a major role in the
      development of CVD among renal failure patients. We investigated, in patients with
      mild-to-moderate chronic kidney disease (CKD), the effect of an oxidative-stress-lowering
      therapy with pravastatin, vitamin E and homocysteine-lowering on carotid intima-media
      thickness and endothelial function (two strong surrogate markers of cardiovascular risk), and
      renal function.

      Methods: 93 patients with CKD (Cockcroft-Gault equation; mean: 41±17 ml / min per 1.73 m2)
      who were free of manifest arterial occlusive disease and diabetes mellitus were included in
      the Anti-oxidant Therapy In Chronic renal insufficiency (ATIC) study, a randomized,
      double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. The active treatment group received pravastatin 40
      mg/day to which after 6 months vitamin E 300 mg/day was added and after another 6 months
      homocysteine-lowering therapy (folic acid 5 mg/day, pyridoxine 100 mg, vitamin B-12 1
      mg/day). The placebo group received matching placebos at onset, and 6 and 12 months later.
      Blood pressure in both groups was managed according to a standard protocol to achieve a blood
      pressure of < 140/90 mmHg. Patients were followed up for two years. Measurements of common
      carotid artery intima-media thickness (CCA-IMT) and brachial artery endothelium-dependent,
      flow-mediated dilatation (BA-FMD) were performed at randomisation and after 6, 12 and 18
      months. Plasma oxidized LDL (oxLDL) and plasma malondialdehyde (MDA) were measured as markers
      of oxidative stress at randomisation and after 6, 12, 18 and 24 months. We used generalized
      estimating equations (GEE) for data analysis.
    
  