
    
      Respiratory distress is a common reason why newborn infants require intensive care soon after
      birth. Premature infants are at risk of having immature lungs and/or weak respiratory muscles
      requiring the provision of respiratory support with a mechanical ventilator. Full term
      infants can also require respiratory support for lung disease or lung immaturity. The most
      commonly used form of non-invasive respiratory support is positive pressure delivered via
      nasal prongs or a nasal mask, also known as nasal continuous positive airway pressure
      (nCPAP). Nasal CPAP is thought to be effective in a variety of newborn lung disorders
      including respiratory distress syndrome, transient tachypnea of the newborn, etc. Although
      many forms of nCPAP exist, they are not typically synchronized to a baby's breathing efforts
      (1,2).

      Furthermore, due to the infants' sensitive skin and underdeveloped nasal bridges, continued
      use of nasal devices can lead to skin breakdown and permanent damage to the nose (3). In
      order to provide optimal ventilation, these devices must be tight-fitting nasal interfaces to
      provide a leak-free environment (3). There is also variability in the success of nasal
      interfaces in providing uniform ventilation. This is because the positive pressure provided
      at the level of the infants' nostrils is dissipated (through the open mouth, etc.) as it
      travels down the infants' airways to the alveoli of their lungs (3). Additionally, prolonged
      use of nasal ventilation methods may impede infant bonding with their mothers via decreased
      skin-to-skin time, etc. Nasal CPAP is often cited as a reason why feeding (including
      breastfeeding) is delayed in babies requiring neonatal intensive care stay.

      Negative pressure ventilation (NPV) involves the application of sub-atmospheric pressures
      around the abdomen to displace the diaphragm. It is a unique alternative for administering
      NIV to infants and would avoid complications associated with nasal interfaces. NPV has
      previously been used in treating infants with respiratory distress using old-fashioned, large
      and bulky "iron-lung" devices (4-12). One of the earliest studies using NPV for infants with
      respiratory failure showed that in a series of 26 patients, NPV provided a sustained increase
      in PaO2 (5). The infants were a mean gestational age of 32 to 33 weeks and met the criteria
      for respiratory failure defined by PaO2 < 40mmHg on 100% inspired oxygen and/or PCO2 > 70mmHg
      during bag-mask ventilation (5). Further studies on NPV, continued to show effectiveness in
      the ventilation of infants with lung disease with improved oxygenation (6-12).

      In this study, the investigators propose a novel negative pressure interface and device that
      is synchronized to the infant's respiratory drive and provides intermittent application of
      negative pressure. The device utilizes Neurally Adjusted Ventilator Assist (NAVA) technology
      to achieve synchronization to the infant's underlying respiratory drive and control.

      The electrical activity of the diaphragm (Edi) is measured using a specialized feeding tube
      catheter with miniaturized sensors at the end. There is a small balloon at the tip of the
      catheter that measures the gastric pressure which provides evidence that the diaphragm is
      being displaced. The Edi catheter has been shown in previous work to be effective in
      delivering both invasive and non-invasive positive pressure ventilation with the FDA-approved
      NAVA and a variety of interfaces (13-15). The Edi catheter is used routinely in many NICUs
      worldwide as a conventional nasal or oral catheter.

      NAVA is a mode of ventilation that is neurally integrated with the inherent lung protective
      reflexes by utilizing the information obtained from the Edi catheter. During spontaneous
      breathing, as lung inflation progresses, stretch receptors in the lungs will eventually sense
      an adequate inspired volume, and "switch off" inspiration. For a patient on NAVA, where the
      neural inspiration also controls the assist delivery, the ventilator breath will be
      cycled-off when neural exhalation begins. Several studies have demonstrated that infants
      spontaneously choose lower peak inspiratory pressures (PIP) and tidal volume during NAVA
      compared to conventional ventilation (targeted by the clinician) (16-23).

      "Traditional" NAVA is triggered on and off with the Edi and delivers assist proportionally to
      the Edi on inspiration only. The PEEP is fixed and defined by the clinician. During this
      "traditional NAVA" there is a fair amount of tonic Edi that is not assisted. With continuous
      NAVA, the Edi is used to continuously adjust the assist. The Edi controls both the
      inspiratory and expiratory assist. A safety and tolerance study in 20 preterm infants using
      neutrally adjusted PEEP (neuroPAP) was done using nasal prongs as the delivery interface (See
      Appendix 2).

      In this study, the investigators plan to control a negative pressure delivery device
      (NeoVest) to deliver synchronized negative NIV for a short period of time. Preliminary data
      in small rats (~400g) and larger rabbits (~3-4kg) have demonstrated feasibility and efficacy
      in experimental conditions mimicking neonatal respiratory distress (See Appendix 3). The
      Neovest was able to generate multiple effective levels of ventilator support in these animals
      with no side effects.

      The NeoVest delivery device is a wearable vest/shell that surrounds the infant's abdomen. It
      was developed using serial body measurements of infants previously admitted to the St.
      Michael's Hospital NICU (REB #15-183). It gently pulls on the abdomen by applying negative
      pressure, thereby displacing the diaphragm. The materials used for the NeoVest are
      lightweight and suitable for the infants' sensitive skin.

      The AIM of the present study is to demonstrate the feasibility of applying negative pressure
      NIV, that is synchronized and proportional to the infant's respiratory demand. The
      preliminary data on feasibility can be used to apply for larger grants from the CIHR, for a
      study of the NeoVest in smaller premature infants.
    
  