
    
      Two hundred and twenty five patients with suspected lumbar facet arthropathy scheduled to
      undergo diagnostic lumbar facet blocks will be enrolled in this study at WRNMMC and
      randomized in a 2:2:1 ratio into one of 3 groups. Group 1 will receive IA blocks with
      steroids and LA, group 2 will receive MBB with steroids and LA, and group 3 will receive MBB
      with only saline. Subjects and (but not injecting physicians) evaluators will be blinded
      throughout their participation in the study as to treatment allocation. The nerves and joints
      to be blocked will be determined by physical exam (i.e. the location of paraspinal
      tenderness), and radiological findings.

      Group 1: The 80 patients in this group will undergo IA blocks under fluoroscopic guidance
      with 0.5 mL solutions containing a 50:50 mixture of 0.5% bupivacaine and 10 mg
      depomethylprednisolone (called "steroid"). In all cases, correct positioning will be
      confirmed by the administration of contrast. After the block, they will be administered a
      pain diary to maintain for the next 6 hours. In accordance with standard care, a positive
      response will be > 50% pain relief lasting at least 3 hours. Patients who have not undergone
      physical therapy (PT) will be sent for PT . The first follow-up will be at 1-month. In those
      individuals with a positive block whose pain has returned to baseline, RF denervation will be
      performed at the same levels done for the diagnostic block. Once adequate sensory stimulation
      is confirmed, a 1 mL mixture containing equal amounts of 2% lidocaine 0.5 mL) and 20 mg
      depo-methylprednisolone (0.5 mL) will be injected to reduce procedure-related pain and
      decrease the incidence of neuritis. For those patients who have persistent (> 50%) pain
      relief at 1-month, they will return for their 2nd follow-up at 3-months. If their pain relief
      persists at this point, their final follow-up will be 6-months post-procedure. Pain relief in
      this group that lasts > 6 months can be treated with repeat IA injections if the patient so
      desires, while that which persists for < 6 months will be treated with RF denervation.
      Patients who experience a negative diagnostic block, or who fail to obtain significant pain
      relief at any follow-up from their RF denervation, will exit the study per protocol to pursue
      alternative treatments

      Group 2: The 80 patients in this group will undergo MBB blocks under fluoroscopic guidance
      with 0.5 mL solutions containing a 50:50 mixture of 0.5% bupivacaine and 10 mg of
      depo-methylprednisolone steroid. After the block, they will be administered a pain diary to
      maintain for the next 6 hours. Patients who have not undergone physical therapy will be sent
      for a PT program. The first follow-up will be at 1-month. In those individuals who do not
      experience significant pain relief, RF denervation will be performed at the same levels done
      for the diagnostic block, as described in 'Group 1'. For those patients who have persistent
      (> 50%) pain relief at 1-month, they will return for their 2nd follow-up at 3-months. If
      their pain relief persists at this point, their final follow-up will be 6-months
      post-procedure. Pain relief in this group that lasts > 6 months can be treated with repeat
      MBB if they desire, while that which persists for < 6 months will be treated with RF
      denervation. Patients who experience a negative diagnostic block, or who fail to obtain
      significant pain relief at any follow-up from their RF denervation, will exit the study per
      protocol to pursue alternative treatments.

      Group 3: The 40 patients in this group will undergo IA blocks under fluoroscopic guidance
      with 0.5 mL of normal saline. After the block, they will be administered a pain diary to
      maintain for the next 6 hours. Patients who have not undergone physical therapy will be sent
      for PT. The first follow-up will be at 1-month. In those individuals who fail to experience
      significant pain relief at this time point, RF denervation will be performed at the same
      levels done for the diagnostic block, as described in 'Group 1'. For those patients who have
      persistent (> 50%) pain relief at 1-month, they will return for their 2nd follow-up at
      3-months. If their pain relief persists at this point, their final follow-up will be 6-months
      post-procedure. Pain relief from the block in this group that lasts > 6 months can be treated
      with repeat MBB, while that which persists for < 6 months will be treated with RF
      denervation. In patients who do not experience significant pain relief at their 1-month
      follow-up, RF denervation will be performed. Those who experience a negative outcome from RF
      denervation, will exit the study per protocol to pursue alternative treatments.

      During follow visits, subjects who have difficulty arranging for transportation can elect to
      conduct their follow-up visits over the telephone, via fax, or by e-mail, whichever is most
      convenient.
    
  