
    
      This project aims to develop and deliver an ICT self-management intervention for chronic pain
      (CP)-iACT. As persistent pain of different etiologies represents a medical, social and
      economic burden, optimized management of pain tools to support CP patients in adjusting to
      their condition and improving quality of life is timely and can lead to more costeffective
      healthcare systems by promoting the management of CP outside health institutions.

      While CP influences and is influenced by psychological factors, provision of care to CP
      patients in Portugal vastly disregards psychological interventions. In contrast, the usual
      treatment to CP in Portugal is primarily pharmacologic, which has limited effects.
      Psychological interventions are well suited for addressing the cognitive, emotional and
      behavioral factors that contribute to and result from pain-related distress. Acceptance and
      Commitment Therapy(ACT) is an evidence-based psychological approach for CP. ACT focuses on
      fostering acceptance of the unavoidable aspects of pain and directing efforts towards
      behavioral functioning, rather than the traditional focus on controlling pain, which
      disregards the patient's overall functioning and well-being.

      Also, studies suggest that self-compassion mediate the change in disability and
      psychopathological symptoms in ACT interventions for CP, although self-compassion is not a
      specific target in ACT. Thus, an explicit focus on self-compassion might increase the
      efficacy of ACT interventions, although this hypothesis has not been tested.

      Online interventions have several advantages: reducing therapist time and waiting lists,
      increased cost-effectiveness, patients working at their own pace, accessibility to large
      clinical samples and rural and remote clinical cohorts.

      However, evidence for the effectiveness of online-delivered ACT for CP is still scarce, with
      only three studies with several methodological limitations (i.e. small sample size and
      non-randomization). The innovative features of the current project are:1)the development of
      an ICT solution for self-management of pain, and improvement of overall well-being tailored
      to CP patients;2) the improvement of an ACT intervention by including psychological symptoms,
      and the increase in overall functioning and quality of life of CP patients; b)adding a new
      component(self-compassion) to the intervention will increase its effectiveness;c) its format
      will be a cost-effective solution for self-management of CP. The research strategy to achieve
      the project's goals follows a randomized controlled trial design with three arms:
      1.iACTwithPain intervention (ACT + self-compassion); 2. ACT-only intervention; 3.Waiting
      List. iACTwithPain may also impact on other spheres of patients' lives such as work
      (e.g.,less absenteeism) and social (e.g.,less restrictions for leisure activities), which
      will contribute to more social inclusion.
    
  