
    
      Notably, sarcopenia often accompanies with osteoarthritis (OA). However, the relationship
      between sarcopenia and OA is still unclear. One understanding is that sarcopenia and OA and
      co-existing conditions. One study identified sarcopenia as one of the risk factors of OA.
      There is also a study which speculated that OA may inhibit the progression of sarcopenia
      since they observed OA patients had higher BMP4-positive tissues, which indicated presence of
      satellites cells that may increase muscle regeneration capabilities.

      However, more studies suggested that OA may contribute to the development of sarcopenia among
      the elderly. First, it is observed that the prevalence of sarcopenia among OA patients is
      higher than among the normal population. Further, cross-sectional studies demonstrated that
      hip or knee OA are associated with declines in muscle mass and muscle strength. Most
      interestingly, female patients with knee OA had declined lean body mass in their lower limbs,
      but not in their upper limbs or trunks.

      Major risk factors of sarcopenia include malnutrition and lack of physical exercise.
      Therefore, diet supplementation and exercise potentially provide means to alleviate
      sarcopenia. Studies have demonstrated that strength training in the elderly can improve
      sarcopenia by increasing muscle strength, mass, power and quality. Exercise habit in middle
      age could prevent sarcopenia in elder age, maintaining better scores in grip strength, gait
      speed, and one-leg standing time. Possible molecular mechanism of exercise on sarcopenia is
      the upregulated nuclear factor-erythroid 2 p45-related factor 2 (Nrf2)-mediated antioxidant
      response cascade in skeletal muscle, which protected the muscle from oxygen species-mediated
      toxicity.

      OA patients often adopt a sedentary life style to avoid joint pain and stiffness, which
      probably triggers the dysfunction of Nrf2 -mediated antioxidant response cascade, eventually
      leading to skeletal muscle atrophy. With the ultimate solution, total knee anthroplasty
      (TKA), patients with knee OA gradually regain their mobility and greatly increase their
      social and physical activities. Therefore, one can expect to see improved sarcopenia in
      patients with knee OA after TKA.
    
  