
    
      Youth injured by violence is a major public health concern in Canada. It is the fourth cause
      of death and the leading reason for a youth to visit an emergency department. In Winnipeg 20%
      of youth who visit an emergency department with an injury due to violence have a second visit
      for a subsequent violent injury within the following year. This is consistent with studies in
      other jurisdictions that demonstrated that violent injury is a chronic condition.

      Youth injured by violence have been shown to be in a reflective and receptive state of mind,
      rendering the emergency department setting appropriate for intervention. There are some
      hospital-based intervention programs for youth injured by violence in the U.S.; however, they
      have not been evaluated to assess repeat injury using a randomized control trial (RCT) and
      given the cost of this intervention, significant equipoise exists. It is essential to
      evaluate this intervention rigorously using RCT methodology. A pilot RCT is prudent prior to
      the main RCT.

      The investigators propose a WrapAround Care model delivered by a support worker with lived
      experience with violence, supported by a social worker, an addictions and mental health
      counsellor, a family counsellor and links to multiple community supports. These community
      supports include partnerships with aboriginal and newcomer youth cultural programs as many
      youth impacted by violence are aboriginal and new immigrants to Canada. Support workers will
      be on call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week in order to start the intervention in the ED and
      take advantage of the "teachable moment".

      This pilot study RCT will enroll 180 youth (aged 14 - 24) over one year (90 to each arm). The
      treatment arm will be the WrapAround care model initiated at the time of injury (i.e. in the
      emergency department). The control arm will be providing youth with a list of community
      programs and will be a waitlist control. The primary outcomes of the pilot study will
      evaluate evaluate recruitment, adherence, fidelity and safety of the intervention. The
      primary outcome for the main trial is repeat visit to any emergency department in Winnipeg
      for a subsequent injury due to interpersonal violence. This will be measured using a
      combination of administrative data and chart review to ensure high follow-up. The secondary
      outcomes include measurement of counts and severity of injury and housing and education
      changes. This intervention has been developed using a community based participatory research
      approach. Our team includes clinicians, nurses, social workers, community youth workers,
      former gang members, elders and researchers.
    
  