
    
      -  There is 266 million individuals (3.63%) worldwide have DSD and LBP each year; the
           highest and lowest estimated incidences were found in Europe (5.7%) and Africa (2.4%),
           respectively. Based on population sizes, low- and middle-income countries have 4 times
           as many cases as high-income countries. Thirty-nine million individuals (0.53%)
           worldwide were found to have Spondylolisthesis, 403 million (5.5%) individuals worldwide
           with symptomatic disc degeneration, and 103 million (1.41%) individuals worldwide with
           spinal stenosis annually.

        -  Degenerative disease of the lumbar spine is a significant cause of disability in the
           world; it encompasses conditions such as Spondylolisthesis, disc degeneration, and
           lumbar spinal stenosis. Associated with a variety of clinical symptoms, including lower
           extremity pain, weakness, and low back pain (LBP) of varying levels of severity.

        -  Imaging plays an important role in the evaluation of degenerative spine.

        -  Plain films still play an important role in evaluation of the spine, because the
           examination is inexpensive and available and gives a wide panoramic view of the spine.
           Direct information about bony structures can be obtained, and functional information
           about misalignment and vertebral stability can be obtained with upright dynamic films in
           flexion-extension and lateral bending.

        -  Computerized axial tomography (CAT) scan: CT scan shows soft tissues such as ligaments
           and muscles more clearly than traditional X-rays do, so it is more useful for diagnosing
           certain problems, such as ruptured or degenerated discs and spinal stenosis.

        -  Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): The advantage of MRI scans over X-rays and CT scans is
           that MRI provides clear, detailed images of the soft-tissue structures, such as the
           muscles, cartilage, ligaments, discs, tendons and blood vessels, in addition to the
           bones.
    
  