
    
      People with asplenia have a high risk of serious infections, as the spleen is a reservoir of
      naive B and T cells and functions as a filter for antigens and capsulated bacteria in the
      blood. It also removes aged blood cells and Howell-Jolly's bodies from red blood cells.

      The asplenia can be congenital, surgical and functional. Congenital asplenia is a condition
      associated with rare and poorly understood and studied syndromes. Surgical asplenia consists
      in the removal of the spleen for the management of some hematological or oncological
      diseases. Functional asplenia characterizes numerous hematological and non-hematological
      diseases; the most representative, among those hematological, is the sickle cell disease
      (SCD), among the non-hematological causes of functional asplenia, include several autoimmune
      diseases (e.g. Lupus, Sjogrens), inflammatory bowel disease (e.g. celiac disease, Crohn's
      disease, ulcerative rectocolitis ) and infiltrative diseases (e.g. amyloidosis, sarcoidosis).

      Infections are the leading cause of death in individuals with asplenia, especially in
      children under the age of five . It has been shown that the integrity of the splenic function
      is necessary for the development and survival of IgM memory cells, a population of memory B
      cells of IgM isotype. These interesting data would explain the increased susceptibility to
      invasive infections sustained by capsulated bacteria in subjects with anatomical or
      functional asplenia, especially in the first years of life, in which there is a physiological
      and transient IgM memory deficit, supporting the common knowledge that the spleen represents
      a particular immunological environment that is fundamental for the removal of polysaccharide
      antigens and for the optimal antibody response.

      In asplenic subjects, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Hemophilus influenzae and Neisseria
      meningitidis are the germs that most frequently cause invasive infections, such as
      bacteremia, sepsis and meningitis; therefore it is clear that prevention and immediate and
      aggressive treatment are the cornerstone of the correct management of this group of patients.
      Recently the new 13-valent conjugate vaccine against pneumococcus has been introduced and it
      is believed that this is a new and more effective strategy to reduce the infectious risk in
      these subjects; however, specific data on the population of asplenic subjects are lacking.

      Recent studies and reports have shown a greater incidence of thrombotic complications in
      asplenic subjects, even if the rate of thrombotic events seems to be different between the
      different pathologies underlying the condition of asplenia. In fact, a large number of
      thrombotic events have been observed in splenectomized subjects for hereditary spherocytosis,
      for thalassemia, idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura and other hematological diseases but the
      pathophysiological basis of these complications, the possible preventive treatments are not
      yet known. effective and optimal management of thrombotic events. Furthermore, preliminary
      data suggest a different susceptibility to infectious and thrombotic complications in the
      different forms of asplenia. If this is confirmed, the indications for antibiotic and
      antithrombotic prophylaxis, the timing of monitoring and the more or less aggressive
      management of complications, could vary in the different forms of asplenia.

      Moreover, in Italy there are no shared and homogeneous indications on the prevention and
      treatment of short and long-term complications related to the condition of asplenia and their
      knowledge is still very limited among the medical staff. It has been shown that countries
      that have adopted shared measures for the management of these patients have achieved an
      improvement in the prevention of complications, through an increase vaccination coverage even
      among adults and the continuous information on possible risks related to the clinical
      condition. In fact, it often happens that patients do not respond to regular follow-up
      missing vaccination recalls and reducing over time all information about their health. This
      occurrence was considered one of the major risk factors for the development of serious
      complications in asplenic individuals .

      The aim of the study is to retrospectively and prospectively assess a relatively large
      population of patients with asplenia in order to identify the rate of mortality and morbidity
      (infectious and thrombotic complications) developed by asplenic patients during the
      observation period.
    
  