
    
      Endothelial cells regulate tissue perfusion by releasing nitric oxide (NO), a potent
      endogenous dilator of vascular smooth muscle cells, which modifies vascular tone. Under
      normal physiological conditions, vascular NO is released by endothelial NO synthase (eNOS).
      Impairment of the eNOS, as seen in patients with atherosclerosis, peripheral vascular
      disease, hypertension, obesity, and diabetes, is a feature of endothelial dysfunction.The
      inability to increment eNOS activity is particularly evident in conditions of decreased
      vascular NO bioavailability, such as during hemolysis associated with prolonged
      cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB>90 min). During hemolysis, ferrous plasma free hemoglobin
      (Oxy-Hb) is released into the circulation and can be injurious for the endothelial cells by
      exerting an oxidative and proinflammatory effect. Moreover, plasma free Oxy-Hb can scavenge
      vascular NO, reducing its bioavailability as ferrous Oxy-Hb is transformed into ferric
      methemoglobin (Met-Hb). The clinical results of reduced bioavailability of vascular NO have
      been found to be associated with both systemic and pulmonary vasoconstriction, ultimately
      leading to reduced tissue perfusion.

      The exogenous administration of NO has been shown to prevent the scavenging of endogenous NO
      by inactivating the highly oxidative-reactive ferrous plasma Oxy-Hb to ferric Met-Hb. Our
      group is conducting a randomized controlled trial at Massachusetts General Hospital (Boston,
      USA) in patients with signs and symptoms of endothelial dysfunction, undergoing cardiac
      surgery requiring prolonged CPB and randomized to receive NO or placebo. However, the
      mechanisms underlying the beneficial systemic effects of NO administration have still to be
      determined. This is an ancillary study that aims to (I) assess the effects of hemolysis on
      vascular responsiveness and on endothelial function in patients with pre-operative
      endothelial dysfunction and (II) to determine the vascular protective effects of NO
      administration.
    
  