
    
      The demographic of the cardiac surgery population has progressively changed such that there
      is a greater proportion of older patients and females who by virtue of their co-morbidities
      and smaller average size have an increased risk of receiving blood products during and after
      surgery. Cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) is the major contributing factor to this adverse event,
      as the technique is not only associated with coagulation and platelet abnormalities, but also
      by necessity, significant hemodilution as a consequence of the pump prime and the
      cardioplegia solution used to induce cardiac arrest. The hemodilution and the resultant
      decreased hematocrit (Hct) may trigger transfusion by the surgical team and there is evidence
      that platelet and coagulation function may be further compromised, resulting in worsening of
      postoperative bleeding. Modified ultrafiltration (MUF), a technique commonly utilized in
      pediatric cardiac surgery to reverse the effects of hemodilution after CPB, utilizes a
      circuit with an inflow attached to the aortic cannula, an ultrafiltration device, and outflow
      of the hemoconcentrated product directed back into the right atrium. Although MUF has been
      demonstrated to be effective at increasing the Hct, this technique has not received general
      acceptance as a blood conservation technology in the adult cardiac surgery population for
      several reasons. First, the necessary prolongation of the operative time with MUF may be
      perceived to be inconvenient by the operating staff and this may dissuade their use of this
      technique. Second, the results from the limited adult trials utilizing MUF, though positive
      in terms of blood conservation, have not shown changes of a magnitude that would routinely
      impact standard of care. It is possible that the perceived benefits of MUF in these trials
      have been less than impressive primarily due to the inclusion of patients at low risk of
      bleeding and the lack of blinding, thus contributing to the concern of treatment bias.
      Finally, none of these trials have been blinded and thus treatment bias may have contributed
      to the results. We believe that ultimately the use of MUF in this target population must be
      tested in a double-blind randomized controlled trial. However, the logistics of carrying out
      a trial of this magnitude must be established beforehand in a pilot trial that convincingly
      demonstrates the feasibility of blinding of this operative intervention, as well as the
      reproducibility of the model in several clinical centers. We are proposing to carry out a two
      phase multi-centre (University of Ottawa Heart Institute [OHI], Kingston General Hospital,
      Royal Victoria Hospital, University Hospital London) randomized controlled trial to evaluate
      the feasibility of an experimental model testing MUF versus a "sham" circuit in low-body
      weight (= 65 kg) patients at high risk to receive transfusion. In Phase I (n = 16 patients -
      4 patients/center), the model will be optimized, and in Phase II (n = 64 patients - 16
      patients/center) the project will be expanded and the blinding tested. The primary outcome
      will involve the success of blinding of the treating physicians (surgeon, anesthetist, and
      intensivist) in Phase II as measured by a novel Blinding Index. The information derived on
      the study model will be used to support a proposal in the subsequent definitive multi-center
      trial for which we will seek funding in the following year (n = 278/group). The primary
      outcome of the definitive trial will address the mean number of units of blood transfused in
      patients treated with or without MUF. There is also evidence in an animal model of the
      benefit of MUF to limit neurologic injury related to cardiac surgery. This aspect has not
      been assessed in a clinical model and therefore we intend to address this by evaluating the
      impact of MUF on early and late neurocognitive dysfunction related to CPB as a secondary
      outcome in the definitive trial. The proposed pilot and the definitive trial have the
      potential to address the role of MUF in adult cardiac surgery as a blood conservation
      technology. The potential application has significant implications as the procedure is
      inexpensive, easily teachable and physiologically sound. Further, it has very considerable
      relevance to women undergoing heart surgery due to their relative small body weight and
      increased current transfusion risk. As such, we believe that the magnitude of the findings
      from these trials will greatly impact current care in cardiac surgery worldwide.
    
  