
    
      In prior work, the investigators created a text messaging curriculum that was well-received
      by patients for diabetes-related education and support during pregnancy. The team has now
      drawn upon these earlier phases to develop a mobile health behavior tool to educate and
      support low-income, minority pregnant women with Gestational Diabetes Mellitus and Type 2
      Diabetes Mellitus. This "first-of-its-kind" mHealth platform for pregnant women with GDM or
      T2DM is called SweetMama. SweetMama is a theory-driven application that delivers an
      interactive, goal-oriented educational and motivational diabetes-focused curriculum.
      SweetMama currently functions as a user-friendly application in which participants are
      delivered curriculum messages and have the opportunity to receive novel educational,
      motivational, or supportive content when desired by patients; they additionally have the
      opportunity to view library content and receive support with goal-setting.

      To perform usability testing, the investigators will first conduct focus groups with 10-20
      low-income pregnant women with diabetes to evaluate tool functionality, design, and
      interpretability. The investigators will then conduct a phase of individual usability testing
      with 20 women, who will use SweetMama for 2 weeks followed by qualitative (interviews) and
      quantitative (questionnaires and user interaction data) assessments of tool satisfaction and
      use.

      Next, to perform feasibility testing, the investigators will recruit approximately 40
      low-income pregnant women with diabetes to be randomized to either usual care or SweetMama
      care, from the beginning of their enrollment at this clinical site for diabetes-specific
      prenatal care through the first 8 weeks postpartum. Randomization will be unbalanced to favor
      receipt of the intervention. Participants will undergo surveys and interviews at multiple
      time points, and those who are randomized to experience SweetMama will undergo an exit
      interview. Outcomes will include retention, treatment adherence, functionality of the tool,
      and user interactivity with the tool. The expected outcome of the pilot RCT phase is a better
      understanding of feasibility of a SweetMama trial via field testing.
    
  