
    
      CCTA has become the preferred diagnostic modality for symptomatic patients with low to
      intermediate risk of CAD. Of the patients examined, CCTA exclude cardiovascular disease in
      70-80% with an excellent negative predictive value of more than 95%. Having a low positive
      predictive value, however, CCTA often overestimates the severity of CAD, especially in
      patients with moderate to severe coronary calcification. Following CCTA, patients are hence
      unnecessarily tested using golden standard ICA-FFR. These ICAs often show no obstructive
      coronary stenosis and are therefore not followed by revascularization. The issues outlined
      raises the question of whether it is possible (1) to make a more precise risk stratification
      and consequently better selection of patients prior to CCTA and (2) to reduce the number of
      patients referred for unnecessary ICAs following CCTA.

      In patients with suspicion of coronary stenosis detected by CCTA, current guidelines
      recommend verification of myocardial ischemia. In Dan-NICAD 2, we intend to investigate the
      diagnostic accuracy of advanced non-invasive myocardial perfusion imaging tests; Rb PET and
      3T CMRI. These examinations have shown a high diagnostic accuracy in symptomatic patients
      with high risk of ischemic heart disease. However, the diagnostic accuracy is not
      investigated in patients as follow-up after CCTA.

      An alternative way to increase the diagnostic accuracy of CCTA and thus avoid unnecessary
      downstream testing using ICA is to utilize the ability to extract physiological information
      from the anatomical CCTA images. CT-FFR has in previous studies shown promising results.
      CT-FFR has not been head to head compared against Rb PET and 3T CMRI.

      Obtained during ICA, QFR is a novel wire-free approach for fast computation of FFR with
      potential to increase the global use of physiological lesion assessment. QFR is superior to
      traditional assessment of intermediate coronary lesions (ICA-QCA diameter stenosis). However,
      disagreement between FFR and QFR has been identified in up to 20% of all measurements.

      Acoustic detections of coronary stenosis from automatically recorded and analyzed heart
      sounds is a newly developed technology potentially useful for pre-test risk stratification
      before e.g. CCTA. One of these devices, the CADScor®System, has previously shown an area
      under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC of ROC) of 70-80% compared to
      conventional ICA-QCA. This indicates that the CADScor®System could potentially supplement
      clinical assessment of CAD and be used for risk stratification prior to CCTA.

      The investigators aim to obtain blood samples for biobank purposes and record heart sounds
      with the CADScor®System in 2000 patients that by clinical evaluation undergo CCTA. In
      approximately 400 patients (20%), CCTA does not exclude significant CAD. These patients are
      all examined using Rb PET, 3T CMRI, and ICA with QCA. In patients with a coronary diameter
      stenosis of 30-90% determined during the ICA examination, FFR, coronary flow reserve (CFR)
      and QFR is performed.
    
  