
    
      Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia (CBTI) is the evidence-based first line treatment
      for chronic insomnia. Randomized controlled trials and meta-analyses have established that
      CBTI is efficacious and effective. Despite the strong evidence for CBTI, chronic insomnia
      remains under-treated among Veterans because of several barriers that limit access to
      behavioral treatments. In recent years, the VA has taken substantial measures to train more
      clinicians to provide insomnia treatment; however, a deficit in treatment availability
      remains. In 2011, the VA began to train clinicians in CBTI as part of the VA's Evidence Based
      Psychotherapy (EBP) training program, with a goal to train 1000 clinicians. Even with 1000 VA
      clinicians trained in CBTI, a shortage of clinicians will likely remain due to the high
      prevalence of insomnia. High prevalence and a shortage of clinicians prevent the VA from
      meeting the care demand of Veterans with insomnia. While the CBTI roll-out is a significant
      investment from the VA, additional mechanisms, such as dissemination and implementation of
      other evidence-based treatments for insomnia with fewer implementation barriers, must be
      considered to address the high prevalence of insomnia.

      The in-person delivery and length of treatment for CBTI may be one of barriers to accessing
      care. Briefer protocols that use multiple delivery modalities have recently been developed
      and may help to increase session attendance and treatment completion. These shorter insomnia
      treatments are often referred to as Brief Behavioral Treatment for Insomnia (BBTI) and
      consist of ≤4 sessions. Besides fewer and briefer sessions, and utilizing both in-person and
      phone delivery of treatment, BBTI also emphasizes the behavioral components of CBTI (i.e.,
      stimulus control and sleep restriction) rather than a combined approach focusing on both
      behavioral and cognitive components. BBTI is efficacious in adults-studies with older adults
      and Veterans found BBTI resulted in a significant decrease in insomnia severity with Cohen's
      d effect sizes in the moderate to large range. Like CBTI, BBTI significantly improves
      insomnia severity and may also help to improve secondary outcomes like depression and
      anxiety.

      Integration of newer insomnia treatments, like BBTI, will first depend on establishing its
      evidence directly compared to CBTI. Effectiveness trials of BBTI, especially those conducted
      with military Veterans in typical VA settings, have yet to be conducted. Before BBTI can be
      broadly implemented and integrated into the VA, it needs to be established as a clinically
      effective treatment for insomnia among Veterans and a statistically non-inferior treatment
      (not necessarily better or worse) for Veterans compared to CBTI.
    
  