
    
      Rationale:

      Multiple national and international organizations, including the American Academy of
      Pediatrics (AAP), have voiced concern over the emergency departments' (EDs) ability and
      willingness to provide appropriate analgesia for children's pain. Musculoskeletal (MSK)
      injury is a very common cause for ED visits for children with pain, with a child's risk of
      sustaining a fracture ranging from 27-42% by the age of 16 years. MSK injury is known to
      generate moderate to severe pain in most children and the ED serves as the critical entry
      point for these injured children. Despite three decades of pain research in this area, recent
      evidence confirms that ED pain management in children is still suboptimal. A retrospective
      cohort study of children presenting to the ED with an isolated long-bone fracture showed
      almost 1/3 received inadequate medication and 59% received no pain medications during the
      critical first hour of assessment. Previous studies have demonstrated that only 35% of
      children presenting to a Canadian pediatric ED with fractures or severe sprains received any
      analgesic. Further, a medical record review of two Canadian EDs showed unacceptably long
      delays in provision of initial analgesia, with children waiting a mean of 118 minutes to the
      provision of first analgesia.

      The AAP's consensus statement on the assessment and management of pain in children recommends
      acetaminophen, ibuprofen, and opioids as the top three medication choices for the treatment
      of acute pain in children. These are also the top three most commonly used treatments in the
      ED for children with MSK injury pain. It stands to reason that clinicians (and certainly
      patients and their families) would prefer medication that has the best efficacy and safety
      profile. Although not based on robust evidence, there has recently been a concerted movement
      to limit opioid use in children. This is due, in part, to recent controversial publications
      and the Centre for Disease Control (CDC)'s position statement regarding opioid use in adults.
      Clinicians are increasingly less likely to prescribe oral opioids to younger children, and
      caregivers are increasingly less willing to accept or administer them.

      Clinicians are currently seeking effective (and for many, non-opioid) oral analgesic options
      for their pediatric patients. Researchers have yet to identify the optimal acute pain
      management strategy for children with a suspected fracture, as very few studies of analgesic
      combination therapy for this injury exist, and monotherapy has been shown to be inadequate
      50% of the time. This team's previous work has demonstrated that a combination of oral
      morphine with ibuprofen was no more effective and was less safe than oral ibuprofen, alone,
      for suspected fracture pain. Similarly, oxycodone was no more effective and was less safe
      than ibuprofen for post-discharge fracture pain. There is some emerging work from non-ED
      settings to suggest that oral hydromorphone may be an effective alternative to these two
      opioid medications. The investigators wish to study if acetaminophen or hydromorphone, when
      added to ibuprofen, offers more clinical pain relief than ibuprofen alone. They also wish to
      study if the combination of hydromorphone and ibuprofen is more clinically effective than the
      combination of acetaminophen with ibuprofen. This study, which will consist of two clinical
      trials, will inform health-care decisions by providing evidence for the effectiveness and
      safety of commonly prescribed analgesic combination therapies, and compare them to the most
      commonly used monotherapy, ibuprofen.

      Methods:

      This study will be comprised of two Phase 2, six-centre, randomized, double blind,
      placebo-controlled trials that will be run simultaneously. These two 'sister trials will be
      run simultaneously within this novel preference-informed complementary trial design.
      Caregiver/child pairs presenting to the ED with acute MSK limb injury will decide in which
      trial they wish to participate: the Opioid trial or the Non-Opioid trial.

      Those willing to consider an Opioid will be randomized to receive either single-dose: (a)
      oral ibuprofen (10mg/kg, max 600mg) plus 2 placebos (both oral hydromorphone and
      acetaminophen), OR (b) oral ibuprofen (10mg/kg, max 600mg) + oral acetaminophen (15 mg/kg,
      max 1000mg) plus hydromorphone placebo OR (c) oral ibuprofen (10mg/kg) + oral hydromorphone
      (0.05 mg/kg, max 5 mg) plus acetaminophen placebo. Those not willing to consider an opioid
      will be enrolled in the Non-Opioid trial and will be randomized to receive a single dose of
      (a) oral ibuprofen (10mg/kg, max 600mg) + oral acetaminophen (15 mg/kg, max 1000mg) OR (b)
      oral ibuprofen (10mg/kg, max 600mg) + oral acetaminophen placebo. Those without a preference
      for either trial will be assigned to the Opioid trial, as this one includes all three options
      of possible medication combinations. The investigators will measure pain scores, assess
      safety, and acquire other study measures, at designated study time points.
    
  