
    
      INTRODUCTION Sarcoidosisis a multisystemic granulomatous disease whose etiology is unknown.
      The diagnosis of sarcoidosisis made by exclusion of other causes in addition to compatible
      clinical, radiological and histopathological findings (1,2). Its most frequently encountered
      form of stage-I sarcoidosis characterized by bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy (3). Symmetrical
      hilar lymphadenopathy (LAP) is a significant characteristic that distinguishes sarcoidosis
      from disease that may progress with mediastinal and hilar lymph nodes such as lymphoma,
      fungal infection and tuberculosis (4,5). Unilateral hilar LAP is seen in only about 3-5%of
      sarcoidosis cases (6).

      Tissue biopsy is required to show granulomas that does not histopathologically contain
      caseification necroses (7). However, in stage-I patients, sarcoidosis can be diagnosed
      without tissue sampling after excluding other causes (8). The 2019 sarcoidosis guideline of
      BTS (British Thoracic Society) also stated that, in patients with Lofgren syndrome (Bilateral
      hilar lymphadenopathy, erythema nodosum, fever, arthritis) with a low probability of
      alternative diagnosis, biopsy is required only when radiologically atypical findings are
      revealed during follow up (9). However, in this case, the suspicion of whether or not the
      correct decision is made remains a highly disturbing issue for both the physician and the
      patient. Biopsy should be performed if the clinical condition is not typical, and other
      causes could not be excluded. Bronchoscopy, which is frequently used for biopsy, is an
      invasive procedure although its complication rate is low. In relation to bronchoscopy,
      complications such as pneumothorax, hemorrhage and infection may be experienced
      (10,11).Therefore, it is important to investigate if it is possible to prevent patients from
      unnecessary invasive procedures. This study aimed to investigate the diagnostic value of
      thoracic computerized tomography image characteristics in the diagnosis of sarcoidosis
      without pathological sampling.

      MATERIAL-METHOD The study was planned by retrospectively analyzing the data of patients who
      received EBUS for sampling mediastinal lymph nodes and were subjected to other diagnostic
      methods such as mediastinoscopy and thoracotomy in the case of non-diagnostic results of EBUS
      at the Department of Pulmonology at the Faculty of Medicine at KTÜ between 1 January 2013 and
      1 July 2019. The study was started after obtaining local ethics board approval, and only
      included patients with definitive histopathological diagnosis. The patients whose
      computerized thoracic tomography images at first admission were not available in the archives
      of our hospital were excluded (Figure 1).

      The computerized thoracic tomography images were examined in terms of characteristics as
      mediastinal lymph node localization, size, density, homogeneity, necrosis, calcification and
      hilar symmetry. Parenchymal lesions were compared in terms of nodule, ground-glass, reticular
      opacity, consolidation and the distributions of these lesions. For computerized thoracic
      tomography imaging, the Somatom (Siemens, Forchhim, Germany) device at our hospital was used.
      For EBUS imaging and sampling, an Olympus EVIS EXERA II CV-180 device was used.

      The assessment of lymph node localization was made based on the lymph node map by Wang (2R,
      2L, 4R, 4L, etc.). Measurements of lymphadenopathy density were made by considering the
      largest lymph node and by the Hounsfield Unit (HU) in a rectangular region determined in the
      axial plane contacting the LAP borders from four corners in the tomography cross-section with
      the lymphadenopathy showing the broadest area. The maximum, minimum and mean densities
      measured at the marked region were recorded. The measurements were made by the same person in
      all patients (Figure 2).

      Statistical analysis Kolmogorov-Smirnov test was used to test the normal distribution of the
      continuous variables. The data characterized by a normal distribution are expressed as
      mean±standard deviation. Student's t-tests was used for the comparison of the data which had
      a normal distribution. Mann-Whitney-U test was used for the comparison of the non-normally
      distributed data. The discrete variables were compared using Chi-squared test. The parameters
      that were potential predictors of sarcoidosis were analyzed using logistic regression
      analysis. Multivariate logistic regression analysis was used as a stepwise backward LR method
      from predictive factors with a significance of ≤0.05 in the univariate analysis. The
      diagnostic accuracies of the parameters for identifying sarcoidosis were assessed using the
      area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) (AUC). P <0.05 was considered to be
      statistically significant. The data were analyzed using the SPSS statistical software
      (version 13.01, serial number 9069728, SPSS Inc., Chicago).
    
  