
    
      The overall hypothesis of our proposal is that neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES)
      and remote pulmonary rehabilitation at home offered via smart technology results in a
      reduction of systemic inflammation, via reduction of skeletal muscle tissue inflammation, and
      thereby improves functional capacity, and thus, reduces the rate of readmissions following
      hospitalization for acute exacerbations of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD.) We
      propose the following specific aims:

      Aim 1: To determine if an NMES and remote tele pulmonary rehabilitation intervention reduces
      30-day all cause readmissions in patients hospitalized for acute exacerbation of COPD.
      Skeletal muscle dysfunction is associated with the number of hospital admissions, duration of
      hospital stay and total number of exacerbations. We and others have shown that applying NMES
      results in significant improvements in quadriceps muscle strength. It is plausible that
      targeting skeletal muscle dysfunction will result in improved respiratory outcomes. Based on
      our preliminary results comparing our exercise intervention with historic data, we
      hypothesize that a combination of early in-hospital and home NMES and home pulmonary
      rehabilitation using smart technology will prevent hospital readmissions following an acute
      exacerbation of COPD.

      Aim 2: To evaluate the effects of an NMES and remote tele pulmonary rehabilitation
      intervention on muscle strength, dyspnea and respiratory quality of life in COPD post
      hospital discharge. Skeletal muscle dysfunction contributes to the morbidity associated with
      acute exacerbations, results in a longer duration of hospital stay and a shorter time to
      readmission, and is associated with more frequent exacerbations. We hypothesize that by
      preventing deconditioning, improving muscle bioenergetics and positively affecting muscle
      strength, NMES and home pulmonary rehabilitation will improve respiratory quality of life,
      dyspnea and functional capacity. We will compare outcome measures for respiratory morbidity
      at baseline with those at 12 weeks.

      Aim 3: To evaluate the effects of NMES and remote tele pulmonary rehabilitation intervention
      on systemic and muscle inflammation. Acute exacerbations of COPD are associated with
      sustained systemic inflammation and the mechanism for this may be perpetuation of
      inflammation by a skeletal muscle reservoir. We have previously shown that older patients
      such as those with COPD are more susceptible to muscle inflammation. Based on our preliminary
      results showing significant benefits, we hypothesize that the reduced readmission rates are a
      direct effect of lowering muscle inflammation. We hypothesize that inflammation arising from
      the lungs is perpetuated by pro-inflammatory signaling in the skeletal muscles that sustains
      systemic inflammation, and this can be reduced by a combination of early NMES and exercise
      therapy at home by reducing skeletal muscle production of pro-inflammatory cytokines. We will
      perform quadriceps muscle biopsy at baseline and at 4 weeks to demonstrate reduction in
      pro-inflammatory signaling in skeletal muscles at 4 weeks in the intervention arm and
      anticipate that this reduction will be associated with reduction in systemic inflammation.
    
  