
    
      -  Patients must have undergone therapeutic debulking surgery for independent clinical
           indications and have tissue frozen and stored under sterile conditions as part of
           protocol 07-319 (Study of Primary Tumor Harvest for the Purpose of Possible Use in a
           Future Clinical Trial in Patients with Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, or Primary Peritoneal
           Cancer)

        -  Participants will be assigned to one of two study groups. Both groups will undergo a
           procedure known as leukapheresis by which the white blood cells are removed from the
           participants blood in order to obtain the dendritic cells. Prior to this procedure
           participants may receive 4 injections of GM-CSF, which helps increase the white blood
           cell count.

        -  If enough cells are obtained during the leukapheresis, tumor cells and dendritic cells
           will then be fused (mixed) together in the laboratory and divided into the appropriate
           doses for administration.

        -  Participants assigned to Group 1 will undergo subcutaneous vaccination with the
           dendritic cell tumor fusion vaccine. On the day of the vaccine and three days
           afterwards, they will receive GM-CSF injections at the site of the vaccination.
           Participants will receive a dose of the vaccine every 3 weeks for a total of 3
           vaccinations.

        -  Participants assigned to Group 2 will undergo subcutaneous vaccination with the
           dendritic cell tumor fusion vaccine. On the day of the vaccine and three days
           afterwards, they will receive GM-CSF injection at the site of the vaccination.
           Additionally, imiquimod cream will be applied to the skin at the injection sight 2 hours
           before the vaccine administration. Participants will continue to apply imiquimod cream
           at the site of vaccination for 3 days following the injection. Participants will receive
           a dose of the vaccine every 3 weeks for a total of 3 vaccinations.
    
  