
    
      Stabilizing trauma victims in the out-of-hospital setting often requires the critical
      intervention of definitive airway management. Prehospital airway management studies in the
      U.S. have demonstrated variable success with endotracheal intubations by paramedics, ranging
      from 75-94% in recent well designed studies. Initial prehospital airway efforts showed there
      was a significant improvement in patient outcome when endotracheal intubation was performed
      in the field. Yet, a recent review cited 14 studies that demonstrated either no difference or
      even a higher mortality noted among patients that received prehospital endotracheal
      intubation by a paramedic. Of note, all of these previous studies were performed in
      non-combat settings and involved only civilian paramedics.

      There currently are no prospective studies in the literature involving prehospital combat
      advanced airway management. Furthermore, it is not even clear how commonly advanced airway
      procedures are performed on the modern battlefield. Data from Vietnam shows that 6% of the
      soldiers killed in action suffered isolated airway injuries. In the current Global War on
      Terror, an estimated 27% of wounds occur to the head, neck or airway structures. Military
      databases demonstrate that patients requiring emergency airway management before reaching a
      combat support hospital constitute 5 to 10% of the total combat casualty population, and that
      acute airway compromise is a significant cause of preventable traumatic death in modern
      warfare. During Operation Iraqi Freedom, approximately 10% of the 3600 trauma patients that
      reached his Combat Support Hospital (CSH) had airway compromise as the primary cause of
      death. This may represent a conservative estimate given that it is not clear how many
      patients with airway compromise died on the battlefield and were never transferred to the
      CSH. In today's world, these findings are important to civilian physicians as well because of
      the parallels between combat settings and other austere environments such as wilderness
      medicine, medical support for law enforcement, and managing mass casualty effects of
      terrorist attacks and weapons of mass destruction.

      The purpose of this study was to evaluate advanced airway management performance by
      prehospital providers during Operation Iraqi Freedom. Our intentions were to provide a
      preliminary analysis of prehospital airway management within the combat setting, and identify
      means of improving outcomes associated with prehospital endotracheal intubations. Other
      points of interest included gaining insight into which providers were at risk for performing
      incorrect intubations; theorizing how endotracheal intubations could be improved in the
      combat setting; and comparing the rate of missed intubations to previous studies performed in
      civilian settings.

      This was a prospective, observational study performed under combat conditions during
      Operation Iraqi Freedom. This study was approved by the U.S. Army Clinical Investigation
      Regulatory Office. The primary outcome was independently physician verified correct placement
      of endotracheal tubes by prehospital providers within the combat setting.
    
  