
    
      This is a study about the efficiency and safety of a 1mg+1mg hydromorphone pain management
      protocol for the treatment of long bone fractures in the Emergency Department. Appropriate
      patients 60 years and older who present with a condition that causes moderate to severe pain,
      according to the attending physician's judgment, in which the physician would order the use
      of parenteral analgesia will be screened and randomized to one of two study arms, "1+1"
      versus usual care group. Neither the research associate, nurse, or attending physician will
      be blinded to the patients randomization. Patient pain score will be assessed at baseline
      using VAS score. "1+1" patients will receive 1mg hydromorphone at "timepoint 0" (baseline)
      followed by another 1mg after 15 minutes (along with repeat VAS pain score) if the patient
      answers "yes" to "Do you need more pain medicine?" At 60 minutes, patient pain will be
      assessed a final time and if patient needs more pain medicine, additional treatment will be
      dictated by physician discretion. Usual care group patients will also have VAS pain scores
      assessed at timepoint 0, 15 and 60 minutes and will have pain treated per the discretion of
      the attending physician. Patients will be placed on capnometer for continuous monitoring of
      respiratory status to guard against any opioid induced respiratory depression. Respiratory
      status, vital signs, and pain scores will be monitor to assess the efficiency of pain control
      as well as the safety of pain medicine administration in terms of respiratory depression. We
      propose that the "1+1" hydromorphone protocol is easy to implement, as it includes a set
      timeline, a standard question, and a set dosage of a potent analgesic. We hypothesize that it
      will provide adequate analgesia in the majority of patients without causing the anticipated
      level of respiratory depression.
    
  