
    
      Tuberculosis (TB) is the leading cause of mortality in persons with HIV worldwide, accounting
      for 20-33% of HIV-related deaths, and is a high-priority area of research in HIV/AIDS by the
      NIH. TB preventive therapy decreases both all-cause mortality and active TB in persons with
      HIV by 30-50% above and beyond the benefits of antiretroviral therapy (ART) alone. Based on
      these findings, the World Health Organization (WHO) recommends isoniazid (INH) preventive
      therapy (IPT) for all persons with HIV in resource constrained settings. However, the WHO
      warns against the use of IPT in persons with "regular and heavy alcohol use." This exclusion
      stems from concern for increased hepatotoxicity in heavy drinkers in settings where liver
      enzymes are not routinely monitored. Heavy drinking in persons with HIV is very common,
      approximately 25%, in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). Heavy drinking increases the risk for active
      TB at least threefold; thus, HIV-infected alcohol users should be prioritized for TB
      prevention. However, no studies have systematically assessed the safety of TB preventive
      therapy in heavy drinkers with or without HIV infection. It is critical to examine the safety
      and tolerability of TB preventive therapy for HIV-infected drinkers, given the high rates of
      HIV, TB infection, and alcohol comorbidities worldwide. While the risk of toxicity exists,
      the risk of TB disease could outweigh the toxicity harms. Thus, it is also crucial to
      determine whether the mortality benefits outweigh the toxicity risks for this significant
      portion of the HIV-infected population.

      In addition, TB preventive therapy is only effective if taken consistently for the full
      course. Alcohol use is an established risk factor for decreased ART pill taking and active TB
      treatment discontinuation. Whether HIV-infected drinkers on ART can be adherent to TB
      preventive therapy is not known. Therefore it is essential to determine the level of
      adherence to TB preventive therapy by HIV-infected drinkers on ART, thus this study aims to
      examine adherence to TB preventative therapy as well.

      This is a study to examine 6 months of daily INH (6H) among N=300 persons co-infected with
      HIV and TB. The aims of the study are:

      Aim 1: To examine the safety and tolerability of 6H in HIV/TB co-infected drinkers, measured
      by hepatotoxicity and treatment discontinuation rates. The main aim is to estimate safety and
      tolerability overall among drinkers (primary) and by level of drinking (secondary).

      Aim 2: To determine the level of TB preventive therapy adherence overall among drinkers and
      by level of drinking, and at 3 and 6 months. The main goal of this aim is to estimate
      adherence overall among drinkers (primary). Secondarily the investigators will estimate
      adherence by level of drinking (heavy, current but not heavy drinkers, and non-drinkers) and
      compare adherence across drinking levels. The investigators hypothesize that adherence will
      be highest among the non-drinkers.

      Aim 3: To determine whether the benefits of providing TB preventive therapy to HIV-infected
      drinkers in resource-limited settings outweigh the risks compared to no treatment. The
      investigators hypothesize that providing TB preventive therapy will result in longer life
      expectancy and quality-adjusted life expectancy than not providing TB preventive therapy
      (current standard of care).
    
  