
    
      Hirschsprung disease (HSCR) is a birth defect resulting from the absence of nerve (ganglion)
      cells in the gastrointestinal tract. Hirschsprung disease has a population incidence of
      1/5000 live births and most often occurs as an isolated condition. However, approximately 30%
      of HSCR cases are associated with other birth defects such as Down syndrome, deafness,
      hypopigmentation, and congenital central hypoventilation syndrome. Hirschsprung disease is a
      genetic condition with autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, and multigenic patterns of
      inheritance described.

      Dr. Aravinda Chakravarti's laboratory has been investigating the genetics of Hirschsprung
      disease (HSCR) for more than twenty five years. The goal of this research study is to
      identify genes harboring causative HSCR mutations and to better understand the complex
      inheritance of HSCR in families by whole genome mapping and sequencing studies. Specifically,
      the study aims to determine the frequency with which mutations in any human gene lead to
      familial and isolated forms of HSCR. Further, the study will collect clinical information and
      investigate possible genotype - phenotype correlations.

      Molecular analysis using markers and sequencing, and statistical analysis of these data will
      be used to identify regions of human chromosomes where putative HSCR disease genes may be
      located. In addition, the DNA sequence of known and/or suspected HSCR genes will be assessed
      in individual patients and their family members, in search of causative HSCR susceptibility
      variants and variants that may affect presentation of the disease and treatment outcomes.
      Phenotypic information will include pathology, surgical, and other clinical outcomes related
      to Hirschsprung disease. This study will hopefully lead to a better understanding of the
      genetics of HSCR and, further down the road, improved diagnosis, treatment, and genetic
      counseling.

      This study asks volunteers to:

        1. Complete a medical/family history questionnaire

        2. Provide access to some medical records

        3. Submit blood samples from the individual(s) affected with Hirschsprung disease and
           his/her parents (if available)
    
  