
    
      The study is employing an open cohort stepped-wedge cluster randomized design with a phased,
      randomized roll out. The stepped wedge design is a useful design for the evaluation of
      complex health care interventions particularly when the intervention is believed to be
      beneficial with minimal risk. This design is increasingly being used to evaluate
      interventions involving health care delivery and has several advantages:

        1. allowing the clinical teams to roll out the intervention in a small number of facilities
           in a timely, systematic manner (interventions are not part of the research protocol)

        2. possibly increasing participation and buy-in since all facilities will eventually
           implement the intervention during the study

        3. possible increase in statistical power compared to a cluster randomized trial due to
           increase in data collection and within cluster comparisons.

      Our intervention is applied at the facility level (cluster) but the primary outcomes are
      obtained at the resident level. In this open cohort design, all residents in a facility are
      identified to participate but some may leave the facility and others will move into the
      facility over the course of the study. The interventions are standard care at UPMC and are at
      the facility and individual level regardless of participation in the research project by any
      individual.

      The 8 facilities participating in the study all currently receive the Consult Model of care.
      These same facilities are targeted to receive the Engage Model of care over the next three
      years as part of the standard care in these facilities. Residents enrolled in the study
      during any time period will be followed until the end of the study or until they are no
      longer a resident of the facility, whichever comes first. This implies that crossover to the
      intervention is not only at the facility level but also the resident level. Once the
      intervention is available at a facility, residents will be exposed to the intervention
      continuously regardless of enrollment for the study measures. The resident level outcomes of
      satisfaction with social participation and hearing-specific HRQoL will be measured every 5
      months for the duration of the study. In addition, staff satisfaction and family burden will
      be surveyed every 5 months.
    
  