
    
      Spinal anesthesia is the most frequent type of anesthesia used for Cesarian Section. However,
      despite decades of safe utilization there is still controversy about the best combination of
      local anesthetics and additives needed to obtain the optimal result. The objectives of this
      study is to test a combination of low dose local anesthetic Bupivacaine diluted in patient's
      CSF with lipophilic opiate Fentanyl for compliance with the criteria of optimal spinal
      anesthesia. Bupivacaine is the most frequently used local anesthetic in the last twenty years
      . It characterized by fast onset, high potency and long action . Albeit this is intrinsic
      characteristic of specific local anesthetic, its manifestation can be affected by
      concentration. It has been shown that dilution of local anesthetic with CSF can result in
      sensory block with less profound motor block.

      Thus dilution of Bupivacaine with CSF in our study would serve double function: it would
      speed the recovery from the spinal anesthesia and minimize the expression of the motor
      block.Addition of opiates to local anesthetics has been widely used . It has been shown that
      this addition improves quality of spinal anesthesia and prolongs analgesia without
      significant prolongation of recovery from motor block.

      In summary, we would use well known safe local anesthetic Bupivacaine in low dose and low
      concentration (after dilution with patient's CSF) in conjunction with highly lipophilic
      opiate Fentanyl. We suppose it will result in effective spinal anesthesia with relatively
      limited motor block, quick recovery of motor function and relatively long lasting analgesia.
      We expect lower incidence of side effect with this combination than with convenient dose of
      Bupivacaine.

      Good pain relief and swift restoration of ability to ambulate will be important for
      prevention of postoperative complications, will diminish the need for systemic analgetic
      drugs that can affect nursing and will increase patients' satisfaction.
    
  