
    
      The prevalence of gallstones is 10% and approximately 10% of patients develop acute
      cholecystitis (AC). AC prevalence increases with age and complications are as high as 30% in
      patients who do not undergo surgery, the only definitive treatment. There is controversy
      regarding ideal surgical timing. Previously, delayed surgery was thought to decrease bile
      duct injuries resulting from active inflammation. However, the state of persistent
      inflammation, hypercoagulability, and stress can cause medical complications such as
      myocardial injury. Chronic inflammation can lead to fibrosis, adhesions and higher chance of
      bile duct injuries during delayed surgery. There is also concern for recurrent AC episodes,
      recurrent pain, biliary pancreatitis, cholangitis or sepsis.

      Recent studies suggest that early surgery may be associated with better outcomes, but
      practice remains variable, ranging anywhere from early surgery (<7 days) to delayed surgery
      (>7 days). Among >24,000 Ontarians with AC admitted to 106 hospitals, timing of
      cholecystectomy varied widely across sites. Only 58% of patients underwent surgery within 7
      days. High volume hospitals were more likely to perform early surgery.17

      Among 14,200 Ontarians with AC, a propensity score analysis demonstrated that early surgery
      was associated with less bile duct injury (relative risk (RR)=0.53, 95% confidence interval
      (CI) 0.31-0.90) and shorter length of hospital stay (LOS) (mean 1.9 days, 95% CI 1.7-2.1).
      Early surgery was less costly and more effective than delayed cholecystectomy.

      Trials of surgical timing in patients with AC are limited. The largest randomized controlled
      trial (RCT) compared early and delayed surgery for AC only included 618 patients.9
      Cholecystectomy was performed a median of 1 day after randomization in the early group
      compared to a median of 25 days in the delayed group. Duration of surgery and conversion rate
      to open surgery were similar in both groups. Early surgery was associated with less morbidity
      (11.8% vs. 34.4%, p<0.001), shorter LOS (5.4 vs. 10.0 days, p<0.001), and lower cost (€2919
      vs. €4262, p<0.001).

      Multiple meta-analyses have suggested that early surgery for AC is associated with fewer
      wound infections (RR 0.57; 95% CI 0.35-0.93) and have suggested a trend to fewer
      complications (RR 0.66; 95% CI 0.42-1.03). Limitations of these meta-analyses include studies
      with small sample sizes, few events, wide confidence intervals, and variation in the
      definition of early surgery. Finally, there is a lack of strong evidence to make definitive
      conclusions regarding impact of early surgery in AC, which has led to substantial variation
      in clinical practice.

      AC initiates inflammatory, hypercoagulable, and stress states that can cause medical
      complications. Early surgical treatment will reduce the time patients are exposed to these
      harmful states and therefore may reduce the risk of complications. Furthermore, rapid surgery
      results in a shorter period of AC, which may impact hospital costs. The goal is to undertake
      a large multicentre RCT of the impact of accelerated surgery (goal within 6 hours of
      diagnosis) vs. usual timing of surgery in patients with AC on a composite outcome of major
      clinical and surgical complications at 90 days. "Standard of care", as described, is highly
      variable and depends on the surgeon and hospital practice patterns.

      The main objective of this pilot study is to assess the feasibility of a large trial. The
      team hypothesizes that accelerated surgery for AC will improve clinical and surgical
      outcomes. A large RCT on this topic is needed for the following reasons: 1) time to surgery
      is a modifiable factor; 2) available data are encouraging, but not definitive; 3) there is
      variation in clinical practice across Ontario and internationally 4) the definition of early
      surgery has varied substantially across studies; 5) available data may be substantially
      underestimating the effect of timing of surgery because no trial has evaluated surgery within
      6 hours of diagnosis; 6) high-quality evidence will modify clinical practice; and 7)
      implementation of accelerated surgery could save millions of healthcare dollars annually.
    
  