
    
      Rationale: The assessment of the cardiovascular state in critically ill patients is subject
      to difficulties in terms of the fact that several hemodynamic parameters, for example mean
      arterial blood pressure (MAP) and cardiac output (CO) supply insufficient information about
      the circulating volume and cardiac performance. There is a clinical need for adequate
      determination of intravascular volume status. However, in determining the intravascular fluid
      status of a patient, the lack of appreciation of the venous side of the circulation persists
      today, which is greatly due to the inability to appropriately assess the venous side of the
      circulation. The importance of the venous part of the circulation is moreover reflected by
      the fact that an increase in venous resistance does reduce CO many times more than a similar
      increase in arterial resistance. Mean systemic filling pressure (Pms), which is defined as
      the pressure equal to the pressure which would be measured if the heart should suddenly stop
      pumping and all (arterial and venous) the pressures in the entire circulatory system should
      be brought to equilibrium instantaneously, is a good, complete and reliable reflection of the
      total intravascular fluid compartment.

      Positive fluid balance and /or substantial weight gain in critically ill patients is a common
      problem in the intensive care unit (ICU), potentially associated with a poor outcome. This
      problem, in association with hemodynamic instability and increase of creatinin, ureum and
      sodium, may lead to peripheral edema. Furosemide, a loop diuretic, is frequently administered
      to critically ill patients to increase urine output and to relieve edema.

      Objective: Observing changes in Pms during continuous furosemide administration.

      Study design: Prospective, observational study Study population: Patients with a PICCO®
      system with a positive fluid balance and / or substantial weight gain and therefore with a
      clinical indication for diuretic therapy.

      Intervention: Continuous furosemide administration. Main study parameters/endpoints: Pms
      measured at baseline, changes in Pms during continuous furosemide administration.

      Adverse events: No risks involved.
    
  