
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Identify prospectively physician and patient factors associated with reasons
      why patients who are eligible for Pediatric Oncology Group therapeutic protocols are not
      enrolled onto such studies. II. Provide information that may be used to develop intervention
      strategies to decrease barriers to patient enrollment, thus increasing enrollment in
      therapeutic protocols.

      OUTLINE: This is a case-control, multicenter study. Case patients are stratified. Stratum 1
      comprises patients for whom there is an appropriate Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) frontline
      therapeutic protocol that has not yet been submitted to, disapproved by, or approved by the
      Institutional Review Board (IRB). Stratum 2 comprises patients for whom there is an
      appropriate POG frontline therapeutic protocol that has been approved by the IRB. Physicians
      complete an IRB submission form for their patients on stratum 1. Patients/parents on stratum
      2 who refused enrollment and their primary physicians complete questionnaires that address
      reasons for nonenrollment. Control patients/parents who consented to enrollment complete
      questionnaires that address reasons for enrollment. Demographic information, including the
      size of the treating institution and the annual number of patients enrolled onto its
      protocols, is collected. Additional demographic information regarding the patient and his or
      her family is collected.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 595 case patients (12 with soft tissue sarcoma, 34 with
      osteosarcoma, 19 with brain tumors, 32 with Hodgkin's disease, 60 with non-Hodgkin's
      lymphoma, 278 with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, 65 with acute non-lymphoblastic leukemia, 56
      with neuroblastoma, 14 with hepatoblastoma, and 25 with germ cell tumors) will be accrued for
      this study within 7 years. Corresponding control patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  