
    
      Both tuberculosis and sarcoidosis are chronic, multi-systemic and granulomatous pathologies
      that have very similar pulmonary and extra-pulmonary manifestations, and even in the case of
      ocular involvement it has been shown that many features of intraocular TB can also be found
      in participants with ocular sarcoidosis.

      In this monocentric observational study investigators are asking to the participants with
      granulomatous uveitis, in which a tuberculosis or sarcoidosis origin is suspected and who
      will have undergo paracentesis of the anterior chamber, to grant part of the aqueous humor
      and a blood sample for this study.

      The collected samples will be analyzed as follow:

        1. Determination of the concentration of various cytokines, chemokines and growth factors
           in aqueous humor and in the plasma.

        2. Analysis of the mononuclear cells ( T helper lymphocytes CD3+ (CD3 is the acronym of
           cluster of differentiation 3: a glycoprotein found on the surface of immune cells) and
           CD4+ ((CD4 is the acronym of cluster of differentiation 4), T cytotoxic lymphocytes CD3+
           CD8+ (CD8 is the acronym of cluster of differentiation 8) , B lymphocytes CD19+ (CD19 is
           the acronym of cluster of differentiation 19), Natural killer lymphocytes CD56+ (CD56 is
           the acronym of cluster of differentiation 56) and CD3- and monocytes CD14+ (CD14 is the
           acronym of cluster of differentiation 14) present in the aqueous humor by
           cytofluorimetry.

        3. Evaluation of the presence of anti-human HSP70 antibodies in plasma samples by Western
           blot immunoprecipitation assays.

        4. Whenever possible (adequate number of cells), in vitro stimulation of mononuclear cells
           in aqueous humor with epitopes of tuberculosis mycobacterium antigens and the analysis
           of cytokines production in the supernatants.
    
  