
    
      Mind-Body Bridging Program (MBBP) was developed by Stanley Block, M.D. over the last decade
      drawing from his more than 30 years of experience in clinical psychiatry and awareness
      training. In his book Come To Your Senses: Demystifying the Mind-Body Connection (Block &
      Block, 2005, 2007), he demonstrates how people can regulate their emotions through
      "bridging", a technique that brings one back to the present moment to experience and
      recognize thoughts, emotions and physical sensations. Bridging aims to reduce the impact of
      negative thought patterns that facilitate stress in the body. Bridging allows individuals to
      reconnect with a mind-body state that inherently relaxes and restores healthy natural
      functioning. MBBP is built on awareness practices that enable individuals to investigate
      their mental states at deeper levels for the purpose of calming their minds and relaxing
      their bodies. This can lead to reductions in activation of the stress system (stress is
      consistently implicated in the progression of many mental and physical diseases), with the
      prospect of potentially alleviating many detrimental health conditions. According to Block &
      Block (2005, 2007), the critical source of ill-being in humans is rooted in the "Identity
      System" (IS), which is composed of self-centered thoughts, beliefs and emotions. The IS
      emphasizes separation, incompleteness, and self-interest, creating an identity that lacks
      authenticity. In essence, the IS interferes with one's natural functioning in everyday life
      by effectively cutting one off from one's natural self-healing abilities, and this typically
      results in constricting and closing down the present-moment awareness that is provided by
      one's senses. MBBP teaches how using bridging techniques, one can identify and "rest" the IS
      with its associated negativity and bodily tension, thereby creating more opportunities for
      improving quality of life and for functioning more naturally.
    
  