
    
      Traditional risk factors are estimated to account for only part of cardiovascular disease
      (CVD)risk. Non-traditional risk factors such as increased homocysteine concentrations are
      believed to be causally related to CVD. The interactive effect between hypertension and
      hyperhomocysteinemia on the risk of CVD has received great attention.
      Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR)was the main regulatory enzymes for homocysteine
      metabolism. MTHFR converts 5,10-methylene-THF into 5-methyl-THF. Polymorphism of MTHFR C677T
      leads to a reduction in enzyme activity, which may lead to an increased concentration of
      plasma homocysteine and lower levels of serum folate, particularly in those with low folate
      intake. Enalapril Maleate-Folate Tablets, known to reduce both blood pressure and serum
      homocysteine and thereby preventing stroke, was found to have adverse events, such as cough,
      called ACEI-intolerance in some patients.

      In the present study, we sought to assess:(1)the efficacy and safety of Amlodipine-Folic Acid
      Tablets in lowing blood pressure and homocysteine in patients with mild to moderate
      hypertension, hyperhomocysteinemia (hcy≥10μmol/L)and ACEI intolerance;(2)whether the blood
      pressure and homocysteine-lowing efficacy of Amlodipine-Folic Acid Tablets can be modified by
      individual MTHFR C677T polymorphisms.

      In all, about 540 patients with mild to moderate hypertension, hyperhomocysteinemia and ACEI
      intolerance will be enrolled in this trial. Eligible subjects are randomly and double-blindly
      assigned to one of the three treatment groups:1)amlodipine tablet(5mg,control
      group);2)amlodipine-folic acid tablet(5mg amlodipine combined with 0.4mg of folic acid,low FA
      group);or 3)amlodipine-folic acid tablet (5mg amlodipine combined with 0.8mg of folic
      acid,high FA group),once daily for 8 weeks.

      The allocation of participants was programmed by an independent statistical coordinating
      center,encrypted,and sent to each study center.Tablet containers were labeled only with the
      name of the trial and the allocated concealment number.The participants,care partners,and all
      staff directly involved in the trial were blinded to interventions during the period of the
      trial.

      Demographic and clinical information were obtained at baseline. Blood pressure was examined
      at baseline and every two weeks for a total period of 8 weeks. Blood homocysteine and folate
      concentrations were examined at baseline and at 4th、8th weeks of the trial. MTHFR C677T
      genotypes were determined for each study subject.

      All analyses will be performed according to the principle of intention to treat.
    
  