
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety and feasibility of erlotinib hydrochloride and cetuximab in
           patients with advanced solid tumors. (Phase I)

        -  Determine the efficacy of this regimen, in terms of objective tumor response rate, in
           patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) pre-treated with platinum.
           (Phase II)

      Secondary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of this regimen in these patients. (Phase I)

        -  Determine the efficacy of this regimen, in terms of response rate, in these patients.
           (Phase I)

        -  Determine the progression-free and overall survival of patients treated with this
           regimen. (Phase II)

        -  Determine the frequency and severity of toxicities of this regimen in these patients.
           (Phase II)

        -  Determine epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and K-RAS mutation status. (Phase II)

        -  Evaluate EGFR protein expression and protein expression of downstream markers (e.g.,
           pMAPK, pAKT, p27, and Ki-67). (Phase II)

        -  Evaluate the levels of marker proteins (e.g., pMAPK, pAKT, p27, and Ki-67) in buccal
           cells. (Phase II)

        -  Determine gene copy number by EGFR fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH). (Phase II)

        -  Identify EGFR polymorphisms by analysis of genomic DNA from peripheral blood mononuclear
           cells. (Phase II)

        -  Determine if the continued presence or absence of mutant K-RAS tumor DNA correlates with
           response and/or outcome. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study followed by an open-label, phase II study.

        -  Phase I: Patients receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily on days 1-28 and
           cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 28 days in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of erlotinib hydrochloride and cetuximab
      until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose
      preceding that at which ≥ 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. At least 6
      patients are treated at the MTD.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride and cetuximab at the MTD determined
           in phase I.

      Blood and buccal samples are acquired from patients at baseline and prior to courses 2 and 3.
      Samples are examined by fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH), immunohistochemistry,
      polymorphism analysis, and protein expression assays to assess molecular markers (epidermal
      growth factor receptor, K-RAS, pMAPK, pAKT, p27 and Ki-67) for biologic effects and
      predictive response.

      After completion of phase I treatment, patients are followed for 30 days or until all
      toxicities resolve. After completion of phase II treatment, patients are followed
      periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 62 patients will be accrued for this study
    
  