
    
      Background Despite a decrease in the number of cases reported to CIRE "Cellule de l'Institut
      de Veille Sanitaire", an interregional epidemiological surveillance center, malaria affects
      many gold miners working illegally in French Guiana. The ORPAL study carried out by CIC
      "Centre d'Investigation Clinique" (clinical investigation center) in 2015, showed that the
      prevalence of Plasmodium in illegal gold miners was 22.3%, of which 84% were asymptomatic.
      Self-medication practices are very common (52.4%) using artemisinin derivatives.

      Key issues identified:

        -  The mobile population of workers in illegal gold mining sites is particularly affected
           by malaria due to their living and working conditions and as such represents a reservoir
           of transmission.

        -  Their undocumented irregular status and difficult access to health centers makes care
           from health professionals rare or belated.

        -  The use of inadequate drugs, without prior diagnosis and with improper compliance,
           mainly due to the high cost of treatment on the black market, is common. These
           non-recommended practices contribute to the risk of emergence of ACT resistance.

        -  Knowledge of the disease by illegal gold miners (causes, symptoms, preventive measures
           and treatment) remains insufficient.

      Considering the problems, the identified need is to ensure sufficient intervention coverage
      of appropriate and rapid care, amongst the malaria "reservoir" population, in order to
      reduce:

        -  Malaria transmission and ACT non-compliance;

        -  The ensuing risk of P. falciparum resistance to ACT;

        -  The morbidity and mortality of illegal workers in gold-mining sites;

      The working hypothesis is:

      The free distribution of self-diagnosis and self-treatment kits, together with appropriate
      training / information, at "resting sites", Brazil and Suriname, would be a strategy relevant
      to the specific context of French Guiana, and would respond to the identified need.

      Objectives This study aims to assess a new malaria control strategy targeting gold miners
      working illegally in French Guiana, based on the distribution of self-diagnosis kits and
      self-treatment against P. falciparum in cross-border areas.

        -  Main objective Increase the part of illegal gold miners in French Guiana who take ACT
           entirely after a positive rapid diagnostic test.

        -  Secondary objectives

             -  Improve the use of anti-malarial treatments against P. falciparum appropriately and
                in compliance with WHO recommendations.

             -  Reduce the prevalence of malaria among illegal gold miners in French Guiana.

             -  Increase the part of illegal gold miners in French Guiana who:

                  -  Know malaria, its causes, the symptoms and protection measures.

                  -  Have a positive attitude towards recommended prevention measures, the use of
                     adequate anti-malarial treatment, and adherence to treatment.

                  -  Report applying good preventive practices.

      Project implementation:

      This project will be carried out in cooperation with Brazil, Suriname and France. It is
      divided into 2 sections:

        -  Part 1: Implementation and monitoring of the intervention Distribution of self-diagnosis
           and self-treatment kits to people working illegally at gold-mining sites in French
           Guiana, along with the provision of training. This distribution will take place at
           resting sites by trained facilitators. Proactive digital collection of data will be
           conducted by these facilitators and via gold miners themselves through a mobile
           application.

        -  Part 2: Evaluation of the intervention The final evaluation of the project will be
           carried out in a cross-sectional study "Orpal bis", with a questionnaire on knowledge,
           attitudes and practices and blood sampling to measure the prevalence of Plasmodium
           carriers before / after the intervention. The same study (Orpal) was carried out in 2015
           along the Surinamese border, and will be carried out before implementation along the
           Brazilian border.

      Therefore, it will be a pre-post evaluation. Depending on the results, the sustainability of
      the action will be determined by the Health Authorities.

      Duration As a pilot project, the inclusion period for which the data will be processed in the
      view of determining the potential sustainability is 12 months. The length of the results
      capitalizing is estimated to be 6 months, during which the intervention will be maintained,
      in order to avoid any useless gap. Therefore, the total duration of the pilot phase is 18
      months.
    
  