
    
      The information provided in the PCOS pharmaceutical care service was delivered in the format
      of oral plus written information (most important facts to remember and take-home messages
      regarding lifestyle modifications). The information provided included the importance of
      exercise and motivational messages to exercise more at home or in the gym. Participants were
      informed of previous study results which showed that 8-12 weeks of exercise can ameliorate
      cardiovascular risk factors and improve mental health.

      The second part of the educational service was about the importance of decreasing the stress
      levels. The participants were informed that markers of oxidative stress were found to be out
      of range in PCOS women and that it was proven beneficial to do breathing exercises to reduce
      stress. It was clarified that the breathing exercise does not only relieve stress but also
      may help to gain better sleep and relieve anxiety symptoms. Participants were informed to
      perform a simple breathing exercise on daily basis (twice a day, morning and night) where
      they inhale through the nose for the account of four, and then exhale through the nose for
      the count of four, with the possibility to increase the counting to 6 then to 8.

      The third part of the educational service aimed at improving participants' diets. They were
      informed to follow specific diet recommendations as follows:

      to consume the majority of their daily calories prior to 12 pm (shown to improve insulin and
      glucose levels and decrease testosterone levels), to focus on food with low glycemic load
      e.g. chicken, meat, eggs and avocado (shown to decrease insulin levels).

      to increase their vitamin C and calcium intake e.g. kiwi, orange and lemons (shown to improve
      body mass index and menstrual abnormalities, along with other PCOS-related symptoms).

      to include adequate magnesium intake in their diet e.g. legume, spinach, broccoli, banana and
      pineapple (shown to lower the risk of heart disease, diabetes, and stroke).

      to increase chromium intake, found in onions, garlic, grapefruit and tomatoes (shown to help
      regulate insulin and glucose levels).

      to increase their consumption of omega-3, found in food such as tuna, salmon, fish, and
      walnuts (shown to help in decreasing androgen levels and testosterone).

      In addition, participants were informed to avoid or to minimize certain types of food,
      explaining to them how it may negatively affect their PCOS condition. Such food types
      included caffeine beverages (as it may increase the estrogen level and affect fertility).

      hydrogenated oils including margarine, corn oil, and coffee creamers (as it decreases the HDL
      (the good cholesterol), and increases the LDL (the bad cholesterol).

      white sugary foods like cookies, cakes, and candies (as it can increase glucose levels).

      dairy products (since it can cause allergic reactions and digestion problems, in addition to
      raising the testosterone levels).

      Processed food (because it has a negative effect on insulin level). PCOS treatment was also
      discussed (orally only) with the participants (Fourth part of the service). Females were
      advised on the importance of using their correct treatment, for example using the pill for
      hormonal balance. They were informed of the importance of adhering to their prescribed
      medications, accepting that it was a long term treatment plan, and to consult with their
      specialist if their treatment was not effective, or in the case of medication side effects.
    
  