
    
      A total of 352 subjects will be randomized at up to 75 investigational sites in the United
      States, Canada, Europe and Australia. Subjects will be randomized into one of two study
      groups using a 1:1 (Intervention : Control) ratio.

      Study subjects who are eligible for this clinical study will undergo a transthoracic
      echocardiographic examination prior to randomization to evaluate the inclusion criteria
      associated with the severity of mitral regurgitation as well as a review by a Central Review
      Committee to determine appropriateness for the implant procedure. On the day of the
      procedure, a coronary angiogram will be performed to evaluate the coronary artery anatomy and
      a venogram to assess the suitability of the coronary sinus/great cardiac vein (CS/GCV) for
      placement of the CARILLON implant. If the subject meets the anatomic requirements for device
      placement, the subject will be randomized. Subjects who meet all eligibility criteria will be
      randomized into one of two study groups (Intervention or Control).

      Subjects randomized to the Intervention group will undergo the CARILLON implant procedure.
      With the distal aspect of the device anchored, incremental tension will be applied to plicate
      the peri-annular tissue. After the proximal anchor of the implant is locked in place, safety
      and efficacy will be reconfirmed prior to releasing the CARILLON implant from the delivery
      system.

      Subjects randomized to the Control group will experience an index procedure similar to the
      Intervention group (without device placement) to ensure that they will not be able to deduce
      the group assignment based on the type of intervention or time associated with the procedure.

      After the study subjects are discharged, the subjects' primary care specialists
      (cardiologist/heart failure physician) and clinical investigation site staff will coordinate
      follow-up evaluations. Subjects will be evaluated at one (1), six (6), twelve (12), eighteen
      (18) and twenty-four (24) months post-randomization, to assess long-term safety, and
      functional and clinical status. After the 24-month evaluation, all subjects will be
      unblinded. All Intervention and Control subjects will be followed with an abbreviated annual
      contact for an additional three (3) years, for a total of five (5) years. Any additional
      therapies which are required to treat symptomatic or advancing disease subjects will be
      reviewed by a Central Review Committee for endpoint evaluation as long as the subject was
      treated >6months after randomization so that all subjects may remain on the trial for the
      entire 5 years of follow up.
    
  