
    
      For many years, allogeneic bone marrow transplantation has been used to successfully treat
      leukemias, other hematologic conditions and congenital disorders. The first unrelated donor
      transplants were performed in the late 1970s, but this procedure did not become widely
      available until the development of several consolidated unrelated donor registries around the
      world. The National Marrow Donor Program, established in 1987, is the world's largest
      registry and currently lists more than 7 million donors. Since its beginning, NMDP has
      facilitated more than 30,000 unrelated transplants.

      Although not a licensed indication, considerable experience has been accumulated concerning
      administration of filgrastim to normal adults. Most of these adults were volunteer research
      subjects or donors of PBSC for use in related donor transplants. Beginning in February 1997,
      filgrastim stimulated PBSC have been collected from NMDP donors under protocol. The protocol
      (locally referred to as G2) began under an NMDP-sponsored Investigational New Drug (IND)
      application filed with FDA for collecting PBSC for a second donation following an initial
      donation of bone marrow. In 1999 a second protocol was opened (locally referred to as G1) as
      requests for PBSC as a primary donation source became more common. In 2005 the two protocols
      were combined to eliminate redundancy and provide for ease of use.

      The protocol establishes and evaluates a system to supply peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC)
      products for use in unrelated donor hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) transplantation. The
      protocol describes processes for donor identification, education and evaluation. Procedures
      for administration and monitoring of the stem cell mobilizing agent filgrastim are included.
      The protocol also describes procedures for the collection of PBSC products by leukapheresis
      and includes provisions for long term donor follow-up.
    
  