
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety and feasibility of performing donor umbilical cord blood
           transplantation (UCBT) in patients with advanced hematologic malignancies, in terms of >
           80% engraftment rate at day 100 post-transplant and ≤ 50% transplant-related mortality.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the toxicity of a myeloablative preparative regimen comprising busulfan,
           fludarabine, and etoposide prior to UCBT in these patients.

        -  Determine the neutrophil and platelet recovery in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the event-free and overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Evaluate lineage-specific chimerism after UCBT and assess the contribution of each
           individual cord blood unit to post-transplantation hematopoiesis in these patients.

        -  Determine the incidence, severity, and timing of acute and chronic graft-vs-host disease
           in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot study.

        -  Preparative regimen: Patients receive fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on days -7 to -3,
           busulfan IV over 2 hours 4 times daily on days -7 and -4, etoposide IV over 4 hours on
           day -3, and anti-thymocyte globulin IV over 6 hours on days -2 and -1.

        -  Donor umbilical cord blood transplantation (UCBT): Patients undergo donor UCBT on day 0.
           Beginning on day 7, patients receive sargramostim (GM-CSF) IV or subcutaneously once
           daily until blood counts recover.

        -  Graft-vs-host disease prophylaxis: Patients receive tacrolimus IV continuously over 24
           hours or orally twice daily beginning on day -2 and continuing until day 180 followed by
           a taper. Patients also receive oral prednisone twice daily on days 13-50 and then once
           daily on days 50-60, followed by a rapid taper.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for approximately 2
      years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 10 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  