
    
      A suboptimal degree of attention has focused on the detection and management of coronary
      artery disease (CAD) in women until recently. Although many women do not perceive heart
      disease as a significant health risk, CAD is the leading cause of mortality in women in most
      developed nations, with mortality primarily driven by acute ST-elevation myocardial
      infarction (STEMI) and cardiogenic shock (American Heart Association 2005 Heart Disease and
      Stroke Statistics).

      In recent years, literature articles regarding various aspects of heart disease in women
      significantly increased. These reports have highlighted important sex differences in the
      pathophysiology, presentation, and treatment of ischemic heart disease and have denounced
      pervasive sex-related disparities in referral and treatment for heart disease as a major
      reason for outcome differences between the sexes. Such activities have been useful in driving
      attention to heart disease in women, an area largely ignored by the scientific community and
      the public just 20 years ago.

      However, we must recognize that to date, limited data substantiate many of these statements;
      such recognition is important to guide future research efforts. A careful look at recently
      published literature reveals only modest advancements toward clarifying gender-based
      differences in the pathophysiology of ischemic heart disease and gender-based differences in
      outcome. At the same time, key questions concerning strategies for prevention and treatment
      of heart disease in women remain unanswered, and cardiovascular clinical trials continue to
      include fewer women than men.

      A fundamental question is whether the mechanisms underlying ischemic heart disease in women
      differ from those in men. This is an important question because if pathophysiology differs in
      women, such differences can inform strategies for prevention, detection, and treatment that
      would be most effective for women.

      A number of indicators point to a different mechanism in man and women.

        1. More symptoms, but less diseased vessels. Despite having more symptoms and physical
           limitations, women have less obstructive coronary heart disease than men, as assessed by
           angiography along the entire spectrum of acute coronary syndromes. Chest pain without
           apparently severe obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD) is distinctly more common in
           women than in men.

        2. Disability unrelated to severity of coronary obstructions. Among women, chest pain
           symptoms and disability do not correlate with severity of coronary stenosis, assessed by
           angiography.

        3. Higher risk after infarction despite lesser cardiac damage. Women, particularly those
           who are young or middle-aged (whom one would expect to be most advantaged for coronary
           disease risk compared with men due to estrogen protective actions), show higher rates of
           adverse outcomes after acute myocardial infarction (MI) than men of similar age, despite
           less severe coronary narrowing, smaller infarcts, and more preserved systolic function.

      Consequently, the identification of less obstructive atheroma has been put forth as a
      potentially helpful strategy for the risk stratification of women.

      Although this is a compelling theory, to date there is little evidence to suggest that
      vascular abnormalities in the absence of obstructive atheroma as detected by angiography are
      more commonly implicated in the pathogenesis of ischemia among women than men.

      Recent studies have evaluated gender differences in coronary structure and function using
      intravascular ultrasound and other types of vascular testing. These studies have found that
      women had less atheroma volume than men, including both luminal plaque and atheroma within
      the media, despite older age and more risk factors, and even after accounting for body
      surface area and vessel size. After adjusting for body size, women also have smaller coronary
      vessels. However, these studies were unable to identify other vascular abnormalities, like
      plaque characteristics, that might explain gender differences in clinical presentation.

      Presently, we are far from being able to conclude, or even suggest, that these hypothesized
      abnormalities play a larger etiologic or prognostic role for ischemic heart disease among
      women than among men.

      A general pattern of higher mortality and complication rates in women after acute coronary
      syndromes (ACS) compared with men has been described for many years. It is important to
      recognize, however, that gender differences in mortality after ACS do not occur across the
      board but only in specific patient subgroups.

      It is hypothesized that differences by MI type (STEMI versus other types) may be due to the
      pathophysiology underlying these events. For example, acute occlusion caused by thrombus
      superimposed on a ruptured or eroded atherosclerotic plaque is believed to play a larger role
      in trans mural infarctions than other types of ACS. Thus, it is possible that gender
      differences in vessel size and collateralization put women at greater risk than men after
      STEMI but not after other types of ACS.

      It is also unclear why gender differences in the outcome of MI are seen in young and
      middle-aged patients but not older patients. One would expect that women younger than 50
      years of age, the majority of whom are premenopausal, should be more advantaged rather than
      less advantaged compared with men of similar age in terms of survival. On the other hand, for
      coronary disease to occur in younger women, it must be aggressive, driven by multiple risk
      factors, or caused by secondary or unknown causes.

      A less aggressive clinical treatment of women with coronary heart disease relative to men has
      been documented for years, with a tendency to refer to it as gender bias in health care
      delivery.

      A 2005 Statement from the American Heart Association reviewed gender-specific data on the
      safety and efficacy of percutaneous coronary intervention and pharmacotherapy. Despite the
      fact that more women than men die from cardiovascular disease in the United States, and
      despite the established benefits of Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI) in reducing
      fatal and nonfatal ischemic complications in patients with acute myocardial infarction, only
      an estimated 33% of annual PCIs are performed in women. In addition, women experience greater
      delays to intervention and are referred for diagnostic catheterization less frequently than
      are men.

      Recent advances in angioplasty equipment and technique have improved options for patients
      with smaller coronary and peripheral (access) arteries. In addition, the increased use of
      stents and adjunctive pharmacotherapy has improved outcomes in both women and men.
      Nevertheless, women continue to represent 15% to 38% of the population in studies of PCI, and
      still relatively few gender- or race-specific data exist.

      According to the American Heart Association, better understanding and elimination of this
      apparent treatment disparity is a priority. One of the areas of interest is to refine
      treatment pathways and strategies for women with STEMI, in whom mortality rates and bleeding
      risk remain higher than in men.

      To further optimize clinical outcomes of women undergoing PCI, evidence-based evaluation in
      randomized clinical trials must emphasize increased recruitment of women, with mandates to
      include gender-specific, ethnic, and racial gender-based results.

      Cardiovascular Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) is an innovative catheter-based imaging
      technology that utilizes light rather than ultrasound to obtain unique details of the vessels
      on a microscopic scale. OCT provides high-resolution (10 to 15 micron axial), full
      tomographic in vivo images and measurements of coronary arteries and deployed stents with a
      high level of accuracy.(8,9) Applications of this technique include diagnostic assessments of
      coronary atherosclerosis and guidance of coronary interventions.

      After at least a decade of renewed interest in women's cardiovascular health, we are left
      with more questions than answers. Fundamental questions about the pathophysiology of ischemic
      heart disease in women remain unanswered. We have gained few clues about the basis for gender
      differences in coronary heart disease and what is unique about the female vascular system. As
      a result, we are yet unable to explain gender differences in the epidemiology, presentation,
      treatment and outcome of coronary heart disease. Key questions remain about why women are
      protected from cardiovascular disease, why this protection is restricted to the coronary
      system, and why this protection ends when women have diabetes or an acute MI.

      We lack studies that compare biological mechanisms of disease between women and men to better
      define vascular processes that are unique to women. We lack sufficiently large follow-up
      studies to link such processes to cardiac end points. How can we increase the inclusion of
      women in cardiovascular clinical trials? Without an answer to these questions, little can be
      done to improve the prevention and the treatment of coronary heart disease in women.

      In STEMI patients, acute coronary occlusion caused by thrombus superimposed on a ruptured or
      eroded plaque plays an important role. Nevertheless, no evidence is available concerning the
      mechanism of plaque rupture, the underlying vascular abnormalities of the infarct related
      vessel and the biological responses such as vascular remodeling and repair, that are unique
      to women.

      In the OCTAVIA trial, gender-related mechanisms of plaque rupture will be investigated using
      a combination of Quantitative Coronary Angiography (QCA), OCT and histopathology analyses of
      thrombus aspirates of the culprit lesion performed by independent core laboratories, blinded
      to the group assignment.

      By combining clinical variables with QCA, OCT and thrombus analysis, it is possible to obtain
      critical information concerning the relationship between serological biomarker of cardiac
      damage, clinical and prognostic correlates of coronary plaque morphology and the underlying
      mechanisms of coronary thrombosis in women.

      In addition to assessing gender differences in the mechanism of plaque rupture, OCTAVIA will
      also evaluate the changes in the vascular territory remote from the infarct related lesion,
      the local vascular response to primary angioplasty interventions and the correlation with
      clinical outcomes over one year of follow-up. These data are important to support a gender
      based differential strategy and can have a substantial impact for the improvement of clinical
      practice in the treatment of women with STEMI.
    
  