
    
      Traditionally, the risk of lymph node metastasis associated with submucosal EAC was
      considered too high to offer patients endoscopic follow-up. Only in elderly patients with
      comorbidity, more often an endoscopic protocol is selected. However, the risk of lymph node
      metastasis associated with submucosal EAC is mainly based on surgical series. Recently a
      number of studies, which included patients treated endoscopically, were published indicating
      that the risk of lymph node metastasis may be much lower than generally assumed.Therefore, a
      less invasive and organ preserving approach may not only be an option in the frail and
      elderly, but for all patients with submucosal EAC's.

      Yet, no data exists on the risk of lymph node metastasis in high risk T1a EAC. The risk is
      assumed to be lower than for EACs invading into the submucosal layer. However, a recent
      (unpublished) retrospective analysis from our own research group shows that this risk may be
      higher than previously assumed. In this nationwide retrospective study, we analysed lymph
      node metastasis rates and EAC related mortality rates concerning patients with high risk T1a,
      low risk T1b or high risk T1b EAC who received endoscopic treatment. The study was performed
      in 9 Barrett Expert Centers in the Netherlands (2008-2019). 120 patients were included in the
      analysis, and results showed the highest lymph node metastasis risk in the high risk T1a
      patient group Aim of this multicenter study is to prospectively evaluate the safety of
      endoscopic follow-up in patients treated by endoscopic resection for submucosal (T1bN0M0)
      EAC.

      High-resolution upper endoscopy with white-light endoscopy and narrow-band imaging
      supplemented with an EUS are performed every three months during the first two years after
      ER. After 1 year, a CT-thorax/abdomen will be performed to check for distant metastasis.
      During the third and fourth year of follow-up, EUS and upper endoscopy are performed every
      six months. From the fifth year on, EUS and upper endoscopy are performed annually.
    
  