
    
      Obtaining cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) through a lumbar puncture (LP) is an essential procedure
      in the neonatal/infant intensive care unit (N/IICU) for establishing diagnosis and
      determining treatment. The traditional technique for performing an LP involves palpation of
      anatomic landmarks followed by a "blind" stick of the appropriate inter-spinous process
      space. This technique has a failure rate (defined as the inability to obtain cerebrospinal
      fluid or obtaining a traumatic puncture) of 15-50%.

      Bedside ultrasonography possesses the ability to visualize the anatomic landmarks, including
      the subarachnoid space. In the adult literature, ultrasound has been shown to reduce the LP
      failure rate. Its utility has also been shown to significantly improve success rates and
      accuracy in epidural needle placement in neonates and children undergoing regional
      anesthesia. Increasing the proportion of successful LPs in the N/IICU could significantly
      reduce patient/family discomfort, sedation exposure, off unit travel, additional
      interventional procedures and antibiotic use. However, research on the utility of bedside
      ultrasound assisted LPs by clinicians working in an N/IICU is lacking.

      This is a prospective randomized controlled trial. Eligible subjects will be randomized to
      undergo LP (performed as part of their standard of care) with ultrasound assisted method or
      traditional landmark method.

      Primary Objective:

      -To determine if bedside ultrasound-assisted LP, performed by N/IICU clinicians on neonates
      and infants aged ≤6 months, increases the proportion of successful first attempt
      non-traumatic LPs when compared to a traditional landmark palpation technique.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To determine if bedside-ultrasound assisted LPs increases the proportion of overall
           successful non-traumatic LPs within 2 attempts.

        -  To determine if bedside-ultrasound assisted LPs is associated with a decrease in the
           length of antibiotic exposure in patients undergoing LPs.
    
  