
    
      BACKGROUND: A frequent and disabling impairment in persons who suffered traumatic brain
      injury (TBI) is left hemi-spatial neglect (LHSN). LHSN is a spatial attentive syndrome,
      characterized by a reduced ability to attend, perceive and consciously represent the left
      contra-lesional space, in the absence of a primary sensory deficit. Persons with LHSN fail to
      attend any stimulus coming from the left space and this can affect the ability to carry out
      many everyday tasks, such as walking, eating, reading and getting dressed. Those patients, as
      a direct consequence of the brain injury and LHSN, are also often affected by anosognosia for
      hemiplegia and for LHSN, which is the lack of awareness about motor and cognitive deficits.
      This condition hinders motor and cognitive recovery, predisposes to falls and reduces
      independence. Furthermore, in TBI LHSN is often associated with a mixture of attention,
      memory, executive function, and processing speed deficits leading to complex cognitive and
      behavioral pictures, which may even interfere with the administration of standard cognitive
      treatments for LHSN (i.e. visual scanning protocols or prism adaptation). It is also known
      that 1 Hz inhibitory repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS), applied for two
      weeks to the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) of the unaffected hemisphere in patients with
      LHSN due to ischemic lesion of the right hemisphere, induces a significant improvement of
      visual-spatial symptoms that persists 15 days after rTMS treatment. These results can be
      explained considering that spatial attention deficit in LHSN due to a right middle cerebral
      artery territory stroke relates to abnormal activation of neural system that mediates spatial
      attentive operations in the healthy brain. In LHSN, a lesion of the right PPC and of the
      inter-hemispheric connectivity causes an imbalance in interhemispheric activity due to
      hyperactivity of the left hemisphere which, in turn, causes a biased attentive allocation
      towards ipsilesional space. As a consequence, an inhibition of this hyperactivity may have a
      rebalancing effect, reducing left spatial attention deficit in LHSN. Indeed, recent studies
      in stroke showed also the possibility of improving the efficacy of standard cognitive
      treatments (i.e. visual scanning) if the latter are preceded by inhibitory rTMS on the
      unaffected hemisphere. What is not known is whether also in LHSN due to TBI, inhibitory rTMS
      on the left PPC followed by a visual scanning protocol may be an effective treatment as in
      right hemisphere stroke, considering that in TBI the damage is often more widespread and
      multifocal than in the former condition.

      AIMS:

        -  To compare the efficacy of a combined r-TMS and CCT intervention aiming at reducing
           cognitive symptoms of LHSN, in a sample of TBI patients with LHSN, within the context of
           an RCT.

        -  To evaluate the long- term impact of the intervention and evaluate the effect of the
           intervention on several clinical measures (activity of daily living, attentive and motor
           functions) and on psychophysiological indices

      METHODS: Randomized controller trial, with blind assessments on pretest, postest and on 3
      months follow-up.

      POPULATION: TBI patients with clinical evidence of LHSN. INTERVENTION: Inhibitory
      low-frequency r-TMS on the left parietal cortex combined with a conventional cognitive
      treatment (visual scanning training) for 2 weeks.

      CONTROL: SHAM group with a placebo r-TMS stimulation combined with visual scanning training
      for 2 weeks.

      OUTCOMES: Multidisciplinary assessment with clinical and psychophysiological indices. The
      primary endpoint is a psychophysiological index based on Visual-Evoked Potentials (VEPs). In
      particular we will focus on the N1 component, a posterior negativity, which is altered in
      terms of latency and amplitude in LHSN population. In order to study effects of the r-TMS in
      the interhemispheric parietal pathway, we will extract indices of interhemispheric
      transmission time (IHTT) on the N1 latency and of spatial attention bias on N1 amplitude
      (VABI). The secondary outcomes will consider the impact of the intervention on other clinical
      measures of cognitive and motor impairment and on test of activity of daily living.

      EXPECTED RESULTS: The main expected outcome of the present project will provide evidence, on
      a large simple of TBI patients, of the interhemispheric functionality underlying cognitive
      symptoms of LHSN. It will point out the specific effect of rTMS protocols on the
      inter-hemispheric imbalance. More in details, we expect to observe in the rTMS group a larger
      rebalancing effect than in the control group, as demonstrated by psychophysiological indexes,
      with the persistence of effects at follow-up. Additionally, we expect to observe larger
      improvements in cognitive and behavioral symptoms of LHSN induced by the rTMS in comparison
      to the control group, as demonstrated by better performances on clinical tests and batteries.

      RANDOMIZATION: In order to ensure that each arm will contain an equal number of individuals,
      eligible subjects will be randomly assigned to one of the two groups with a blocked
      randomization method based on a block size of 4.

      ASSESSOR AND PATIENT BLINDNESS: In order to ensure a double-blind assessment, pre-treatment
      assessments will be performed prior to randomization. An assessor not aware of the patient
      randomization group will conduct post-treatment and follow-up assessments. Also the visual
      scanning protocol will be administered by therapists unaware of the patient randomization and
      patients themselves will be instructed not to reveal any information on the brain stimulation
      treatment received.

      CASE REPORT AND DATA MONITORING: Specific case report forms (CRF) for every test in the
      assessments are already available and will be used. During the treatment the responsible
      physician will report any adverse event in the treatment-CRF. All information and results
      will be promptly reported on the electronic database. A researcher will be responsible for
      the electronic database, data analyses and will draft the single patient record at the end of
      all procedures. In case of lost to follow-up, the information available up to that moment
      will be considered. If participant is lost at follow-up, it will be analyzed on the basis of
      the "intention to treat" principle. Finally, the reason for quit the study will be reported
      for each participant lost at follow-up.

      SAMPLE SIZE: The sample size was calculated using the following formula:

      https://www.dropbox.com/s/y56umrt7z93en1w/Simple%20size%20formula.docx? dl=0 The sample size
      resulting from the formula calculated for the VABI is 24. Consequently, the minimum
      sufficient sample to reach the primary aim is, assuming approximately 10% of subjects lost to
      follow-up, 28 subjects (14 X group) recruited over a three-year period.

      DATA ANALYSES: Analysis of covariance will be performed for each measure using a mixed-model
      ANCOVA with a 2X3 design, where the "between" factor is represented by the randomization
      groups (rTMS, SHAM) and the "within" factor is the assessment time (T0, T1, T2). Data
      analysis will be performed using Matlab and SPSS softwares.
    
  