
    
      Systematic reviews have concluded that exercises taught individually and prescribed to be
      performed at home, are effective in decreasing neck pain and avoiding recurrence of neck pain
      (re-exacerbations) if patients adhere to the home exercise program. Conversely, inadequate
      adherence to a home-based exercise program reduces the treatment's efficacy. Telemedicine is
      already employed in many fields of medicine to evaluate health status, treatment, education,
      and to monitor patients' care needs but not in management of the patients with chronic neck
      pain. Studies available in the literature have not yet clearly defined if a phone
      surveillance program is effective in decreasing pain in these patients. Conversely, we think
      that telemedicine may be a useful tool for physicians in management of chronic neck pain
      because it can increase adherence to home exercises program thus reducing neck pain and
      disability in these patients. To verify this hypothesis we perform this prospective
      randomized controlled study.

      The study is performed in 100 consecutive patients with chronic non-specific neck pain
      referred to the outpatient facility of our Rehabilitation Department.

      Patients have to be > 18 years and with neck pain duration more than 6 months. Exclusion
      criteria are: pain duration < 6 months, cognitive deficit, history of fracture or operations
      around the neck region, presence of inflammatory rheumatic diseases, neurological diseases
      that could lead to neck pain, infections or tumors, pregnancy, previous rehabilitation for
      neck pain undergone within the last 12 months, and inability to attend all exercise sessions
      of our outpatient rehabilitation program.

      All patients have to complete, as outpatients, an exercise program consisting of 10 sessions,
      spread over a 2-week period (5 days/week), and including six stretching exercises for the
      neck.

      Patients are instructed individually by a physical therapist on how to perform each exercise
      and, after the first rehabilitation session, are encouraged to exercise regularly at home.
      Written and illustrated material explaining the home exercises are provided to all patients.

      At the end of the outpatient rehabilitation program, patients are randomized (using a
      randomization list provided by the statistical consultant) into two groups of 50 patients
      each. Patients of the first group are allocated to a home-based telemedicine (HBT) program
      for 6 months (HBT group), while those of the second group receive only recommendations to
      continue the exercises at home (Control group).

      The HBT intervention consists of fortnightly scheduled phone calls to patients over the
      6-month course of the study. A nurse-tutor collects information on: disease status, pain,
      disability, prodromal symptoms of exacerbation, number of home exercise sessions performed,
      and use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. In consultation with the physiatrist, the
      nurse gives advice on solutions for persistent pain and any symptoms of exacerbation. The
      patient is always encouraged to perform regularly the physical activity and the exercises
      prescribed. The physiatrist is involved as a second-opinion consultant.

      The patients are evaluated at entry and 6 months after the end of the outpatient
      rehabilitation by the same qualified physiatrist. At entry, scales of demonstrated
      reliability, validity and sensitivity are administered to assess comorbidity (evaluated with
      Cumulative Illness Rating Scale-Geriatrics), pain severity (10-point analogue scale), neck
      range of motion (manual goniometer), and neck disability (Neck Disability Index). Adherence
      to home exercises is evaluated 15 days and 6 months after the end of the outpatient
      rehabilitation and is self-reported.

      Differences in adherence to home exercises, pain intensity and neck disability, between
      baseline and 6-month follow up, are assessed and compared in the two groups.
    
  