
    
      Introduction:

      There are an estimated 40,000 people living with a Spinal Cord Injury (SCI) in the UK alone
      (http://www.apparelyzed.com/statistics.html). Although there have been improvements in
      medical care, mortality rates are still elevated compared to the able-bodied population. The
      most common underlying and contributing causes of death in SCI patients are diseases of the
      circulatory and respiratory system.

      It is recognised that weight gain is a common problem in patients with a SCI, typically
      occurring within the first year of rehabilitation and continuing life long. SCI patients have
      been shown to have an increased fat mass, waist circumference and altered lipid profile.
      Obesity in SCI patients can lead to an increased incidence of metabolic syndrome.

      Patient weight gain is thought to be attributed to the reduction in energy expenditure
      compared to pre-injury levels, the loss of voluntary muscle use below the spinal cord lesion
      and reduction in lean tissue mass. It has been shown that the basal metabolic rate (BMR) of
      SCI patients is lower than predicted, with the greatest difference being for high
      tetraplegics. Findings suggest there is an overestimation of energy requirements in a small
      population of medically stable SCI patients. In addition, SCI calorie and protein intake is
      high in this patient population, suggesting that patients are also exceeding their
      nutritional recommendations. Excess calorie intake, reduction in energy requirement and / or
      a reduction in exercise will predispose the SCI patient to weight gain and obesity. Further
      understanding of this energy imbalance needs to be addressed.

      This single centre feasibility study will initially determine if it is feasible to measure
      the 'actual' energy requirements of paraplegic and tetraplegic (ventilated and
      non-ventilated) in-patients during bed rest and rehabilitation following acute SCI. This
      preliminary data will be compared to 'predicted' energy expenditure levels. The calorie
      intake and body composition for each patient will be measured as well as factors indicative
      of metabolic syndrome. The study will initially provide statistical information in order to
      estimate the sample size required for a future definitive study on energy expenditure and
      development of metabolic syndrome in SCI patients. In addition, the feasibility study will
      address patient recruitment rates and reasons for withdrawal from the study and highlight any
      practicality issues with study conduct.

      Recruitment:

      15 acute paraplegic and 15 acute tetraplegic (ventilated and non-ventilated) inpatients will
      recruited.

      Methodology:

      The following procedures will be performed at bed rest, early mobilisation and hospital
      discharge:

      Measurement of Actual Energy Expenditure Actual resting energy expenditure (REE) is
      determined by measuring the oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production of a patient at
      rest using the GE Healthcare metabolic oxygenator. During the test, the individual is
      interfaced with a metabolic measurement system by means of a facemask. For ventilated
      patients, the monitor will be used with a cuffed tracheostomy tube.

      Software will be used to calculate the respiratory quotient (RQ).

      Calculating Predicted Energy Requirements Henry equations are used to predict the basal
      metabolic rate. Adjustments are made based on metabolic stress associated with illness and
      for obese individuals.

      Determining Dietary Intake The patient's dietary intake will be reported using the standard
      hospital food charts. These will be completed for all food and fluids taken providing an
      indication of portion sizes. The charts will be kept for 3 consecutive days at each time
      point and is based on a pragmatic approach to improve accuracy of completion over a short
      period of time whilst still providing daily variations in intake. Data will be collected so
      that it covers at least one day of a weekend.

      Anthropometric Measurements

      Anthropometric measurements will be taken to determine patient body fat and muscle. The
      following parameters will be measured:

        1. Mid Upper Arm Circumference (MUAC)

        2. Tricep Skinfold Thickness (TSF)

      Mid Arm Muscle Circumference (MAMC) will be calculated using the equation:

      MAMC = MUAC - 3.14 x TSF

      Metabolic Syndrome Measurements

      The following will be measured:

        1. Weight

        2. Height

        3. BMI Calculation

        4. Blood Pressure

        5. Waist Circumference

        6. Fasting glucose, HDL, triglycerides
    
  