
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Increased serum triglycerides are a significant independent risk factor for coronary artery
      disease and myocardial infarction. Besides typical lifestyle modification, the treatment with
      fibrates is standard in patients with hypertriglyceridemia. There is ample evidence that
      genetic factors influence triglyceride levels. Identifying genes, which affect triglyceride
      levels and moreover determining the response to fibrates is of great interest. Hispanics are
      among the populations with the highest prevalence of this disease. Therefore focusing on a
      high-risk population further adds to the overall significance of this study. Identifying
      genes and genetic mechanisms contributing to the treatment response can lead to new or
      improved treatment methods.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study tests the hypothesis that differences in therapeutic effects of fibrates are
      related to variations in networks of genes regulating lipoprotein metabolism. An efficient
      approach for identifying and categorizing major gene variants is based on determination of
      sequence haplotypes. Only Hispanics will be studied to provide a homogenous population for
      this genetic study. Furthermore, Hispanics are the fastest growing ethnic group in the U.S.
      and have a higher prevalence of hypertriglyceridemia than other ethnic groups. The
      investigators will measure plasma triglycerides (TG), other lipids and lipoproteins, and
      lipoprotein particle size before and after treatment with fenofibrate in 800 Hispanic
      individuals with hypertriglyceridemia. They will reconstruct the haplotypes of 16 candidate
      genes known to regulate TG metabolism and mediate the effect of fibrates. The associations
      between phenotypes and major haplotypes will be analyzed in a two stage design, with the
      first half of the sample serving a hypothesis-generating function. Those candidate gene
      haplotypes that are found to be associated with quantitative traits and drug responses in the
      first half of the sample will then be tested for confirmation in the second half. In
      addition, data from the full cohort will be analyzed to identify additional pharmacogenetic
      associations that may require greater statistical power. Finally, direct fine mapping will be
      performed in the four most promising genes to identify the responsible variations.
    
  