
    
      PATIENT ENROLMENT.

      It is expected that about 15 patients / year will be enrolled in this phase I-II protocol.
      Patient selection will be based on the following criteria:

      Eligibility Criteria:

        1. Any patient with one of the following lympho or myeloproliferative malignancies or
           syndromes in whom allogeneic NST is warranted. Patients with other selected
           malignancies/disorders may also be considered but must be approved by the transplant
           team and the Principal Investigator.

        2. Patient age > 50 years, or for patients <50 years of age but because of pre-existing
           medical conditions or prior therapy are considered to be at high risk for
           regimen-related toxicity associated with conventional myeloablative transplants.

        3. an HLA-identical sibling or matched unrelated donor is available. Patients with one
           antigen mismatched donors can be considered but only after discussion with the
           transplant team and the Principal Investigator.

      STEM CELL TRANSPLANTATION:

      (A) TLI Administration: see "brief description" (B) ATG: Thymoglobulin will be administered
      five times intravenously at 1.5 mg/kg/day from day -11 through day -7 for a total dose of 7.5
      mg/kg. Thymoglobulin doses will be based on the adjusted ideal body weight. Premedication for
      thymoglobulin will include solumedrol 1.0 mg/kg.

      Mobilized PBPC: The minimum cell doses (based on recipient body weight) for transplants are >
      5x106 CD34+ cells/kg. Cells collected on days -1 and 0 will be pooled and processed for
      infusion on day 0. Fresh cells (not frozen) are to be infused. For related donor transplants,
      if the target cell dose is not achieved then a third apheresis procedure may be performed on
      day+1 and the cells infused on the same day. Collection of cells for unrelated donor
      transplants will be coordinated through the Italian bone Marrow Transplant Registry and
      subject to the rules of that Program. If mobilized PBPC is not available through certain
      collection centers then bone marrow will be used.

      (F) Cyclosporine (CSP): CSP is given at 6.25 mg/kg p.o. b.i.d (9 a.m and 9 p.m.) from day -3
      until after the day +56 chimerism results are obtained. CSP will be tapered after the day +56
      chimerism results are obtained. If the day +56 chimerism results show >40% donor cells in the
      CD3+ lineage, and the patient is without evidence of GVHD then CSP taper will begin. The CSP
      will be tapered at 6% every week. Modifications of the taper schedule may be indicated if
      significant disease progression occurs early post-transplantation or the patient develops
      GVHD.

      (G) Mycophenylate mofetil (MMF): Administration of MMF will begin at 15 mg/kg po on day 0, at
      5-10 hours after mobilized PBPC infusion is complete. Thereafter,beginning on day +1 MMF is
      taken at 15 mg/kg po b.i.d. (30 mg/kg/day) if transplantation was using a matched related
      donor and 15 mg/kg po t.i.d if from a matched unrelated donor or a one antigen mismatched
      donor. Doses will be rounded up to the nearest 250 mg (capsules are 250 mg). MMF will be
      stopped on day +28 for matched related donors and for one antigen mismatched or unrelated
      donors beginning day +40 MMF will be tapered by 10% weekly till off, typically by day +96.

      POST-TRANSPLANT FOLLOW-UP

      Clinical: The incidence, severity and extent of acute and chronic GVHD will be monitored and
      scored according to standard criteria. As well, documented and presumed post-transplant
      infectious complications, rate of relapse, event-free and overall survival and transplant
      related mortality will be recorded.

      Assessment of Disease Response: Since the diseases treated on this protocol are heterogenous,
      appropriate disease specific studies will be performed to evaluate response to transplant.
      Responses will be classified as continued complete remission (CCR), achieved complete
      remission (CRa), partial response (PR), progressive disease (PD), or no response (NR).
      Disease response will be according to accepted criteria. All cases of progressive disease
      should be discussed with the Principal Investigators. If patients show evidence of
      progressive disease then they may be candidates for donor lymphocyte infusion.
    
  