
    
      BACKGROUND / RATIONALE:

      Studies have shown that people with poor health literacy skills have significantly worse
      health status, greater risk for hospitalization, less knowledge about their health
      conditions, and are less likely to use preventative services. Little is known about the
      prevalence of low health literacy skills among veterans who use the VHA or the effect poor
      health literacy skills may have on complex preventative behaviors, such as screening for
      colorectal cancer (CRC). Understanding the distribution of health literacy skills among
      veterans and their effect on preventive behavior is critical for improving patient education,
      reducing health disparities, and promoting patient-centered care.

      OBJECTIVE(S):

      The primary objectives for this study are to develop an estimate of the prevalence of health
      literacy at four geographically diverse VAMCs (Minneapolis, Portland, Durham, and West LA),
      and for specific groups based on age, race, education, and geographic location. The secondary
      objectives are to link health literacy estimates for those 50 to 75 years old to CRC
      screening data, examine variation in guideline concordant screening rates by health literacy
      levels, and identify the mechanisms that may mediate or moderate the effect of health
      literacy on screening.

      METHODS:

      This observational study uses a time-sequential randomized design of 1440 veterans,
      stratified by age (<50, 50-75, >75), who have upcoming appointments in primary care clinics
      at the 4 study sites. Patients who are eligible (i.e., have at least 20/50 vision and are not
      demented) are asked to participate in a face-to-face structured survey with a study
      interviewer. The survey includes demographic data, functional status, social support,
      measures of attitudes and beliefs about health care providers, health insurers, medical care
      and the Short-Test of Functional Health Literacy in Adults (S-TOFHLA). For those between ages
      50-75, knowledge of and attitudes towards CRC screening are also measured. Survey data are
      then matched to data from the CRC QUERI screening assessment and surveillance data system
      (CRS 02-162-1) to evaluate screening adherence.

      STATUS:

      Project work is ongoing.

      IMPACT:

      Findings from this study are expected to have a number of broad implications for research and
      practice within the VHA. This project will inform organizational changes aimed to improve the
      efficacy and efficiency of communication strategies and identify areas where interventions or
      system-level changes could be most effective; inform improvements in informed consent
      procedures, patient education, discharge summaries and prescription instructions; inform and
      improve the effectiveness of interventions and the Quality Enhancement and Research
      Initiative (QUERI) translation efforts; provide the basis for future longitudinal
      investigations into how health literacy changes over time; and, contribute to our
      understanding and amelioration of factors associated with health disparities.
    
  