
    
      Acute circulatory failure is a dramatically common issue in critical care, affecting nearly
      1/3 of the patients admitted in ICU, and associated with a high morbi-mortality.
      Echocardiography enables a quick point of care assessment of the hemodynamic status of the
      patient. One key parameter is stroke volume, which can be estimated by LVOT VTI.

      In practice, the guidelines recommend measuring LVOT VTI in a 5 chambers cavity window with
      pulsed wave doppler, trying to get an angle between aortic flow and the doppler signal as
      cloth as possible to 0°. Than VTI must be calculated from an average of 3 to 5 cycles in
      sinus rhythm, or 5 to 10 cycles in arrythmia such as atrial fibrillation. The main issue is
      that this approach is time consuming and tedious, and most of the practitioners choose to
      measure only the most representative beat (" Best VTI "), likely to be source of a loss of
      reproducibility.

      In order to make it easier, some companies have developed softwares to help the intensivist.
      Thereby, General Electric has equiped the VENUE echograph with a system that helps first
      selecting the proper place for sampling, and then automatically acquire, trace, and calculate
      the average LVOT VTI based on a 4 seconds sample. Finally, this tool gives a VTI trending
      when several measures are repeated along the patient' stay.

      This program has already been tested on a swine model in hemorrhagic shock with encouraging
      results (better agreement with cardiac output by thermodilution with the automated method
      than with the manual one). However, feasibility was only 60%.

      This human study aims at assessing the interest of automated LVOT VTI measurement compared to
      the manual standard one when performing a cardiac echography for hemodynamic assessment of
      patients hospitalised in ICU. Otherwise, a measure of the " Best-VTI " will be done at the
      same time in accordance with the current practice, in order to assess this approach.

      Finally, when a fluid resuscitation will be indicated, a second exam will be done, and
      agreement of VTI variation between automated and manual method studied.
    
  