
    
      Patients will undergo behavioral and electrophysiological evaluation before, immediately
      after, 30 and 90 days after 10 sessions (follow ups). They will be submitted to the following
      evaluations: (i) Fugl-Meyer Scale; (ii) Jebsen-Taylor hand functional test; (iii) Box-Block
      test; (iv) Motor Activity Log - 30; (v) Geriatric Depression Scale - 15; (vi) Beck Depression
      Inventory; (vii) Stroke Impact Scale; (viii) Hand Grip Strength and (iv) Modified Ashworth
      Scale. In addition, one question of motivation will be answered by patients in different
      stages of the treatment: (i) motivation regarding their own life at the beginning and ending
      of the treatment; (ii) daily motivation at the beginning of each session; (iii) motivation of
      the last week at the fifth and tenth sessions; (iv) motivation regarding their own life at 30
      and 90 days after the ending of the treatment. A visual scale will be used to assess
      patient's motivation through five potential answers: "very little", "little", "more or less",
      "very much" and "extremely".

      Electrophysiological measures will be performed before and after each session and in follow
      ups.

      Evaluation of brain activity will be performed using single-pulse transcranial magnetic
      stimulation (TMS-p) only in Recife Centre. Magnetic stimulation (Neurosoft, Russia) will be
      applied through a figure-8 coil to determine motor cortex representation of first dorsal
      interosseus muscle (hotspot) and performed the following electrophysiological measures, in
      both cerebral hemispheres, to assess cortical activity: (i) Motor Evoked Potential (MEP);
      (ii) Active motor threshold (AMT) and (iii) Silent period (PS).

      Evaluation of brain activity will be performed using single-pulse transcranial magnetic
      stimulation (TMS-p) only in Recife Centre. Magnetic stimulation (Neurosoft, Russia) will be
      applied through a figure-8 coil kept at a 45 degree angle relative to the sagittal line and
      pointed to the anterior region of the skull. Firstly, patients will be instructed to sit in a
      chair and to search a comfortable position. TMS-p will be applied in both motor cortex,
      healthy and injured, to determine the cortical representation of first dorsal interosseus
      muscle. The hotspot will be considered the most excitable area, with more intense motor
      evoked potential (MEP), measured by electromyography.

      The following electrophysiological measures will be performed in both cerebral hemispheres to
      assess cortical activity:

      (i) Motor Evoked Potential (MEP) : the intensity of magnetic stimulator is adjusted to
      produce an average MEP of 1.0 mV. TMS-p will be applied in the area of cortical
      representation of the first dorsal interosseous and mean responses to stimuli should reach
      0.8 mV to 1.2 mV.

      (ii) Active motor threshold (AMT) : will be request to the patient to perform contraction of
      the first interosseous muscle and then, will be given ten pulses by TMS-p to determinate
      active motor threshold. Motor threshold corresponds to the lowest intensity of TMS-p to
      produce a MEP of 50 μV in 50% of the pulses applied to the hotspot.

      (iii) Silent period (PS) : is the interval of time that usually is observed absence of
      electromyographic activity. Occurs immediately after the registration of MEP during voluntary
      contraction of the target muscle (PEMvc - motor evoked potentials recorded during voluntary
      contraction). Higher the intensity of the magnetic stimulation, longer the duration of PS.

      During tDCS application, patients will be seated in a comfortable chair with head and arms
      rests. Current will be applied by a DC stimulator (NeuroConn, Germany) using a pair of
      saline-soaked sponge electrodes (surface 24 cm²).

      Bihemispheric tDCS will be applied to primary motor cortex (M1) in left and right
      hemispheres. These points correspond to C3 and C4 according to International 10-20 EEG
      system. Anode will be placed to M1 in affected hemisphere, while the cathode is positioned to
      M1 over the unaffected hemisphere. Parameters of current intensity and duration (dose) used
      were previously established in poststroke patients: 2 mA stimulation intensity for 20 minutes
      with current ramping up and down of 10 seconds each.

      Sham tDCS has been used in several studies to evaluate the effect of active tDCS. In placebo
      stimulation, intensity and electrode's positions are the same as in the active group,
      however, current duration is only 30 seconds, with current ramping up and down of 10 seconds
      each. Moreover, the electrostimulation device is automatically turned off without patient's
      perception. Thus, patients experience early sensations (mild to moderate tingling) in
      stimulation site without inducing effect. Moreover, after each tDCS session, patients will
      answer adverse effects questionnaire.

      After apply tDCS, 40 minutes of individual and intensive physical therapy session will be
      performed. Goals of the physical therapy protocol were discussed based in neuroplasticity
      principles by a group of experienced physiotherapists. Physical therapy activities will be
      focused on rehabilitation of upper limb and will cover the following purposes: flexibility,
      transfer and posture, coordination, balance and sensorial stimulation. Depending on patient's
      ability, a program of activities for each purpose will be adapted by a trained physical
      therapist.

      The study will be conducted simultaneously in three research centers in Brazil: Applied
      Neuroscience Laboratory (LANA), Universidade Federal de Pernambuco (UFPE), Pernambuco,
      Brazil; D'Or Institute for Research and Education (ID'Or), Botafogo, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
      and at the University Center Augusto Mota (UNISUAM), Bonsucesso Unit, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
    
  