
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is a chronic degenerative joint disease of considerable socio-economic
      impact, of which a primary and a secondary form are distinguished. Primary OA is a mild form
      that occurs mainly in the joints of the hands, feet, knee, and hip, and appears in young
      subjects. Secondary OA derives from different factors that modify the microenvironment of the
      cartilage such as trauma, congenital joint deformities, metabolic defects, infections that
      cause post-infectious arthritis, endocrine and neuropathic diseases and disorders that alter
      the normal structure and function of hyaline cartilage (eg . rheumatoid arthritis, gout,
      chondrocalcinosis), and is more prevalent in old age.

      As regards the secondary form of OA, correlated with advancing age due to the natural aging
      process of the joint and to events of a traumatic nature, it is hypothesized that a key role
      in the etiology and progression of the disease may be played by the genre. Immune responses
      are known to differ in males and females. Some meta-analyzes reveal how the presence of some
      polymorphisms (ADAM12) in male patients predispose to the development of OA more than in
      women, especially in the knee joint. Furthermore, new molecular evidence suggests that in
      patients with OA there is a gender-specific activation of PI3K-AKT and hypoxia signaling,
      suggesting the presence of possible gender-specific protein factors that may modulate bone
      metabolism and disease progression. In this regard, studies evaluating the responses of joint
      chondrocytes to systemic factors suggest that there are differences in the biochemical and
      molecular characteristics of male and female cells, without prejudice to the fundamental role
      of hormones in the different gender-specific response to the development and progression of
      pathology.

      It is widely known that the regulation of bone remodeling processes is entrusted to a
      hormonal mechanism, which mainly involves parathyroid hormone, vitamin D and calcitonin.
      Other hormone regulators involved are sex hormones (estrogen, testosterone), thyroid
      hormones, corticosteroids (including cortisone), insulin, and growth factors (including
      growth hormone).

      In the development of OA it is thought that sex hormones may act in a prevalent way. In women
      of childbearing age, estrogen has a protective action on the bone, inhibiting bone
      remodeling, especially bone resorption; while in the post-menopausal period, circulating
      estrogens are reduced compared to testosterone, strongly contributing to an imbalance in bone
      remodeling, favoring the stiffening of the subchondral bone and the development of
      osteophytes at the joint margins. The osteophytes seem to be developed in an attempt to
      stabilize the joint damage. Consequently, the synovial membrane becomes inflamed and
      thickened, producing synovial fluid with less viscosity and in greater quantities and
      favoring the development of an inflammatory process on site. Obviously, the entire joint will
      be damaged up to the reduction of joint mobility and ankylosis.

      Similarly men, even if they do not undergo a real andropause, starting from 45 years of age
      they suffer a progressive decline in the production and release of testosterone, whose levels
      after the age of 65 are no longer sufficient to maintain good efficiency of the bone tissue
      favoring its resorption and the possible onset of the pathology. However, it is not known
      whether the potential differences related to gender, in terms of hormonal release and
      alteration of bone homeostasis, may be related to the severity of the disease, that is to the
      development of the inflammatory condition associated with it.

      It is therefore necessary to highlight another characteristic of OA, both in terms of
      development and progression, namely the different inflammatory response based on the
      patient's gender. In OA, as with other inflammatory diseases, the response of the male immune
      system induced by inflammation of the synovium and synovial fluid is different than in the
      female counterpart, suggesting that there could be differences between the two sexes in the
      levels of immunomodulators in joint tissues, including the synovial membrane, synovial fluid
      and cartilage itself. Recent studies attribute to the inflammatory microenvironment a key
      role in the prognosis of the disease.

      Recently, the investigators obtained evidences regarding the role of microRNAs and lncRNAs as
      biomarkers of bone regeneration, directly involving specific cellular signalings (hypoxia,
      epithelium-mesenchyma transition and mechano-transduction), and representing, in some cases,
      a crucial point for the development of orthopedic diseases, such as osteoporosis, OA and
      forms of degeneration of the intervertebral discs. From an ongoing screening on tissue
      (joint) miRNA and lncRNA differently expressed and which could play a key role in the process
      of osseointegration of the prosthetic implant, miR-31-5p, miR-33a-5p, miR-133a, miR-675-5p
      and lncH19 were also evaluated. The correlation analysis between their expression profile and
      the patient's gender show a different expression of some of them and a gender-specific
      response on target genes and signaling.

      The hypothesis of the study is that there are gender differences that contribute to the
      increase in the incidence and severity of OA, both in molecular terms (qualitative and
      quantitative differences in miRNAs involved in transcriptional and translational gene
      regulation) and inflammatory, such as differences in the development and progression of the
      lymphocyte population, involved in the OA-related inflammatory response. Therefore, the study
      aims to identify, characterize and evaluate an expression panel of tissue and circulating
      miRNAs isolated from patients with both mild and moderate-severe OA, who undergo prosthetic
      surgery, so as to be able to define possible gender-specific biomarkers of disease
      progression useful for controlling the osteointegration process of the prosthetic implant,
      and to be correlated with the pre- and post-operative inflammatory response.

      The biological study involves the collection of samples from patients of both sexes suffering
      from OA, be it mild or moderate-severe, who undergo endo or arthro-prosthesis surgery, or
      arthroscopy. In particular, the following samples will be collected: 1) cells, such as
      synoviocytes, osteoblasts and chondrocytes deriving from operating waste tissues; 2) synovial
      fluid isolated during the operation; and 3) peripheral blood, from which to isolate the
      plasma and the lymphocyte component, taken 24 hours before surgery, and 72 hours and 1 month
      after surgery.

      The miRNAs will be isolated from the samples isolated from tissues and plasma and will be
      molecularly characterized in order to identify a panel (also built starting from information
      obtained from the literature) expressed on the basis of the gender and severity of OA. The
      identified miRNAs will be validated, in vitro, using a specific molecular approach. The
      lymphocyte component of the blood and, isolated by means of special separation protocols
      through cell-specific magnetic beads, will be phenotypically characterized by a flow
      cytometric approach. The lymphocyte populations that will show a different phenotype between
      the male and female gender in correlation with the aggressiveness of the disease, will be
      analyzed and monitored over time up to 1 month of follow-up together with the analysis of
      synovial fluids, through in vitro studies of cytokine release and ELISA assays.
    
  