
    
      The mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) is a class of low immunogenicity from mesoderm, had the
      self-renewal and differentiation potential as pluripotent stem cells. The umbilical cord is
      one of the important sources of MSC. Human UC-MSC compared with the bone marrow-derived MSC
      has the following advantages: (1) the umbilical cord, as a "waste" after giving birth can be
      obtained without any harm to the donor. (2) easy available, and no ethical issues. (3) its
      likelihood of contamination is small because of the protection of the placental barrier. (4)
      human UC-MSC has a stronger amplification capacity, a shorter doubling time, a higher colony
      forming efficiency and lower immunogenicity. (5) which avoids the activity and
      differentiation of bone marrow-derived MSC latent with the donor disadvantage of increasing
      age decreased.

      human UC-MSC not only for hematopoietic stem cell graft implantation and amplification has a
      role in promoting and exhibit immunomodulatory effects and characteristics of damaged or
      targeted sites of chronic inflammation. human UC-MSC in the prevention and treatment of
      graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) induced organ transplantation immune tolerance and other
      fields has broad application prospects.

      After more than 10 years of exploration, the investigators and other practitioners caught
      studies found that the umbilical cord is more suitable as mesenchymal stem cells seed cells
      relative to the bone marrow, umbilical cord easily obtained, no ethical issues, better
      amplification ability in vitro, viral contamination risk is small, and many other advantages.
      Therefore, over the years, the investigator team for the umbilical cord mesenchymal stem
      cells in a lot of the basic work has been confirmed that mesenchymal stem cells derived from
      the umbilical cord had safety and effectiveness in in the treatment of acute graft versus
      host disease in zoology test, and successfully establish a perfect umbilical cord mesenchymal
      stem cells in standard operating procedures (including screening umbilical cord, large-scale
      preparation, quality inspection, preservation, recovery, transportation, infusion, etc.). The
      investigators will carry out the clinical research based on above preliminary results.
    
  