
    
      This is a Phase I/II clinical trial. A Phase I clinical trial tests the safety of
      investigational drugs or new combinations of approved drugs. In addition, a Phase I study
      tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational drugs to use for further studies.
      "Investigational" means that the drugs are being studied. Following the phase I study,
      additional participants will be enrolled to the Phase II component. The phase II component
      will test the safest doses of alectinib and cobimetinib (as identified in the Phase I
      component) in a larger group of patients.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved alectinib as a treatment option
      for this disease.

      The FDA has not approved cobimetinib as a treatment for this specific disease. However,
      cobimetinib is approved for treatment of melanoma, another type of cancer.

      Alectinib is an oral ALK inhibitor made by the pharmaceutical company Genentech. The term ALK
      inhibitor means that alectinib targets the abnormal ALK protein that is causing your lung
      cancer cells to grow. Alectinib has been tested in other clinical research studies and
      results show that the drug may help stop the growth and spread of ALK+ lung cancer cells.

      Cobimetinib is an oral inhibitor of MEK, a signaling protein that can cause some types of
      lung cancer to grow. Cobimetinib is also made by Genentech. Laboratory studies suggest that
      ALK and MEK may work together to help ALK+ lung cancer cells grow. In the laboratory,
      combination treatment with drugs targeting ALK and MEK prevented lung cancer cells from
      growing. It is possible that combination treatment with alectinib and cobimetinib will work
      better than alectinib alone to control the spread of the cancer.

      In this research study, the investigators are trying to determine whether the combination of
      alectinib and cobimetinib is safe and well tolerated. This study will help determine the
      doses of the drugs that should be used in the Phase II portion of this study. Another purpose
      of this study is to determine whether adding cobimetinib to alectinib is effective for
      treating lung cancer that has already stopped responding to alectinib alone. In order to help
      understand why the cancer may have stopped responding to alectinib and whether treatment with
      the two drugs effectively blocks growth signals, all participants in this study will have
      periodic blood collections and undergo multiple biopsies.
    
  