
    
      Benzodiazepines (BZDs) have been reported to cause negative impacts on motor as well as
      cognitive functions, which in turn could result in lethal incidents including falls
      especially in the elderly. This notwithstanding, few trials have evaluated a feasibility and
      benefits of discontinuing BZD-derivative hypnotics in a systematic manner in this frail
      population. In this study, we examined changes in motor and cognitive functions following the
      discontinuation of BZD hypnotics in older persons.

      In this 8-week open-label study, subjects aged 50 or older who receive BZD as a hypnotic and
      do not have any unstable physical illness, or neurological disorder will be recruited. The
      BZD dose will be discontinued in 4 weeks by a weekly 25% reduction.

      Following assessments will be performed at baseline 12 hours postdose and at endpoint: the
      Clinical Stabilometric Platform (CSP), the Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of
      Neuropsychological Status (RBANS) and the Critical Flicker Fusion Test (CFF), the Leeds Sleep
      Evaluation Questionnaire (LSEQ). The CSP measures the stability of body, with the eyes opened
      or closed.

      All psychotropic agents other than the BZD-derivative hypnotics will be kept constant
      throughout the study.

      The dose reduction will be terminated if any of the following conditions are fulfilled:

        1. Clinical worsening in sleep defined as a CGI-Global Improvement score of 7

        2. Participant's request

        3. Clinical decision on the part of the physician of record or independent consulting
           physician In the event that a participant needs a dose increment for anxiety and
           insomnia, the dose will be increased back to the previous dose, and they will be
           followed for the rest of the study period. In addition, the use of trazodone (25-100
           mg/day) will be allowed anytime throughout the study period.
    
  