
    
      REMoDLB is a trial which aims to determine whether the addition of bortezomib (a drug that
      blocks the action of cellular complexes that break down proteins) to standard combination
      chemotherapy (called R-CHOP) improves how long patients with diffuse large B cell lymphoma
      survive without a recurrence of the disease. Results from recent research have suggested that
      patients can be divided into two biologically distinct subgroups labeled GCB (germinal centre
      derived B-cells like) and ABC (activated peripheral B-cells like).

      GCB patients tend to do well with standard combination chemotherapy, but ABC patients have
      the majority of treatment failures. It is thought that ABC patients will benefit most from
      the addition of bortezomib.

      The trial will be discussed with the patient. They will be asked to consent to molecular
      profiling of their tumour block whilst they have some time to consider whether they wish to
      enter the main trial. This will allow more time for this sample to be analysed and their
      particular biological subgroup to be determined.

      All patients consenting to enter the main study will be given an initial cycle of RCHOP
      chemotherapy. Within each subgroup (ABC or GCB) patients will be randomly assigned to receive
      either RCHOP or RCHOP and bortezomib to ensure that the same number of each biological
      subgroup will receive the two treatments. All patients will then have 5 cycles of their
      assigned treatment regimen (either RCHOP or RCHOP and bortezomib). All patients will be
      followed up for a period of five years once they have completed their chemotherapy. The GCB
      group receiving RCHOP and bortezomib will be regularly checked to see if the new treatment is
      improving survival without recurrence of the disease. If the addition of bortezomib is not
      found to be beneficial for this group of patients this part of the trial will be stopped and
      all GCB patients will receive the standard treatment only (RCHOP).

      It is anticipated that between 560 and 892 patients will be randomly allocated to the two
      treatments, the exact number depends on whether the GCB group receiving RCHOP and bortezomib
      is stopped or not.
    
  