
    
      The objectives of the proposed project are to examine the feasibility of delivering a
      combined yoga and MR intervention to VA patients with PTSD and cLBP and/or cNP within a
      randomized controlled trial study design. MR enhances the active yoga intervention for this
      specific population by providing a portable tool for managing stress and anxiety, and
      improving mental and emotional functioning in situations of daily life. The investigators
      will recruit and randomize 32 Veterans with PTSD to either enhanced yoga interventions or a
      relaxation/health education (R/HE) comparison intervention. The goal of the pilot randomized
      trial is to demonstrate the acceptability of the interventions, to study the feasibility of
      recruitment, retention, adherence, randomization, and assessments with military Veterans with
      PTSD, and to measure any adverse events. Data will inform plans for a full-scale
      effectiveness RCT.

      Researchers and content experts will adapt and blend two manualized interventions (MR and
      yoga) into a single manualized and acceptable intervention. In addition, the existing yoga
      intervention and MR manuals will be adapted to provide a structured intervention guide for
      instructors. Next, the investigators will recruit and screen 32 Veterans with PTSD. Eligible
      participants will be randomized to either the enhanced yoga interventions or the (R/HE)
      comparison intervention. Assessments will occur at baseline, 12-weeks, and again 6-weeks
      after the intervention ends (18-weeks). The enhanced yoga intervention will consist of 1x
      weekly instructor-led yoga sessions lasting approximately 75 minutes, augmented by home
      practice of yoga for 20 minutes/day. The R/HE control intervention will be manualized and
      will meet weekly for 12 weeks for approximately 75 minutes per week. Short homework
      assignments will be included. The investigators will track and measure adverse events,
      recruitment rates, attendance and home practice rates, use of MR and yoga principles in daily
      life, attrition rates, and time to complete assessments. Questionnaires will assess
      pain-related function, pain, PTSD symptoms, insomnia/sleep, alcohol use, and quality of life.
      The investigators will also conduct qualitative interviews with 12 study participants to
      examine acceptability, recommendations, and factors affecting attendance and attrition. The
      investigators will target 7-8 yoga participants and 4-5 control participants. Data will be
      used to plan a full-scale RCT powered to detect differences in health outcomes.
    
  