
    
      This randomized controlled trial will be conducted in Zhangwu People's Hospital in Liaoning
      Province, Qingtongxia People's Hospital in Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region and Dianjiang
      People's Hospital in Chongqing City. Eligible and consenting stroke in patients with residual
      disability will be randomized into the intervention group or control group after they have
      passed the acute care stage and approved by their physicians to be recruited into the study.
      Standardized baseline assessments for all patients include Barthel Index (activities of daily
      living), modified Rankin Scale, and other demographic, disease history, lifestyle, and health
      information. Nurses in the county hospital will be trained by rehabilitation specialists and
      will in turn train the family caregivers of patients in the intervention group with the aid
      of an easy-to-understand picture-rich rehabilitation manual, specially designed for this
      study. The content of training is based on 10 domains in the Barthel Index, which can be
      classified into 3 groups: mobility, self-care, and toileting. Nurses will do the telephone
      based follow-up to patients at approximately 2, 4, and 8 weeks post-discharge to provide
      follow-up care and consultation. Follow-up evaluation of all patients will be conducted by
      researchers not involved in the intervention. Pre-discharge evaluation including Barthel
      Index, modified Rankin Scale and Functional Ambulation Category will be conducted face to
      face with patients, . 3 months and 6 months evaluation will be conducted via telephone based
      interview.3 months evaluation includes living condition, Barthel Index ,modified Rankin
      Scale, hospitalization condition and medicine usage. Based on 3 months evaluation, 6 months
      evaluation includes additional measures: Functional Ambulation Classification, EQ-5D, 9-item
      Patient Health Questionnaire, physical examination and caregiver burden. Primary outcome will
      be the Barthel Index score at 6-month after hospital discharge. The study will be conducted
      in 2 phases: 1) pilot study (Lasting for 2 months, 30 patients in Zhangwu People's Hospital
      and 30 patients in Qingtongxia People's hospital); and 2) main study (Lasting for 15 months,
      100 patients in Zhangwu People's Hospital, 100 patients in Qingtongxia People's hospital and
      60 patients in Dianjiang People's Hospital). Information from pilot study will be used for
      refinement of the intervention and study implementation. Patients in the pilot study will be
      followed until the end of the study, resulting in a total of 320 patients.

      Primary Hypothesis: The innovative caregiver-delivered nurse-organized rehabilitation
      intervention, compared to usual care, will significantly improve physical functioning of
      disabled stroke patients in rural China, as measured by the Barthel Index (activities of
      daily living) at six months after hospital discharge.
    
  