
    
      Heart failure (HF) is a major and growing public health problem with more than 5 million
      identified cases and an incidence of over 600,000 new cases per year in the United States
      alone. Close to 1 million hospitalizations for heart failure occur annually, accounting for
      over 6.5 million hospital days and a substantial portion of the estimated $37.2 billion that
      is spent each year on HF in the United States. Nearly half of all patients with HF have so
      called heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). The 5-year mortality for HFpEF
      has been reported as high as 50-65%. There are no current evidenced-based HFpEF therapies
      beyond diuretic control for fluid overload and standard treatments for comorbidities, making
      HFpEF an exemplary example of an unmet medical need of a rising societal burden and that is
      associated with substantial morbidity and mortality.

      In HFpEF, sympathetic nervous system (SNS) hyperactivity results in decreased splanchnic
      capacitance causing more blood to be distributed into the central venous and arterial system.
      This leads to increase central venous pressure, pulmonary pressures and right/left heart
      pressures, which ultimately results in: congestions, diuretic resistance, acute
      decompensations leading to rehospitalization, dyspnea and intolerance to even mild exercise,
      and progressive diastolic dysfunction.

      We believe that blocking of the GSN will stop SNS activity from reaching the splanchnic
      vessels and result in a redistribution of blood volume back into the splanchnic reservoir,
      which will result in reduction of central venous, pulmonary and right and left heart
      pressures. For patients with HFpEF we expect these changes to improve dyspnea and capacity to
      exercise, improve quality of life, increased diuretic responsiveness, Furthermore, the
      expected benefits of unloading the central venous and arterial system through GSN ablation
      should improve hemodynamic control and lessen the incidence and severity of acute
      decompensations leading to reduced re-hospitalizations and associated healthcare costs. This
      has the potential for significant social and healthcare impact.

      Sympathetic and parasympathetic innervation is carried to the upper abdominal viscera by the
      GSN, lesser splanchnic nerve (LSN) and least splanchnic nerve (LTSN), which originate from
      the 5th to 8th, 9th to 10th, and 11th thoracic ganglia, respectively.
    
  