
    
      This study will be conducted in 2 phases. Phase 1 evaluates cavrotolimod given in combination
      with pembrolizumab in patients with advanced solid tumors in a classical 3+3 dose escalation
      design, with up to five ascending dose cohorts of cavrotolimod and enrollment of at least 3
      patients per cohort to identify an RP2D. Patients will be dosed twice with cavrotolimod as a
      monotherapy before adding pembrolizumab, which will be added starting at the second cycle.
      Once the MTD or highest escalation cohort has been reached, or notable efficacy has been
      observed at a given dose level, and a decision as to a RP2D has been made, a two 2-stage
      expansion cohort design will be initiated.

      Phase 2 will evaluate the RP2D of cavrotolimod given in combination with pembrolizumab or
      cemiplimab in two expansion cohorts following a modified Simon 2-stage optimal design
      comprised of patients with Merkel cell carcinoma or cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma. who
      previously received and have progressed on an anti-PD-(L)1 CPI. Patients in the Merkel Cell
      Carcinoma cohort will receive IT cavrotolimod combined with a fixed, standard dose of
      pembrolizumab while the Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma cohort will receive IT cavrotolimod
      combined with a fixed, standard dose of cemiplimab.

      Phase 2 will include an exploratory expansion cohort to evaluate cavrotolimod in combination
      with pembrolizumab in patients with other advanced solid tumors, including melanoma, who have
      progressed on anti-PD-(L)1 therapy.

      Exploratory expansion cohorts will evaluate patients with melanoma and additional patients
      with Merkel Cell Carcinoma who do not meet criteria for enrollment in the primary Merkel Cell
      Carcinoma cohort. In addition, two exploratory cohorts have been added to evaluate patients
      with advanced solid tumors and no superficial tumor accessible for IT injection using
      subcutaneously administered cavrotolimod or IT injection into liver metastases.

      A cohort of up to 10 evaluable patients with locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors with
      no superficial tumor lesions available for IT injection may be enrolled (inclusion criterion
      #4). The inclusion/exclusion criteria for this exploratory cohort will otherwise be the same
      as those used for the Phase 2 dose expansion cohorts except these patients will not be
      required to have a lesion accessible for biopsy (inclusion criterion #5). Patients will be
      dosed with cavrotolimod subcutaneously at a dose not to exceed the recommended Phase 2 dose,
      32 mg, in combination with pembrolizumab.
    
  