
    
      The increased use of epidural anesthesia during labor has lead to an increased incidence of
      prolonged second stage as an indication for cesarean section or instrumental delivery. The
      use of oxytocin has proven to be an effective method of augmentation of labor in such
      prolonged labor cases. However, despite oxytocin augmentation, there has been an increase in
      the number of cases that require cesarean section or instrumental delivery to effect
      delivery.

      McRobert's maneuver, which is often used in to relieve shoulder dystocia, has recently been
      shown to increase intrauterine pressure approximately two-fold. However; it is an arduous
      position for the pregnant woman to maintain over a long period of time. Developing
      alternative methods to maximize expulsive forces, both uterine contractions and maternal
      expulsive effort, may be of great value in reducing the number of cesarean sections or
      instrumental deliveries.

      Various researchers have investigated the effect of an occlusal support device (OSD) on the
      isometric strength of different muscle groups, e.g., neck, back, and extremities. The natural
      condition of dental occlusion, also known as the index of physical performance, has an affect
      on both muscle strength and body balance. When occlusal support is given to edentulous
      individuals they show improved physical exercise ability after the re-establishment of
      mandibular support. Patients whose dentition is in proper occlusion demonstrate greater
      endurance of isometric muscle strength than those who are in malocclusion. We hypothesize
      that optimization of dental occlusion by an OSD may improve muscle strength, leading to
      increased intrauterine pressure during the second stage in labor.

      The aim of our study is to investigate whether the use of the OSD results in a shortened
      duration of the second stage of labor.
    
  