
    
      Just like the tissues surrounding a natural tooth, the structures around a dental implant,
      the support of an artificial tooth, can host a severe inflammation, called peri-implantitis.
      Once it has developed, peri-implantitis is irreversible, and causes the loss of the mucosa
      and osseous support of the implant, leading inevitably to its loss. The mean prevalence of
      peri-implantitis is about 10% of all implants, and this pathology affects up to 20% of
      patients, from 5 to 10 years after surgery. This disease is, therefore, a real public health
      issue, and a major medico-economic challenge for present-day dentistry. If, like
      periodontitis (infection/inflammation of the tissues surrounding a natural tooth),
      peri-implantitis seems to be multifactorial, it is proven that a diverse and pathogenic
      bacterial flora colonizes the peri-implant tissues and plays a major role in bone loss. Poor
      oral hygiene and uncontrolled diabetes are among the known risk factors. Furthermore, a link
      has been clearly established between an antecedent of periodontitis and the risk of
      contracting peri-implantitis. However, this infection tends to progress slowly, before any
      clinical symptoms appear (e.g. suppuration, pain, implant mobility) which means that the
      pathology is advanced and is, most often, going to lead to implant loss. At present only very
      early diagnosis and treatment (at the mucositis stage) are able to stabilize the evolution of
      this disease. Moreover, present-day treatments (surgical debridement, with or without bone
      regeneration) are not easily reproducible, leading to an unfavorable prognosis. If prevention
      of peri-implant disease (follow-up examination, radiography, peri-implant probing and perfect
      oral hygiene) is essential to maintaining healthy peri-implant tissues, it does not guarantee
      the implant's sustainability. Indeed, peri-implant tissues are scar tissues, less well
      vascularized than periodontal tissues, and without the periodontal ligament, which links the
      tooth to the surrounding bone and plays an immune-protective role. Thus, peri-implant sites
      are less well-organized to resist oral bacterial assault, which certainly explains the high
      prevalence of peri-implant diseases. No correlation was found between the implant surface
      treatment or the implant design, and the development of a peri-implantitis.

      However, neither the onset, nor the trigger, nor even the mechanisms underlying the
      progression of peri-implantitis are clearly understood at the moment. Even if the
      inflammatory role of bacterial dysbiosis remains predominant, several lines of evidence
      suggest that the bacterial etiology is not sufficient to totally explain the pathology,
      especially the initial stages, its non-reversible inflammatory nature, and the failure of
      antibiotic therapies.

      A possible synergy between the peri-implant bacteria pathogenicity and the
      replication/activation of endogenous herpes virus seems to be a hypothesis in the development
      of peri-implantitis. This model of viro-bacterial synergy represents one of the major
      mechanistic advances concerning periodontitis.

      A previous study, (Vincent et al., 20135), in particular, proved that the Epstein-Barr Virus
      (EBV) infection, an ubiquitous human herpesvirus with chronic oral replication, was
      detectable in healthy gums, and grew significantly in the deepest periodontal pockets.
      Moreover, this study clearly established for the first time that the epithelial cells
      surrounding periodontally affected teeth were frequently infected by EBV, and showed a high
      susceptibility to apoptosis. This epithelial damage characterized by the death of infected
      cells, certainly contributes to the loss of attachment between bone and teeth, promoting
      bacterial invasion and serious inflammation.

      There is still little data on the involvement of EBV in peri-implantitis, but it has been
      recently proved that the virus is present twelve times more often in an affected peri-implant
      area than in a healthy area, with a positive predictive value between EBV and
      peri-implantitis of 90%. Moreover, EBV has been associated to the most severe cases of
      peri-implantitis. In addition, a significant correlation between EBV and mucositis
      (reversible initial stage of peri-implant inflammation) seems to exist. If it is accepted
      that untreated mucositis systematically evolves into irreversible periimplantitis any early
      identification of mucositis markers would allow treatment at an early stage of the disease.
      Finally, this data is also supported by our own recent preliminary results that show the
      presence of EBV in peri-implantitis sites.

      All these results point to the proposition that EBV may play a role in the onset and/or the
      development of peri-implantitis. The objective of this research project is to test this
      hypothesis and see if the results for periodontitis could be applied to peri-implantitis.

      This is an original project that it now seems essential to investigate as part of a clinical
      study. It draws on the already established expertise of the research laboratory of the
      Faculty of Dentistry (MICORALIS, directed by Dr Alain Doglio), associated with Nice
      University Hospital Dental Department, and is the continuity of Dr Vincent's work. The
      evidence of an implication of EBV in peri-implantitis could open a way to identifying a new
      early pathogenic marker and lead to a new antiviral therapeutic approach, which could, in
      time, prevent implant loss.
    
  