
    
      Sustaining a spinal cord injury can impose significant physical dependency and results in
      financial and psychological challenges to the individual, family and the community at large.
      For persons with cervical levels of injury (tetraplegia), there is often the loss of hand and
      upper limb function, which is one of the most devastating consequences of spinal cord injury.
      The use of hands and upper limbs is needed for daily activities such as feeding, dressing,
      bathing and toileting. Good hand function plays an important role in the ability to transfer
      from a bed to a wheelchair, to sit up or to lie down. Not surprisingly, the majority of
      people with tetraplegia rate recovery of hand function as their highest priority.

      One of the most promising approaches to improving hand function is functional electrical
      stimulation, which uses bursts of short electrical pulses to generate muscle contractions.
      Functional electrical stimulation enables a person, who would otherwise have paralyzed hands,
      to grasp and release objects. Although Canadian researchers are at the forefront of upper
      limb rehabilitation, and have recently developed state-of-the-art therapeutic treatments that
      involve functional electrical stimulation, there is a strong need to evaluate the efficacy of
      this intervention. A similar situation also exists with upper limb function assessments. At
      least three clinically promising upper limb assessments have been recently developed in
      Canada for individuals with spinal cord injury, which require further evaluation to determine
      their effectiveness.

      The objective of this research program is to conduct a multi-site clinical randomized control
      trial that will evaluate the efficacy of functional electrical stimulation based upper limb
      intervention for people with tetraplegia. This will involve recruiting 84 persons with
      sub-acute tetraplegia across four sites (Montreal,Toronto, Fredericton and Edmonton) and will
      serve to evaluate three new Canadian hand function assessments that have been specifically
      developed for persons with tetraplegia. Although these assessments have been recently tested
      and have shown considerable promise, further evaluation on their clinical utility (in
      particular their responsiveness and validity) is required. As well, they need to be compared
      with one another to determine whether any of these tests is more appropriate for clinical
      applications or whether further test reduction or augmentation may be required. Having
      measures that are sensitive and accurate in assessing hand function is key for systematically
      evaluating emerging therapeutic interventions.

      The findings of this multi-site clinical trial have the potential to elevate the current
      standard of upper limb rehabilitation related to hand function by providing higher levels of
      evidence on the efficacy of functional electrical stimulation therapy intervention. Also,
      dissemination of the new knowledge gained will translate into better clinical practice since
      occupational therapists will be able to select better rehabilitation strategies for improving
      hand function based on solid evidence. By improving the standards of practice, persons with
      spinal cord injury will have access to a wider range of treatment interventions to restore
      and improve function in their hands.
    
  