
    
      In vivo knee kinematics will be assessed for 20 subjects that have been clinically diagnosed
      with substantial unicompartmental osteoarthritis (OA) by one of the surgeons of Colorado
      Joint Replacement; this is the location from which participants will be recruited.

      Enrollment will be increased to 24 subjects to account for any dropouts. Medial joint space
      narrowing will be clinically assessed in all patients on standing anteroposterior
      radiographs. The objective of this study will be to analyze subjects with symptomatic
      unicompartmental osteoarthritis under in vivo dynamic, weight-bearing conditions using video
      fluoroscopy to determine if present-day OA knee braces provide separation of the femoral
      condyle from the tibial plateau, thus avoiding excessive loads on the degenerative
      compartment.

      Subjects will be asked to perform gait without the assistance of an offloading brace while
      under fluoroscopic evaluation. Then, each subject will be fitted with a Breg, off-the-shelf
      OA brace and will perform normal gait while under fluoroscopic surveillance. To ensure each
      brace was fitted properly, Breg will be asked to send either a sales representative or an
      engineer to the evaluation site. Therefore, the sales representative or engineer will be
      asked to fit their brace on each of the subjects.

      Since the skeletal geometry is different for every person, computer aided design (CAD) models
      of the femur and tibia will be created for each specific subject. In order to create these
      CAD models, each subject will be asked to undergo a three-dimensional (3D) ultrasound using
      the JointVue proprietary software to reconstruct 3D femoral and tibial bones. A
      representative from JointVue will be present during data collection to conduct the ultrasound
      procedure in order to create the CAD models.

      Participants will be asked to schedule a CT scan at Porter Adventist Hospital at their
      convenience to aid in the development of the bone models. To ensure subject safety, CT will
      be limited to the affected knee and the rest of patient's body will be protected from
      radiation with lead protection. The CT scan will be limited to the study knee and will image
      6 inches distal on the tibia and 6 inches proximal on the femur.
    
  