
    
      What will be done in this protocol? Specific to Aim 1: To investigate the correlation between
      changes in RBF after exposure to iodinated contrast agent, measured by CEU, on occurrence of
      acute kidney injury (AKI) in a population of subjects at risk for CN.

      Procedures: Subjects with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), measured by the
      Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) formula, between 30 - 60 ml/min/1.73 m2 who are
      scheduled for a coronary angiogram will be enrolled in this study. These subjects are
      considered to be at higher risks of CN. It is important to clarify that all subjects are
      scheduled for a coronary angiography for clinical reasons before enrollment in this study.
      Coronary angiography is not a part of interventions of this protocol. The decision regarding
      the need for coronary angiography and the strategies for its prevention are made by the
      subjects' healthcare providers and not the research team.

      The details of protocol will be discussed with all interventional cardiologists and
      permission will be obtained to discuss study details with potential subjects. Eligible
      subjects will be identified by searching the electronic medical record of individuals who are
      listed in the cardiac catheterization laboratory schedule for inclusion and exclusion
      criteria. Subjects who appear to qualify for study participation based on medical record
      review the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be approached. The details of the study
      goals, procedures and risks will be discussed with each individual and questions will be
      answered. The subjects will then be asked to sign the informed consent form. They will then
      be enrolled in the study.

      Since undergoing an X-ray examination or exposure to iodinated contrast media are
      contraindicated in pregnancy, we assume all women of child bearing age having a test to rule
      out pregnancy before enrolling in the study. If this test is not done, we will contact the
      subject's cardiologist and arrange for it as a part of clinical care and not a research
      related procedure.

      At the time of enrollment data on subjects' age, race, gender, ethnicity, history of coronary
      artery disease, diabetes and congestive heart failure will be collected. Subjects with a
      history of heart failure will be asked about presence of symptoms of heart failure such as
      shortness of breath at rest or with activities, fatigue, palpitation and dyspnea. This
      information will be used to identify the New York Heart Association (NYHA) class of heart
      failure which is considered a risk factor for CN. List of medications used by subjects will
      also be recorded. Vital signs will be recorded.

      Blood samples for basic metabolic panel and urine samples for urinalysis will be collected
      and sent to the University of Virginia lab. More blood and urine samples will be collected
      for measurement of the concentrations of biomarkers of kidney injury neutrophil
      gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL), cystatin C, beta 2 microglobulin, epithelial growth
      factor (EGF), uromodulin, osteopontin, albumin and creatinine. These samples will be sent to
      the the O'Brien Center at the University of San Diego, California for analysis..

      Baseline 2-dimensional kidney ultrasound images will be obtained. All study subjects will
      undergo baseline contrast enhanced ultrasound imaging of the kidneys using Definity
      intravenous infusion as described in details below. They will then receive intravenous
      infusion of normal saline for prevention of CN. Please see "hydration protocol" below.

      Immediately before transfer to the cardiac catheterization lab and after volume expansion
      with i.v. normal saline, CEU imaging of the kidneys using Definity will be repeated.

      Subjects will undergo coronary angiogram procedure as planned by their interventional
      cardiologists. Immediately after this procedure, CEU imaging of the kidneys using Definity
      will be repeated. Subjects will be monitored for a minimum of 30 minutes after completion of
      Definity infusion. Blood samples for basic metabolic panel and urine samples for urinalysis
      will be collected and sent to the UVA lab. The research study procedures for this visit will
      end at this time. Routine cardiac catheterization lab procedures will be followed at this
      time.

      Information on the volume and type of ICM will be recorded. Subjects will be discharged as
      scheduled by the cardiology team. One to three days (24 - 72 hours) later the subjects will
      return for a follow up visit. During the follow up visit, questions will be asked to assess
      for potential adverse events. Vital signs will be obtained (blood pressure and heart rate).
      Blood samples for basic metabolic panel and urine samples for urinalysis will be collected
      and sent to the UVA lab. More blood and urine samples will be collected for measurement of
      the concentrations of biomarkers of kidney injury NGAL, cystatin C, beta 2 microglobulin,
      EGF, uromodulin, osteopontin, albumin and creatinine. These samples will be sent to the
      O'Brien Center at the University of San Diego in California.

      The outcome of the study, AKI, will be defined as a rise of greater than 0.3 mg/dL or 25% in
      the baseline serum creatinine concentration 48 hours after exposure to ICM.

      Specific Aim 2: To validate the RBF data obtained by CEU by comparing it to measurements
      obtained by a Doppler ultrasound probe placed inside the main renal artery.

      Procedures: Up to 25 subjects with normal renal functions who are scheduled for a coronary
      angiography will be studied in this part of the proposed study. Blood samples for basic
      metabolic panel and urine samples for urinalysis will be collected and sent to the UVA lab.

      Immediately before undergoing coronary angiography, each subject will undergo CEU study using
      Definity to measure baseline RBF. Femoral or radial access has already been obtained to
      perform the coronary angiogram. A guide catheter is used to selectively engage the renal
      artery and 5 cc of contrast will be injected to perform renal angiography. If the renal
      artery appears angiographically normal and is without evidence of any degree of
      atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis, then a Doppler flow wire (0.014") will be advanced
      into the main renal artery. If the patient is not already systemically anticoagulated for the
      coronary angiogram or coronary intervention, then heparin is administered (50 U/kg) to
      prevent clotting on the Doppler wire. Proper positioning of the Doppler wire will be
      confirmed by injecting 1-2 cc of contrast. Velocity of the blood flow within the main renal
      artery will be measured directly using this Doppler wire. After completion of these
      measurements, coronary angiography procedures will be performed as scheduled. Measurement of
      blood velocity in the main renal artery with the Doppler probe will be repeated before
      removal of the arterial catheter. CEU using Definity for measurement of RBF will be repeated
      at this point. Subjects will be monitored for a minimum of 30 minutes after completion of
      Definity infusion and a urine sample will be obtained and sent to the UVA lab for urinalysis.
      Blood samples for basic metabolic panel will be collected and sent to the UVA lab. The
      changes from baseline in the velocity of blood after exposure to ICM obtained by Doppler
      probe will be compared to the values obtained by CEU. Multiple measurements (at least three)
      using each method will be performed at each time point and the mean of these measurements
      will be compared.

      Contrast Enhanced Ultrasound Subjects will be connected to a continuous pulse oximeter and
      heart monitor. The Definity vial will be placed at room temperature before being used. It
      will be activated after shaking the vial using Vialmix for 45 seconds. It will be used
      immediately after activation. 1.3 mL of Definity will be mixed in 30 ml of preservative free
      saline. Infusion of Definity into a peripheral vein will be started at 2 ml/min and titrated
      for optimal image quality (not to exceed 10 ml/min at any time). After reaching steady state
      (2 -3 minutes) baseline contrast ultrasound imaging of right kidney will be performed with
      low mechanical index (MI) of 0.1. High MI (1.0) impulse will be used to disrupt Definity
      microbubbles within the kidney tissue. This would result in a very brief time period during
      which renal cortex is free of microbubbles and appears completely anechoic (time zero). As
      continuous infusion of microbubbles continues, during the wash-in period renal tissue is
      replenished with microbubbles. Time-intensity curve after disruption of tissue microbubbles
      will be fitted to a rising exponential function: intensity (y) = basic intensity (BI) + A
      [1-exp(-beta.t) using specialized software. The slope of this curve or beta is related to the
      velocity of microbubbles (or blood) that enter the tissue and the plateau of the curve or A
      is related to the relative blood volume within the tissue. Since blood flow is the movement
      of a certain volume of blood at a certain speed, the product of the two (A.beta) would
      represent tissue blood flow. After disruption of microbubbles within the kidney tissue with a
      high MI pulse, continuous imaging of the kidney with low MI (0.1) will continue for about 15-
      30 seconds to generate the time-intensity graph. The high MI pulse and replenishment sequence
      will be repeated two more times. An average of the three parameters obtained at each time
      period will be used for the final analysis. Infusion of Definity will stop at this point. A
      urine sample will be collected for urinalysis after 30 minutes of stopping Definity to assess
      for potential renal related adverse events.

      Hydration Protocol:

      0.9% sodium chloride (normal saline) solution will be infused intravenously at a rate of 3
      mL/kg/hr for one hour. This will be followed by normal saline given at a rate of 1 ml/kg/hr
      for the remainder of the time before and also during and at least for one hour after coronary
      angiogram. Patients with heart failure and documented ejection fraction of < 30% will receive
      normal saline infusion at a reduced rate of 1.5 ml/kg/hr for the 1st hour followed by 0.5
      mL/kg/hr after that for the same time periods as for other subjects. At any point, if a
      subject experiences shortness of breath, oxygen saturation will be measured and intravenous
      hydration protocol will be stopped.
    
  