
    
      BACKGROUND:

      There is now unequivocal evidence that early coronary reperfusion using either thrombolytics
      or primary angioplasty results in a long-term mortality reduction among individuals who have
      had a heart attack. The benefit of early reperfusion (less than 6 hours after the heart
      attack) was initially attributed to myocardial salvage and the resultant preservation of left
      ventricular function. However, it is now known that the survival benefit associated with
      thrombolytic therapy is not consistently associated with a major improvement in left
      ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF). These observations led to the formulation of the "late
      open artery hypothesis," which suggests that clinical outcomes can potentially be improved by
      late reperfusion after a heart attack. Observational clinical studies have suggested that
      late patency of the infarct-related artery (IRA) after thrombolysis is associated with a
      survival benefit that is independent of LVEF and therefore cannot be solely explained by
      salvage of myocardium. Definitive proof of the late open artery hypothesis is currently
      lacking, however, because previous studies that have evaluated late percutaneous transluminal
      coronary angioplasty (PTCA) of occluded IRAs after a heart attack have produced conflicting
      results.

      These findings led to the organization of the Occluded Artery Trial (OAT), an international,
      NHLBI-funded, randomized trial of 2,200 participants. OAT is testing the hypothesis that
      mechanical reperfusion of an occluded IRA with PTCA and percutaneous coronary intervention
      (PCI) 3 to 28 days after a heart attack in high-risk individuals will reduce mortality,
      recurrent heart attacks, and hospitalization for class IV congestive heart failure.
      Enhancement of electrical stability is one of the major mechanisms that has been proposed to
      explain the association of an open IRA with an improved prognosis independent of myocardial
      salvage.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This study is an ancillary study of OAT. It will characterize the effects of late PCI of
      occluded IRAs on the most important and clinically relevant noninvasive markers of
      vulnerability to malignant ventricular arrhythmias: heart rate variability, T wave
      variability, and signal-averaged electrocardiography. These analyses will be performed in 300
      participants at baseline, 30 days, and 1 year following a heart attack in order to determine
      the effects of late PCI on the autonomic nervous system, ventricular repolarization, and
      ventricular conduction abnormalities.
    
  