
    
      Person-Centered Recovery Planning (PCRP; also referred to as Patient-Centered Care Planning)
      is a field-tested intervention designed to maximize consumer choice and ownership of the
      treatment and recovery process. In Phase I of Recovery Roadmap: A Collaborative Multimedia
      Tool for Person-Centered Recovery Planning, the research team developed a prototype online
      tool to train providers and persons in recovery to understand and implement PCRP. The tool
      provided in-depth information and included interactive components (e.g., videos, fillable
      forms, case studies) to prepare users to partner effectively. The tool was pilot tested in
      two sites (one received the Recovery Roadmap only; the other received the tool plus a two-day
      in-person training) to obtain feedback about the Roadmap and determine its impact. The
      purpose of this Phase II SBIR study is to expand the Recovery Roadmap and conduct a fully
      powered study to determine the tool's effectiveness in training providers and supporting
      people in recovery in the PCRP process.

      This proposed Phase II study design:

      We propose a randomized stepped wedge design in which we will recruit a total of 30
      practitioners and 90 persons in recovery (PIRs), 3-4 from each participating practitioner.
      Per the power analysis, 90 PIRs will have enough power to show statistical significance. We
      will:

        -  Randomize the sample into two intervention waves, Wave 1 and Wave 2.

        -  Do a T1 assessment with all practitioners and PIRs and then immediately begin the first
           2-month component of Wave 1 Recovery Roadmap Intervention, i.e., the 5-unit, online PCRP
           curriculum, with both PIRs and practitioners (for Wave 1, T1 will be a Baseline
           assessment; for Wave 2, T1 will be a Pre-Baseline assessment). Total of 3 months,
           including assessment and completion of the curriculum, while Wave 2 completes an
           observation period.

        -  Do a T2 assessment (practitioners and PIRs) with both waves and launch the first
           component of intervention with Wave 2 (RR on-line training units only) while Wave 1
           launches the second component of the RR intervention, i.e., practitioners (only)
           receiving 3 months of twice monthly coaching calls and an on-line Community of Practice.
           The series of web-based technical assistance (coaching) sessions are designed to
           reinforce PCRP key principles and practices as taught in the Recovery Roadmap and to
           optimize practitioners' use of/benefit from the web-based Community of Practice (COP).
           Wave 2 will have a total of 3 months, including its Baseline assessment and completion
           of the online curriculum. Wave 1 will have a total of 4 months, including the mid-point
           assessment for PIRs and practitioners and completion of coaching calls and COP for
           practitioners.

        -  Do a T3 Assessment (practitioners and PIRs). This will be, for Wave 1, a
           post-intervention assessment for PIRs and practitioners. For Wave 2, it will include a
           mid-point intervention assessment for PIRs and practitioners, with Wave 2 immediately
           beginning a second component of the intervention (3 months of twice monthly coaching
           calls and an online COP for practitioners). The series of web-based technical assistance
           sessions are designed to reinforce PCRP key principles and practices as taught in the
           Recovery Roadmap and to optimize practitioners' use of/benefit from the web-based
           Community of Practice. Wave 1 will have a total of 3 months, including assessments and a
           2-month observation period. Wave 2 will have a total of 4 months, including the
           mid-point assessment for PIRs and practitioners and completion of coaching calls and COP
           for practitioners.

        -  Do a T4 Assessment (practitioners and PIRs) after Wave 2 has completed the COP. This is
           post intervention for Wave 2 and follow-up for Wave 1.

      Hypotheses (for Aims 1 and 2):

      H1: Providers in the RR condition will show statistically significant improvements in PCRP
      knowledge, skills, and provider-client relationships.

      H2: Clients served by providers in the RR condition will show statistically significant
      improvements in treatment engagement and progress toward goals.

      H3: Providers with higher levels of connectivity with their peers online will report
      sustained PCRP practices, compared with those with lower connectivity.
    
  