
    
      Plantar heel pain is a condition often seen by healthcare providers. It is presented as pain
      and tenderness under the heel with weight bearing activities. Approximately 15% of athletic
      and non-athletic adults who have foot complaints seek professional care for plantar heel
      pain. There are different names and definitions for this condition in the literature such as
      plantar heel pain, plantar fasciitis, plantar fasciosis, plantar fasciopathy, heel spur
      syndrome, and jogger's heel. The reason for inconsistency in defining the condition is due to
      disagreement on the underlying pathology. A number of conditions may result in plantar heel
      pain, namely plantar fasciitis (most common), calcaneus fracture, heel fat pad atrophy, and
      peripheral nerve dysfunction. Recently, several studies have shown that myofascial trigger
      points (MTrPs) or tender points in the calf muscles may be associated with plantar heel pain.
      Many studies have determined risk factors in the development of plantar heel pain,
      classifying them as either intrinsic or extrinsic. Intrinsic risk factors comprise the
      anatomical (ROM of the ankle and subtalar joints position) or demographic characteristics of
      the individual (age, gender, weight and height). Extrinsic risk factors are related mainly to
      the subject's activity environment, such as running on a hard surface, time spent weight
      bearing, and previous injury. All these factors lead to an increase in the mechanical load on
      the foot, specifically the plantar fascia. Treatment of plantar heel pain usually targets the
      plantar fascia or other structures in the plantar heel area using several interventions such
      as cortisone injection, therapeutic ultrasound, laser, ice, heel pads, and night splints.
      Evidence varies regarding the effectiveness of these interventions.

      The main aim of this study is to investigate the immediate and carry-over effects of dry
      cupping on calf muscle trigger points on pain and function in patients with plantar heel
      pain.
    
  