
    
      Singaporeans are rapidly ageing. One in every 4 Singaporeans will be aged 65 years and older
      in 2030, double the rate of that in 2015. Elderly patients have more chronic diseases and
      have a poorer recovery profile after illness or surgery. More recently, it has been reported
      that Singaporeans spend 10 years of their lives in poor health. Elderly patients are
      over-represented in patients coming for surgery, particularly for major cardiac and
      non-cardiac surgeries. While surgery is wonderful and lifesaving, the truth is that many
      elderly patients do not do well after major surgery. This was eloquently reported in the New
      York Times recently in an article titled "The Elderly Are Getting Complex Surgeries. Often It
      Doesn't End Well." Elderly patients value quality of life over quantity of life, but many are
      not aware of the long-term debilitation, organ dysfunction, pain, depression, economic burden
      and social strain that frequently accompanies major surgery. Elderly patients are more likely
      to lose independence after surgery, both physically and cognitively, and may never recover
      fully. There is clearly a disconnect between the elderly patient's (and their loved ones')
      expectations and reality. There is therefore a need to look closely at the operative journey
      of the elderly patient undergoing major surgery. Currently, clinical care is primarily
      concerned about achieving a technically successful surgery and recovery in the immediate
      postoperative phase, but there is much less oversight once the patient leaves the hospital
      system to community care. However, perioperative management significantly impacts the quality
      of life and activities of daily living for years after surgery. At NUHS, the MILES
      (Management and Innovation for Longevity in Elderly Surgical patients) programme has
      successfully reduced hospital length of stay of elderly patients undergoing abdominal surgery
      by addressing frailty and performing prehabilitation in selected patients. In this study, the
      study team intend to expand on this clinical programme to look at 3 primary concerns, namely
      postoperative delirium, trajectory of ageing, and myocardial injury, and the long-term
      implications of these concerns. Second, the team will incorporate biomarkers and other
      investigations to better risk profile patients, elucidate mechanistic processes, and provide
      better diagnostic and prognostic tools to clinicians. Third, the team will investigate the
      complimentary and detrimental roles of common systemic pathologies such as diabetes, anemia,
      renal dysfunction, malignancy, pain, and poor sleep on these outcomes. Therefore, the team
      intends to do a longitudinal study starting from the preoperative period up to 5 years after
      surgery in patients aged 65 years and above undergoing elective non-cardiac major surgery,
      defined as a surgery lasting at least 2 hours and requiring at least one day stay in hospital
      after surgery. It is envisioned that by using the data gained from this study, the
      investigators will be able to identify risk factors, trajectories of outcomes and gaps in
      their clinical care, and from there, formulate clinical strategies to address these gaps and
      mitigate the risk factors.
    
  