
    
      The study was a prospective multicenter randomized study involving 7 private practice
      gastroenterology offices with a total of 14 experienced examiners (> 2000 colonoscopies),
      performed between November 2013 and September 2016 (sets of instruments were made available
      to 3-4 centers each during 6-12 months).Study population:

      Patients were selected from the screening colonoscopy list (age ≥ 55 years), with further
      inclusion criteria being status 1 and 2 of the ASA classification. After informed consent,
      patients were randomized using sealed envelopes per center to one of either of the two study
      groups

        1. 190 C group (intervention group), examination with the latest generation colonoscope
           (190 series CF or PCF colonoscopies, Olympus Corp, Hamburg, Germany).

        2. 165 C group (control group), examination with the 160/5 generation colonoscope (Olympus
           Corp, Hamburg, Germany), Each patient underwent bowel preparation in accordance with
           local practice of the centers. Bowel cleansing quality was segmentally assessed using a
           modified overall "Boston Bowel Preparation Scale". Introduction and withdrawal times
           were measured, and times required for biopsies and polypectomies were considered
           separately, i.e. overall and diagnostic only withdrawal times were recorded separately.

      Polyps were documented with regards to location (caecum, ascending, transverse and descending
      colon, sigmoid and rectum), size and morphology using the Paris classification (polypoid
      pedunculated or sessile, non-polypoid slightly elevated/flat/depressed, ulcerous). Polyps
      were then resected using biopsy forceps or cold snare or conventional polypectomy according
      to local standards. Histology of resected polyps was analyzed by local private practice
      specialized GI pathologists according to the Vienna classification with regards to dysplasia
      grade and the presence of serrated adenomas; final histologic categories were hyperplastic,
      adenomatous [tubulous, villous, tubulovillous, serrated (traditional or sessile serrated)].
      Small distal rectal polyps were not systematically biopsied or resected, due to a very high
      likelihood to be hyperplastic.
    
  