
    
      The overarching goal of this study is to use 11C-PiB, a commonly used tracer that binds to
      amyloid plaques in the brain, as a biological marker of Alzheimer's disease (AD) related
      brain changes. Data from this PET-only study will be compared to and analyzed with data from
      the Investigators' longitudinal biomarker studies, COMIRB #15-1774 and COMIRB #18-2607. This
      enables investigators to examine how deposition of the amyloid protein relates to cognitive
      aging in both symptomatic and asymptomatic older adults. It will assist investigators in
      comparing rates of change in memory and thinking ability in healthy subjects who are amyloid
      positive versus amyloid negative, as well as in comparing rates of conversion to a higher
      level of impairment (e.g. such as Mild Cognitive Impairment converting to Alzheimer's
      Disease) based on the quantitative analysis of amyloid burden. Moreover, by capitalizing on
      data across the two studies, the investigators will be able to better understand the
      relationship between amyloid deposition (as assessed by PET; current proposal) and other
      biomarkers (as assessed in COMIRB #15-1774, COMIRB #18-2607), which ultimately may help the
      investigators better predict the onset and progression of clinical AD symptoms. Participants
      will be recruited solely from the longitudinal study (COMIRB # 15-1774) in order to provide
      data comparison on an individual and group basis.

      The goals of this study are as follows:

        1. Evaluate the relationship between amyloid burden, as assessed by 11C-PiB, with both
           cross-sectional and longitudinal biomarkers (e.g. blood; nasal biopsy; CSF; MRI; DNA)
           obtained in the longitudinal study (COMIRB # 15-1774, COMIRB #18-2607).

        2. Compare rates of change in memory and other cognitive abilities (obtained in COMIRB #
           15-1774, COMIRB #18-2607) in healthy subjects who show elevated amyloid deposition with
           those who are "amyloid negative".

        3. Evaluate the relationship between amyloid burden and health history, informant report of
           subjective cognitive and psychiatric difficulties, and participant-reported psychiatric
           symptoms.

        4. Investigate predictive utility of amyloid burden in identifying individuals most at risk
           for conversion (e.g. healthy controls to MCI, and MCI to AD).

        5. Identify why a subset of "amyloid positive" individuals do not show symptoms of clinical
           AD or delay conversion to MCI or AD.
    
  