
    
      Background:

        -  5-Fluoro-2-deoxycytidine (FdCyd), a fluoropyrimidine nucleoside analog, has a short
           (10-minute) half-life and is rapidly degraded in vivo by cytidine deaminase. However,
           coadministration with tetrahydrouridine (THU), an inhibitor of cytidine/deoxycytidine
           deaminase, has been shown to increase the AUC of the parent compound more than 4-fold.
           Increased FdCyd exposure allows it to be taken up intracellularly and converted to its
           triphosphate, which is incorporated into DNA and inhibits the action of the enzyme DNA
           methyltransferase (DNMT). Inhibition of DNMT, and in turn DNA methylation, can result in
           the re-expression of tumor suppressor genes.

        -  Intravenous FdCyd with THU has been evaluated in a Phase I clinical trial with some
           preliminary evidence of activity. This trial will investigate oral administration of the
           drugs, which was shown to be feasible in an expansion cohort of the previous trial.

      Primary objectives:

      -Establish the safety and tolerability of oral FdCyd in combination with oral THU
      administered on an intermittent schedule in 21-day cycles to patients with refractory solid
      tumors

      Exploratory objectives:

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of oral FdCyd and oral THU

        -  Document preliminary evidence of activity of oral FdCyd and oral THU

        -  Determine effect of study treatment on re-expression of p16 and other select genes
           silenced by methylation in circulating tumor cells and tumor biopsies

        -  Evaluate the effect of study treatment on DNA (cytosine-5)-methyltransferase 1 and 3
           (DNMT1 and DNMT3) expression in tumor biopsies

      Eligibility:

      -Adults with histologically documented solid tumors whose disease has progressed after at
      least one line of standard therapy.

      Design:

        -  This is a multicenter trial with NCI as the coordinating center.

        -  FdCyd and THU will be administered on an intermittent schedule in 21-day cycles. THU
           will be administered orally at a fixed dose of 3000 mg 30 minutes prior to FdCyd.

        -  The trial will follow a standard Phase I dose escalation design (3-6 patients per
           cohort).

        -  Consideration will be given to increasing the days of administration of FdCyd with THU
           after a target maximum plasma concentration of FdCyd is reached.

        -  Blood and urine for pharmacokinetic studies will be obtained from all patients. Blood
           for pharmacodynamic studies will be obtained after we achieve a target Cmax of 1microM.

        -  Up to 25 patients will be enrolled in the expansion cohort, from which mandatory pre-
           and post-dose tumor biopsies will be collected for the assessment of pharmacodynamic
           endpoints, at dose level 8 (160 mg FdCyd+3000 mg THU 1x daily days 1-6 days week 1, days
           8-13 week 2, in 21-day cycles)
    
  