
    
      To date, purely pharmacological approaches have failed to address what is essentially a
      threefold challenge: (i) to deliver therapeutically significant concentrations of active
      agents to the tumour vasculature while minimizing off target effects; (ii) to release the
      therapeutic agent 'on-demand' at the target site; and, (iii) to improve the distribution and
      spread of the therapeutic agent against the intra-tumoural pressure gradient in order to
      achieve a therapeutically relevant concentration throughout the tumour.

      Recent pre-clinical studies performed at Oxford using ThermoDox® released using FUS has shown
      that increased uptake at the target site is achievable. Hence there is great promise in using
      this combination therapy to achieve increased tumour uptake and local dose for the equivalent
      dose of doxorubicin used in systemic chemotherapy for human subjects, which has a well
      established and safe toxicity profile. The first extracorporeal FUS device in Europe was used
      for a study performed at Oxford between 2002 and 2004.

      This single centre trial was sponsored by the University of Oxford. The recruiting study site
      was Oxford University Hospitals NHS Trust, where there is extensive clinical FUS experience.

      The study is split into two parts. Part I identified optimal FUS exposure parameters for a
      range of patient BMIs and tumour locations within the liver using real time thermometry data
      from an implanted thermistor. After at least 5 and no more than 14 participants have had the
      intervention using real-time thermometry, data was reviewed by the Trial Management Group
      (TMG) to confirm readiness to proceed without real-time thermometry. Part II, which did not
      require thermistor implantation, is designed to reflect how the therapy would be implemented
      in clinical practice.

      Participants received treatment for 1 day and are followed up for 30 days. All evaluable
      participants from both Part I and Part II were included in the endpoint analysis. Doxorubicin
      concentrations were directly determined from tissue biopsies of the target tumour, using a
      Good Laboratory Practice-validated high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) assay, based
      on previously published methods.

      If this study demonstrates successful targeted drug delivery in human subjects using LTSLs
      released by mild-hyperthermia, this could potentially transform the future of chemotherapy in
      clinical practice; targeted therapy using LTSLs containing other chemotherapeutic agents
      triggered non-invasively by mild hyperthermia could be applied to any solid organ cancer.
    
  