
    
      Levomilnacipran (Fetzima) is the active enantiomer of milnacipran (Ixel, Savella) for
      norepinephrine (NE) and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) reuptake. It has an approximate
      eight-fold greater affinity for the human NE transporter than for the 5-HT transporter. This
      signifies that the NE transporter may be engaged to a much greater degree than the 5-HT
      transporter at various doses, especially at lower regimens. As such, levomilnacipran
      represents the mirror antidepressant medication of venlafaxine and duloxetine since at their
      minimal effective doses, these medications are selective inhibitors of 5-HT reuptake and it
      is not until daily regimens are doubled or tripled that the NE transporter gets engaged.

      Levomilnacipran is effective clinically in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) at
      doses ranging between 40 and 120 mg/day. Given this wide effective dose range, it appears
      essential to determine the in vivo potency of levomilnacipran and the dose at which it starts
      inhibiting 5-HT in relation to NE reuptake in humans.

      The current investigators have studied the NE reuptake blocking properties of antidepressants
      in both healthy volunteers and patients with depression using tyramine pressor tests. This
      peripheral model of adrenergic function involves administration of repeated intravenous
      injections of tyramine and measurement of transient increases in systolic blood pressure
      (SBP) that occur after a tyramine load. This approach has led to dose-dependent SBP increases
      that are reliably reproduced one week apart in healthy volunteers who received placebo which
      supports the use of the tyramine pressor test to assess the functional capacity of different
      medication regimens to inhibit NE reuptake at steady state levels. Serotonin reuptake has
      been extensively studied in human participants using the blood platelet model. In this assay,
      whole blood 5-HT and/or platelet content is determined before and after giving reuptake
      inhibitors. Since the 5-HT transporter is similar on 5-HT neurons in the brain and on
      platelets, the degree of 5-HT depletion in the blood can be used as a measure of 5-HT
      reuptake blockade in the brain. Together, these experimental approaches will identify the
      potency of levomilnacipran for NE and 5-HT reuptake inhibition.

      The purpose of this study is to determine the potency of levomilnacipran required to inhibit
      NE and 5-HT reuptake in healthy male participants across the effective dose range of the
      medication (40-120 mg/day).

      Participants Healthy male participants will receive escalating doses of levomilnacipran,
      duloxetine, or placebo every 4-7 days throughout a 14-23 day period. The tyramine pressor
      procedure will be used to identify the dose at which these medications inhibit norepinephrine
      reuptake. Serotonin reuptake inhibition will be estimated from whole blood serotonin
      concentrations. Tyramine testing and blood draws will occur at baseline (prior to medication
      administration) and 4 days after each dose escalation.

      Participants will be assigned to one of 3 groups: levomilnacipran, duloxetine or placebo. The
      duration of study treatment for participants in the first 2 groups will range from 22-32
      days. These participants will receive escalating doses of levomilnacipran or duloxetine over
      a period of 14-23 days followed by down-titrated doses over the next 8 days. The
      investigators will offer a flexible interval for dose escalation in participants receiving
      levomilnacipran and duloxetine to minimize side effects, improve tolerability, and maximize
      subject retention. Participants in the placebo group will receive the levomilnacipran-matched
      placebo capsule for 14 days.

      Specific aim The objective of this study is to assess the norepinephrine and serotonin
      reuptake inhibition capacities of levomilnacipran using the tyramine pressor procedure and
      blood platelet model respectively. Two control groups will be included to demonstrate the
      validity of the two experimental approaches, an active comparator group, and a placebo group.
      Therefore, there will be three treatment arms: 1) 12 participants will be administered
      escalating doses of levomilnacipran, 2) 12 participants will be administered escalating doses
      of duloxetine, and 3) 12 participants will receive levomilnacipran placebo-match capsules.
      Duloxetine will be used as an active comparator as it is an established 5-HT reuptake
      inhibitor and a potentially effective NE reuptake inhibitor.

      Assessments to be Performed Pharmacodynamic and safety evaluations: At each visit, a catheter
      will be placed in the subject's antecubital vein. The participant will lie down and remain
      supine until his pulse is determined to be stable (+/- approximately 5 bpm) over two
      consecutive measurements made a minimum of 10 minutes apart. The subject's heart rate and
      blood pressure will be recorded from the arm contralateral to the catheter. Blood samples
      will be drawn from the catheter while the participant remains supine. The participant's heart
      rate and blood pressure will again be recorded from the arm contralateral to the catheter.

      Plasma drug levels: Plasma concentrations of levomilnacipran and duloxetine will be
      determined from supine blood samples after each dose change to ensure that potentially
      aberrant results are not due to poor medication compliance.

      Whole blood serotonin assay: Whole blood 5-HT concentrations will be determined from supine
      blood samples collected at regular visits.

      Evaluation of tyramine pressor response: After the supine blood samples are drawn, the
      tyramine infusion procedure will proceed as follows: 1) The participant will be connected to
      the cardiac monitor apparatus, which automatically monitors blood pressure and heart rate. 2)
      The participant will lie down and remain supine until his pulse is determined to be stable
      over two consecutive measurements made a minimum of 10 minutes apart. 3) A first small dose
      of tyramine (0.5 mg) will be administered intravenously to rule out the presence of
      pheochromocytoma. Pheochromocytoma is a small neuroendocrine tumour which can cause elevated
      secretion of catecholamines leading to raised blood pressure, palpitations and headaches.
      This condition would not be detected through physical exam or laboratory tests. This dose is
      not expected to produce any significant change in the cardiovascular parameters measured. Ten
      minutes after the participant receives the 0.5 mg tyramine dose, the effects of two fixed
      doses of intravenous tyramine on systolic blood pressure will be assessed. First, a 4 mg dose
      of tyramine will be administered. Five minutes after the subject's blood pressure returns to
      normal, a 6 mg dose will be administered. 4) Heart rate, systolic and diastolic blood
      pressure will be recorded every 2 minutes for at least 10 minutes after the injection, or 5
      minutes after the return of baseline blood pressure and heart rate, whichever is longer.

      Safety/Monitoring procedures: A physician and research nurse coordinator will be present
      during the entire tyramine procedure, and participants will remain on the unit for a further
      15 min after all Tyramine Pressor Test procedures have completed for monitoring. There is
      access to an automated external defibrillator (AED), and a crash cart with supporting staff
      in case of emergency.
    
  