
    
      Background

      Cardiac arrest is a time-critical emergency situation, which is treated by cardiopulmonary
      resuscitation (CPR). The actions during resuscitation are lead by international guidelines
      (Nolan et al 2010). Because of the relatively rare nature of cardiac arrests in many wards
      and clinics, regular resuscitation training is necessary.

      During cardiopulmonary resuscitation and other sudden medical crisis situations, in addition
      to medical knowledge and technical skills (TS), also non-technical skills (NTS) are needed
      (Castelao et al 2011, Fletcher et al 2002, Helmreich et al 1999, Gaba et al 1998). NTS are
      behavioural elements which are ought to improve team performance. However, the importance of
      NTS has been demonstrated only in a simulated settings, not in a real life.

      Objective, purpose, and hypothesis

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the technical and especially non-technical skills of the
      resuscitation team during real-life resuscitation situations. Investigators hypothesis that
      good non-technical performance is related on good technical performance. Findings from this
      study may help to recognize the possible weaknesses and issues which could be improved by
      training. The hypothesis is that technical skills are probably on a high level, but some
      improvement points of non-technical skills are ought to be known better.

      Design and Methods

      Turku University Central Hospital lies in a Southwestern part of Finland, and provides
      medical services for 865 000 inhabitants. The target group of this study is the resuscitation
      team of the adult ICU of Turku University Central Hospital. This team consists of an ICU
      doctor (most commonly an anaesthesiologist specialized for intensive care), two ICU nurses,
      and one medical technician. These people are treating approximately 90 cardiac arrests per
      year, but this group also gets other alarms (like shortness of breath, unconscious patients
      and other acute situations). This ICU resuscitation team takes care of all resuscitation
      calls in the newer part of the Turku University Hospital, when the older parts of the
      hospital are taken care either by a resuscitation team from pediatric ICU or by prehospital
      emergency medical service system.

      The data from 20 video-recorded real-life resuscitation situations treated by resuscitation
      team in Turku University Hospital will be collected and the overall NTS and TS score will be
      measured using a validated assessment tool. The association between the TS and NTS will be
      analyzed by statistical methods. In addition, after each recorded resuscitation situation,
      every member of the resuscitation team will be called by a phone. During the calls team
      members are asked to tell examples, what went well during the resuscitation, and what could
      have been done better. Based on these answers, inductive analysis will be made.

      Two anaesthesiologists will evaluate the videos using the validated instrument tool.

      Ethics

      The study protocol was approved by the Ethics Committee of Turku University. All patients
      suffering from sudden cardiac arrest in Turku University newer hospital building area are
      considered eligible to the study regardless of the initial rhythm or presumed aetiology.
      Written information consent of patients is not needed, because the study is directed at
      resuscitation team performance. The patients are not identified at any phase of the study.
    
  