
    
      For relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma, the treatment is determined on an individual
      basis. Common standard of care regimens use either a proteasome inhibitor (PI) or an
      immunomodulatory agent (IMiD) in combination with dexamethasone with or without a monoclonal
      antibody (mAb) such as daratumumab. After relapse from PIs or IMiDs, patients are often
      retreated with drugs that have same mechanism of action to which they have been sensitive.
      The disease becomes refractory and all effective treatment options are exhausted. Daratumumab
      is a human IgG1 mAb that binds with high affinity to unique epitope on cluster of
      differentiation 38 (CD38) and attacks tumor cells that overexpress CD38. Study is to
      determine the efficacy of Dara-SC in combination with carfilzomib and dexamethasone (DKd) in
      adult participants with relapsed refractory MM who had 1 or 2 prior line(s) of treatment
      including a line containing Dara-IV to evaluate daratumumab retreatment. The MM treatment is
      determined on an individual basis where patient's age, prior therapy, bone marrow function,
      co-morbidities, patient preference and time to relapse are considered. Common standard of
      care regimens use either PI or an IMiD in combination with dexamethasone with or without a
      mAb. It is a targeted immunotherapy that attacks tumor cells that overexpress CD38, a
      transmembrane glycoprotein, in a variety of hematological malignancies including multiple
      myeloma. The study will be conducted in 3 phases: Screening (28 days), Treatment, and
      Follow-Up. Assessments like chest X-ray, spirometry test, electrocardiogram (ECG), will be
      performed during Screening phase. During the Treatment Phase, participants will be randomized
      to receive Kd or DKd. Efficacy assessments like bone marrow examination will be performed.
      Follow-up will continue until the end of study.
    
  