
    
      Background：Insomnia is a public health problem attracting extensive attention. Due to the
      risks of side effect and drug dependence from the drug treatment of insomnia, the non-drug
      treatment has gradually drawn the attention of clinician. In recent years, Mindfulness-Based
      Interventions originating from the Eastern culture has created a trend in the application and
      research of psychological and physical health fields in western countries, and been found to
      be capable of effectively curing or alleviating many psychosomatic diseases and possibly
      results in the reversion of gene operation mode and the reduction of inflammation risk.
      Researches show that Mindfulness-Based Interventions may relieve insomnia, but existing
      research samples and strict randomized controlled trial are insufficient and its application
      mechanism is full of uncertainty. In China, empirical research strictly designed is even
      scarce in such field. At the earlier stage, investigators have designed a intervention scheme
      for insomnia intervention ('Mindfulness-Based Joyful Sleep') with mindfulness-based
      meditation and Tai Chi as core technology, and in combination with Chinese culture and have
      made preliminary application.

      Objectives：This study is expected to verify the effect of 'Mindfulness-Based Joyful Sleep'
      program on young and middle-aged patients with insomnia in China and preliminarily explore
      the genetic level inflammation mechanism for the intervention of insomnia applied by it.

      Methods: Investigators will conduct a 2-arm randomized controlled trial to evaluate the
      efficacy of mindfulness-based intervention for insomnia ('Mindfulness-Based Joyful sleep').
      Patients with insomnia at the age of 18-59 in China will be recruited for this study.The two
      steps to be implemented include: 1) conducting a pilot study to finalize the design of
      'Mindfulness-Based Joyful sleep'program and evaluate the feasibility, acceptability and
      preliminary outcomes of the'Mindfulness-Based Joyful sleep' program: The final sample is
      expected to include18 patients who meet inclusion criteria. Participants will receive 8-week
      'Mindfulness-Based Joyful sleep' intervention. The efficacy of 'Mindfulness-Based Joyful
      sleep' program will be assessed by PSQI, and feasibility and acceptability of 'Joyful Sleep'
      program will be examined by attendance, completion of homework and feedback of participants
      on the feeling of the program collected by a focus group. 2) conducting a randomized
      controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy of ''Mindfulness-Based Joyful sleep'' program: The
      final sample is expected to include 70 patients who meet inclusion criteria. Participants
      will be randomly assigned to one of 2 groups, receiving'Mindfulness-Based Joyful
      sleep'intervention, or receiving 'Cognitive Behavior Therapy for insomnia (CBT-I)'.
      Participants will be assessed at 3 time points by PSG, Sleep Diary, self-reported measures
      including PSQI, ISI, CPSS, BDI, STAI and bio-indicator (NF-κB) at baseline, the end of the
      Intervention Period, and at a 3-month follow-up.

      Implications: This proposed study has important implications in providing valuable insights
      into bridging the gap between need and services received for insomnia interventions in China.
      If the 'Mindfulness-Based Joyful Sleep' Intervention can be used effectively, it can also be
      popularized to many other patients with insomnia in China in future.
    
  