
    
      Tobacco and alcohol are the two major risk factors for upper respiratory tract cancer (VADS).
      Among patients with VADS cancer, more than 60% reported daily alcohol consumption of more
      than 20 g / d. Such poisoning can be harmful, causing histological lesions of alcoholic liver
      disease, such as steatosis, alcoholic hepatitis, liver fibrosis and cirrhosis. In a
      population consuming more than 50 g of alcohol per day for 5 years, the prevalence of severe
      hepatic fibrosis is between 30% and 40%. In the therapeutic management of a cancer of VADS,
      the presence of cirrhosis is a prognostic element, increasing the postoperative risk of
      haemorrhage, surgical site infection and acute renal failure. The search for cirrhosis in the
      pre-therapeutic assessment is therefore important. The diagnosis of cirrhosis is not a
      problem when clinical, biological, radiological or endoscopic signs of hepatic insufficiency
      or portal hypertension are present. Asymptomatic cirrhosis is more difficult to diagnose
      without liver biopsy. Noninvasive hepatic exploration techniques have recently been developed
      and validated for the evaluation of liver fibrosis in the context of alcoholic liver disease.
      Fibroscan® (Echosens, Paris, France) is an imaging device for measuring the liver hardness
      (hepatic elasticity expressed in kPa), with a strong correlation with the presence of
      histological fibrosis of the liver. At the threshold of 19.5 kPa, Fibroscan can be used to
      diagnose cirrhosis with good diagnostic performance (Se 80%, Sp 90%, VPP 93%, VPN 70%) and
      good inter- and intra-observer reproducibility. Elastometry is a simple, reliable and
      non-invasive tool to systematically evaluate hepatic fibrosis in patients with VADS cancer.
      The examination can be performed during a routine care consultation. The post-therapeutic
      morbidity induced by cirrhosis in the cancers of VADS is not well known and there is no
      recommendation in France about the hepatic explorations to be carried out during the initial
      assessment of these neoplasias. It is essential to be able to specify this morbidity in order
      to adapt if necessary the therapeutic strategy of cancers of VADS.

      The objective of this study is to systematically determine the presence of cirrhosis and / or
      liver fibrosis in patients with VADS cancer, in order to investigate their impact on the
      morbidity after treatment of squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck.
    
  