
    
      Stress urinary incontinence (SUI) is a common problem, affecting women of all ages. Treatment
      options for SUI include physiotherapy and surgical interventions, such as retropubic
      operations and midurethral slings. Conventional retropubic and transobturator tapes are the
      preferred choice for most surgeons, because of their wide applicability, technical simplicity
      and clinical efficacy. The retropubic tape has been effective for many years, but exposes the
      patients to serious complications, such as bladder perforations, principally because of the
      use of the retropubic space for the fixation of the tape. In an attempt to avoid the
      retropubic space, the second generation of slings, the transobturator tape, was introduced.
      However, prolonged postoperative groin pain as well as vascular injuries have been reported.

      The last generation of midurethral slings, the tension-free vaginal tape system (TVT-SecurTM,
      Gynecare, Ethicon, Somerville, NJ, USA), introduced in 2005, attempts to lower the number of
      complications, by involving only a small vaginal incision and no exit wound. This 8-cm long
      laser-cut polypropylene mesh can potentially be implanted under local anesthesia, because of
      a less-invasive technique using minimal vaginal dissection as well as avoidance of retropubic
      space and obturator fossa. In the case of conventional midurethral slings, even if their
      implantation under local anesthesia has been studied and proven relatively safe, this
      practice has not gained popularity.

      This was a prospective, clinical study with primary objective to observe the satisfaction of
      local anesthesia during the implantation of the TVT-SECUR, with the use of questionnaires
      completed by the patients. The secondary objective was to observe the short-term efficacy and
      safety of the sling. The final objective was to compare the two techniques of implantation:
      the 'U-Method' and the 'Hammock' technique.
    
  