
    
      ABSTRACT

      Obesity, a major comorbidity and a potential modulator of asthma, affects nearly 40% of
      asthmatics in the U.S., and increases its severity. Obese asthmatics do not respond as well
      to conventional anti-inflammatory therapies and new biologics targeting asthma are less
      effective in obese asthmatics compared to lean. Very little research has been conducted in
      obese animals or obese asthmatics, resulting in a major knowledge deficit.

      A key feature of asthma is airway remodeling and fibrosis, broadly defined as a change in
      distribution, thickness, composition, mass or volume of structural components of the airway
      wall of patients relative to healthy patients. Airway remodeling is difficult to diagnose in
      obese patients as mechanical changes in chest wall compliance can contribute to the
      physiological changes seen. Classically, evidence of airway remodeling and fibrosis are
      revealed as fixed airway obstruction on spirometry. However, spirometry is not only
      insensitive to the peripheral airways, where airway remodeling occurs, but is fundamentally
      incapable of localizing the sites of remodeling and fibrosis. Thus, a critical research
      limitation in the study of airway remodeling and fibrosis in asthma is defining regions of
      disease activity to explore disease-specific mechanisms. To understand the nature of airway
      remodeling and fibrosis in obese asthma and to rapidly screen for novel therapies requires
      translation between preclinical models and patients, while using advanced imaging. Recent
      work in asthma using 3D functional imaging with 129Xe MRI has revealed the location of both
      reversible and fixed ventilation defects (defined based on bronchodilator responsivity).
      Several studies suggest that fixed defects represent sites of airway remodeling and fibrosis,
      but to date, this has been inferred indirectly from sputum analyses and CT scans. The central
      hypothesis is that sites of abnormal ventilation on 129XeMRI represent areas of airway
      remodeling and fibrosis and are enriched with fibroblasts that are invasive, proliferative
      and fibrogenic. It is further hypothesized that regional alterations in oxidant stress
      driving the production of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) direct pro-remodeling
      fibroblast functions. Lastly, it is hypothesized that 129XeMRI will be a sensitive and
      specific biomarker of airway remodeling and fibrosis in obese asthmatics and rat models of
      obese asthma. By leveraging our excellence in clinical asthma, bronchoscopy, and
      translational expertise in cell function/signaling and 3D MR imaging in both patients and
      animal models, both ex vivo cell-specific mechanistic studies and in vivo animal model
      studies will be conducted to uncover the mechanisms of molecular and cellular function
      through the following Specific Aims: Aim 1) Identify the pathology, structural cell profile
      (airway fibroblast and epithelial cell) and redox status corresponding to regional areas of
      fixed and reversible post-bronchodilator defects (BD) in obese asthmatics; 2) Define the
      cellular requirement for redox-mediated TGF-β signaling between airway epithelial cells and
      fibroblasts driving regional remodeling in obese asthma; 3) Develop non-invasive 3D imaging
      techniques to assess airway regional remodeling in experimental rodent models of obese
      asthma.
    
  