
    
      Calcinosis, a serious complication of dermatomyositis, involves deposition of calcium
      (carbonate apatite) in soft tissue, and can result in negative impacts on quality of life and
      physical function. To date, there are no known effective therapies that are approved for the
      treatment of dermatomyositis-associated calcinosis, and there is no consensus within the
      medical community on the optimum treatment strategy for this often-debilitating condition.

      A few reports in the literature describe treatment successes with a variety of therapeutics;
      however, these data are from anecdotal reports or case series and thus provide limited
      scientific evidence of effectiveness. Recently published reports as well as personal
      observations within our group have suggested that intravenous sodium thiosulfate treatment
      may benefit calcinosis patients. In order to gather more robust data on the utility of this
      medication in the treatment of calcinosis associated with adult and juvenile dermatomyositis,
      we propose to evaluate its effects in the context of a prospective clinical trial.

      We plan to enroll participants at a single center into a single-arm, open-label study, with
      the overall objective of evaluating the efficacy and safety of intravenous sodium thiosulfate
      use in patients with moderate to severe extensive calcinosis associated with juvenile and
      adult dermatomyositis.

      The study will enroll a maximum of 18 participants over 4 years into the full study, but up
      to 250 patients may screen for study entry. Eligible patients will be age 7 or older, and
      will have extensive calcinosis (defined as calcinosis involving the torso or 2 extremities)
      and moderate to severe calcinosis (indicated by a calcinosis activity visual analogue scale
      score of greater than or equal to 3.5 cm out of 10 cm).

      Two separate evaluations performed at the NIH prior to initiation of therapy will be used as
      baseline data to compare in a pairwise manner to the change in assessments following
      treatment with sodium thiosulfate, with all other medications remaining stable. Study
      treatment will be 16 g/m2 sodium thiosulfate administered 3 times weekly over a period of 10
      weeks at the NIH. Subjects who complete 10 weeks of treatment or reach the primary end point
      by week 6 will be considered completers. Following the treatment period, all participants
      will return to the NIH for evaluations at weeks 24 and 62.

      The primary outcome will be change in calcinosis activity visual analogue scale score from
      week 0 to week 10 on therapy, compared to the baseline change in calcinosis activity visual
      analogue scale score from week -10 to week 0 pre-treatment. Secondary measures will evaluate
      safety and changes in components of the Calcinosis Assessment Tool, clinical assessments of
      calcinosis, Mawdsley Calcinosis Questionnaire, quality of life, functional disability, muscle
      testing (manual and quantitative), laboratory parameters (muscle enzymes, inflammatory
      markers, and endothelial activation markers), gene expression, calcification pathogenesis,
      time to improvement, and imaging. Myositis disease activity and damage will also be assessed
      by validated measures.

      A number of research studies will be incorporated into this clinical trial in an attempt to
      understand the immunologic markers associated with calcification in dermatomyositis as well
      as the immunologic effects of sodium thiosulfate treatment.
    
  