
    
      The average age of hospital patients has steadily increased with the demographic change of
      Germany's ageing population. In 2014, more than 27 million people living in Germany were
      older than 60 years and more than one third of this group had to undergo surgery within that
      year.

      A relevant proportion of this patient group has to be considered frail or pre-frail. Over a
      lifetime every individual experiences a physiological reduction of functional capacity across
      all organ systems resulting in frailty. Consequently, physical and psychological stress, such
      as a hospital stay and surgery cannot be readily compensated. Therefore, frailty is a highly
      predictive pre-operative risk factor for increased post-operative morbidly and mortality,
      prolonged hospital stay and loss of independence. Multiple studies have demonstrated
      post-operative outcome of frail patients can be drastically improved if these patients are
      identified prior to elective surgery and enrolled in a multimodal prehabilitation program.
      The core of prehabilitation is physical exercise next to nutritional and psychological
      support. The improvement of cardiovascular condition, ventilator capacity and muscle strength
      gained during prehabilitation resulted in a reduced incidence of complications including
      pneumonia, shorter hospital stays and improved quality of life. Yet despite these benefits
      prehabilitation is not yet widely available outside of clinical studies as they carry
      considerable costs and demand additional skilled personnel.

      In order to provide prehabilitation to a larger group of patients, a pre-operative exercise
      program was developed, that can safely be followed by pre-frail and frail patients at home
      without the need of continuous instruction and supervision by a trainer or physiotherapist.
      Efficacy and feasibility will be evaluated in this study.
    
  