
    
      The objective of the study is to evaluate the feasibility and interest of a HIV quarterly
      preventive global care for men who have sex with men (MSM) in sub-Saharan Africa to help
      reducing HIV incidence in this key population, their female partners, and the general
      population.

      Regarding HIV-negative MSM, the specific objectives are to assess:

        1. the acceptability of the preventive global care including quarterly monitoring and HIV
           screening as well as the associated medical, behavioral and social factors, and

        2. changes in sexual behavior among MSM during the project as well as the associated
           medical, behavioral and social factors.

      Regarding HIV-positive MSM, the specific objectives are to assess:

        1. the acceptability of the preventive global care including antiretroviral therapy
           initiation whatever the CD4 T cell count and the clinical stage, as well as the
           associated medical, behavioral and social factors,

        2. adherence and response to antiretroviral therapy as well as the associated medical,
           behavioral and social factors,

        3. changes in sexual behavior among MSM during the project as well as the associated
           medical, behavioral and social factors,

        4. risk of HIV transmission as well as the associated medical, behavioral and social
           factors, and

        5. describe the virologic characteristics (subtypes / circulating recombinant forms,
           co-infection with multiple variants and transmitted and acquired resistance profiles).

      Regarding healthcare professionals, the specific objective is to evaluate the perception of
      the preventive global care.

      This interventional, open label, multicenter, multidisciplinary cohort study will be
      conducted in Burkina Faso, Ivory Coast, Mali and Togo.

      All participants will receive a HIV quarterly preventive global care including:

      i) data collection on health status, symptoms of sexually transmitted infections (STI) and
      sexual behavior, ii) a clinical examination, iii) STI diagnosis and treatment, iv)
      counselling adapted for MSM, and v) the provision of condoms and lubricants.

      In addition, vaccination against hepatitis B virus and annual tests for syphilis will be
      offered. HIV-negative MSM will also be offered an HIV screening test at each quarterly visit.
      HIV-positive MSM will be offered immediate support of HIV infection including antiretroviral
      therapy. A total of 700 MSM over 18 years (500 HIV-negative and 200 HIV-positive) reporting
      at least one anal sex (passive or active) with another man within the last three months will
      be recruited and followed for 24 to 36 months. MSM lost to follow-up, transferred, died or
      having seroconverted for HIV during follow-up will be replaced in their respective group
      (seronegative or seropositive) by other MSM. The study will last 3 years.
    
  