
    
      The risk of developing chronic renal failure after liver transplantation (LT) in the pre-MELD
      era was approximately 20% after 5 years, associated with the use of CNI and a 4-fold
      increased mortality risk. Besides pre-transplant factors associated with end-stage hepatic
      disease that influence renal function (hepatorenal syndrome [HRS]), there are major risk
      factors associated with early post-transplant renal impairment: preexisting diabetes
      mellitus, time on the waiting list with end-stage hepatic disease, requirement for blood
      products, liver allograft dysfunction, HCV-infection and toxicity of Calcineurin-inhibitors
      (CNI) (1-8). The introduction of the MELD-based allocation system in the Eurotransplant area
      in December 2006 led to an increase of the proportion of liver transplant recipients with
      renal dysfunction before and at the time of liver transplantation (LT), since creatinine
      became a key component for the allocation of liver allografts (9). Data from 2 recent
      publications indicate an incidence of pre-transplant renal impairment with an eGFR ≤
      60ml/min. of approximately 50%. Renal impairment and MELD-scores ≥ 24 as well as the
      requirement for renal replacement therapy before LT result in a significantly unfavorable
      outcome after LT (10,11). An additional problem in this specific patient group (impaired
      renal function at the time of LT and MELD-scores ≥ 25), is a high risk for developing
      infectious complications (12). Studies indicate that early infections are present in almost
      85% of all patients, and become the most common cause of death early after transplantation.
      Notably, two-third of infections in liver transplant patients occur within the first 3 months
      after transplantation with a very high percentage (67%) of severe infections (13,14). In
      general, the inflammatory response associated with infection is impaired by immunosuppressive
      drugs. This disturbed regulation increases the susceptibility for a broad range of normal and
      of opportunistic infections (15). Therefore, patients with high lab-MELD scores
      hypothetically should require a rather low amount of immunosuppressive (IS) drugs during the
      first days to weeks after transplantation, while they are in a state of SIRS (systemic
      inflammatory response syndrome)-like state (16,17). In Regensburg a collective of 30 patients
      with renal impairment (creatinine of 1.5 g/dL or higher and/or eGFR of 50 ml/min or lower) at
      the time point of LT, or on day 1 after LT, was treated with either standard CNI + MMF +
      basiliximab + steroids (control-arm; group 2) or with a CNI-free protocol consisting of MMF +
      basiliximab + steroids (treatment-arm; group 1). Baseline renal function was similar: serum
      creatinine (SCr) median 1.8 mg/dL (1.5 to 4.0 mg/dL) (group A) vs. 2.4 mg/dL (1.5 to 4.0
      mg/dL) (group B) [p=0.24]. Results from our retrospective case-control study show that the
      cumulative requirement for renal replacement therapy was significantly lower in group B
      (p=0.032). Ten of 15 patients received additional immunosuppression (4 CNI and 6 mTOR
      inhibitor) beyond day 30. By month 6 (1.3 mg/dL vs. 1.1 mg/dL) and month 12 (1.6 mg/dL vs.
      1.2 mg/dL), group B patients showed significantly better SCr (and eGFR) values than group A
      (p=0.006). Rates of BPAR were similar, but pulmonary complications were higher in group A
      resulting in a significantly longer stay on ICU (9 vs. 21 days; p=0.04). The investigators
      concluded from this collective that CNI-free-"bottom-up" immunosuppression in severely ill
      patients with renal impairment prior to LT is feasible and may be an innovative approach to
      improve outcome (18). Based on these initial findings the investigators initiated a
      prospective uncontrolled two-step pilot-trial to investigate the safety and efficacy of
      CNI-free de novo "bottom-up" immunosuppression in patients undergoing LT with existing renal
      impairment (PATRON07-study, clinicaltrials.gov-identifier: NCT00604357) (19). In the first
      step of this pilot trial, nine patients were treated with MMF 2x1g i.v./day, including
      induction therapy with basiliximab 20 mg i.v. on days 0 and 4, and center-specific steroids;
      sirolimus was introduced into the regimen at least 10 days after LT. The primary endpoint was
      the incidence of steroid-resistant biopsy-proven acute rejections at 30 days after
      transplantation, as an early detector of safety and efficacy. Analysis of the first nine
      patients confirmed our findings in the retrospective analysis summarized in section 2.1. Only
      one biopsy proven acute rejection occurred. No patient lost their allograft, and no patient
      died within one year after LT. Renal function improved significantly from baseline to 30
      days, and to 3 and 6 months after transplantation (p=0.004). At 3 and 6 months, 72% of all
      patients were still CNI-free. All side-effects observed were expected for treatment with
      mTOR-inhibitors. Although the median lab MELD-score at baseline was 29 (range: 10 to 40), and
      the initial Karnowsky-index was 20 (range: 10 to 80), patients recovered quite quickly and
      had a Karnowsky-index of 60 (range: 20 to 80) at day 30 and 80 (range: 50 to 100) at 3 months
      after LT. These findings indicate the feasibility of CNI-free de novo "bottom-up" IS without
      increased risk for acute rejection, graft-loss and mortality but a beneficial impact on
      short- and long-term renal function as independent risk-factor for long-term mortality after
      LT.
    
  