
    
      Autophagy may represent a new potential therapeutic target for the prevention and the
      treatment of aortic pathologies. It is a cellular self- digestion mechanism that prevents the
      accumulation of senescent organelles and damaged proteins. Autophagy plays a pivotal role in
      the regulation of cellular homeostasis and promotes the cellular response to stress. However,
      further investigations are needed to establish how autophagy is influenced by cardiovascular
      risk factors, as well as by pharmacological therapy. Moreover, it is still unclear in humans
      the association between autophagy and structural and functional alterations of aortic wall,
      as well as its association with endothelial dysfunction, especially in subjects affected by
      aortic pathologies. Furthermore, no data are available on the correlation between autophagy
      and the prognosis of patients who underwent cardio-surgical procedures for aortic
      pathologies. In this study, autophagy levels will be evaluated in human aortic aneurysm
      samples obtained from patients enrolled for a surgical aorta procedures. Autophagy markers in
      each aneurysm sample will be compared to those observed in the non-aneurysmatic aortic
      portion adjacent to the aneurysmatic tract obtained from the same patient. Levels of
      autophagy will also be correlated with markers of apoptosis and oxidative stress in both the
      aneurysmatic and non-aneurysmatic aortic parts. The involvement of the Hippo signaling
      pathway and inflammation in control and aneurysm samples will also be investigated. The
      investigators expect that autophagy levels will be lower in aneurysm samples with respect to
      non-aneurysmatic adjacent aortic portions. They will also be inversely correlated with
      aneurysm dimension. In contrast, the Hippo pathway will be activated in aortic aneurysms.
      Autophagy and Hippo signaling markers will also be correlated with markers of apoptosis and
      oxidative stress in aortic samples. In conclusion, the results of this study may underline
      the vascular role of autophagy and Hippo signaling and their involvement in the development
      of aortic diseases.
    
  