
    
      Abdominal surgery is usually associated with severe; wide spread post-operative pain. The
      greater propensity for pain and opioid-related side effects are likely contributing factors
      for poor postsurgical recovery, and it often results in significant pain and slow recovery.
      Although Opioids are considered the analgesics of choice to treat moderate to severe pain,
      their use carries the risk of side effects and hyperalgesia. Multimodal analgesia is
      advocated for perioperative pain management to reduce opioid use and its associated adverse
      effects. Multimodal analgesia can be achieved by combining different analgesics and different
      methods of administration, to provide better analgesia synergistically compared with
      conventional analgesia.Therefore, lower doses for each drug can be provided with fewer
      overall side-effects obtained from individual compounds.Serotonin and norepinephrine are
      involved in the modulation of endogenous analgesic mechanisms via descending inhibitory pain
      pathways in the brain and spinal cord. An increase in serotonin and norepinephrine may
      increase inhibition of nociceptive input and improve pain relief.

      Duloxetine is a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor commonly prescribed for the
      treatment of major depression and anxiety. Duloxetine also has been used in the treatment of
      chronic pain conditions. There several reasons why duloxetine might improve postsurgical
      quality of recovery. First, systemic Duloxetine seems to have perioperative analgesic
      effects. In addition, as a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, it is possible that
      the drug may prevent transient emotional problems that are common during the perioperative
      period. Lastly, the combination of less pain and better emotional status can result in better
      physical independence scores after surgery.

      The main objective of the current study is to examine the effect of perioperative Duloxetine
      on postoperative pain after laparoscopic colorectal surgery.
    
  