
    
      1. This is a prospective study in which liver transplant recipients on maintenance
           immunosuppression (IS) will undergo carefully supervised IS weaning over a period of
           approximately 6-9 months. Patients will be gathered from a consortium of European liver
           transplant units including: Hospital Clínic Barcelona (Dr A. Sánchez-Fueyo), University
           Tor Vergata Rome (Dr G.Tisone), University Hospitals Leuven (Dr J.Pirenne). Patients
           will be followed-up for a total of 48 months after inclusion.

        2. Patients will be visited every 2-3 weeks, and immunosuppressive drugs will be gradually
           discontinued with the aim of achieving 50% decrease in drug dosages by month 3, and
           complete withdrawal by month 6 after initiation of the study. Following drug
           discontinuation, patients will continue to be followed every 2-3 weeks for 3 months, and
           monthly thereafter until month 12 after initiation of the study. Liver function tests
           will be obtained at every clinical follow-up visit. Patients will be considered
           operationally tolerant if no rejection takes place during the weaning procedure and the
           12-month period after complete drug discontinuation. All patients who fail to completely
           discontinue IS, or in whom drugs have to be reintroduced after a period of complete
           withdrawal, are considered as IS-dependent or non-tolerant. All biopsies will be blindly
           reviewed at the end of the study by a single pathologist to ensure diagnostic
           consistency between the two institutions.

        3. Management of liver function test alterations:

             -  Increases in liver function tests below 2-fold normal levels for AST/ALT/GGT,
                1.5-fold normal levels for ALP, or 2 mgIdL for bilirubin will result in no further
                decreases in drug dosages, and performance of new liver function tests in 14 days.
                Worsening or persistence of liver function test alterations will constitute
                indication for liver biopsy.

             -  Increases in liver function tests beyond 2-fold normal levels for AST/ALT/GGT,
                1.5-fold normal levels for ALP, or 2 mg/dL for bilirubin will result in liver
                biopsy.

        4. Diagnosis of liver graft rejection: will be based on the finding of 2 out of 3 of the
           following histological criteria: portal inflammation, injury to bile duct epithelium,
           and endothelitis. The finding of a mixed portal/lobular lymphocytic infiltrate not
           attributable to any other cause and responding to an increase in immunosuppressive drug
           doses will also be considered as a rejection.

        5. Management of rejection episodes: Specific therapy will be decided by the corresponding
           clinician/institution. Patients undergoing graft rejection will finalize their
           participation in the study. Worsening of HCV hepatitis or appearance of portal/lobular
           inflammation not attributable to rejection or viral etiology may also justify withdrawal
           from the study according to each institution's experience.

        6. Peripheral blood samples will be collected before weaning starts and every time routine
           liver function tests are measured. These samples will be employed to conduct microarray
           gene expression experiments. A portion of all liver biopsies collected will also be
           cryopreserved to conduct gene expression analyses. This experiments will constitute the
           basis of an observational sub-study (described in a different protocol) entitled:
           "Search for the immunological signature of operational tolerance in liver
           transplantation".

        7. Sample size has been estimated in order to be able to replicate the microarray gene
           expression results obtained by our group when comparing tolerant and non-tolerant
           recipients. In the current project we have followed a novel method recently proposed by
           Tibshirani et al. and have performed a permutation-based analysis of our pilot
           microarray data obtained from tolerant and non-tolerant samples. According to this
           analysis, at least 45 samples (20% tolerant, 80% non-tolerant) are required in order to
           be able to discriminate between tolerant and non-tolerant HCV-positive samples with a
           false discovery rate <0.05. Based on this analysis, we expect to enrol a total of 80
           patients in order to have at least 60 patients evaluable, who will be randomly allocated
           into training (45 patients) and testing (15 patients) sets for data analysis purposes.
    
  