
    
      The study is a placebo controlled single ascending dose (SAD) study in adult GHD patients
      currently receiving daily rhGH therapy. After screening patients are withdrawn from daily
      rhGH therapy for a minimum of 7 days (maximum of 60 days) prior to randomization for
      treatment. Patients will be randomised within a treatment group that is currently being
      enrolled once the patient has passed the pre-dose screening criteria.

      Documented confirmation (medical history) of GHD during adulthood by a minimum of one or more
      GH stimulation tests is required such as:

        -  insulin tolerance test (ITT; peak hGH ≤ 5.0 ng/mL),

        -  arginine alone (peak hGH ≤ 0.4 ng/mL);

        -  arginine + growth-hormone-releasing hormone* (see below);

        -  or glucagon stimulation test (peak hGH ≤ 3.0 ng/mL) OR

        -  at least 3 other pituitary hormone deficiencies and a low IGF-I for age/gender
           appropriate normal range

      Each patient will be randomised to receive either the investigational product, VRS-317
      (Cohorts A-E), or placebo (Cohort F) in a 4:1 ratio.

      Subjects will be monitored for safety throughout their participation in the study. To ensure
      patient safety, two patients (1 active, 1 placebo) in the first treatment group, one from
      Cohort A and one from Cohort F1, will be dosed in a blinded manner and monitored for 48 hr
      prior to dosing the remaining 8 patients. The 8 remaining patients will be blinded and
      randomized to the first treatment group. Vital signs, clinical lab values, adverse events
      (AEs) and concomitant medications (CMs) will be captured. AEs will be graded using the Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v 4.0)1, and the Primary Dermal Irritation
      Scoring Scale; AEs will be coded using the MedDRA2 dictionary and CMs using the WHO Drug
      dictionary. Prior to escalating to a higher dose level, safety data will be reviewed by the
      principal investigator (PI), co-PIs, the Sponsor, and the medical monitor for any potential
      safety risk to subjects.

      Patients will participate for a total of 83-215 days. A 7-60 day withdrawal phase (no daily
      rhGH therapy) is followed by receiving assigned doses on Day 1 of Treatment Phase, PK/PD and
      safety assessments for 30 days, and an additional 30 days of follow up.

      Safety evaulations will be performed to assess safety including but not limited to:

        -  Physical examination

        -  Vital signs (including sitting/supine blood pressure)

        -  Laboratory tests: hematology, chemistry, urinalysis, and pregnancy testing (in women of
           child-bearing age)

        -  Adverse events and concomitant medications

        -  Glucose metabolism: Fasting and post-prandial plasma glucose and fasting insulin
           pre-study and at pre-scheduled timepoints during the study (per Assessment Table)

        -  Lipid profile will be assessed pre-study and at pre-scheduled timepoints during the
           study (per Assessment Table)

        -  Assessment for adrenal insufficiency prior to enrollment and at Day 30 (not performed on
           patients with documented history of adrenal insufficiency)

        -  Evaluation of injection site reactions

        -  Anti-VRS-317 antibody assay (pre-dose, Day 30 (end of study) and Day 60) last follow up
           visit

        -  Safety monitoring will continue for up to 60 days post-dose
    
  