
    
      Pulmonary Rehabilitation (PR) has been shown to deliver cost-effective improvements in
      dyspnoea, exercise tolerance and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in people with
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). PR programmes in the United Kingdom (UK) are
      typically delivered on an outpatient basis, either at a hospital or suitable site in the
      community. It is not always possible however, for patients to access outpatient programmes
      due to lack of local availability or adequate transport from isolated locations. Severe
      breathlessness may reduce activity levels to such a degree that for many leaving the house is
      an ordeal. A British Lung Foundation (BLF) survey reported that less than 2% of UK COPD
      patients had access to a rehabilitation exercise programme, despite National Institute for
      Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) and British Thoracic Society (BTS) recommendations that
      PR be made available to all patients who are functionally limited by dyspnoea. Meeting the
      demand for PR remains a challenge.

      Access to the benefits of PR may be broadened if effective exercise could be administered at
      home. Current evidence suggests that home-based rehabilitation interventions result in
      smaller benefits as judged by exercise tolerance and quality of life when compared to
      supervised programmes. The impact of home based rehabilitation may be limited by multiple
      factors including, lack of health care professional supervision and lack of support from
      fellow COPD sufferers. This lack of support may lead to poor adherence to prescribed exercise
      intensity and frequency in home programmes.

      One-to-one supervision on an individual basis is unlikely to be feasible or cost-effective,
      however, use of a home exercise video could enhance adherence to prescribed exercise
      programmes. Video media can be an effective means of delivering exercise instruction. No
      published research to date has investigated the effectiveness of a home exercise video for
      patients with COPD. We hypothesised that an exercise programme based on video instruction at
      home, could improve walking ability, breathlessness and quality of life.
    
  