
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the clinical activity of the combination of asciminib (ABL001) and a tyrosine
      kinase inhibitor (TKI) in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) in complete
      cytogenetic response (CCyR) but detectable BCR-ABL1 transcript.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the effect of the combination of ABL001 and TKI on the rate of mismatch
      repair (MR)4, MR4.5, and sustained MR4.5.

      II. To investigate treatment-free remission after at least 2 years of sustained deep
      molecular remission.

      III. To determine the safety of the combination of asciminib and tyrosine kinase inhibitors.

      IV. To determine the event-free survival (EFS), survival free from transformation to
      accelerated and blast phase (TFS), and overall survival (OS).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the rate of minimal residual disease (MRD) clearance using droplet digital
      polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR) detecting the BCR-ABL1 fusion transcript.

      II. To determine the effect of therapy on quiescent leukemic Philadelphia chromosome positive
      (Ph+) stem cells (CFSEmax/CD34+).

      III. To determine the effect of this combination on mutations in ABL1 and mutations in clonal
      hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP)-associated genes using molecular barcode
      sequencing.

      IV. To determine the effect of therapy on bone marrow progenitors in clonogenic assays.

      V. To describe immune effects of the combination of TKI and ABL001. VI. To describe patient
      reported outcomes (PRO) using the MD Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI)-CML instrument.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive asciminib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for up to 36 months while receiving
      standard of care dasatinib or nilotinib in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients may continue to receive asciminib after 36 months at the discretion of
      investigator.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4-8 weeks for 6 months
      and then every 3-6 months thereafter.
    
  