
    
      The patients will be divided into three research arms. Patients will be randomly selected for
      one of the groups using a random number generator between 1 and 3. There will be a "Control
      Group" which will receive a rectal exam while still in the operating room in the lithotomy
      position after the procedure. There will be a "Postoperative OR" group which will receive a B
      and O suppository while still in the operating room in the lithotomy position after the
      procedure. Finally, there will be a "Preoperative OR" group which will receive a B and O
      suppository after the induction of anesthesia prior to beginning the urologic procedure in
      the lithotomy position. The "Control Group" will receive a rectal exam in the operating room
      after the procedure but before extubation to simulate the effects of suppository
      administration so that the investigators know that any effects are due to the medication and
      not to the placement of the suppository itself. Those patients in the "control group" may
      receive a B and O suppository as part of standard procedure in the post-operative period if
      these individuals experience any bladder spasms and wish to have this as a treatment. This
      administration will be at the discretion of the operating surgeon as it is in standard cases.
      Patients may also receive Ditropan in the post-operative setting, which is part of the
      standard procedure for treating bladder spasms following urologic procedures. Patients in the
      postoperative and preoperative OR groups will be offered Ditropan for any bladder spasms in
      the post-operative setting to control symptoms, which is part of the normal standard of care
      for anyone who has already received a B and O suppository with inadequate control of
      symptoms. All patients will be treated with a normal post-operative pain regimen which may
      include narcotics. This will be at the discretion of the treating physician.
    
  