
    
      This study is designed as a single-blind randomized clinical trial with parallel design, and
      third party evaluation at the Hospital Universitario Príncipe de Asturias in Alcalá de
      Henares (Madrid, Spain). The study will be carry out with pregnant women who were in labor at
      this hospital. Information sheets about the study will be distributed by the different health
      care centers coordinated by the hospital. The midwives will give the information sheets to
      pregnant women during the pregnancy's attendances. The objective is to let pregnant women
      know about the study before their labor date in order to encourage them to participate in it.

      Pregnant women fulfilling all the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria will
      be invited to participate in the experiment. These requirements includes pregnant women from
      18 to 40 years old, with eutectic delivery, gestation between 37 and 42 weeks, labors with
      epidural analgesia.

      Concerning the procedure and data collection, the acupuncturist will request permission to
      midwife responsible of the mother for their collaboration in the study in the pre-labor room.
      The acupuncturist will explain the study to the mother and her partner and will apply for her
      voluntary participation being the informed consent offered then. All information will be
      given when the pregnant woman is without pain of labor, preferably when the woman is under
      the epidural analgesia effects.

      Regarding to the selection of patients, a randomization scheme will be performed using an
      envelope based method. The researches will have opaque envelopes with a number outside, this
      number being the code of the patient in the study. After the approval of the pregnant woman
      and informed consent, the acupuncturist opens the envelop which will indicate the treatment
      to follow, either control or intervention group. So, investigators guarantee randomization,
      blindness and unpredictable selection of the sample.

      In the labor ward, after delivery, the baby is placed on the abdomen of the puerperal mother
      to facilitate maternal link. Collection of lost blood is initiated immediately after birth of
      the baby by passing a blood collection bag under the woman's buttocks. The birth attendant
      clamps the umbilical cord at first minute after birth and the acupuncturist midwife performed
      the acupuncture procedure depending on the group assigned.

      In the intervention group with real acupuncture, after the umbilical cord is clamped, the
      acupuncturist disinfects the abdominal area with antiseptic and pricks the needle in the
      point Ren Mai 6. In the control group the puncture of the Ren Mai 6 is not performed. In both
      cases, the needle is covered with a opaque plastic cup and the cup is set with adhesive tape,
      guaranteeing that both the midwife responsible of the birth and the puerperal woman do not
      know if the Ren Mai 6 acupuncture point has been punctured or not.

      Afterwards, the midwife responsible of the birth expects to note the signs of placental
      separation such as a gush of blood, uterine contraction, lengthening of the umbilical cord,
      and visualization of the placenta in the vagina, and then encourage the woman to cough of
      push. When the placental has been expelled, the midwife pays attention to the time passed
      from the delivery to the placental expulsion, and she changes the collected bleeding drape
      for another one if the puerperal women has to be sutured. Finally, a nappy is settled to the
      puerperal woman until the first two hours after birth. This procedure is routinely used at
      this hospital.

      The midwife responsible of the birth weights one or both blood collection drapes, gauzes used
      and nappy, and registers the data in a specific record. Taking into account the total weight
      and the amount of material used, the volume of blood loss is estimated.

      A survey will be fulfilled by the acupuncturist no more than 2 hours after the intervention.
      In this survey, the midwife takes notes on the level of ease with which the technique was
      performed with four possible answers (high, moderate, medium and low ease level).
      Furthermore, the acupuncturist will ask to the puerperal woman if she would recommend this
      technique to any of her friends with two possibles answers (yes or not).

      The placental expulsion time will be measured after the childbirth is occurred. The weight of
      the blood collected drapes, gauzes and nappy is registered in the first two hours after
      birth, so too, the satisfaction of professionals and participants is noted in this time.
      After this period of time, the puerperal woman is moved to the obstetrics plant which is out
      of the labor room. Participants will be followed-up during the hospital stay, an expected
      average of 2 days. The physician in charge of evaluation of the welfare of the puerperal
      woman will annotate the existence or not of complications during the hospital stay in the
      medical record of the woman, as it is routinely done at hospital.

      All the study will be performed in conditions of respect for individual rights and ethical
      principles affecting biomedical research involving human. Written informed consent will be
      fulfilled by all participants. In particular, the physical and mental integrity of women will
      be safeguarded, as well as privacy and data protection in accordance to the Spanish Organic
      Law 15/1999, of December 13, Protection of Personal Data. All the participants will give
      their informed consent in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki assuring
      confidentiality and freedom to withdraw from the study at any time.
    
  