
    
      On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared the COVID-19 disease caused
      by SARS-CoV-2 (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2) as a pandemic. The Covid-19
      pandemic is evolving throughout the world and is associated with high mortality and
      morbidity. According to Salem ML et al. 2020, the influenza vaccine may have an adjuvant
      effect to minimize the severity of COVID-19, since the correlation of Covid-19-related
      mortality and morbidity and the influenza vaccination situation appears to be protective. The
      trend of the correlation could be explained in parameters of incidence and recovery of cases.

      Vaccination against influenza (H1N1) is cost-effective and safe. Given that the influenza
      virus shares some common epitopes and mechanisms with the SARS-CoV-2 virus, there is the
      possibility of partial protection for reduce severity related to Covid-19 through flu
      vaccination. The influenza viruses and the SARS-CoV-2 viruses have an evolutionary proximity.
      Since this vaccination is not mandatory for routine clinical practice, various countries
      adopt different policies, and vaccination rates differ considerably among them. For this
      reason, the WHO in February 2020 published a recommendation on the composition of vaccines
      against influenza virus for use in the 2020-2021 northern hemisphere influenza season.

      Under this situation, it has been identified that older adults and people suffering from
      serious chronic conditions such as heart disease, lung disease or kidney disease have a
      higher risk of suffering from severe COVID-19. Older people are twice as likely to have
      severe COVID-19. This is probably because as people age, their immune systems change, making
      it harder to fight off disease and infection, and for this reason age is considered a risk
      factor for the disease.

      After several months of the global impact of the pandemic, specific vaccines for Covid-19
      will begin to be available by end 2020. In Spain, the Ministry of Health designed a
      vaccination plan that will begin immediately. Specifically, in Catalonia this plan foresees
      classifying the population into various risk groups, based on highest priority and immediacy.
      Older adults make up one of the groups that will receive the vaccine as a priority. At the
      same time, they represent a population group whose immune response after the administration
      of other vaccines has been found to be less effective or optimal than in healthy adults under
      65 years of age. For example, the influenza vaccine has an efficacy of 70-90% in the general
      population, while this efficacy is reduced to 17-53% in adults older than 65 years. In the
      same line, preliminary results with Covid-19 vaccines observe a better efficacy (> 90%) in
      groups of people under 55 years of age compared to those over 55 years of age (62%), results
      that suggest that the efficacy could decrease with age.

      The reduced efficacy of vaccines in the elderly may be because the geriatric population
      frequently presents immunosenescence (or a decline in immune function due to aging), but also
      to a possible poor nutritional status, in which it is not achieved to reach an optimal supply
      of essential oligonutrients for an effective antiviral immune response.

      Specifically, the efficacy data for the BNT162b2 vaccine in people older than 65 years
      considered a risk population point to a slightly lower efficacy (91.7% versus 94.8% in the
      general population). However, the results point to less protection after the administration
      of a single dose of the vaccine (82.0% efficacy just after the administration of the first
      dose and 52.4% between doses 1 and 2, compared to 94.8% 7 Days after the second dose),
      regardless of age. This requires a long administration schedule that does not make protection
      effective until a month after the first administration, slowing down access to the vaccine to
      a greater part of the population and leaving around 18-48% of unprotected vaccinated
      population until the administration of the second dose. The benefits of increasing efficacy
      after the first dose could be of great importance for Public Health since it would allow a
      more immediate immunization of the vaccinated population even before the administration of
      the second dose.

      A higher and faster immune response to the vaccine could benefit not only the elderly
      population, but also any other type of sub-population to be vaccinated. The group of medical
      staff workers represents a population subject to constant exposure to the virus, and for this
      reason it is considered another priority group to receive the vaccine. This group will be
      exposed to infection during the window of time that passes between the administration of the
      first and the second dose, so the possibility of improving the immune response immediately
      could have a huge benefit.

      Over the past 10 years, a wide range of pleiotropic effects of selenium have been discovered,
      ranging from antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects to the production of active thyroid
      hormone, which has drawn attention to the relevance of selenoproteins for health. Low
      selenium level has been associated with an increased risk of mortality, poor immune function,
      and cognitive decline. An increased level of selenium or selenium supplementation has
      antiviral effects, is essential for the success of male and female reproduction and reduces
      the risk of autoimmune thyroid diseases. Older adults with insufficient selenium intake are
      at increased risk for a poorer clinical outcome after viral exposure due to a response
      sub-optimal antiviral response. Results from an intervention clinical trials have shown that
      daily supplementation of older adults with 100 ug of high selenium yeast can raise plasma
      selenium levels to 150 ug / L, which is within the proposed target range of selenium status.
      High selenium yeast has demonstrated its safety and clinical efficacy in human
      supplementation trials.

      On the other hand, the low to moderate zinc deficiency that is highly prevalent in elderly
      persons mimics many of the features of the immunosenescence of aging. Therefore, some of the
      deficits in immune regulation seen among the elderly could be ameliorated or reversed through
      daily zinc supplementation. It has been demonstrated that low zinc status is associated with
      increased risk of respiratory disease, including pneumonia, and inflammation. Research
      indicates that zinc supplementation can restore serum zinc levels in some elderly persons
      with low zinc status. Zinc supplementation of 15 per day that may increase immune readiness
      and favor regulated immune response. This protective approach may be particularly important
      in individuals who may be prone to cytokine-driven immune overreaction during the COVID-19
      epidemic.

      Finally, the immunostimulatory effect of beta-glucan is widely known. Specifically, yeast or
      fungal beta-1,3/1,6-glucans interact with specific receptors (dectin-1, TLR2 and 6 or CR3) in
      different cells of the immune system, such as macrophages, neutrophils, granulocytes, Natural
      Killer cells or dendritic cells. This interaction stimulates the production of antibodies and
      primes phagocytosis, strengthening defense mechanisms against infections. It is important to
      note that not all beta-glucans have the same mechanisms of action: while other linear
      beta-glucans only bind to Dectin-1 and promote a reduction of phagocytosis and cytokine
      secretion, beta-1,3/1,6-glucans, branched polymers that simultaneously stimulate Dectin-1 and
      TLR4 receptors, stimulate phagocytosis, activate innate immunity and prevent or counteract
      exacerbated immune reactions, allergy or inflammation. In addition, these effects are
      improved in combination with selenium.

      ABBC1 is a combination of beta-1,3/1,6-glucan with inactivated Saccharomyces cerevisae rich
      in selenium and zinc for immunity enhancement. Due to its high tolerance, safety and
      immediate availability, ABBC1 is an ideal candidate for complementary management for
      geriatric patients with seasonal influenza viruses or COVID-19, or to improve the immune
      response in the general population receiving the influenza or Covid-19 vaccines. The absence
      of drug interactions in ABBC1 allows a dosage that is fully compatible with the medication
      prescribed for all types of patients, including the elderly who are frequently polymedicated,
      and allows adding an additional therapeutic tool in the fight against the pandemic.

      In this study we propose to determine the benefits of supplementation with ABBC1 in
      volunteers receiving the influenza vaccine at a first stage and the Covid-19 vaccine when
      available, to study if their immune response to the vaccine improves and/or leads to a better
      clinical outcome.
    
  