
    
      Postmenopausal women who are sedentary or overweight, have an increased breast cancer risk.
      It is suggested that these two factors mediate breast cancer risk mainly through sex
      hormone-related pathways. However, an inactive lifestyle and obesity are highly correlated
      and it is not clear which is most relevant to risk.

      Literature shows that weight loss/ fat loss reduces postmenopausal sex hormone levels, but
      the question is if there is an additional beneficial effect on hormones of reaching this
      weight loss by physical activity instead of nutritional interventions.

      In this three-armed, two-center intervention study, 250 sedentary postmenopausal women who
      are aged 50-69 years will first enter a run-in period of 5 weeks. During this period, all
      participants get a diet, adapted to the guidelines for healthy nutrition, meeting their
      energy expenditures to maintain stable weight. After this run-in phase they are randomly
      allocated to a (1) diet induced weight loss group, (2) a combined exercise and diet induced
      weight loss group or (3) a control group. Participants allocated to the dietgroup will get a
      calorie restricted diet of -500 kCal/day, they will remain their habitual exercise pattern.
      Participants in the combined group will follow an exercise programme (combined endurance and
      strength) of 4 hours of sports per week with an average energy expenditure of 350 kCal/day
      and a, less strict. And a calorie restricted diet of -250 kCal/day. The aim of both
      intervention groups is to loose 5-6 kg of body weight during the 14 week intervention period.
      Participants in the control group are requested to retain the baseline diet and their
      habitual exercise pattern. Primary study parameters measured at baseline and after 21 weeks
      are: serum concentrations of endogenous estrogens, endogenous androgens and sex hormone
      binding globulin. Other study parameters include: body fat distribution, amount of total and
      abdominal fat, weight, BMI, physical fitness, blood pressure and lifestyle factors.

      The aim of this study is to provide insight into the effect of weight loss mainly driven by
      exercise compared to equivalent weight loss due to nutritional calorie restriction on breast
      cancer biomarkers. Furthermore, we are specifically interested whether weight loss mainly due
      to physical exercise induces greater amounts of fat loss (total and abdominal) and
      subsequently results in more favourable effects on these hormones compared to equivalent
      diet-induced weight loss.
    
  