
    
      Forty-four patients in the age group of 25-50 years (males and females) who are suffering
      from periodontitis with almost similar probing depth bilaterally (≥ 6 mm) at the selected
      sites and exhibiting bleeding on probing.

      A written informed consent will be taken from the patients prior to the study.

      Each patient will be recalled 4 weeks after completion of both sides supra-gingival scaling,
      which formed the baseline visit. Plaque scores will be brought to zero, and the probing
      pocket depth and gingival index, will be recorded on the proforma specially prepared for the
      purpose.

      The selected treatment sites will be then divided into two groups, and sub-gingival SRP will
      be performed prior to the delivery of the drugs at the test sites.

        -  Group I: Consist of periodontal pockets on the left side of maxillary or mandibular arch
           and received sub-gingival Minocycline 2% gel.

        -  Group II: Consist of periodontal pockets on the left side of maxillary or mandibular
           arch and received Metronidazole 0.75% gel.

      The right side will be left as a control in both groups Patients will be recalled after 6
      weeks from the baseline visit to record the plaque index, gingival index, bleeding index and
      probing depth (UNC probe 12 mm).

      Statistical Analysis:

      The unit of measurement in this study is the site, rather than the subject. Student-t test
      was To compare between Group 1 (Minocycline 2 %) and Group 2 (Metronidazole 0.75 %), Data
      will check for normality, if the data normally distributed Independent t-test will use to
      test if there any significant differences between groups, otherwise if not normally Mann
      -Whitney U-test (Non-parametric) will use to detects the difference.

      To achieve 80% power of statistical test to detect the differences between Metronidazole and
      Minocycline With 5 % level of significant, 19.6 reduction in probing depth (previous
      study-vi) and standard deviation of 0.23, using the following formula.

      n=(2σ^2 〖(Z_(β+Z_(1-α/2) ))〗^2)/d^2 22 per group (minimum sample size) where: σ =0.23 Zβ
      =0.84 Z(1-α/2) =1.96, d= 19.6%

      For objective 2, the statistical test in case of normal data distribution will be paired t
      test or will use Willcoxon Sign Ranked test if it not normally distributed.

      To achieve 80% power of statistical test to detect the differences between Metronidazole and
      Minocycline. With 5% level of significant.
    
  