
    
      Breast cancers are made of different subtypes but by far the most common characteristic is
      their estrogen receptor positivity. Seventy percent of breast cancers are estrogen receptor
      positive and therefore responsive to the hormone estrogen, which acts as a stimulus for
      growth and survival of the cancer. Studies have repeatedly shown that estrogen deprivation
      results in prevention of breast cancer in high-risk women, and reduced recurrence of the
      cancer both locally and systemically as well as overall survival improvement in those women.
      The majority of women with estrogen sensitive breast cancer are placed on anti-estrogen
      therapy to prevent the cancer from returning. Even in menopause, women have estrogen produced
      in their bodies. Many parts of a woman's body require estrogen for normal functioning and
      reducing the amount of estrogen can affect women significantly in different ways. Some women
      have significant symptoms like vaginal dryness, which may result in painful sexual relations,
      discomfort, and frequent urinary tract (bladder) infections. Although the investigators goal
      is to reduce estrogen to prevent breast cancer from returning, quality of life (how women
      feel) matters during treatment which can last 5-10 years. A major question is: how
      medications such as Vagifem that are used to treat vaginal symptoms affect the rest of the
      body?

      This question has not been fully answered and is the reason this study is being done. The
      safest topical estrogen, Vagifem, is a commercially available tablet which is placed in the
      vagina. Vagifem works well in many women and is considered to be safe. It is used by
      gynecologists and cancer doctors in this setting all the time. It is not a new product and
      has been on the market for many years. Its effects on other parts of the body have not been
      tested. The investigators are poised to help answer this question by hypothesizing the
      following:

        1. It is impossible to know what impact a given estrogen level has in distant sites, the
           investigators will however measure these to see if estrogen levels rise in the blood
           when women are treated with vaginal estrogen tablets that are commercially available.
           The investigators hypothesize that there will not be any elevation in measurable
           estrogen levels using very sensitive assays.

        2. The investigators also propose using a topical vaginal estrogen application (one that is
           commercially available) while carefully monitoring its' effects locally in the vagina
           and its possible impact on bone health. The investigators expect women to have improved
           vaginal exams as well as improvement in overall quality of life with this treatment. It
           is also expected that there will be no impact on bone turnover by this topical estrogen
           replacement.

      Postmenopausal women on aromatase inhibitors interested in study participation will be asked
      to participate for a three month period.
    
  