
    
      Primary objective The primary objective of this study is to evaluate IFI according to
      clinicians' opinion vs the opinion of an independent board of experts. The independent panel,
      confirming or not the decision of local physician, will review all cases (blind central
      review). The primary output of this study is the evaluation of inter-raters agreement.

      Secondary objectives:

      Evaluation of IFI incidence Description of clinical and laboratory features Frequencies of
      different antifungal treatments Description of outcome Impact on the treatment of underlying
      hematological malignancy

      Study design This is a multicenter, non-interventional observational, prospective study.

      The duration of the study will be 18 months. The schedule for the study will be the
      following:

      Observation and data collection: 6 months Revision board: 6 months Data elaboration and
      paper: 6 months

      Materials and methods The study will recruit all consecutive eligible patients in each
      participating center, during a period of 6 months until at least 600 AML patients are
      registered, that represented the highest risk category of patients for IFI. Other disease
      types that fulfill the eligibility criteria in the participating centers during the same
      period will also be recruited in the study.

      We do not expect that diagnostic work-up would significantly vary among the participating
      centers. Minimal diagnostic work up must include:

      Blood cultures for fungal infection; Chest High Resolution CT-scan; Serum galactomannan;
      Sinus CT-scan (if indicated); Bronchoalveolar lavage (if indicated);

      Centers participating to the study will be selected on the basis of a questionnaire that
      evaluate their availability to participate to the survey (see Appendix 1).

      The clinical, microbiological, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures operated on these
      patients will be collected.

      An electronic CRF will be compiled for all patients at two different time points: T0 and T1.

      T0: at the start of antifungal treatment (study entry), information will be collected
      regarding:

      Hematological malignancy, status of the disease at onset of infection and phase of treatment,
      last chemotherapy regimen, comorbidities and risk factors (previous allogeneic stem cell
      transplantation); Previous IFI, neutropenia, antifungal and antibiotic prophylaxis: the local
      physicians must define the kind of IFI they retain the patient suffer
      (possible/probable/proven) and the kind of antifungal treatment started
      (empiric/pre-emptive/target); Diagnostic work-up done, positive microbiology and biomarkers,
      positive radiological findings; Antifungal treatment.

      T1: at 30-40 days (or before if the patient unfortunately died) a second form must be
      completed with information regarding:

      any changes in/additional diagnostic work-up done, positive microbiology and biomarkers,
      positive radiological findings; any changes in antifungal treatment; outcome. At that time,
      the local physician must state any revision of his diagnostic classification between the
      moment in which antifungal treatment was started and the moment of evaluation of the outcome
      (30 days) in order to estimate the differences regarding the level of evidence of diagnosis
      and treatment of IFI during time.

      Independent central review board The experts (each case will be examined blinded by 2
      different experts). The experts will review all records based on the existing guidelines,
      their own experience and based on the information that was known at the two time points,
      which may confirm or not the decision of local physician.

      Statistical considerations Sample size dimension The sample size will be driven by the AML
      patients (approximately 60-70% of the patients): Statistical analysis Sample will be
      described in its clinical and demographic features via descriptive statistics. Quantitative
      variables will be summarized with the following measures: minimum, maximum, range, mean and
      standard deviation. Qualitative variables will be represented by frequencies tables (absolute
      and percentage) The primary object of the study will be achieved evaluating Fleiss' Kappa.
      Secondary objectives will be using descriptive statistics techniques (already described
      above) recruit all eligible patients during a period of 6 months until at least 600 AML
      patients are recruited.
    
  