
    
      BACKGROUND - Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) rupture is the 13th cause of death in North
      America. The indications for a procedure to prevent rupture are based on AAA maximal
      diameter. However, it is a dichotomic criteria leading to under or over estimation of rupture
      risk. Biomechanics based criteria have been investigated using Finite Elements Analysis
      (FEA). The limitation of FEA is the absence of patient specific biomechanical information.
      Our team have previously developped a technique to map in-vivo the strain of AAAs, named
      non-invasive vascular elastography by ultrasound (NIVE). However, it relies on 2D ultrasound
      series, whereas new matrix- array probes allow a 3D mapping of the strain at a lower temporal
      resolution. We propose to create a 3D mapping of AAA strain with 3D ultrasound and register
      the strain mapping on a single phase CT.

      In the project, we plan to acquire multi-modal imaging from 30 AAA patients scheduled for an
      elective repair will be recruited. A 3D NIVE examination and multiphase CT will be performed
      on each patient within less than one month of their surgery. A portion of the AAA wall will
      be harvested during surgery to correlate strains with tensile tests and histology. Following
      the implementation of NIVE processing and 3D registration, the NIVE and multiphase CT strain
      values will be calculated and if necessary controlled for the measurement of blood pressure,
      AAA maximal diameter, calcium load, gender and age. A FEA model developed at U of Calgary
      will be personalized using the calculation of in-vivo strains. Comparison of strain
      measurement between NIVE and multiphase CT, correlation of strain measurements and
      personalized FEA with AAA growth will constitute secondary endpoints. Following the complete
      validation of this personalized model, we anticipate this will provide predictive biomarkers
      for AAA vulnerability.

      OBJECTIVES - Primary objectives: 1. Acquire a multimodal image dataset (multiphase CT, 3D US)
      from 30 AAA patients undergoing repair surgery (phase 1); 2. Optimize and validate in vitro
      the NIVE acquisition protocol and the image registration algorithm between NIVE and one phase
      of the multiphase CT (phase 1); 3. Compare the principal strain distribution assessed with 3D
      NIVE registered on conventional CT and those imaged with multiphase CT acquisition (phase 1);
      4. Validate both approaches with histology and tensile test on AAA samples (phase 2).

      Main hypothesis: Strain maps with 3D NIVE registered on single phase CT provide an accurate
      in-vivo estimation of AAA wall strength and yield similar accuracy to strain from multiphase
      CT to assess AAA vulnerability.

      METHODOLOGY ** Phase 1 only will be done for the moment** - Design: We plan a prospective
      study involving 30 AAA patients scheduled for elective open repair. For the phase 1 of the
      study, we will perform in all patients a NIVE examination and multiphase CT within less than
      one month of their surgery. For the phase 2 of the study, patient undergoing open surgery
      will be recruited. A portion of the AAA wall will be harvested during surgery (outside of
      scope of the pilot study) in order to perform biaxial tensile tests and histology
      examination. Patients will be recruited at the Centre hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal
      (CHUM) and Glen campus McGill University.

      Data analysis: Spearman correlation, accuracy evaluated by mean error and standard deviation,
      intraclass correlation coefficient, Bland-Altmann analysis, mixed linear model to evaluate
      the influence of sex, MaxD, pulse pressure, calcification score on strain (NIVE, multiphase
      CT) measurements.

      RATIONALE AND IMPACT - Ruptured AAA (rAAA) is a life-threatening situation which is the 13th
      mortality cause in USA. Endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) is often preferred for rAAA for
      its lower morbidity and mortality as compared with OR (1.6 versus 5%). But these data show
      the maximal diameter/rupture relationship to be nonlinear and inaccurate to predict rupture.
      New imaging biomarkers to predict AAA growth and rupture are therefore needed. There is also
      a need to personalize the tissue modeling with in vivo assessment of AAA wall strain to
      improve prediction of AAA rupture or growth. At the end of the study, we anticipate to have
      complete validation of this non-invasive assessment of AAA wall vulnerability using US-CT
      fusion,that will constitute the basis of a personalized assessment of AAA vulnerability. The
      strain mapping can be used to improve patient selection or be incorporated in a FEA model.
      Our personalized predictive model will also be useful for EVAR procedure simulation, planning
      and guidance.
    
  