
    
      Dual targeting of HER2 with trastuzumab and pertuzumab in HER2-positive breast cancer is
      linked to clinical evidence of reversal of initial resistance to trastuzumab (Baselga J et
      al, J Clin Oncol 2010) in cases progressing on trastuzumab therapy, and in dramatic
      improvement in progression free and overall survival when the two monoclonal antibodies are
      used in combination with docetaxel (THP regimen) as first line therapy of metastatic disease
      as shown in the CLEOPATRA study (Swain S et al, ESMO abstract 2014). The randomized NeoSphere
      study showed that the same THP regimen given for 4 cycles as neoadjuvant treatment increased
      the rate of pathologic complete response (pCR) over that with conventional docetaxel and
      trastuzumab or docetaxel and pertuzumab (Gianni L et al, Lancet Oncol 2012).

      Encouraging clinical data emerging in the field of tumor immunotherapy have demonstrated that
      therapies focused on enhancing T cell responses against cancer can result in a significant
      survival benefit in patients with advanced malignancies (Hodi FS and Dranoff G, J Cutan
      Pathol 2010; Kantoff PW et al, New Engl J Med 2010; Chen DS et al, Clin Cancer Res 2012).
      Many human tumors have been found to overexpress PD L1, which acts to suppress anti tumor
      immunity. PD 1 is an inhibitory receptor expressed on T cells following T cell activation,
      which is sustained in states of chronic stimulation, such as in chronic infection or canc
      Atezolizumab is a human monoclonal antibody containing an engineered Fc-domain to optimize
      efficacy and safety that targets PD-L1 and blocks binding of its receptors, including PD-1
      and B7.1.

      In addition to being involved in the natural progression of cancer, immunity can affect the
      activity of various anticancer agents. Accordingly, recent evidence suggests that some
      chemotherapeutic drugs, such as anthracyclines and oxaliplatin, rely on the induction of
      anticancer immune responses. Immune responses also play a major role in the efficacy of
      targeted therapies with monoclonal antibodies (Stagg J et al, Breast Care 2012). Studies have
      shown monoclonal antibodies such as trastuzumab and rituximab rely in part on immunemediated
      killing through antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC). While innate immune
      responses appear to be important for tumor antigen-targeted monoclonal antibody therapies,
      recent studies in mice and correlative clinical evidence suggest that trastuzumab may also
      stimulate adaptive antitumor immunity. These studies raise the possibility that combination
      strategies may be used to capitalize on the adaptive tumor-specific immunity generated by
      anti-HER2 monoclonal antibodies.

      Based on these considerations, we plan to conduct a randomized neoadjuvant study of the
      combination of trastuzumab, pertuzumab, carboplatin and paclitaxel with or without
      atezolizumab in women with early high-risk and locally advanced HER2-positive suitable for
      neoadjuvant therapy. One study arm will also include anthracycline and cyclophosphamide.
    
  