
    
      VERiTAS II REFRESHED is a prospective single-arm multi-center study to assess the safety of
      submaximal balloon angioplasty in conjunction with intensive medical management in patients
      with hemodynamically-compromised symptomatic 70-99% atherosclerotic intracranial stenosis
      (ICAS). This study builds on lines of evidence from prior prospective studies which
      established the markedly elevated risk of subsequent stroke in patients with hemodynamic
      compromise, and preliminary data from small case series which support submaximal angioplasty
      as a potentially safe option for revascularization. The primary objective of the current
      study is to determine the safety of submaximal balloon angioplasty for treatment of
      hemodynamically-compromised symptomatic ICAS. The secondary objectives are to obtain
      preliminary estimates of the risk of subsequent in-territory stroke at one year, to evaluate
      the hemodynamic effect of submaximal balloon angioplasty on distal blood flow, and to examine
      the hemodynamic durability of submaximal balloon angioplasty over follow-up.

      A total of 124 patients will be enrolled in this open-label study to receive the submaximal
      angioplasty intervention in conjunction with intensive medical management. Patients with
      stroke attributable to ICAS serve as the source population for the study, and will be
      identified as inpatients or outpatients at participating centers or their referring site.
      Patients with recently (within 30 days prior to enrollment) symptomatic 70-99% ICAS of the
      intracranial internal carotid (ICA), middle cerebral (MCA), vertebral (VA) or basilar (BA)
      artery will first be identified by a standard of care screening imaging modality (CTA, MRA,
      DSA). If the patient is eligible based on available inclusion/exclusion criteria, informed
      consent will be obtained and MRI/ quantitative magnetic resonance angiography (QMRA) will be
      performed (if not already as standard care); patients demonstrating evidence of hemodynamic
      compromise based on borderzone infarct pattern for the anterior circulation (ICA and MCA) and
      by low flow state on QMRA for the posterior circulation (VA and BA) will be enrolled. QMRA
      will be used for determination of eligibility in posterior circulation ICAS patients, but
      will be performed in both anterior and posterior circulation patients as a baseline for
      hemodynamic comparison post-procedure. The patient will then undergo catheter angiography (if
      not performed already as standard care) to confirm eligible intracranial ICAS.

      The participant will undergo submaximal angioplasty in accordance with the study protocol
      within 48 hours of angiographic confirmation, followed by SAMMPRIS regimen intensive medical
      management, including initial dual antiplatelet therapy (aspirin and Clopidogrel for 3 months
      followed by aspirin monotherapy), and targeting primary and secondary stroke risk factors.
      Assistance in achieving the risk factor goals will be provided by an INTERxVENT lifestyle
      coach, who will call the participant by phone at 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11 weeks, and then every 4
      weeks throughout follow-up. On a scheduled basis, INTERxVENT will send a report of the
      participants progress and goals for risk factor modification, to the participant and study
      coordinator/ study neurologist. Participants will have follow-up for a total of one year. All
      participants will have clinical visits at 1, 4, 8, and 12 months, performed by local study
      personnel not directly involved with the intervention. The study visits will include
      assessment of neurological, functional and cognitive status, as well as status of primary and
      secondary stroke risk factor control. QMRA will be performed post procedure and at 12 months;
      the follow-up QMRA results will be blinded to the local study personnel and patients. The
      main outcomes of interest are: (1) any periprocedural (within 30 day) stroke or death; (2)
      stroke in the symptomatic vessel territory; and (3) distal flow status post procedure and at
      follow-up (using QMRA). Additional measured endpoints will included functional and cognitive
      outcomes at follow-up.

      The sample size calculations have been based on a confidence interval (CI) approach aimed
      determining if the intervention can be performed with a clinically specified periprocedural
      event rate of 5% (90% CI 2,10%), in order to establish sufficient periprocedural safety of
      submaximal angioplasty to warrant further investigation in a future randomized trial. The
      sample size calculation assumes a CI approach around the stroke/death event rate at 30 days;
      for the presumed event rate of 5%, a sample size of N=117 would yield a 90% CI of (2%,10%).
      Adjusting for the inflation factor 1.02 due to a planned interim analysis and a 4% attrition
      rate for the 30 day follow-up, 124 patients are required for analysis of the primary safety
      endpoint. An interim analysis of safety is planned with a stopping rule if 30 day
      periprocedural risk exceeds 5 % (i.e. lower bound of CI of observed estimate exceeds the
      threshold). To ensure that the intervention is stopped early if it is harmful, the timing of
      the interim analysis will be flexible, to occur once 30 day follow-up has been completed on
      one third of patients (41 patients) or alternatively, when 12 events are observed, whichever
      comes first; the number of events, 12, has been specified as the minimal event number which
      would result in the lower bound of the 90% CI exceeding 5% and thus claim a >5% event rate.
      As related to study's go/no go criteria for a future phase 3 trial, our definitive no go
      parameter is proposed as the lower bound of the observed pre-specified CI exceeding the
      safety (30 day periprocedural risk) threshold of 5%. Other outcomes from the study (i.e. the
      secondary clinical and hemodynamic endpoints at 12m) would also be taken into account in
      determining whether the procedure warrants additional study in a phase 3 trial.
    
  