
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The Physicians' Health Study was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled primary
      prevention trial designed to test whether 325 mg aspirin every other day reduced the risk of
      cardiovascular disease and whether 50 mg beta-carotene on alternate days decreased cancer
      incidence among 22,071 male physicians, aged 40-84 years in 1982. On December 18, 1987, the
      external Data Monitoring Board recommended early termination of the blinded aspirin component
      of the trial, based on the emergence of a statistically extreme benefit of aspirin on both
      fatal and nonfatal myocardial infarction, as well as the extraordinarily low cardiovascular
      mortality rates among study participants.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      In January 1982, the Physicians' Health Study investigators purchased a tape from the
      American Medical Association that contained the names of all male physicians born between
      January 1, 1907 and December 31, 1942. The tape provided the basis for the invitation to join
      the trial. A new computer tape was purchased from the AMA that contained names, addresses,
      and dates of birth for all physicians registered as of December 1982, current and 1982
      addresses, and any reported deaths. This tape was matched against Physician Health Study data
      files to eliminate those not on the original tape, as well as those known to be deceased at
      the time of the original mailing. When the match was complete, the results were a new tape
      that included names, most recent addresses, and dates of birth of all those who were invited
      to participate in the trial. A new master study tape was compiled that included all
      non-randomized potentially eligible respondents to the invitational mailing as well as a 35
      percent random sample of the non-respondents. This group of 138,460 comprised the cohort. The
      National Death Index (NDI) was searched from January 1, 1982 to January 25, 1988, the
      official termination date of the trial for each physician in the cohort as well as for the
      22,071 randomized participants. A copy of the death certificate was obtained from the state
      department of vital statistics for each death identified by the NDI in order to distinguish
      between vascular and non-vascular deaths. An Endpoints Committee, using death certificates
      and medical records in some cases, assigned the cause of death to be entered into the data
      base.

      Analyses were performed comparing: all randomized versus all non-randomized respondents;
      those randomized versus those eligible but unwilling to participate; those randomized versus
      those initially willing and eligible who enrolled in an 18 week period but were excluded
      prior to randomization. Baseline data on the enrollment forms were examined to determine
      whether differences in mortality rates could be explained by differences in cardiovascular
      risk factors among the groups.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  