
    
      The study proposed is a non-inferiority randomized controlled trial Only patients undergoing
      PGT-A could be included. PGT-A will be proposed to couples for reasons of advanced maternal
      age, recurrent miscarriage, repeated implantation failure, or severe male infertility, as
      well as to all good-prognosis patients who desire information regarding the health status of
      their embryos.

      396 patients will be included in this study (198 per arm). After randomization, patients will
      be treated according to the PPOS or conventional ovarian stimulation strategy. For all
      patients the ICSI and PGT-A will be applied and the intermediate and definitive outcomes of
      the ART cycles will be recorded.

      Ovarian Stimulation Controlled ovarian stimulation will start on the second day of the
      menstrual cycle, with an initial dose of recombinant follicle stimulating hormone (rFSH)
      (chosen according to age, antral follicle count or serum AMH and body mass index,BMI) In
      addition to the gonadotrophin, participants will receive progestins (MPA) in the PPOS or GnRH
      antagonists in the conventional ovarian stimulation. Ovarian stimulation will culminate with
      the oocyte retrieval procedure.

      Oocyte Insemination, Embryo Culture, and Biopsy. All biologic procedures will be performed as
      already described. Only oocytes with the first polar body extruded (metaphase II) will be
      treated with the use of ICSI immediately after the denudation procedure. Finally, injected
      oocytes will be moved to single drops of cleavage medium. Depending on the embryo's
      development, the blastocyst stage can be reached on day 5, 6, or 7. On the day of biopsy,
      5-10 trophectoderm cells will be gently aspirated into the biopsy pipette followed by a
      laser-assisted removal from the rest of the blastocyst. Briefly, trophectoderm cell samples
      and negative controls will be processed according to the Illumina protocol.
    
  