
    
      Neoadjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer could make unresectable breast cancer be
      resectable and improve breast conservation rate. Patients with her2 enriched subtype who
      achieved pCR after neoadjuvant treatment would have longer survival. The neoadjuvant
      treatment for her2 positive patients include chemotherapy and targeted therapy. Although the
      pCR rate was high to 60% after use of trastuzumab and pertuzumab, but the adverse reaction of
      combined chemotherapy could not be negligible. Based on the application of dual targeted
      drugs, some studies have attempted chemotherapy-free treatment for her2 positive patients
      during neoadjuvant therapy. But, which patient could be exempted from chemotherapy and which
      drug could be omitted are still unknow before treatment. Drug sensitivity screening in vitro
      was a promising method for choosing chemotherapy. But there was no method could select
      effective drugs accurately for breast cancer participants until now.

      Previously, investigators developed a patient-derived tumor-like cell clusters(PTC) in vitro
      culture technology. It is a cell cluster including tumor cells, mesenchymal cells and
      lymphocytes, which simulates the tumor microenvironment in vitro. In the preliminary
      exploration, investigators included 35 early breast cancer participants, the corresponding
      between in vitro drug sensitivity screening based on this technology and clinical treatment
      results was well. The results have been published.

      This study will focus on her2 positive early breast cancer participants. 46 participants will
      be included. All of them will received in vitro drug sensitivity screenning upon PTC before
      neoadjuvant therapy. All participants will received trastuzumab and pertuzumab. The choice of
      chemotherapy drugs is determined based on the PTC drug sensitivity results. If single-agent
      chemotherapy is effective in vitro, this drug will be the chemotherapy regimen for the
      corresponding participants. This study expects that the pCR rate could achieve 60% in the
      case of chemotherapy downgrading after in vitro drug sensitivity screening.
    
  