
    
      Allergic reactions to peanuts are potentially life-threatening and, in some children, can
      result from ingestion of only trace quantities of peanuts. At highest risk are children with
      eczema or who are allergic to eggs; these children have a 20% chance of developing peanut
      allergy by the age of five. The majority of children allergic to peanuts have their first
      reaction between the ages of 14 and 24 months, often at the time of their first exposure to
      peanut. Currently, there is no cure for peanut allergy.

      Peanut allergy has become an increasingly common problem in early childhood in the United
      States and the United Kingdom. Despite current public health guidelines in both countries
      recommending the avoidance of peanut consumption in the first years of life, the proportion
      of children with peanut allergy doubled in these countries over the period from 1998 to 2003.
      In contrast, peanuts are commonly consumed by infants in relatively high amounts in Africa,
      Southeast Asia and Israel, yet the rate of peanut allergy is quite low and does not appear to
      be increasing. Peanut consumption by infants in these parts of the world may actually protect
      children from developing peanut allergy by promoting oral tolerance to peanuts.

      Participants in this study will be randomly assigned to either follow a peanut consumption
      regimen or a strict peanut avoidance regimen. Those assigned to the peanut consumption group
      will be asked to consume an age-appropriate snack three times a week for the duration of the
      study and will be monitored closely during their first introduction to peanut.

      Those assigned to the peanut avoidance group will be asked to avoid ingestion of peanut for
      the first three years of life. A physical exam, allergy testing, and other immune system
      tests requiring blood collection will occur at Years 1, 3, and 5 following study entry.
      During the study, parents will maintain regular contact with study dietitians.
    
  