
    
      Diabetic kidney disease afflicts about 20% of all diabetics and is the major cause of
      end-stage renal disease (ESRD). There are an estimated 1.2 million diabetic overt nephropathy
      patients in the US, and approximately 5.1 million diabetic patients exhibiting signs of
      developing kidney disease.

      Hyperglycemia-induced microvascular disease is the fundamental cause of diabetic kidney
      disease. More specifically, hyperglycemia perturbs metabolic pathways, particularly in
      tissues that do not regulate intracellular glucose levels. This favors a broad range of
      pathogenic oxidative chemistries including the formation of advanced glycation end-products
      (AGEs), toxic carbonyls, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) that are considered to be the
      principal causative factors in the development of diabetic microvascular disease.

      Pyridorin™ has been shown to inhibit AGE formation and to scavenge ROS and toxic carbonyl
      compounds in extensive in vitro studies. The therapeutic potential of Pyridorin™ has been
      demonstrated in vivo by extensive preclinical studies that have been carried out in a number
      of independent laboratories by prominent investigators. In addition, Pyridorin™ has
      demonstrated a significant treatment effect in slowing the progression of diabetic
      nephropathy in two Phase 2 clinical trials. Thus, a solid scientific rationale and clinical
      evidence exists for the application of Pyridorin™ therapy to slow the progression of diabetic
      kidney disease.

      NephroGenex is initiating a new Phase 2b clinical trial (PYR-210) that is evaluating the
      safety and efficacy of Pyridorin™ in slowing the progression of overt nephropathy in patients
      with type 2 diabetes. This trial incorporates the latest discussion with the FDA regarding
      the use of an approvable surrogate marker that would be subsequently confirmed with hard
      clinical endpoints.

      In this double-blind, placebo-controlled study, eligible type 2 diabetic patients with overt
      nephropathy will be treated for one year with bid doses of either Pyridorin™ 150 mg,
      Pyridorin™ 300 mg, or placebo. The primary endpoint in the study is the change in serum
      creatinine (SCr) from baseline after 1 year of therapy. Secondary 1-year endpoints include
      the slope of SCr, the change in protein/creatinine ratio (PCR) derived from 24-hour urine
      collections, and the change from baseline and slope of serum cystatin C.

      The patient population studied will be type 2 diabetics with overt nephropathy defined as
      having a SCr between 1.3 and 3.3 mg/dl in females and between 1.5 and 3.5 mg/dl in males,
      accompanied by proteinuria in the macroalbuminuric range (PCR at least 1200 mg/g). In order
      to reduce confounding variables, careful control of blood pressure (BP) will be required. If
      not yet controlled, each patient's BP will brought to a level that the investigator believes
      is appropriate for the patient prior to randomization, and this will remain the target BP for
      that patient for the remainder of the study. Also, patients will be permitted to be on only
      one ACE inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) and no other drugs that inhibit the
      renin-angiotensin-aldosterone axis throughout the study. A run-in period will be required in
      some patients to achieve the BP and ACEi/ARB requirements.

      This study will be conducted with the leadership of the Collaborative Study Group.
    
  