
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Develop, over five years, and implement a shared infrastructure that will permit
           participating community cancer centers to participate in radiation oncology clinical
           research and dramatically increase their rate of trial accrual above historical
           patterns.

        -  Increase access to radiation oncology services and clinical trials for underserved
           minority and/or low-income patients in the target areas, through community and
           professional education and outreach activities.

        -  Assess and ensure the quality of radiation oncology services at participating facilities
           through the use of a new integrated radiation oncology outcomes database and a quality
           assurance program, benchmarking daily practice patterns to clinical practice protocol.

        -  Compare treatment approaches and outcomes for cervical, colorectal, lung, prostate,
           breast, and head and neck cancers across racial and socioeconomic status groups.

        -  Conduct community intervention pilot programs that advance the understanding of factors
           that lead to health disparities.

        -  Develop and implement clinical treatment studies that attempt to reduce or eliminate
           health disparities through novel treatment approaches.

        -  Develop and refine a model program that can be sustained by the community treatment
           facilities long after study completion, and that the National Cancer Institute or other
           similarly motivated funders can replicate within other regions.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients are enrolled in the Patient Navigator program, an initiative to promote equal access
      and quality of cancer care. Patients undergo an interview with the Patient Navigator, who is
      an oncology health professional, over approximately 1 hour to identify specific needs, in
      terms of receiving cancer care. The interview serves as a basis for developing a plan to
      assist patients through treatment and follow up. The Patient Navigator meets the patient, in
      person or over the phone, at various times during treatment to help the patient overcome
      barriers to completion of cancer therapy. The Patient Navigator then provides yearly follow
      up to facilitate continued medical follow up. Patients complete surveys before and after
      program participation.

      Patients are followed periodically to determine their current status in cancer therapy.

      TELESYNERGY®, a portable live-time interactive telemedicine system, is utilized in developing
      the necessary infrastructure and professional education in the community. It is used for
      sharing information and approaches for case presentation, treatment planning conferences, and
      other specialized presentations by invited speakers and expert panels. Activities using the
      TELESYNERGY® system are videotaped to create a library of topic-centered presentations that
      can be shared with the larger community. Components and summaries are placed on an Internet
      site to encourage communication with the larger oncology community.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3,150 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  