
    
      The initial manifestation of symptomatic coronary disease can range from angina (or symptoms
      of angina), unheralded acute coronary syndrome, or unheralded coronary death. Gender
      differences in initial presentation of coronary disease and the rate and predictors of
      progression to subsequent stages in coronary disease are not well understood. Furthermore,
      while the management of coronary risk factors in primary care is hypothesized to play a key
      role in the rate and timing of such transitions, little is known about the impact such
      management has on gender differences these transitions and outcomes.

      Study Objectives:

        1. To determine gender differences in probabilities of transitions from symptom-free state
           to mortality for each of three patient coronary disease pathways, where the initial
           disease manifestation is angina, myocardial infarction or unheralded coronary death.

        2. To determine the role management of coronary risk factors in primary care has in
           explaining any gender differences in transitions from symptom-free state to mortality
           for each of the three patient coronary disease pathways.

      A statistical analytic protocol for the first part of this study, comparing patients with
      unheralded coronary death to patients free of symptomatic coronary disease, dated June 2010,
      is available on request. A second statistical analytic protocol for the second part of this
      study, comparing initial presentation of coronary disease, within a framework of competing
      risks of atherosclerotic disease, dated December 2011, is available on request.

      This study is part of the CALIBER (Cardiovascular disease research using linked bespoke
      studies and electronic records) programme funded over 5 years from the NIHR and Wellcome
      Trust. The central theme of the CALIBER research is linkage of the Myocardial Ischaemia
      National Audit Project (MINAP) with primary care (GPRD) and other resources. The overarching
      aim of CALIBER is to better understand the aetiology and prognosis of specific coronary
      phenotypes across a range of causal domains, particularly where electronic records provide a
      contribution beyond traditional studies. CALIBER has received both Ethics approval (ref
      09/H0810/16) and ECC approval (ref ECC 2-06(b)/2009 CALIBER dataset).
    
  