
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (recommended phase II dose, RP2D) of
      8-chloro-adenosine, when given as a single agent, in patients with relapsed or refractory
      acute myeloid leukemia. (Phase I) II. To assess tolerability and safety of 8-chloro-adenosine
      at each dose level by evaluation of toxicities including: type, frequency, severity,
      attribution, time course and duration. (Phase I) III. To estimate the response rate and to
      evaluate the antitumor activity of 8-chloro-adenosine, when given as a single agent, as
      assessed by complete remission rate (complete remission [CR] + complete remission with
      incomplete blood count recovery [CRi]). (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate for disease response to 8-chloro-adenosine in refractory/relapsed acute
      myeloid leukemia (AML) on each dose level tested. (Phase I) II. To obtain estimates of
      remission duration and survival probabilities (overall and event-free). (Phase II) III. To
      obtain an estimate of the overall response rate (CR + CRi + partial response [PR]). (Phase
      II) IV. To summarize and evaluate toxicities by type, frequency, severity, attribution, time
      course and duration. (Phase II)

      CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the plasma, urinary and cellular pharmacokinetics of 8-chloro-adenosine and
      metabolites.

      II. To determine the impact of 8-chloro-adenosine on cellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP)
      pool in AML blasts.

      III. To assess the impact of 8-chloro-adenosine therapy on select short-lived messenger (m)
      ribonucleic acids (RNAs) and corresponding proteins in circulating AML blasts.

      IV. To correlate clinical responses and toxicity with plasma/urine 8-chloro-adenosine level
      (pharmacokinetic [PK]), cellular 8-chloro-ATP (PK) and cellular ATP pool.

      EXPLORATORY EX-VIVO MOLECULAR OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the cytotoxicity of 8-chloro-adenosine toward leukemic progenitor cells in
      vitro.

      II. To generate a preliminary pre-treatment RNA/micro RNA (miRNA) signature in leukemic
      progenitor cells, and explore its possible association with in vitro cytotoxicity to
      8-chloro-adenosine.

      III. To explore the possible association between the preliminary RNA/miRNA signature and
      clinical response to 8-chloro-adenosine.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

      Patients receive 8-chloro-adenosine intravenously (IV) over 4 hours on days 1-5. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3
      months for up to 2 years.
    
  