
    
      Coffee is a pharmacologically active, widely consumed beverage. Scientific interest in
      relation to coffee consumption has been revisited the last decade in the light of new, mainly
      epidemiological, evidence indicating its potential health benefits. In specific, both
      cross-sectional and prospective studies indicate that coffee consumption is associated with a
      lower risk for type 2 diabetes. Furthermore, an inverse association has been found between
      coffee consumption and markers of inflammation and endothelial dysfunction in healthy and/or
      diabetic participants, although the opposite effect has also been reported, mainly in
      relation to inflammation markers. In relation to body weight, epidemiological data suggest
      that increment in caffeine consumption is associated with lower mean weight gain and energy
      intake during a 12-y period.

      However, information from clinical studies is scarce. Acute caffeine and/or coffee
      consumption have been associated with impaired glucose metabolism and insulin resistance. In
      relation to inflammation, animal studies have indicated a beneficial or no effect of coffee
      consumption, whereas a clinical study in humans found an increase in adiponectin and a
      decrease in interleukin-18 (IL-18) blood concentrations after a monthly intervention
      including daily consumption of 8 cups of coffee. As far as energy balance is concerned, there
      is an early experiment demonstrating that the ingestion of 300 mg of caffeine prior to food
      intake, compared to the non-caffeine intake, significantly reduced energy intake by 21.7% in
      men, but not in women. A more recent study has found that the combination of caffeine and red
      pepper is positively associated with energy expenditure and negatively with energy intake,
      whereas, it has also been reported a positive association between habitual caffeine intake
      and body weight loss achieved through a very-low-calorie diet.

      Taking into consideration the limited clinical evidence regarding the acute effect of coffee
      consumption on appetite-related markers, subsequent energy intake and inflammatory markers,
      we undertook a clinical study of crossover design to investigate the short-term changes on
      energy intake, subjective appetite ratings, appetite hormones, inflammation markers and
      glucose metabolism after caffeinated and decaffeinated coffee consumption.
    
  