
    
      Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer and the third cause of death in male.
      Majority of patients had local disease that is cured by local treatment. Metastases are rare
      at the time of diagnosis but may occur after failure of local treatment (SEER).

      Recommended treatment for non castrate metastatic prostate cancer (NCMPC) is castration by
      orchiectomy or medical castration by LH-RH (luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone) agonists
      alone and or combined androgen blockage with LH-RH agonists and anti androgen. Immediate
      treatment versus deferred treatment improve specific survival for advanced prostatic cancer :
      initial results of the Medical Research Council trial.

      Continuous castration is superior to intermittent one with a median survival of 49 months.
      Chemotherapy combined with castration demonstrate a survival improvement compared to
      castration alone for high volume disease defined by visceral involvement and or 4 or more
      bone metastatis with almost one apendicular metastasis. For low volume disease or non
      selected metastatic hormone sensitive prostate cancer, Docetaxel demonstrated no survival
      benefit evaluated in a recent phase III trial (Sweeney C et al abs ASCO 2014).

      However, most patients showing an initial response to hormonal therapy for advanced prostate
      cancer will progress to a castration-resistant phase of the disease with a much poorer
      prognosis. Median duration to androgen deprivation is 24 to 36 months, after patients become
      castrate resistant and docetaxel and other hormonal therapy like abiraterone and enzalutamide
      demonstrate survival improvement in castrate resistant prostate cancer.

      Despite the considerable progress made with new agents such as abiraterone acetate or MDV3100
      in metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC), new therapies are critical to
      improve castration sensitivity.

      Understanding the mechanisms of resistance to AR and identifying directed new therapies is a
      real challenge in this situation.

      Prostate cancer is characterized by its dependence on AR and its frequent activation of the
      Phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) pathway. Besides the resistance mediated by the mutation
      in the AR, among the non-steroid alternative pathways two major pathways have been associated
      with AR activation and CRPC, namely Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK and PI3K/AKT. More specifically a genomic
      profiling of human prostate cancer was recently reported where 42% of primary and 100% of the
      metastatic lesions studied had upregulated PI3K signaling mostly via loss of phosphatase
      activity such as PTEN (Phosphatase and tensin homolog) or INPP4B (inositol polyphosphate
      4-phosphatase type II).

      Dysregulation of the PI3K/PTEN pathway has also been associated with resistance to
      conventional antiandrogen therapies. Preclinical data support the potential for a reciprocal
      negative feedback between the AR and PI3K pathway.

      Development of castration resistance is multifactorel including weak antagonist binding affi
      nity to AR, up-regulation of AR co-stimulatory pathways and increased intratumoural androgen
      levels as a result of intracrine androgen, as well as partial agonists properties of
      antiandrogens when AR is overexpressed.
    
  