
    
      Background:

      Participation in structured activities and physical activity (PA) have been linked to several
      indicators of positive development such as self-esteem and psychological health as well as
      greater academic outcomes and lower school drop-out rates. Despite this, 77% of boys and 80%
      of girls aged 5-15 in the UK also fall below the national physical activity guidelines of 60
      minutes of moderate to vigorous activity per day.

      Children with Autism Spectrum Conditions (ASC) may be at particular risk for inactivity as
      they are more likely to experience barriers to participation in these types of activities and
      motor skills impairments, common in people with ASC, can further limit participation and
      enjoyment in PA and structured activities such as sports clubs and swimming lessons. Studies
      have shown that even at a young age children with ASC are less active than non-ASC children,
      and this physical activity gap gets wider as children get older.

      Studies that have attempted to increase PA in young people with autism have shown reduction
      in problem behaviours such as inattention and aggression and increase in positive behaviours
      such as sleep, improvements in quality of life, academic performance and physical competence,
      and reductions in stress. However, many of these studies only worked with children 1:1 and
      therefore little is known about group-based activity intervention in young people with ASCs
      which could provide people with ASC opportunities to be physically active and as well as
      opportunities to socialise with others.

      Parental modelling has been shown to be a predictor of children's PA behaviours with a
      positive correlation between adult and child PA levels. Given the influential role parents
      play on children's PA behaviours, parental involvement could be used as a function to
      increase PA in children with ASC.

      It is not only young people with ASC who may struggle to access or fail to participate in
      sufficient PA but adults of the so called 'normal population'. In the UK, 34% of men and 42%
      of women do not meet the UK physical activity guidelines of 150 minutes of moderate activity
      per week. PA and civic participation may be particularly beneficial to parents of children
      with ASC as parents of children with developmental disorders have been shown to report lower
      quality of life, more depression, and greater pessimism about the future than parents of
      typically developing children. Caring for a child with a developmental disorder can also be
      more time consuming and costly. As a result this parents with children who have ASC may
      experience lower sense of connectedness to the social world and may experience loneliness,
      anxiety and low self-esteem.

      Aims:

      To investigate whether participation in a 10-week group based activity programme affects
      social skills and problem behaviours in CYP with ASC

      Secondary aims:

      To investigate the effects of a weekly group based activity programme on parental wellbeing
      and social connectedness.

      To investigate parental goals for participating in a group based activity programme and
      evaluate progress toward these goals at the end of the programme.

      To investigate the effects of a weekly group based activity programme on the self image of
      children with an ASC.

      Hypotheses:

      There will be a greater improvement in social skills and a reduction in problem behaviours in
      CYP participating in the group based activity programme than those in the waitlist control
      group.

      An increase in parental wellbeing and social connectedness in parents participating in the
      group based activity programme than those parents in the waitlist control group.

      Method;

      Participants:

      The sample will consist of 40 CYP with an ASC and 40 parents/carers of CYP with an ASC. 20
      CYP with ASC and 20 parents/carers will be assigned to the experimental condition,
      participating in the 10-week group based activity programme, and 20 CYP with ASC and 20
      parents/carers will be assigned to the waitlist control group. Principle inclusion criteria
      include; children with a working or full ASC diagnosis aged between 8 -12 years,
      self-declared physical wellbeing to participate in activities. Siblings and additional adults
      will also be invited to participate in the programme in order to support their sibling with
      ASC and to make attendance easier for parents who would otherwise struggle with childcare if
      they were not able to participate in the programme as a family. However, data will not be
      collected from this group. Participants will be recruited through advertisements on social
      media and at local autism support groups.

      Design:

      The study will use a between subjects design. Participants will be allocated to either the
      experimental group, 10-week group based activity programme, or the waitlist control group.
      The 10-week group based activity programme will consist of 10 sessions each lasting 50
      minutes.

      4 of these sessions will be semi-structured free play sessions with a range of activities
      taking place in order to refresh and sustain interest each week. Specific activities will be
      selected for sessions that are associated with key areas of difficulty related to the
      autistic triad of impairments. This means that behind each activity here will be a main focus
      to encourage either social interaction, provide sensory feedback, or target specific motor
      skills. These activities will include soft archery, hockey, football, obstacle courses,
      trampolining, volleyball, frisbee, glow in the dark activities and crafts.

      3 events will be facilitated by sports clubs i.e handball, football, rugby and will be
      similarly divided up into different activities on the day to sustain interest. For instance,
      football would be broken down into passing skills, dribbling, shooting, and a small game.

      2 sessions take place in the swimming pool and families will have access to floats and
      inflatable balls.

      1 session will be a novel activity such as a climbing session at a 'clip and climb' to
      celebrate participation in the programme.

      Procedure:

      Participants will be recruited via online advertisements. These advertisements will target
      families living within the Tamworth and Cannock vicinity. The advertisements will inform
      prospective participants of the 10-week group based programme and ask all interested to
      contact the research team for further information. All interested participants will be
      informed that a 10-week programme is due to run in Tamworth from approximately January -
      March and in Cannock from April - June.

      Participants will be sent (via email) an information sheet detailing what the study entails
      and the consent forms to be completed for all those taking part in the research. Participants
      will be informed that they can drop out of the study at anytime and ask for their data to be
      withdrawn. Participants will also have the opportunity to contact the researchers and have
      any queries addressed.

      Once consent has been obtained from all participants, they will be assigned to either the
      experimental group (participating in the 10-week activity programme) or the waitlist control
      group. Participants will be assigned a group based on their location. Participants living
      within the Tamworth area will be assigned to the experimental group as this is the location
      in which the first 10-week programme is taking place. Participants living within the Cannock
      area will be assigned to the waitlist control group and take part in the 10-week programme at
      a later date. 3 weeks prior to the start of the activity programme, all participants will be
      sent the Social Skills Improvement System (SSIS), Social Connectedness Scale - Revised
      (SCS-R), Short Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Wellbeing Scale (SWEMWBS), the Self Image Profile
      (SIP) and goal based outcomes (GBO) measure and asked to return all of these prior to the
      start of the 10-week activity programme. Once the 10-week activity programme has ended,
      participants in both the experimental and control groups will again be asked to complete the
      SSIS, SCS-R, SWEMWBS, SIP and GBOs. Participants will be thanked for their participation in
      the study and those in the waitlist control group will be enrolled onto the next 10-week
      activity programme.

      Results;

      Proposed data analysis:

      A one-way MANOVA will be used to compare the scores for social skills and problem behaviours
      on the parental SSIS and child SSIS.

      Scores from the SCS-R and SWEMWBS will also be compared between the experiment and control
      group using a one-way MANOVA.

      The GBO ratings from pre and post intervention for the experimental group will be compared to
      investigate to what extent parents felt their goals for participation were reached.

      Ethical Considerations:

      All participants will be given an information sheet and have the opportunity to have any
      questions addressed by the research team. All participants will be required to complete a
      consent form. If under 16 years, parents will be asked to complete a consent form on behalf
      of their child. All data collected will be anonymised and stored safely. Data will only be
      accessible to the research team. Participants will be informed they have the right to
      withdraw from the study at any point and this will not affect future access to the services
      provided. Participant who chose to withdraw from the study will have the option for all of
      their research data to be destroyed.
    
  