
    
      CBD is the second most abundant component of the cannabis plant after tetrahydrocannabinol
      (THC). Unlike THC, CBD does not get users high, but there is some evidence suggesting that it
      might have anti-anxiety, anticonvulsant, anti-inflammatory and immune boosting, antioxidant
      effects.

      Currently, the only CBD product approved by the Food and Drug Administration is a
      prescription oil called Epidiolex (Greenwich Biosciences, Inc. 2018). It is approved to treat
      two types of epilepsy. Aside from Epidiolex, state laws on the use of CBD vary. While CBD is
      being studied as a treatment for a wide range of conditions, including Parkinson's disease,
      schizophrenia, diabetes, multiple sclerosis and anxiety, and addiction, research supporting
      the drug's benefits is still limited.

      CBD use carries some risks. Though it is often well-tolerated, CBD can cause side effects,
      such as dry mouth, diarrhea, reduced appetite, drowsiness, and fatigue. CBD can also interact
      with other medications you are taking, such as blood thinners.

      Another cause for concern is the unreliability of the purity and dosage of CBD in products. A
      recent study of 84 CBD products bought online showed that more than a quarter of the products
      contained less CBD than labeled. In addition, THC was found in 18 products. If you plan to
      use products containing CBD, talk to your primary health care provider.

      People take cannabidiol by mouth for anxiety, bipolar disorder, a muscle disorder called
      dystonia, seizures, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, and schizophrenia.

      Cannabidiol is possibly safe when taken by mouth and appropriately in adults. Cannabidiol
      doses of up to 300 mg daily have been used safely for up to 6 months. Higher doses of
      1200-1500 mg daily have been used safely for up to 4 weeks. Cannabidiol sprays used under the
      tongue have been used in doses of 2.5 mg for up to 2 weeks.
    
  