
    
      The investigators propose to follow obese individuals and determine the impact of the aspects
      of the metabolic syndrome on the incidence of neuropathy compared to lean individuals.

      While there are many well established relationships between obesity and disease, the
      association of obesity and the metabolic syndrome with peripheral neuropathy is less clear.

      The investigators will be following a population of 300 adult individuals age 18 years or
      older with obesity and 300 adult individuals without obesity or any aspect of the metabolic
      syndrome (hyperlipidemia, hypertriglyceridemia, hypertension, hyperglycemia, obesity). Obese
      subjects will be recruited through the Investigational Weight Management Clinic. A proportion
      of the subjects will be recruited through Blue Care Network of Michigan (BCN) as part of
      their Healthy Blue Living campaign which is supporting clinical care of up to 400 individuals
      in the clinic. The individuals not recruited directly through the clinic will be identified
      via flyer, word of mouth, and umclinicalstudies.org.

      The phenotyping information for the obese subjects will be already completed as part of the
      initial project. Lean subjects will undergo screening for eligibility, which includes taking
      height, weight, blood pressure, lipid profile, and glucose tolerance test.

      Neuropathy measures completed at baseline and 2 years (obese subjects only) include: definite
      clinical neuropathy will be established using Toronto consensus guidelines based upon
      neurologic exam, nerve conduction studies, Michigan Neuropathy-Specific Instrument, Utah
      Early Neuropathy Scale, balance and hip strength measures, cognitive testing (computerized
      cognitive screening to determine how obesity affects the central nervous system) (also done
      at time 12 +/- 4 weeks and 52 +/- 4 weeks post-baseline visit), neurothesiometer testing,
      skin biopsy to determine nerve fiber density, Quantitative Sudomotor Axon Reflex Test (QSART)
      to measures the autonomic nerves that control sweating, heart rate variability/cardiac
      autonomic neuropathy testing to assess for autonomic neuropathy, quantitative sensory testing
      to assess for small fiber neuropathy, Sudoscan to assess sweat gland function, and the
      following questionnaires: Neuropathy Quality of Life, McGill Pain, Autonomic symptoms
      profile.

      The investigators intend to demonstrate that obesity and other aspects of the metabolic
      syndrome have a direct impact on the incidence of peripheral neuropathy.
    
  