
    
      Methods The protocol was approved (2215 CE, June, 19, 2018) by the Ethical Committee of the
      Istituti Clinici Scientifici (ICS) Maugeri, Pavia, Italy. All patients at admission to the
      Scientific Institute of Tradate gave the informed consent to the scientific use of their
      data.

      Study Participants This study was conducted on a database of patients' discharge records,
      available between August, 2006 and December, 2009.

      Adaptation to CPAP: titration of CPAP was performed either by full-night manual titration
      according to the AASM Guidelines or by automatic titration with Auto-Set systems. Further 4
      day-time hours of adaptation were performed along two days. Patients underwent also four face
      to face sessions with the respiratory therapist, for feed-back of adaptation, optimal
      comprehension of procedure of CPAP management. The presence of a caregiver (if any) was
      strongly suggested.

      Statistical Analysis An ad hoc electronic form was created to collect all study variables.
      Qualitative variables were described with absolute and relative (percentages) frequencies,
      whereas quantitative variables were summarized with means (standard deviations) or medians
      (interquartile ranges) based on their normal distribution, respectively.

      In-between comparison for qualitative and quantitative variables was performed with the
      chi-squared or Fisher exact test when appropriate, and Student t or Mann-Whitney test in case
      of parametric or non-parametric distribution, respectively. Comparison of the temporal
      variation of continuous variables for the same group was assessed with Anova or Friedman's
      test, depending on their normal distribution.

      Uni- and multi-variable logistic regression analysis was performed to assess which covariates
      could be associated with the adherence to CPAP.

      A two-tailed p-value <0.05 was considered significant. All statistical analyses were carried
      out using the statistical software STATA version 15 (StatsCorp, Texas).
    
  