
    
      The optimal revascularisation strategy in STEMI patients with MVD is currently debated.
      Recent data suggest that MV-PCI may be the most appropriate option for treating such
      patients. Consequently, the real challenge becomes to define what MVD is, in the context of
      acute MI, in order to limit revascularisation by PCI to vessels that truly need it. Visual
      estimation of the degree of coronary stenoses is a poor indicator of their haemodynamic
      severity. FFR is precisely designed and recommended in current guidelines to provide
      objective guidance for the functional assessment of lesion severity during coronary
      angiography in stable patients, but it has not been validated in STEMI patients with MVD. The
      purpose of the present trial will therefore be to investigate the relevance of FFR to guide
      the revascularisation management of patients at the acute stage of STEMI.

      STEMI patients with successful culprit lesion PCI (primary, rescue or pharmaco-invasive) and
      ≥ 50% diameter stenosis by visual estimate, in which revascularization is contemplated and
      judged amenable to PCI in at least one additional non-culprit lesion will be randomized into
      two groups: angiography-guided PCI or FFR-guided PCI.

      If the patient is randomized to the angiography-guided PCI, all the lesions indicated
      beforehand will be treated. If the patient is randomized to the FFR-guided PCI, measurements
      of FFR of non-infarct related lesion(s) will be performed and only those lesions with a FFR ≤
      0.80 will be treated.

      The use of drug-eluting stents is encouraged in both strategies. All patients will receive
      optimal medical therapy (including dual antiplatelet therapy, beta-blockers, statins, ACE-I
      or ARB) as recommended in international guidelines in both strategies.

      Clinical follow-up will be performed at discharge, 30-day, 6 month and one-year. Rates of
      major adverse cardiac events, functional class and number of anti-anginal medications used
      will be collected. If the patient has been rehospitalized since index hospital discharge, the
      discharge summary and all relevant information will be collected.
    
  