
    
      Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is the only treatment option for
      several haematological diseases. In spite of substantial progress in this field, viral
      infections, mainly cytomegalovirus (CMV) and adenovirus (HAdV) in the context of delayed
      immunoreconstitution remain life threatening complications. Weekly screening of high-risk
      patients and preemptive virostatic treatment has become a current strategy. Unfortunately,
      treatment with virostatic drugs is associated with substantial nephro- and myelo-toxicity and
      of limited effectiveness. Human adenovirus (HAdV) and cytomegalvirus (CMV) disseminated
      infections are associated with mortality rates of up to 50%-60% despite virostatic treatment.

      All HSCT patients at the St. Anna Children's Hospital undergo weekly viral quantitative
      PCR-screening for HAdV and CMV and weekly PB FACS (Fluorescence Activated Cell
      Sorter)-Analysis according to the local HSCT-diagnostic SOP (Standard Operating Procedure)
      from day -7 until day +100 Patients with HAdV or CMV viremia will receive preemptive
      treatment with either gancyclovir (in case of isolated CMV-viremia) or Cidofovir (in case of
      HAdV viremia or combined HAdV/CMV infection). In case of increasing viremia ≥ 1log despite
      antiviral treatment for two weeks or stable with 10E6 viral load and the absence of virus
      specific T-cells in the recipient, the treating physician will check, if the patient is
      eligible for seVirus-T-cell infusion (see inclusion criteria).

      Study Design: Mononuclear Donor-Cells from peripheral blood (100 ml extra donation) will be
      cryopreserved at the time-point of HSCT. In case of progredient viremia these cells will be
      stimulated with interleukin-15 and peptides out of the virus molecule, virusspecific T-Cells
      are enriched for 2-3 logs-teps and potentially alloreactive cells diluted at the same time.
      This new approach reduces the risk of graft-versus-host-disease (GvHD) and enables the
      infusion of virus-specific T-cells also from haploidentical donors.
    
  