
    
      Ocular surface disorders are diseases involving the most outer surface of the eyeball - the
      transparent layers that forms the front of the eye, including cornea and conjunctiva. One of
      the most common ocular surface disorders is dry eye disease (DED) which has a great impact on
      patients' quality of life. In addition, ocular graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and superior
      limbic keratoconjunctivitis (SLK) are also ocular surface disorders affecting patients'
      quality of life significantly.

        1. Great impact of ocular surface disorders on quality of life 1.1. Impact of dry eye
           disease Dry eye disease (DED) is a common ocular surface disorder. Vision-related
           quality of life in dry eye patients is impaired and is correlated with anxiety and
           depression.1 Patients with DED are often evaluated by a symptom scale called ocular
           surface disorder index (OSDI). The OSDI is a valid and reliable scale for diagnosis and
           measurement of the severity of DED or other ocular surface disorder. It is also a
           convenient option for clinical use as a result of its shorter completion time.

           1.2. Impact of GVHD GVHD caused by alloreactive donor T cells is an important cause of
           nonrelapse mortality and morbidity after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation
           (HCT). Ocular GVHD reportedly occurs in more than 50% of allogeneic HCT recipients with
           chronic GVHD. It can affect all parts of the eye, but the ocular surface is the most
           common level of involvement. Yoshi et al suggested strong correlations of serial changes
           in the NIH eye score, the OSDI, and the Lee eye subscale. Given that the OSDI consists
           of 12 items instead of the 3 for the Lee eye subscale, they found little basis for
           recommending the OSDI to measure change in the activity of ocular GVHD. Therefore, the
           Lee eye subscale might be a good choice for determining the impact of ocular GVHD on
           quality of life.

           1.3. Impact of SLK SLK is an ocular surface disorder characterized by unilateral or
           bilateral redundancy of the superior bulbar conjunctiva with inflammation of the
           superior tarsal and bulbar conjunctiva. There are many patients suffering by the
           symptoms of SLK because of its unclear etiology and no standard treatment. In addition,
           SLK is not easy to make a definite diagnosis, the impact of SLK on quality of life could
           be underestimated.

        2. Mechanical stress from eyelid blinking may be an aggravating or contributing factor of
           ocular GVHD and SLK 2.1. The symptoms of ocular GVHD relieved by bandage soft contact
           lens (BSCL) application via the isolation from mechanical stress (eyelid blinking) and
           ocular surface The standard treatment of ocular GVHD is still not in consensus. Because
           of the immune reaction participating in the pathogenesis of ocular GVHD, some topical
           immunosuppressants, such as cyclosporine A (CsA) and tacrolimus, are applied on the
           patients with ocular GVHD. Allogeneic serum eye drops and autologous plasma rich in
           platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) eye drops were also reported to be effective in
           chronic ocular GVHD patients. For medication refractory cases, punctal plugs, scleral
           lens, and bandage soft contact lens (BSCL) could be applied as alternative treatments
           for ocular GVHD patient. According to previous report, BSCL is a safe and effective
           treatment option that improves manifestations of ocular GVHD. BSCL can act as a barrier
           to further epithelial disruption and corneal nerve stimulation by the shearing force of
           the upper lid during the blink.

           2.2. Mechanical stress plays a role in the pathogenesis of SLK Mechanical stimulation
           may contribute to the pathogenesis of SLK. We speculated that this kind of physical
           trauma not only results in the keratinization of conjunctival epithelium, but also
           induced inflammatory cells and mediators, such as mast cells and cytokines,
           respectively. Three out of 8 SLK patients benefitted from large diameter contact lens
           application. Conjunctival resection with Tenon's capsule excision was also reported as a
           beneficial treatment for medication refractory SLK patients.

        3. The expression of diadenosine polyphosphates and mucin may alter the clinical
           presentation or diagnosis of ocular surface disorders 3.1. Dinucleoside polyphosphates
           in ocular surface disorder Diadenosine polyphosphates are a family of dinucleotides,
           consisting of two adenosine nucleosides joined by a phosphate chain whose length can
           vary from 2 to 7 phosphates. They are released from nerve terminals to the extracellular
           milieu where they can exert actions by interacting with purinergic receptors.

           Since the levels of diadenosine tetraphosphate (Ap4A) and diadenosine pentaphosphate
           (Ap5A) in tears were found to be greater in all dry eye patients, these compounds could
           be objective markers to score dry eye. In the forced blink experiments, concentrations
           of the diadenosine polyphosphates rose with increasing blink frequency.13 In addition,
           topical application of diadenosine tetraphosphate was also noted to be able to stimulate
           tear secretion in vivo. Because of the higher levels of Ap4A found in refractive surgery
           patients during the first day after the surgery, this dinucleotide release might help in
           the wound healing process as well.

           3.2. Mucin in ocular surface disorder Mucin plays an important role over the ocular
           surface. It converts the hydrophobic corneal surface to a hydrophilic surface by
           adhering to the glycocalyx on the corneal microvilli. It also contributes differently to
           the protection of the ocular surface against allergens, pathogens, extracellular
           molecules, abrasive stress, and drying. MUC1 (mucin 1), 2, 4, 5AC, and 7 are the
           subtypes of mucin that can be found over ocular surface, including cornea, conjunctiva,
           goblet cell, and lacrimal gland.

           Ocular surface pathologies, i.e. dry eye syndrome or allergic conjunctivitis, are
           reportedly associated with alteration of expression pattern of mucin components.
           Although dryness of the ocular surface is a fundamental situation, local inflammation in
           the epithelium plays critical roles in the pathogenesis and symptom in patients with dry
           eye syndrome. Mucin deficiency can lead to inflammation in the ocular surface.
           Expression of MUC1, MUC2, MUC4, and MUC5AC are significantly lower in conjunctival
           epithelium gathered by impression cytology in the patients with dry eye syndrome
           compared with that in normal subject.18 Reduction of MUC1 expression in dry eye local
           tissue is reportedly most prominent and could be a marker for diagnosis or evaluation of
           the disease severity. Topical eye drop of Rebamipide, a drug that is capable of
           stimulating of mucin secretion in gastrointestinal tract or conjunctiva, is approved in
           Japanese government for use in the treatment of dry eye diseases.

           Mucin was also reported as an important factor contributing to some allergic
           keratoconjunctivitis. In the patients with atopic keratoconjunctivitis, expression of
           goblet cell-specific mucin, MUC5AC mRNA, was reduced and MUC16 mRNA expression was
           upregulated in brush cytology specimens. Besides, patients with vernal
           keratoconjunctivitis had increased numbers of conjunctival goblet cells from impression
           cytology specimen. This phenomenon also altered the levels of mucin over the ocular
           surface.

        4. Mechanical stress can violate the levels of diadenosine polyphosphates and mucin 4.1.
           Diadenosine polyphosphate under mechanical stress It is known that cells under stress
           accumulate various dinucleoside polyphosphates, compounds suggested to function as
           alarmones. The release of diadenosine polyphosphates to the tears can be caused by shear
           stress, such as that corneal epithelial cells release these molecules as a consequence
           of the lid contact during the blinking process. Daily wear of rigid gas permeable lenses
           also can increase the levels of Ap4A due to mechanical stimulation by blinking of the
           corneal epithelium, and this is associated with discomfort.

      4.2. Mucin under mechanical stress Gastrointestinal tract and upper airway are the organ
      systems filled with mucin as an important protection. MUC1 and MUC4 in the colon and MUC3 in
      the duodenum were upregulated in stressed animals. These findings suggest that chronic stress
      may affect mucin expression in the gastrointestinal tract. In addition, human bronchial
      epithelial cell cultures (HBECCs) are very sensitive to the mechanical stress associated with
      handling and pipetting. Mucin secretion at baseline in vivo occurs in a mechanically dynamic
      lung environment: goblet cells are exposed continuously to mechanical forces, shear stress
      and compressive stress, that may stimulate and/or influence the production and secretion of
      mucins.
    
  