
    
      Rituximab is a chimeric mouse/human monoclonal antibody that binds to CD20, on pre-B and
      mature B lymphocytes and eliminates these cells potentially via a number of different
      mechanisms.

      The R-GemOx regimen has been adopted by many sites internationally as therapy for older
      patients or comorbid patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL and as a back-bone for the
      investigation of novel therapies in combination with chemotherapy.

      The cytotoxic T-lymphocyte co-receptor PD-1 has been extensively studied and is recognised to
      provide critical inhibitory signals that down-regulate T-cell function and provides a
      mechanism for immune evasion for tumours. PD-L1, the ligand of PD-1 is expressed on DLBCL
      tumour cells, along with infiltrating non-malignant cells, primarily macrophages, with PD-1
      expressed on tumour infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs). Atezolizumab targets programmed PD-L1 on
      immune and tumour cells and prevents interaction with either PD-1 receptor or B7.1 (CD80),
      both of which function as inhibitory receptors expressed on T cells. Interference of the
      PD-L1:PD-1 and PDL1:B7.1 interactions may enhance the magnitude and quality of the
      tumour-specific T-cell response through increased T-cell priming, expansion, and/or effector
      function.

      This study of atezolizumab in combination with rituximab, gemcitabine and oxaliplatin aims to
      address the unmet need of patients with relapsed and refractory DLBCL. It is based upon a
      sound mechanistic approach, investigating the activity of novel agents and will aim to
      compressively explore biomarkers of response.

      The primary objective will be to document the durability of anti-tumour activity in patients
      with relapsed or refractory DLBCL and to determine the safety and toxicity profile of the
      combination. A maintenance phase of atezolizumab has been added as this may induce an
      on-going T-cell response to neo-antigens released as a result of chemotherapy.
    
  