
    
      This is a feasibility study to gather preliminary data on a vestibular rehabilitation
      program. All participants who visit UHN memory clinic with a diagnosis of mild/moderate
      cognitive impairment due to Alzheimer's or vascular disease or both and have had falls will
      be asked to participate. If agree to be contacted they will receive a consent form.

      All agreeable participants shall be screened for vestibular impairment through the following
      tests: Dix-Hall pike test, Head Impulse Test, Head Shake test, test of Dynamic Visual Acuity.
      In addition, participants will complete the MoCA to assess cognitive functioning. A score
      lower than 15 will exclude the participant.

      After determining the population who is eligible for this study and willing to participate,
      participants shall move to baseline assessment. At baseline, measurements of balance, gait,
      and dynamic visual acuity in addition to questionnaires about dizziness felt, confidence in
      performing activities without falling, depression and quality of life, shall be completed.

      Immediately after baseline, participants will begin their treatment arm, depending on if they
      have been put in the vestibular group or control group. Participants in the vestibular arm
      will be taught vestibular exercises and asked to perform vestibular exercises for 3 sessions
      daily, 3-10 minutes/session. Participation in vestibular exercises shall be recorded via a
      log by their caregiver. During the 12 weeks, these diaries shall be kept with the participant
      caregiver. Caregivers shall be followed up bi-weekly to ensure that participants are
      completing the exercises, and logging their participation.

      At the end of the 12 weeks, participants will be reassessed with the same measures from
      baseline in addition to the head impulse test and test of dynamic visual acuity. The
      investigators shall also administer a final questionnaire (Problematic Experiences of Therapy
      Scale) to see what may have prevented completion of therapy or caused issues.

      Participants that are randomized to standard of care Control group will undergo Baseline and
      12-week assessments including vestibular testing and questionnaires.

      3-months after final assessments (6 months after start), all participants shall be contacted
      to see if there were any falls/near fall experiences.
    
  