
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the feasibility of microdialysis for assessing the intracerebral distribution
           of temozolomide in patients with primary or metastatic brain tumors.

        -  Determine the interstitial pharmacokinetics of temozolomide using an intracerebral
           microdialysis catheter in these patients.

        -  Determine the feasibility of assessing brain tumor metabolism using a microdialysis
           catheter to measure intracerebral levels of glucose, lactate, pyruvate, glutamate, and
           glycerol in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assessed for viable tumor during a debulking craniotomy or stereotactic
      biopsy. If viable tumor is confirmed, patients undergo placement of an intracerebral
      microdialysis (MD) catheter. The catheter, which is perfused continuously over 24 hours with
      artificial cerebrospinal fluid, is placed directly into the residual brain tumor or
      peritumoral brain tissue for neuropharmacokinetic studies of temozolomide. At least 25 hours
      but no more than 72 hours after placement of the catheter, patients receive a single dose of
      oral temozolomide. At the same time, intracerebral MD is initiated and serial samples of
      dialysate (i.e., brain extracellular fluid [ECF]) are collected periodically over 24 hours
      for analysis of intracerebral concentrations of temozolomide by liquid chromatography/tandem
      mass spectrometry. Serial blood samples for measuring plasma levels of temozolomide are also
      drawn and plasma temozolomide levels are compared with those in the brain ECF. Additional ECF
      samples are obtained to assess biochemical markers of brain tumor metabolism (i.e., glucose,
      lactate, pyruvate, glutamate, or glycerol) at least one hour before and 24 hours after
      administration of temozolomide.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed for up to 30 days.
    
  