
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) of single-agent OSI-906 (linsitinib) to
      that of single-agent topotecan (topotecan hydrochloride) in patients with relapsed small cell
      lung cancer (SCLC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the response rate (RR), disease-control rate (DCR) and overall survival (OS)
      of single-agent OSI-906 in patients with relapsed SCLC.

      II. To describe the toxicity profile of single-agent OSI-906 in this population.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate potential predictive biomarkers of OSI-906 sensitivity. II. To determine
      whether the baseline insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1, IGF-binding proteins (BPs), or
      angiogenic markers (vascular endothelial growth factor [VEGF] and interleukin [IL]-8) plasma
      levels or their pre- and post-treatment plasma level changes, significantly differ between
      progressor and non-progressor patients and correlate them with survival.

      III. To assess whether the baseline protein kinase B (AKT) and/or mitogen-activated protein
      kinase 1 (ERK) phosphorylation or the extent of inhibition of AKT and/or ERK phosphorylation
      in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) significantly differs between progressors and
      non-progressors and to correlate them with survival.

      IV. To determine whether the subcellular localization of IGF-1R, IGF-BPs, and/or the
      phosphorylation of IGF-1R throughout the cell by AQUA (automated quantitative
      immunofluorescence) significantly differs between progressors and non-progressors and
      correlate them with survival.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive linsitinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21.

      ARM II: Patients receive topotecan hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes or PO
      once daily (QD) on days 1-5. Patients may crossover to Arm I at the time of progressive
      disease.

      In both arms, courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks and then every 6
      months for 2 years.
    
  