
    
      Study Design:

      It is a two-arm, prospective, randomized, open-label, multi-center study. The study will be
      conducted at 5 study sites in China. West China Hospital serves as the lead site for the
      study. A total of 146 treatments naive EGFR mutant positive advanced NSCLC patients are
      planned to be enrolled into this study.

      There are four periods in this study: baseline period (≤28days),main phase of treatment (Week
      0-Week 16 or until disease progression),post-treatment period and follow-up until about 24
      months after the last patients enrolment.

        1. Baseline period: Subject will be enrolled in the study after signing informed consent
           form (ICF). Investigator will record patient-reported outcome, demographic data and
           medical history, collect the histological or cytological samples for genetic testing,
           conduct laboratory examination and perform imaging examination and so on. Notes: The
           time of imagination is effective within 4 weeks before treatment. The result of
           haematology, biochemistry and physical examination is effective within 7 days before
           treatment. Collecting blood one time at screening period (The SOP of blood collection,
           storage and transportation is in attachment 1).

        2. Main phase of treatment: There are 8 visits during the main phase of treatment study.
           During the main phase of treatment, investigator conduct laboratory examination, perform
           imaging examination, assess the tumor status, and evaluate the patient-reported outcome
           and safety.

           Collecting blood one time every two cycles (The SOP of blood collection, storage and
           transportation is in attachment 1).

        3. Post-treatment period:

           In the study group, investigators will conduct laboratory examination, perform imaging
           examination, assess the tumor status, and evaluate the patient-reported outcome and
           safety until disease progression every 8 weeks. And after disease progression
           investigators will enquire and record survival status of subjects every 8 weeks.

           In the control group, investigators will conduct laboratory examination, perform imaging
           examination, assess the tumor status, and evaluate the patient-reported outcome and
           safety until the first and the second disease progression every 8 weeks. In addition,
           the information conduct between first disease progression and second progression are
           optional, but should be collected if available. And after the second disease progression
           investigators will enquire and record survival status of subjects every 8 weeks.

           Collecting blood one time every 8 weeks until progress (for control group it will be
           until the first progress)

        4. Follow-up period:

      It will last until about 24 months after the last patients' enrolment. Accesses histological
      or cytological samples for EGFR testing and related drug resistant gene testing are required.
      In addition, collection blood is optional, but should be collected if available. All the
      samples collected during his/her whole life treatment are transported to West China Hospital
      to store and will be used for further exploratory analysis later.

      All results of CT/MRI need to be burned into compact disc (CD). This study will be the first
      study to compare the efficacy of intercalating and maintenance gefitinib in combination with
      chemotherapy to gefitinib alone as first-line treatment for patients with advanced EGFR
      activating mutation-positive non-small cell lung cancer.
    
  