
    
      Androgenic alopecia, or male-pattern hair loss affects both men and women. This hair loss
      pattern is typically characterized by thinning at the crown of scalp and/or M-shaped hair
      line in males or diffuse thinning throughout in females. Platelet-rich plasma (PRP) therapy
      has recently been studied as a hair rejuvenation therapy in patients with non-inflammatory
      alopecia. Though the mechanism of action is not well understood, PRP is thought to promote
      angiogenesis and enhance blood flow around hair follicles via platelet-derived growth factor
      (PDGF), transforming growth factor (TGF), and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). The
      primary objective of the study is to determine whether PRP, administered once monthly for 3
      months improves clinical outcomes and quality of life in females with androgenic alopecia.
      This is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, half-head, single center clinical
      study where sixteen subjects with androgenic alopecia will be recruited. Dermatology Life
      Quality Index will be assessed at several time points. Disease severity will be measured
      using the Severity of Alopecia Tool (SALT), Alopecia Density and Extent Score (ALODEX);
      Trichoscan images will be captured to document participants' clinical progress. Adverse
      events will be recorded at each visit, treatment will be discontinued if any subject
      experience a serious adverse event. Treatment visits will take place at baseline, 4 weeks (1
      month), 8 weeks (2 months), and 12 weeks (3 month). A follow-up, non-treatment visit will
      take place at 24 weeks (6 months). The study team hypothesizes that PRP will improve DLQI,
      SALT, ALODEX, hair count (number of hairs/0.65 cm2), hair density (number of hairs/cm2), hair
      diameter, anagen to telogen ratio, and vellus hair to terminal hair ratio in female subjects
      with androgenic alopecia.
    
  