
    
      A single dose of nevirapine (SD-NVP) given to an HIV infected pregnant woman in labor
      followed by a single dose to her infant had been shown to be a simple and effective means of
      reducing mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) of HIV among women who had not received
      antiretroviral (ART) during pregnancy. However, development of NVP and other nonnucleoside
      reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)-resistant virus was a concern. An optimal ART regimen
      that can prevent selection of resistant virus while efficiently preventing MTCT was needed.
      This study evaluated 3 different ART strategies for preventing the development of NVP
      resistance in HIV infected pregnant women and compared the incidence of NVP resistance
      mutations postpartum observed with each regimen to the incidence among historical controls.
      NVP and LPV/r pharmacokinetics (PK) were also evaluated in this study.

      Participants were randomly assigned to one of three study arms. All study participants
      received a single dose of oral NVP at the onset of labor and, oral zidovudine (ZDV) at the
      onset of labor, and every three hours during labor. Arm A: (LPV/r x 7d) participants received
      enteric-coated didanosine (ddI) and LPV/r orally twice daily beginning at the onset of labor
      and continuing through 7 days postpartum; oral ZDV was also taken twice daily for 7 days
      postpartum. Arm B: (no LPV/r) participants received enteric-coated ddI beginning at the onset
      of labor and continued through 30 days postpartum; oral ZDV was also taken twice daily for 30
      days postpartum. Arm C : (LPV/r x 30d) participants received enteric-coated ddI and LPV/r
      orally twice daily beginning at the onset of labor and continued through 30 days postpartum;
      oral ZDV was also taken twice daily for 30 days postpartum.

      All women were followed for at least 24 weeks postpartum. Women with resistance mutations
      identified within 8 weeks postpartum were to be followed until 72 weeks postpartum to
      evaluate the persistence of the mutations. All infants were followed until at least 12 weeks
      of age. HIV-infected infants were to be followed until 24 weeks of age. There were 11 study
      visits for women at day 10, 21, and 30 and week 5, 6, 8, 12, 24, 36, 48, and 72. Medical
      history assessment, a physical exam, and blood collection occurred at all visits. Blood
      collection for PK studies occurred at Days 10, 21, and 30. All women were asked to complete
      an adherence questionnaire at Day 10; women assigned to Arms A : LPV/r x 7d and B: no LPV/r
      were also asked to complete an adherence questionnaire at Day 30. There were 6 study visits
      for infants at birth - 48 hours, day 21, week 5, 12, 16 and 24. Medical history assessment
      and a physical exam occurred at most visits; blood collection occurred at all visits.

      Data and specimens for the historical control comparison group were obtained from the PHPT-2
      trial*, in which five of the P1032 study sites had participated between 2001 and 2003. PHPT-2
      was a study of the efficacy of SD-NVP to prevent MTCT among women who received ZDV after 27
      weeks gestation but no postpartum ART. Criteria for inclusion in the historical comparison
      group included receipt of SD-NVP, a CD4 count of more than 250 cells per cubic millimeter
      within 30 days of screening or entry, and the availability of plasma samples at 10 days or 6
      weeks post-partum.

      * Lallement M, Jourdain G, Le Coeur S, et al. Single-dose perinatal nevirapine plus standard
      zidovudine to prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV-1 in Thailand. N Engl J Med 2004;
      351:217-28.
    
  