
    
      Young athletes with poor psychological responses to injury and recovery may be at risk for
      suboptimal rehabilitation and return to sports. The issues of psychological readiness and
      fear/anxiety of reinjury are well documented in the treatment of ACL injuries in young
      athletes. To the investigative team's knowledge, no studies have examined the psychological
      response and psychological readiness to return to sports in pediatric and adolescent patients
      undergoing treatment for osteochondritis dissecans (OCD) of the knee.

      OCD is a focal, idiopathic alteration of subchondral bone with risk for instability and
      disruption of adjacent articular cartilage that may result in premature osteoarthritis. It
      generally affects a young population between 6 and 19 years of age, with highest prevalence
      between the ages of 12 and 19 years of age. This condition can be treated both conservatively
      and surgically depending on the age of the patient, size of the lesion, severity and
      instability of the bone & cartilage, and previous treatment. The unclear etiology of this
      condition, the delayed / prolonged pre-diagnosis symptoms, varied treatment options, and
      unpredictable healing timelines are all factors that families and patients find frustrating
      about this condition. The investigators of this study believe that this leads to higher than
      normal psychological stress at the time of diagnosis and throughout treatment of this
      condition.

      Improved understanding of the psychological stress and readiness to return to sport in the
      treatment of knee OCD can help patients, their families, and clinicians alike. Awareness can
      help clinicians provide the appropriate outreach and counseling for patients at risk for
      increased psychological stress. Improved psychological states and readiness can improve both
      physical and mental well-being.
    
  