
    
      An investigational study, to evaluate the effects of a low humidity environment and visual
      tasking on tear film protein composition Screening Visit 1A: Subjects will be screened based
      on their medical history, symptom questionnaires (e.g. OSDI) and a full ophthalmic
      examination.

      Screening Visit 1A: Subjects will be screened based on their medical history, symptom
      questionnaires (e.g. OSDI) and a full ophthalmic examination which will include baseline
      measures including visual acuity and biomicroscopic evaluations of the anterior segment (i.e.
      Tear Break Up Time (TBUT), corneal and conjunctival staining, lid wiper epitheliopathy,
      conjunctival redness and tear film evaluation).

      Post-screening, approximately sixteen (16) subjects, meeting the inclusion and exclusion
      criteria, will be asked to participate in the study. Of those enrolled in the study,
      approximately eight (8) subjects will have mild to moderate symptoms and signs of dry eye
      syndrome and approximately eight (8) subject will not have signs or symptoms of dry eye
      syndrome.

      On Visit IB, subjects will have VA and biomicroscopy performed. A basal tear sample of
      approximately 5 µL will be collected via capillary tubes from the outer canthus of each eye
      and stored on dry ice then placed in a -80c ± 10°C freezer for storage. Photographic
      assessments of the ocular surface may be taken. After waiting 5 minutes for the tear film to
      stabilize, tear osmolarity may be measured in each eye.

      Prior to entered the low humidity Environmental Exposure Chamber (EEC), subjects will be
      asked to fill out their baseline symptoms. Subjects will then enter and remain in the EEC for
      approximately 180 minutes and symptom diary cards will be completed after entry at
      pre-specified timepoints. Throughout the EEC visit, subjects will be asked to complete visual
      tasks on a digital screen to ensure the ocular surface is exposed to the airflow and humidity
      levels in the room.

      After approximately 180 minutes of exposure to dry eye conditions, prior to exiting chamber,
      basal tears will be collected via capillary tubes for each eye and stored on dry ice then
      placed in a -80°C ± 10°C freezer for storage. Photographic assessments of the ocular surface
      may be taken. After waiting 5 minutes for the tear film to stabilize, tear osmolarity may be
      measured for each eye.

      After exiting the EEC, subjects will remain in the medical clinic for an additional 60
      minutes and will continue to conduct visual tasks during this period. Symptom diary cards
      will then be completed at pre-specified time points after leaving the EEC.

      Following 60 minutes in the clinic and prior to study exit, a final collection of basal tears
      via capillary tubes will be taken and stored on dry ice and then placed in a -80°C ± 10°C
      freezer for storage. Once again photographic assessments may be taken. Biomicroscopy will be
      performed.

      The tear samples collected before and after exposure to the chamber will be taken from
      (-80°C) freezer storage and packaged on dry ice for shipment to the University of Waterloo
      Centre for Contact Lens Research (CCLR) for analysis. A variety of proteins and cytokines
      will be analyzed.
    
  