
    
      The overarching objective of this research study is to pursue a large randomized controlled
      trial (RCT) focused on older patients recently discharged from the hospital who have been
      prescribed medications within one of three high-priority, high-risk drug classes in order to
      reduce the risk of clinically important medication errors. The National Action Plan for
      Adverse Drug Event (ADE) Prevention identified three high-priority drug classes as key
      targets for reducing the risk of drug-related injuries: anticoagulants; diabetes agents
      (insulin and oral agents); and opioids. These medication classes were chosen because they
      account for the greatest number of measurable drug-related harms to patients, and a
      substantial proportion of ADEs associated with these medications is considered preventable.
      The clinical trial will determine the value of a multifaceted medication error and ADE
      reduction intervention with a special focus on in-home assessment.

      Components of the intervention will include: (1) in-home assessment of high-risk patients by
      a clinical pharmacist; (2) best-practice, evidence-based medication safety tools and
      resources targeted to high-risk patients and their caregivers; (3) communication with the
      primary care team via the electronic health record (EHR) regarding concerns relevant to the
      use of high-risk medications as well as other medication safety concerns; and (4) a follow-up
      phone call by the pharmacist to the patient and/or caregiver within 14 days of the home
      visit. The primary outcome of interest will be clinically important medication errors, a
      composite outcome comprised of preventable or ameliorable ADEs and potential ADEs due to
      medication discrepancies or non-adherence. Secondary outcomes will include: (1) preventable
      or ameliorable ADEs; (2) potential ADEs due to discrepancies or non-adherence; and (3)
      preventable or ameliorable ADEs judged to be serious, life-threatening, or fatal.

      The specific aims for our study are as follows:

      Aim 1: To adapt and integrate existing "best-practice," evidence-based medication safety
      tools, resources, and approaches into a cohesive, multifaceted intervention to reduce the
      occurrence of clinically important medication errors in older adults recently discharged from
      the hospital using one or more of the three high-priority, high-risk drug classes
      (anticoagulants, diabetes agents, and opioids).

      Aim 2: To assess the impact of the multifaceted intervention on the incidence of clinically
      important medication errors employing a randomized controlled trial (RCT) design.

      Aim 3: To conduct a process evaluation assessing intervention fidelity, adaptation,
      mechanisms of impact, essential components, and the influence of contextual factors.

      Aim 4: To create: 1) a plan for disseminating study findings to stakeholders who might
      implement the intervention or make decisions about its future use; and 2) an implementation
      toolkit for those who wish to implement the intervention in practice.
    
  