
    
      Individuals with RTT, MECP2 Dup and RTT-related disorders have significant abnormalities on a
      number of neurophysiological measures such as EEG and Evoked Potentials (EP). Studies in
      representative animal models reproduce many of these abnormalities. Little is known about the
      relationship between these neurophysiological findings to disease evolution, severity and
      specific clinical features. Therefore, it is considered likely that detailed understanding of
      such neurophysiological features would provide additional insight into disease pathogenesis
      and will lead to biomarkers of disease state and severity of different features.
      Consequently, specialized neurophysiological assessments will be acquired, without sedation
      or any other type of pharmacological manipulation, on a subset of 170 subjects: 60 RTT, 18
      MECP2 Dup, 32 RTT-related disorders, and 60 age-matched typically developing controls (30
      females, 30 males). Primary evaluations will include auditory ERP (AEP) and visual ERP (VEP),
      as well as secondary analyses of specific rhythms/band activities obtained during the ERP
      acquisitions (gamma band changes and frontal alpha band asymmetry). Individuals will be
      recruited across the spectra of ages and severity. The main goal of the project is to
      identify potential biomarkers that can become measures for intervention and other
      translational studies and, at the same time, provide insight into abnormal synaptic activity
      and pathogenesis of RTT, MECP2 Dup, and RTT-related disorders. Therefore, the proposed
      assessments will be performed in all three groups of subjects enrolled in this consortium
      (RTT5211): RTT, MECP2 Dup, and RTT-related disorders. Findings in each set of disorders will
      be linked to the objectives of the the longitudinal clinical and neurobehavioral data
      (RTT5211) as well as to biological factors and genotyping that may be linked to clinical
      severity (RTT5213). The neurophysiological parameters for RTT, MECP2 Dup, and RTT-related
      disorders will not only be correlated with each other but also to disease staging, overall
      clinical severity scores and through exploratory analyses with specific clinical features;
      these will be repeated up to 3 times (i.e., annual [every 10-14 month] evaluations, in the
      context of visits for the RTT5211 protocol) during the course of study. For this purpose,
      linear regression and linear mixed models will be used. Preliminary and published data
      indicate that RTT and MECP2 Dup have distinct patterns of cortical processing on AEP, VEP
      demonstrates disorder and age/disease-stage dependent changes. Phenotypic severity may be
      related to specific ERP parameters, as some modest effects of (severity) category of
      mutations were observed. In addition, the secondary analyses of specific EEG rhythms/band
      activities will expand our preliminary studies demonstrating alpha band asymmetry as a marker
      of an anxiety-like response in RTT.
    
  