
    
      Despite two decades of public health efforts to combat obesity, rates continue to rise and
      racial disparities persist. There is an urgent need to re-focus obesity prevention efforts
      onto young adults, particularly reproductive age women. 23% of women (vs. 13% of men) gain
      ≥20 kg from age 18 to 55 years, with the highest weight gain in African American women who
      gain > 1kg/year. Importantly, weight gain of ≥20 kg is associated with development of type 2
      diabetes (DM), other obesity-related comorbidities and greater mortality. For women who
      become pregnant, pregnancy provides an important opportunity for obesity and DM prevention,
      as excessive gestational weight gain (GWG) and pregnancy complications [e.g. gestational
      diabetes (GDM)], increase future DM risk. Promoting healthy GWG through behavioral
      interventions may prevent these pregnancy complications, but importantly has great potential
      for long-term, sustainable benefits to prevent postpartum weight retention (PPWR) and future
      obesity and DM, in women and the women's children.

      With the publication of the LIFE-Moms consortium's results, there is now strong evidence from
      efficacy trials showing that limiting GWG is achievable and associated with improved exercise
      and dietary behaviors. Several notable research gaps and next steps have emerged from the
      LIFE-Moms' studies, which the investigators address in this pragmatic trial. Because these
      studies were designed to test the efficacy of behavioral weight management on GWG,
      interventions were resource intensive (i.e. in-person counseling and with limited online and
      mobile technologies), without a focus on program implementation and sustainability in routine
      prenatal care settings and lacking intervention in the vulnerable postpartum period. To
      address these critical evidence gaps and reduce obesity associated with the
      pregnancy/postpartum periods, the next step is to integrate and test an evidence-based
      lifestyle intervention in pregnancy and postpartum that utilizes remote delivery of
      counseling, enables self-monitoring by patients using mobile and online technologies and
      supports obstetric providers and clinics to optimize care for women at high risk for obesity
      and future DM.

      The investigators' experienced team created and tested Healthy for Two / Healthy for You
      (H42/H4U). H42/H4U is an innovative evidence-based pregnancy/postpartum health coaching
      intervention that is remotely-delivered (phone coaching using motivational interviewing +
      web-based platform + mobile phone behavioral tracking). The aim of this R18 pragmatic
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) is to embed H42/H4U into prenatal care clinics that serve a
      racially and economically diverse population, leveraging existing staff as trained health
      coaches and community health workers (CHWs), to test its effectiveness and implementation.

      The investigators hypothesize that women in the H42/H4U arm will have lower GWG and lower
      rates of GDM, without an increase in low birth weight infants, and that implementation into
      the investigators' prenatal care clinics will be feasible and scalable. The investigators
      will rigorously test this hypothesis through the following Specific Aims:

      Aim 1. Test the effectiveness of H42/H4U integrated into prenatal care compared with Usual
      Care among 380 pregnant and postpartum women enrolled from 6 prenatal clinics on:

      A. Primary outcome: GWG (37 week minus baseline pregnancy [≤15 week gestation] weight) B.
      Maternal secondary outcomes: Proportion with excessive GWG; GDM incidence; PPWR at 6 months
      after delivery C. Infant secondary outcomes: Weight at birth, 4 and 6 months. D. Other
      outcomes: Maternal health behaviors (diet, physical activity, breastfeeding); Maternal
      wellness (depression, sleep and stress)

      Aim 2. Assess organizational factors that impact the implementation of the intervention into
      prenatal care clinics, including costs of intervention delivery and provider and staff
      satisfaction to inform future dissemination.

      A. Provider and staff perspectives, including satisfaction, workflow barriers and potential
      for sustainability, using qualitative semi-structured interviews (n=15 at baseline and end of
      study).

      B. Cost analysis to assess intervention delivery costs and the return on investment (ROI) of
      H42/H4U.

      This study will advance a potentially powerful, prenatal care-based strategy to reduce
      obesity in young adult childbearing women and thereby the intergenerational effects on the
      women's children. The investigators' interdisciplinary team brings together engaged academic
      and community-based obstetricians, the investigators' health system's population health
      program and researchers with experience in developing, testing and implementing behavioral
      interventions in both pregnant and non-pregnant adults in real world settings to enable wide
      dissemination. Ultimately, the investigators' goal is to design and produce an effective and
      scalable behavioral strategy, integrated into clinical practice that will: 1) reduce
      excessive GWG and its associated pregnancy complications, 2) reduce future obesity, DM and
      other obesity-related complications in mothers and the mothers' children, and 3) ensure high
      quality care delivery that prevents obesity and DM through a population health approach to
      prenatal care.
    
  