
    
      Motoric Cognitive Risk syndrome (MCR) is a new clinical syndrome associating subjective
      cognitive complaint and objective slow gait speed with a high prevalence calculated around
      10% in population aged 60 and above. MCR syndrome predicts mild and major neurocognitive
      disorders. MCR syndrome does not rely on a complex and time-consuming assessment, making it
      applicable to the aging population. Thus, MCR syndrome seems to be a good syndrome to
      identify individuals at risk of mild and major neurocognitive disorders in any type of
      healthcare setting.

      Slow gait speed and cognitive complaint are unspecific symptoms that can apply to a wide
      variety of morbidities (i.e., having a disease or a symptom of disease), thus causing overlap
      with other syndromes which may influence the predictive value of MCR syndrome. One example of
      the same seen in previous literature is the overlap between MCR syndrome and Mild Cognitive
      Impairment (MCI) which is, a pre-dementia syndrome similar to MCR syndrome. Patients
      diagnosed with MCR syndrome can also be diagnosed with MCI, however, this is not always the
      case. It has been suggested that patients cumulating both syndromes could be more at risk of
      mild and major neurocognitive disorders. Similarly, anxiety, depressive symptomatology and/or
      clinical depression (ADSCD) may be associated with slow gait speed and cognitive complaint.
      Prevalence of ADSCD like MCR syndrome is high and estimated around 9%, with some age
      dependent variation: younger adults have a higher prevalence compared to older adults. Due to
      the high prevalence of both MCR syndrome and ADSCD, and in conjunction that subjective
      cognitive complaint (for MCR syndrome definition) has previously been extracted from an item
      of depressive questionnaires like Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression scale (CESD) or
      Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS), there is a high probability of overlap between MCR syndrome
      and depression. As ADSCD is not a pre-dementia stage, an overlap between ADSCD and MCR
      syndrome can conversely to MCI syndrome result in a decreased risk for mild and major
      neurocognitive disorders.

      Few studies have examined the association between ADSCD and MCR syndrome and reported
      diverging results. They found both significant and not significant associations between MCR
      syndrome and ADSCD. These mixed results may be explained by the definition used for ADSCD.
      For instance, studies have used depressive questionnaires or antidepressant use. Moreover,
      this divergence could also be related to the nature of the symptomology (e.g., anxiety or
      mood disorders), as well as age. Thus, it is important to examine the association between
      ADSCD and MCR syndrome taking in consideration these parameters.

      The investigator has the opportunity with the baseline assessment of a large population-based
      prospective and observational study in Canada, known as the Canadian Longitudinal Study on
      Aging (CLSA) to better understand the parameters influencing the association between ADSCD
      and MCR syndrome.
    
  