
    
      Endophthalmitis is serious complication of intraocular surgery. Previous studies have shown
      that the most common sources of bacteria causing endophthalmitis are the patients eyelid and
      conjunctival bacteria. [1, 2] The risk of postoperative endophthalmitis may be reduced by
      eliminating bacteria from the ocular surface at the time of the surgery.

      The current standard for endophthalmitis prophylaxis at Ludwig-Maximilians-University in
      Munich, Germany is the irrigation of the conjunctival fornices with 1% povidone-iodine (PVI)
      prior to surgery. In general, patients do not receive topical antibiotic prior to surgery.

      Ta and co-workers have demonstrated that a three-day application of topical ofloxacin
      resulted in less conjunctival cultures obtained before and after surgery compared to an
      application of antibiotic given one hour prior to surgery.[3] Furthermore, the same research
      group showed that the contamination rate of the microsurgical knives used during surgery
      decreased from 26% to 5% (P = 0.028) with a three day application of ofloxacin compared to a
      one-hour application.[4] The goal of the current proposal is to determine if we can improve
      on the current standard of endophthalmitis prophylaxis at Ludwig-Maximilians-University by
      using topical 5% levofloxacin prior to surgery. Given that the rate of endophthalmitis is
      quite low, we will use conjunctival bacterial flora and anterior chamber aqueous
      contamination rate as surrogate markers to determine the effectiveness of topical
      levofloxacin in reducing or eliminating bacteria from the ocular surface at the time of the
      surgery. The results of this prospective-randomized control trial may radically change the
      current practice of endophthalmitis prophylaxis, and levofloxacin may play a critical role in
      preventing postoperative endophthalmitis.

      Study Protocol:

      One hundred and forty patients will be randomized to control group and a study group:

        -  Control group: no antibiotic (70 patients). Standard protocol at the Department of
           Ophthalmology, Munich.

        -  Study group I: topical 0.5% levofloxacin four times per day for one day prior to
           surgery. In addition, one drop of topical levofloxacin is given three times with five
           minutes intervals, one hour prior to surgery (70 patients).

      Five minutes prior to surgery both groups will receive topical povidone-iodine (10%) to scrub
      the periorbital area and 1% PVI to irrigate the conjunctiva (standard protocol). Patients
      will be draped in a sterile fashion and surgery will be initiated.

      Conjunctival cultures for aerobic and anaerobic bacteria will be obtained at the following
      time-points:

      • T0: (Baseline) at the day of the first interview (one week before surgery), prior to any
      application of antibiotic or povidone-iodine. Samples will be taken from both conjunctivas.

        -  T1: On the morning of the surgery, but prior to final treatment during the last hour
           before surgery. At this time, patients in both study groups will have received topical
           levofloxacin (one day and three days before surgery) treatment; patients in the control
           group will not have received any treatment with antibiotic. Samples will be taken also
           from both conjunctiva.

        -  T2: Immediately before surgery, 5-10 min after PVI scrub and PVI irrigation for both the
           control and study group, but only on the conjunctiva of surgery eye. In addition of
           sample of anterior chamber aqueous fluid is taken from the surgery eye by the
           responsible surgeon.

        -  T3: At the conclusion of surgery, again from the conjunctiva and the anterior chamber
           fluid of the surgery eye.

      At every step, samples are taken from the conjunctiva with a standard dissolving Ca-alginate
      swab (Sanofi-Pasteur, Germany). The moistened swab should be taken via one rotational swipe
      over the lower conjunctiva without touching the lid or eyelashes. Additionally anterior
      chamber aqueous fluid will be obtained immediately before and after surgery. The cannulas
      (2x) used for the aspiration will be cultured in a separate broth culture, too.

      Inclusion criteria:

      - Patients undergoing surgery for cataract, glaucoma or vitrectomy.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Patients who report to be allergic to levofloxacin or iodine

        -  Patients on topical antibiotic within the last 30 days

        -  Patients with acute conjunctivitis, blepharitis or dacryocystitis

        -  Patients under age of 18 years

      Summary:

      The results of this study may revolutionize the standard of endophthalmitis prophylaxis. It
      could be that the application of topical levofloxacin 5%, four times a day for one or three
      days prior to surgery, significantly reduce or eliminate bacteria from the ocular surface.
      Hence, topical levofloxacin may have a critical role in preventing postoperative
      endophthalmitis.
    
  