
    
      Adoption of healthy lifestyles by all persons is critical for the prevention of high BP and
      is an indispensable part of the management of those with hypertension. Weight loss of as
      little as 10 lbs (4.5 kg) reduces BP and/or prevents hypertension in a large proportion of
      overweight persons, although the ideal is to maintain normal body weight. BP is also
      benefited by adoption of the Dietary approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) eating plan which
      is a diet rich in fruits, vegetables, and low fat dairy products with a reduced content of
      dietary cholesterol as well as saturated and total fat (modification of whole diet). It is
      rich in potassium and calcium content. Dietary sodium should be reduced to no more than 100
      mmol per day (2.4 g of sodium). Everyone who is able should engage in regular aerobic
      physical activity such as brisk walking at least 30 minutes per day most days of the week.
      Lifestyle modifications reduce BP, prevent or delay the incidence of hypertension, enhance
      antihypertensive drug efficacy and decrease cardiovascular risk. For example, in some
      individuals, a 1,600 mg sodium DASH eating plan has BP effects similar to single drug
      therapy. Combinations of two (or more) lifestyle modifications can achieve even better
      results. For overall cardiovascular risk reduction, patients should be strongly counseled to
      quit smoking.

      Lifestyle modification involves altering long-term habits, typically of eating or physical
      activity, and maintaining the new behavior for months or years. Lifestyle changes are a more
      natural way toward therapeutic goals and should be an integral component of halting or even
      reversing early vascular aging as in pre hypertensive subjects. From a public health
      perspective, even a small reduction in BP should have a tremendous, beneficial effect on the
      occurrence of hypertension and its complications. In view of the current epidemic of
      BP-related diseases and the proven effects of lifestyle modifications on BP, the current
      challenge to health care providers, researchers, and public officials is to develop and
      implement effective life style intervention program comprising exercise dietary and educative
      component in clinical and public health strategies that achieve and maintain healthy
      lifestyle modification
    
  