
    
      BACKGROUND

      1.1 Problem of Treatment Resistant Depression and a Proposed Solution

      Problem of Major Depressive Disorder: Major depressive disorder (MDD) known to the layperson
      as clinical depression, is an illness composed of repeated major depressive episodes of
      variable length and persistence (MDE).

      MDD is the leading cause of death and disability in moderate to high income countries 1. MDD
      is common with 5% of adults in the midst of a major depressive episode (MDE) and the lifetime
      prevalence of MDD is 10 to 20%2. MDD is also often treatment resistant, with 50% of people
      having inadequate responses3. Plausible Mechanism of Treatment Resistance: It is generally
      believed that there are multiple underlying pathologies in MDD and the mismatch of treatment
      to pathology results in treatment resistance. Hence it is important to determine whether
      common brain pathologies are targeted by common treatments like serotonin and norepinephrine
      reuptake inhibitors, and to establish the degree to which alternative treatments might better
      target such brain pathologies. Then with this information matching of treatment to identified
      disease pathologies can be optimized.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES

      Overview Rationale for Objectives The abnormal elevation in MAO-B level in MDE of MDD was
      most prominent in the prefrontal cortex (see section 1), hence we prioritize this region in
      our objectives. As detailed in the introduction, we will assess MAO-B occupancy of
      tranylcypromine because it is a MAO-B inhibitor, albeit non-selective, that is approved in
      Canada for clinical use to treat MDD. We assess rasagiline as a selective MAO-B inhibitor
      that does not require stringent dietary restriction of tyramine at the 1mg dose, which is
      approved for Parkinson's Disease in Canada and has potential to be repurposed to treat MDD.
      We will also include assessment of MAO-B VT before and after duloxetine to verify the
      widespread assumption that the commonly prescribed medications that inhibit the reuptake of
      serotonin and norepinephrine, do not affect MAO-B level.

      Primary Objectives

        1. To measure MAO-B occupancy of tranylcypromine at a standard treating dose (30 to 60mg
           total per day) in the prefrontal cortex.

        2. To measure MAO-B occupancy of rasagiline at 1mg total daily, a dose not requiring
           stringent tyramine dietary restriction in the prefrontal cortex.

           Secondary Objective

        3. To evaluate the effect of duloxetine 60mg daily on MAO-B VT in the prefrontal cortex.

      The methods to quantitate more exact occupancy inherently require some MAO-B occupancy to
      occur, so in the case of objective 3, the related measure of change in MAO-B VT will be
      assessed. In addition, we will evaluate MAO-B occupancy of the interventions listed in
      objectives 1 and 2 within other brain regions with either reasonably high MAO-B density or
      whose dysfunction is implicated in the pathophysiology of MDD, including the anterior
      cingulate cortex, ventral striatum, dorsal striatum, thalamus, hippocampus, and midbrain.
    
  