
    
      The incidence of urinary incontinence (UI) in women increases with age but, unbeknownst to
      many, it is not a normal part of aging and, in most cases, can be effectively treated. Yet
      today, the majority of senior women go untreated due to a lack of both human and financial
      resources. In Canada, there are currently 3 million senior women. Over the next 15 years
      their numbers are expected to grow significantly, as will the incidence of UI. The number of
      senior women requiring treatment, let alone the future demand, makes it imperative that more
      cost-effective treatments be identified. The prevalence of UI in community- dwelling women 65
      and over is high - 55% experience stress or urge UI, or even both, and of these, 20 to 25%
      are classified as having severe symptoms. Not only is UI a serious medical condition but it
      is also undeniably a social problem, engendering embarrassment and negative self-perceptions.
      It is associated with reduced social interactions and physical activities, with poor
      self-rated health, impaired emotional and psychological well-being and impaired sexual
      relationships. Moreover, it doubles women's risk of being admitted to a nursing home,
      independent of age or the presence of any other co-morbid conditions. It severely undermines
      a woman's right to healthy aging. Without doubt, this pervasive and serious condition
      requires immediate attention. Demographics, the negative impact on older women's functional
      autonomy and the current unmet treatment needs alone renders improving continence care for
      older women a priority for the Institute of Aging. This study aims to evaluate if group-
      based physiotherapy treatment is at least as good as individualized one-on-one physiotherapy
      treatment for treating urinary incontinence in aging women. The treatment efficacy will be
      assessed in 364 women (aged 60 years and older) suffering from stress or mixed urinary
      incontinence and recruited in 4 hospitals and in the community.
    
  