
    
      Diabetic retinopathy is a major cause of visual impairment in the United States. Diabetic
      macular edema (DME) is a manifestation of diabetic retinopathy that produces loss of central
      vision. Data from the Wisconsin Epidemiologic Study of Diabetic Retinopathy (WESDR) estimate
      that after 15 years of known diabetes, the prevalence of diabetic macular edema is
      approximately 20% in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus (DM), 25% in patients with type 2
      DM who are taking insulin, and 14% in patients with type 2 DM who do not take insulin.

      In a review of three early studies concerning the natural history of diabetic macular edema,
      Ferris and Patz found that 53% of 135 eyes with diabetic macular edema, presumably all
      involving the center of the macula, lost two or more lines of visual acuity over a two year
      period. In the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS), 33% of 221 untreated eyes
      available for follow-up at the 3-year visit, all with edema involving the center of the
      macula at baseline, had experienced a 15 or more letter decrease in visual acuity score
      (equivalent to a doubling of the visual angle, e.g., 20/25 to 20/50, and termed "moderate
      visual loss").

      In the ETDRS, focal/grid photocoagulation of eyes with clinically significant macular edema
      (CSME) reduced the risk of moderate visual loss by approximately 50% (from 24% to 12%, three
      years after initiation of treatment). Therefore, 12% of treated eyes developed moderate
      visual loss in spite of treatment. Furthermore, approximately 40% of treated eyes that had
      retinal thickening involving the center of the macula at baseline still had thickening
      involving the center at 12 months, as did 25% of treated eyes at 36 months.

      Although several treatment modalities are currently under investigation, the only
      demonstrated means to reduce the risk of vision loss from diabetic macular edema are laser
      photocoagulation, as demonstrated by the ETDRS, and intensive glycemic control, as
      demonstrated by the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) and the United Kingdom
      Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS). In the DCCT, intensive glucose control reduced the risk
      of onset of diabetic macular edema by 23% compared with conventional treatment. Long-term
      follow-up of patients in the DCCT show a sustained effect of intensive glucose control, with
      a 58% risk reduction in the development of diabetic macular edema for the DCCT patients
      followed in the Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications Study.

      The frequency of an unsatisfactory outcome following laser photocoagulation in some eyes with
      diabetic macular edema has prompted interest in other treatment modalities. One such
      treatment is pars plana vitrectomy. These studies suggest that vitreomacular traction, or the
      vitreous itself, may play a role in increased retinal vascular permeability. Removal of the
      vitreous or relief of mechanical traction with vitrectomy and membrane stripping may be
      followed by substantial resolution of macular edema and corresponding improvement in visual
      acuity. However, this treatment may be applicable only to a specific subset of eyes with
      diabetic macular edema. It also requires a complex surgical intervention with its inherent
      risks, recovery time, and expense. Other treatment modalities such as pharmacologic therapy
      with oral protein kinase C inhibitors and antibodies targeted at vascular endothelial growth
      factor (VEGF) are under investigation.

      The use of intravitreal corticosteroids is another treatment modality that has generated
      recent interest. However, use of intravitreal corticosteroids generally has been reserved for
      cases of DME in which there is at least moderate loss of visual acuity (e.g., worse than
      20/40). This treatment generally has not been widely used for mild cases of DME due to
      concerns about its potential risks, particularly glaucoma and cataract, relative to the
      potential benefit.

      Injection of corticosteroids around the eye (anterior subtenon's, posterior subtenon's,
      retrobulbar) has been used as an alternative to intravitreal injection. Although data are
      limited, it is presumed that the adverse effects on the eye are lower with an injection
      around the eye compared with in the eye. There are also little data on the efficacy of this
      treatment. This study is being conducted to collect pilot data on the safety and efficacy of
      peribulbar corticosteroids to determine whether there is sufficient evidence of efficacy to
      merit conducting a phase 3 randomized trial.
    
  