
    
      Here we propose to use a combination of both checkpoint therapy with dual vaccine therapy.
      Patients will be treated with an intraprostatic injection of MVA-BN-Brachyury and
      subcutaneous PROSTVAC therapy. MVA-BN-Brachyury is a replication-deficient, attenuated
      vaccinia virus (Ankara strain) expressing both a CD8+ T-cell epitope from the brachyury
      protein and a triad of T-cell co-stimulatory molecules (B7.1, ICAM-1 and LFA-3).
      MVA-brachury-TRICOM, upon infection of cells, causes innate and then adaptive immune
      responses, antigen cascade, and improved T cell trafficking to the tumor. Vaccine therapy is
      one strategy that might increase immune infiltration into the tumor microenvironment.
      Prostate cancer is known to have minimal lymphocyte infiltration within the microenvironment.

      This vaccine strategy of direct injection into the tumor in combination with checkpoint
      inhibitors has previously been performed in early phase clinical trials.6 Furthermore, this
      approach of potent vaccine vector use can induce systemic effects as seen in a recent
      clinical trial of 12 patients with metastatic melanoma.12 In that study, responses were also
      observed in non-target lesions. In this case, MVA-BN-Brachyury is preferred as in
      intralesional injection agent over other vaccines due to the increased immunogenicity of MVA
      compared with fowlpox and improved safety profile for direct injection when compared with
      vaccinia, due to replication incompetence. In the prior study with MVA-BN-Brachyury no
      patients were observed to have replication of the virus.

      T cell mediated tumor cell killing is dependent on specific T cell recognition of a tumor
      target antigen, localization of those specific T cells to the tumor, and those T cells
      properly functioning within the tumor microenvironment. We hypothesize that these three
      primary issues comprise the major causes of most patients receiving no benefit from
      checkpoint inhibitor therapy or with vaccine monotherapy. We hypothesize that these issues
      can be addressed with an active intratumoral virus administration approach combined with the
      use of a subcutaneously administered vaccine (PROSTVAC) to induce PSA-specific T cell
      activation in combination with a checkpoint inhibitor. Combination viral based vaccine plus
      immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy will result in exposure of cancer specific antigens and
      induce inflammation at the site of the cancer ultimately resulting in significant clinical
      antitumor effect. Additionally, we hypothesize that the concurrent administration of
      anti-PD-1 moncolonal antibody therapy is necessary to allow those active T cells to achieve
      tumor cell killing, and significant overall clinical efficacy.

      The addition of atezolizumab is likely to provide additional efficacy over vaccine therapy
      alone. This is suggested by the induction of PD-1+ T-cells with vaccines.17 Additionally,
      PD-1 inhibition with nivolumab18 and pembrolizumab19 have shown clinical activity in
      metastatic prostate cancer. We suggest that the combination will provide even greater
      efficacy.

      Multiple studies have demonstrated a strong correlation between density of lymphocytes and
      prognosis, including overall survival.13-16 Given the very low density of infiltrating
      lymphocytes historically in prostate cancer, (Kaur HB, Hum Path 2019) we suggest that the
      primary endpoint of the change in CD8+ density is a reasonable pharmacodynamic endpoint for
      this exploratory, hypothesis generating study. However, as this study will be the first to
      date of the treatment combination, safety will also serve as a co-primary endpoint. The
      secondary objectives of PSA responses will help confirm the clinical utility of this approach
      in this target population.
    
  