
    
      Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) has become a standard treatment in patients with
      symptomatic chronic systolic heart failure, reduced left ventricular (LV) function and wide
      electrocardiographic ventricular (QRS) complex, but approximately one third of patients do
      not respond to the treatment. Current ability to predict long-term response to CRT at implant
      is slight. Investigations have focused mostly on early prediction of the reversal of LV
      remodeling by means of LV pacing, which is delivered more frequently as biventricular pacing,
      combined with conventional right ventricular (RV) pacing. LV dyssynchrony areas have been
      identified as suitable targets for pacing, but no methods still can evaluate real-time,
      intra-operative acute effects of pacing on LV mechanics. This issue has become even more
      evident in the subset of CS implants of quadripolar leads, which offer relevant advantages
      but highlight the lack of methods for selecting the pacing configuration among the safe and
      effective ones.

      Since LV pacing is currently delivered on the epicardium by a lead inserted in coronary sinus
      (CS) branches, the interface between the point of pacing delivery on LV surface and the
      underlying LV wall, and overall lead movements inside coronary sinus might describe some
      underlying myocardial mechanics. By means of a recently published fluoroscopy-based method,
      the trajectory of the electrode tip inserted in CS branches can be reconstructed in
      three-dimensions (3D) throughout the cardiac cycle. A preliminary clinical pilot study (Heart
      Rhythm 2013;10:1360) demonstrated that biventricular pacing acutely induced changes in
      trajectory geometry, which were correlated to the echocardiographic volumetric response to
      CRT at six-month post-implant follow-up. In responders only, biventricular pace abruptly
      determined a more circular shape. Such results were "hypothesis-generating" and are to be yet
      tested on a larger scale.

      The study analyzes the predictive power of the changes in pacing cathode trajectory metrics
      occurring at the start of biventricular pacing with respect to both:

        1. the volumetric response to CRT, measured at six-month follow-up by a unique criterion;

        2. the clinical response to CRT, described at six-month follow-up by three clinical
           indices.

      Secondarily, this study evaluates whether trajectory variations would be able to acutely
      guide the selection of the definitive LV pacing configuration in the subset of implants of a
      CS quadripolar lead.

      The trajectory geometry metrics to analyze are:

        -  trajectory length;

        -  area of the surface encompassed by the trajectory in the 3D space;

        -  trajectory mean curvature;

        -  the three singular values indicating to what extent the trajectory is distributed along
           each of its three principal directions (eigenvectors);

        -  ratio between the two main singular values, indicating to what extent the trajectory is
           distributed along only one (principal) direction;

        -  trajectory eccentricity;

        -  distance between the trajectory barycenter.

      Operatively:

        -  patients submitted to implant of a CRT device (pacemaker or implantable cardioverter
           defibrillator) according to current indications are evaluated;

        -  all market-released CRT devices can be implanted; the choice of CS lead, implantation
           technique, leads placement is left to each investigator decision;

        -  during implant procedure, the devices are programmed in sense-only mode; if upgrades,
           the pre-existing pacing programming is kept unmodified until the start of biventricular
           stimulation;

        -  short fluoroscopy recordings of lead movements inside CS branching are taken in three
           radiological projections (posteroanterior, 30° right and left anterior oblique), both
           just before and immediately after the beginning of biventricular pacing at prefixed
           settings, which are: lower rate at 60-70 beats per min; atrioventricular (AV) delay at
           120 ms and interventricular (VV) delay at 0 ms;

        -  in the subset of implants of a quadripolar lead, other two fluoroscopic recordings are
           acutely acquired during a short period of pacing from each of two other cathodes, which
           are predefined as being at 20-35 mm and 40-50 mm from lead tip;

        -  3D trajectories are reconstructed for the lead tip (the distal pole), and, in
           quadripolar lead implants, also for other two pacing cathodes, both before and acutely
           at biventricular pacing start;

        -  after acquisition, at any time pacing settings can be optimized and modified at
           investigators choice;

        -  if a quadripolar CS lead is used, the pacing configuration at discharge is preferably
           chosen as that associated with the largest change of cathode trajectory towards a more
           circular shape at biventricular pace start;

        -  CRT device checking is scheduled at 6-month follow-up; other checks are left to the
           discretion of each center; a visit is advised at 30-60 days after discharge;

        -  all centers arrange for the two index echocardiographic evaluations to be performed on
           schedule by an expert operator, who has to be blinded about any trajectory results, and
           according to recommendations of the American Society of Echocardiography. All
           examinations are recorded on external support (analogic or digital) and handed to the
           internal Echocardiography Core-Lab, which is identified among participating
           institutions. The Echo Core-Lab operator(s) is not directly involved in the study and is
           kept unaware of all trajectory results up to the end of the study;

        -  the fluoroscopic recordings are stored on a CD and analyzed off-line by the Engineering
           Core Lab, using the method previously published.

      The following variables are collected at baseline

      - age, gender, height and weight; presence of diabetes, hypertension, chronic obstructive
      bronchopneumopathy, previous stroke, previous myocardial infarction; moderate to severe
      valvular heart disease; any previous myocardial revascularization; previous heart surgery;
      chronic renal failure,defined by glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) <60 mL/min/1.73 square
      metre; current value of eGFR (mL/min/1.73 square metre); current medical treatment with
      beta-blockers, diuretics, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II antagonists, aldosterone
      antagonists, antiarrhythmic, oral anticoagulants, anti-platelets.

      The following variables are collected both at peri-implant and at six-month follow-up:

        1. Clinical : New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class (I to IV); distance
           covered at the six minutes walking test (metres); total hospital stay due to heart
           failure during 6 months before and 6 months after CRT implant (number of days).

        2. Echocardiographic: LV ejection fraction (%); LV end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes
           (ml); presence and degree of any valvular regurgitation (from 1+ to 4+) and valvular
           stenosis; Doppler-derived peak pressure in pulmonary artery (mmHg); pulsed doppler
           pattern of transmitral flow (three types) and associated E/A ratio (abs), E wave
           duration (msec), A wave duration (msec), E+A waves total duration (msec).

        3. Electrocardiographic: P wave, AV interval and QRS complex durations (msec); QRS axis
           (degrees); QRS morphology (four types: spontaneous typical or atypical left bundle
           branch block; RV pace-induced conduction delay; non-specific intraventricular delay).

        4. Device-related: endocavitary measurements of atrial, RV and CS leads functioning (pace
           and sense thresholds, impedance); all programmed values of sensing and pacing;
           programmed AV and VV intervals; total percent time of LV pacing; burden and types of any
           supraventricular and ventricular tachyarrhythmias.

      To define the sample size, the statistical power analysis is applied with a level of power
      equal to 80%, using as sample distributions the populations in the pilot study (p<0.05) and
      considering a drop-out rate of 20%.

      Descriptive statistics are used to present and summarize the data collected in the study. For
      discrete variables, frequency distribution and cross tabulations are to be presented. For
      continuous variables, the means, standard deviations, or median and 25° and 75° percentile
      and ranges are used to represent data.

      According to the type of variable, computed trajectory parameters are to be compared by using
      χ2 method, with the Fisher exact test or the nonparametric Mann-Whitney U test for non-normal
      distribution (p<0.05). Differences in means or in proportions are to be calculated, together
      with their 95% confidence intervals.

      Variations in trajectory metrics from before to after pacing start are computed and
      correlated with variations between pre-implant and six-month post-implant assessments in both
      echocardiographic measures of left ventricular remodeling and function and clinical and
      electrocardiographic variables.

      Study data are managed as follows:

        -  each patient is given a code to guarantee anonymity, used to identify both data on paper
           and imaging recordings (fluoroscopic and echocardiographic). Recordings are supplied to
           the Core-Labs (Bioengineering and Echocardiography) on digital support. Results from
           imaging recordings analyses are sent to the Principal Investigator and to the Steering
           Committee (composed by the Principal Investigator, the Study Directors and the Sites
           Principal Investigators). The original recordings are kept in each center's archives;

        -  all patient's data are collected on paper forms. Each center's investigator is
           responsible for data collection and safekeeping, and guarantees for data reliability and
           correctness;

        -  each center's data are the property of the same center; each investigator has free
           access to its own data and can divulge them, but without associating them with the study
           TRAJECTORIES. The Steering Committee alone is responsible for the whole, appropriately
           codified database, and can freely accede to it. Each investigator will be allowed to
           propose ancillary substudies/subanalyses which are to use data already provided in
           accordance with the protocol. Proposals have to be submitted to and approved by the
           Steering Committee;

        -  the study does not interfere with any aspect of current good clinical practice and legal
           requirements, and all prevailing rules will be followed.The study conforms to the
           guiding principles of the Declaration of Helsinki, to the current laws and to the
           Institutional Ethics Committee rules.The protocol has been first approved by the Area
           Vasta Romagna Ethics Committee, and then is submitted to other competent Ethics
           Committees for all participating centers;

        -  adverse events and adverse device effects, defined according to current standards, will
           be dealt with and reported to regulatory agencies and to manufacturers by each center in
           accordance with present regulations. The investigator ensures that, if applicable,
           adverse events are reported to their Ethical Committee, and/or to any Health Authorities
           according to national laws.

      This study is conducted in accordance with Good Clinical Practice (GCP), International
      Standards Organization (ISO) 14155 and Declaration of Helsinki guidelines.The investigators
      are responsible for conducting the study in accordance with the study plan, the signed
      agreements, applicable laws and regulations, and any conditions of approval imposed by the
      reviewing Ethics Committee.

      Patient informed consent is mandatory and required for all patients prior to their inclusion
      in the study. The process of obtaining informed consent complies with the Declaration of
      Helsinki and applicable national regulations, and uses language that is understandable to the
      patient. The informed consent form is constructed in accordance with rules given by Area
      Vasta Romagna Ethic Committee.The form is signed in double original, and one is given to
      patient, the second original kept in patients' file. The informed consent covers the use of
      personal information in an anonymous form and only for scientific purposes, and the
      acceptation of fluoroscopy as a means of clinical investigation. Patients can modify their
      decision at any moment, and nothing will be changed in their care and clinical programs.
    
  