
    
      Study Groups:

      Participants will be divided 1:1:1 into groups with

        -  Cohort 1: clinically uninfected (1A and 1C) ulcers.

        -  Cohort 2: clinically infected (redness, edema, induration, heat, exudate,
           tenderness/pain (1B and 1D)) with no recent antibiotic therapy (within 28 days)

        -  Cohort 3: clinically infected (redness, edema, induration, heat, exudate,
           tenderness/pain (1B and 1D)) on antibiotic therapy

      Duration of Subject Participation

        -  Screening: Within 7 days of baseline visit

        -  Baseline (can be the same day)

        -  Week 1 visit: one week after baseline.

        -  Follow-up period - EMR: 6 months from baseline measurements

        -  Total duration of subject participation: Up to 6 months

      Study Procedures:

      Screening

      1. Explain purpose and nature of the study and obtain signature on the informed consent
      document and HIPAA Authorization. 2. Screen the subject against protocol inclusion and
      exclusion criteria, including all pertinent tests.

      Baseline (may be done as same day as screening procedures). This visit may last 1.4-2 hours.

        1. Obtain general medical history, demographic information and social history.

        2. Complete a physical examination of the foot, body weight, height, and vital signs,
           including measurement of resting heart rate, respiratory rate, and blood pressure while
           seated.

        3. Select the target ulcer.

        4. Obtain complete history pertinent to ulcer disease including duration of the target
           ulcer, previous and current treatment.

        5. Perform debridement if indicated. Debridement is to be performed using a curette,
           scissors, scalpel, or forceps.

        6. Obtain study samples a. 2 blood samples - one for serum and one collected in PAXgene
           tubes b. 5 tissue samples - one frozen, one fixed in formalin, one placed in RNAlater,
           one fixed for confocal microscopy and one prepped for SEM analysis.

        7. Assess the post-debridement ulcer size using a ruler.

        8. Perform standardized photography of the study wound.

        9. Perform additional vascular and neuropathy studies.

       10. Collect all relevant concomitant medications for the previous 28 days.

       11. Clinician will perform standard wound care, including wound measurements and
           photography, and apply appropriate dressings/treatment.

       12. Record wound treatment applied including off-loading and debridement.

       13. Urine pregnancy test if needed.

      Week 1: this visit will not take longer than a normal standard of care visit.

        1. Assess target ulcer

        2. Debridement is to be performed using curette, scissors, scalpel, or forceps.

        3. Obtain study samples a. 2 blood samples - one for serum and one collected in PAXgene
           tubes b. 5 tissue samples- one frozen, one fixed in formalin, one placed in RNAlater,
           one fixed for confocal microscopy and one prepped for Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM)
           analysis.

        4. Perform standard of care wound care per physician discretion including wound
           measurements and standardized photography of the study wound.

        5. Clinician will perform standard wound care, including wound measurements and
           photography, and apply appropriate dressings/treatment.

        6. Record wound treatment applied including off-loading and debridement.

        7. Any changes in concomitant medications since baseline will be recorded.

        8. Subject stipend disbursement.

      Follow up assessment through medical record

        1. Wound healing - includes closure or changes in wound size

        2. Wound treatment - includes details/changes in treatment regimen.

        3. Labs/Concomitant medications/studies related to wound treatment - includes any studies
           relative to the medical status, wound status, infection, etc.

        4. Dehiscence - will be defined as any site along the site of surgical wound closure that
           fails to have 100% epithelialization without drainage at the time sutures are removed.
           Often part of the surgical wound will dehisce after it is closed. Therefore, the
           investigators will evaluate the time until the wound is completely healed. For surgical
           wounds this will be the time sutures are removed with complete epithelialization of the
           study wound, or secondary wound healing after previous surgical closure has dehisced.

        5. Wound infection - infection will be defined and stratified base in the Infectious
           Disease Society of Americas classification and criteria.

        6. Amputation - The investigators will document amputation using an ordinal scale (no
           additional amputation, toe and metatarsal, transmetatarsal amputation, midfoot
           amputation, below the knee, knee disarticulation, and above the knee amputation).

        7. Foot related adverse events including hospitalization.

        8. The investigators will assess perfusion using Arterial dopplers (bedside may be done for
           screening if formal ABIs have not yet been performed/resulted) as part of the screening
           procedures. If other procedures are collected as part of standard of care, those data
           may be acquired from the medical record.
    
  