
    
      This randomized controlled trial compares massage therapy to usual care and music therapy to
      usual care for patients admitted to the Family Medicine Inpatient Unit of Boston Medical
      Center. Ninety family medicine inpatients will be recruited by the research assistant to
      participate in the study. Participants will be randomized directly following consent in a
      1:1:1 ratio to massage therapy, music therapy, or usual care. Individuals assigned to the
      usual care group will receive the choice of a massage voucher for one massage at Boston
      Medical Center's Integrative Medicine program or a music therapy CD following completion of
      the study.

      Treatment assignments will be prepared by the study biostatistician, using a permuted block
      method with varying block sizes of 3, 6, and 9, prior to the start of the study. These will
      be sealed in sequentially numbered opaque envelopes. This order will not be changed. A
      research assistant will take a randomization envelope, in sequential order, and read the
      treatment assignment to the participant following enrollment.

      After enrollment and randomization is complete each day, the massage therapist and music
      therapist will begin to see participants for treatment. Treatments will take place in the
      inpatient hospital room. Curtains will be pulled closed to maintain privacy in rooms that
      have two beds. Both music and massage therapists will be present Monday-Sunday to provide
      treatment to participants.

      Treatments will be attempted 1-3 times per day for the duration of the participant's stay on
      the unit, based on the participant's availability (they may be scheduled for diagnostic
      tests, imaging, consults, etc). The music and massage therapists will work down the list of
      participants, visiting each one by one and administering treatment (details below for each
      therapy). If a participant is not available at the time the therapist comes by, he/she will
      revisit the participant after they have gone through their list and administered treatments.
      Once the therapist has provided the therapy once to every patient on his/her list, he/she
      will begin at the top of the list and provide a second round of treatments, and repeat again
      for a third round as time permits.

      The music therapist and massage therapist will create a note sheet each day for each
      participant. This will allow them to track number of treatments as well as any comments
      relevant to treatment (patient preferences, etc). A research assistant will collect these at
      the end of each day, enter them into the secure online database, and store them in a locked
      file cabinet.

      The music therapist and massage therapist will each be given an updated list of patients to
      treat (first name, last initial, room number) each morning. These lists (separated by
      treatment group) will include the newly enrolled and randomized participants as well as those
      who have not yet been discharged. At the end of each day, the therapists will report to the
      research assistant on how many sessions were provided to each participant.

      When the research assistant notes that a participant has been discharged, he/she has
      approximately 7 days to contact the patient (by phone or email) to administer the endline
      survey. Then, thirty days after discharge, the research assistant will check the
      participant's electronic medical record to see if he/she has been admitted again since
      discharge. Participants in the control group, following discharge and completion of the
      endline survey, will be mailed either a music/meditation CD or a voucher for massage at BMC,
      according to their preference.
    
  