
    
      Lymphedema is a condition characterized by generalized or regional accumulation of
      protein-rich interstitial fluid as a result of impaired lymphatic circulation due to
      congenital or acquired disorders. Lymphedema is diagnosed through evaluations of its clinical
      criteria. In addition to swelling of the affected extremities, certain symptoms, such as
      pain, fatigue, tightness, heaviness, tingling, weakness, and movement restriction, can also
      be seen in cases of lymphedema. Arm circumference measurements and volumetric methods are the
      most commonly used methods for calculating limb volume. In addition, soft tissue edema can be
      quantitatively measured by ultrasonography (US), computed tomography, lymphoscintigraphy and
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Among these, US has been used more frequently in the
      evaluation of lymphedema. Ultrasonographic evaluation of the skin and subcutaneous tissue
      helps to determine the severity of lymphedema and the effectiveness of treatment. The
      reliability and utility of ultrasound in subcutaneous echogenicity grade (SEG) and
      subcutaneous echo-free space (SEFS) grade have been demonstrated in patients with breast
      cancer-related lymphedema. Targets in the treatment of lymphedema include controlling the
      symptoms and preventing complications. A multimodal technique called complete decongestive
      therapy (CDT) is considered the gold standard of the treatment of lymphedema. In the
      literature, there are also studies showing that stellate ganglion block in breast
      cancer-related lymphedema treatment improves lymphedema and symptoms. Cervical stellate
      ganglion block is an invasive method used for the diagnosis and treatment of sympathetic pain
      and symptoms of upper extremity. Although it can be performed with fluoroscopy, CT and MRI,
      there has been increasing interest in ultrasound-guided technique since it has been fast,
      easy and cost-effective for the last few years. However, there are limited studies to provide
      sufficient evidence for the use of stellate ganglion block as an alternative treatment for
      lymphedema and detailed studies are needed in this area. The aim of this study is
      ultrasonographic evaluation of the efficacy of stellate ganglion block in the treatment of
      patients with breast cancer related lymphedema that is resistant to conservative treatment
      methods.

      Patients with breast cancer-related lymphedema will be evaluated for the study. For the
      diagnosis of lymphedema, detailed physical examination and limb circumference measurements
      will be performed. The patients with stage 2-3 lymphedema according to ISL staging, who had
      passed at least 3 months after breast surgery and did not response to conservative treatment
      methods will be included to the study. After obtaining written and oral informed consent of
      patients, US- guided stellate ganglion block will be applied two times at two-week intervals.
      Patients will be evaluated before injections (weeks 0 and 2) and 2 weeks after the last
      injection (week 4) and at 3 months of treatment. Arm circumference will be measured from 5
      different areas, shoulder range of motion (ROM) will be evaluated with a goniometer, pain,
      and tightness and heaviness sensation will be assessed with visual analog scale. Quick-DASH
      questionnaire and Lymphedema Life Impcat scale will be applied to the patients. SEG and SEFS
      grade will be performed by evaluating subcutaneous tissue with USG.

      After data collection, analysis will be performed with the appropriate statistical method.
    
  