
    
      This study is a non-randomized interventional study.

      NOW is an open-label study evaluating the feasibility, acceptability, and effectiveness of an
      accelerated community-based treatment program of SOF/VEL x 12 weeks started at time of
      chronic HCV diagnosis (intervention).

      The purpose of the proposed study is to assess the feasibility, acceptability and
      effectiveness of accelerated initiation of commercially available direct-acting antiviral
      (DAA) therapy targeting socially marginalized communities (e.g., medically underserved,
      homeless, people actively injecting drugs). The proposed study will be carried out at two
      community sites that perform HCV testing: (a) fixed community site and (b) community mobile
      site. The fixed site is located in the Tenderloin Neighborhood of San Francisco: The Quaker
      Meeting House (QMH). The QMH is the current location for an established drop-in center for
      young adult (< 30 years old) people who inject drugs, a group at highest risk for acquiring
      new HCV infection but representing a group with the lowest engagement in HCV treatment. The
      QMH site is complete with two phlebotomy stations, centrifuge, clinical exam station,
      interview rooms, and office space. The QMH research site will prioritize study enrollment for
      young adult people who inject drugs (PWID). The community mobile site (DeLIVER Van) is
      situated in a mobile van; a 145 sqft space equipped with a phlebotomy station, clinical exam
      table, centrifuge, and portable Fibroscan® 430 Mini Plus. The DeLIVER Van will serve two
      neighborhoods in San Francisco with high HCV burden but few community-based medical service
      organizations: the Bayview neighborhood and Outer Mission neighborhood.

      The investigators will (1) implement new tools, notably FIBROSCANS, to measure fibrosis in an
      at-risk group (HCV positive patients); (2) implement a new standard of care, treatment
      on-demand in an at-risk group (HCV positive active drug users); (3) assess the feasibility
      and acceptability of expanding standard of care into non-clinical settings.

      At study entry, participants will undergo a combined eligibility screening/entry visit, which
      includes HCV testing (antibody and RNA), rapid anti-HIV test, and HBsAG (hepatitis B virus
      surface antigen) testing and consent for medical record linkage. If HCV RNA reactive,
      participants are offered enrollment into the treatment cohort and provided 2 week supply of
      SOF/VEL (provided by Gilead as part of the NOW Study) upon completion of a clinical
      evaluation, baseline survey, and venipuncture for baseline labs. If the participant is
      actively insured, the study investigators will obtain insurance-authorized SOF/VEL to
      complete the remainder of the 12 week treatment course. If the participant is not actively
      insured, the study team will assist with insurance acquisition and subsequently obtain
      insurance-authorized SOF/VEL to complete the remainder of the 12 week treatment course. For
      any participants, if insurance-authorized SOF/VEL is delayed beyond the initial 2 week
      study-provided SOF/VEL, additional supplies of SOF/VEL as needed to ensure an uninterrupted
      12 week treatment course. Participants will return every 2 weeks during treatment (12 week
      course) for medication dispensation and study visit activities. And for two post-treatment
      visits for clinical monitoring (e.g., HCV RNA testing) and research activities.

      Study participants in the intervention study (cohort): Chronic HCV (anti-HCV positive and HCV
      RNA positive) men and women ages ≥18 years newly diagnosed or re-engaged in care at a fixed
      or mobile community-based site. Participants should be HBsAg negative, have no known history
      of decompensated cirrhosis or end stage renal disease, not be pregnant or breastfeeding, and
      not be taking medications that are contraindicated with SOF/VEL.
    
  