
    
      Cardiac surgery can be not infrequently complicated by cardiac low-output syndrome due to
      critical preoperative conditions such as cardiogenic shock, poor left ventricular function
      and severe myocardial ischemia. Prolonged aortic cross-clamping, ischemia-reperfusion injury,
      suboptimal myocardial protection, technical errors at graft anastomoses or of prosthesis
      implantation, and hibernating myocardium may further contribute to cardiac low-output
      syndrome occurring immediately or shortly after cardiac surgery. In this setting,
      veno-arterial extracorporeal oxygenation (VA-ECMO) is the only means to provide
      cardiopulmonary support to recovery or as bridge to transplantation.

      Data on the real benefit of VA-ECMO after cardiac surgery is limited and often derived from
      heterogeneous and small size series of patients who underwent different cardiac surgery
      procedures. Patients with cardiac low-output after surgery for aortic dissection or valve
      surgery are expected to have different baseline characteristics (such as age and
      comorbidities) and underlying cardiac disease than patients undergoing isolated coronary
      surgery. Furthermore, available studies included patients operated two decades ago and, in
      view of the development of perfusion technology and perioperative care, this does not provide
      an exact measure of the current benefits of this treatment strategy. Importantly, the role of
      intra-aortic balloon pump, left ventricular venting, duration of VA-ECMO and hospital
      experience should be evaluated. The investigators sought to investigate these issues in a
      large multicenter study.

      Patients and methods Patients who were treated with VA-ECMO for cardiac low-output after
      adult cardiac surgery (other than heart transplantation and/or implantation of a left
      ventricular assist device) in 21 centers of cardiac surgery from January 2010 to December
      2017.

      Eligibility criteria

        -  Patients aged > 18 years;

        -  Patients who required VA-ECMO after elective, urgent or emergency adult cardiac surgery
           such as coronary surgery, heart valve surgery and/or aortic root surgery because of
           postoperative low-cardiac output syndrome and/or acute respiratory failure.

      Exclusion criteria

        -  Patients aged < 18 years;

        -  Any VA-ECMO implanted before index surgical procedure;

        -  Patients who underwent postoperatively veno-venous ECMO;

        -  Patients who required VA-ECMO after heart transplantation;

        -  Patients who required VA-ECMO after any left ventricular assist device.

      Definition criteria Definition criteria and units of measurements are reported beside each
      baseline, operative and postoperative variables in the electronic datasheet.

      Outcomes

        1. Hospital death

        2. Late death

        3. Stroke

        4. Tracheostomy

        5. Gastrointestinal complications

        6. Deep sternal wound infection

        7. Vascular access site infection

        8. Blood stream infection

        9. Peripheral vascular injury

       10. Major lower limb amputation

       11. New onset dialysis

       12. Peak postoperative serum creatinine level

       13. Nadir postoperative pH during VA-ECMO

       14. Peak postoperative arterial lactate level

       15. Nadir postoperative hemoglobin level

       16. Chest drainage output 24 h after surgery

       17. Number of red blood cells units transfused intra- and postoperatively

       18. Reoperation for intrathoracic bleeding

       19. Reoperation for peripheral cannulation-related bleeding

       20. Intensive care unit length of stay

       21. Death on VA-ECMO

      Analysis of clinical results

      The aim of this registry is to perform a number of analysis evaluating:

        1. Early and late survival of postcardiotomy VA-ECMO;

        2. Predictors and causes of in-hospital death after successful weaning from postcardiotomy
           VA-ECMO;

        3. Comparative analysis of peripheral versus central postcardiotomy VA-ECMO;

        4. VA-ECMO plus intra-aortic baloon pump vs. isolated VA-ECMO;

        5. Determinants of outcome after prolonged postcardiotomy VA-ECMO (>5 days).

      Publication of results The results of these studies will be submitted for publication to
      international, peer-reviewed journals in the fields of critical care, cardiology or cardiac
      surgery.
    
  