
    
      The objective of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of GSK573719/GW642444
      Inhalation Powder 125/25 mcg once-daily. The product will be delivered via the Novel Dry
      Powder Inhaler (nDPI) over 52 weeks to Japanese subjects with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary
      Disease (COPD). This is a multi-centre, open-label study evaluating the safety of
      GSK573719/GW642444 Inhalation Powder 125/25 mcg. Treatment will be given once-daily in the
      morning. The target enrolment is approximately 120 subjects at approximately 20 study centres
      in Japan. The total duration of subject participation will be 54-55 weeks, consisting of a
      7-14 day run-in period, 52-week treatment period and 1-week follow-up period. Subjects
      meeting all of the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria at screening visit
      (Visit 1) will enter 7-14 day run-in period. The run-in period is provided for completion of
      baseline safety evaluations and to obtain baseline measures of COPD status. Cardiovascular
      medical history/risk factors will be assessed at baseline. The following information will be
      collected from subjects receiving study medication and recorded in the eCRF: demography
      (including gender, ethnic origin and date of birth, height, weight), medical history
      (including duration of COPD and smoking history), COPD exacerbation assessment (documented
      history of ≥1 COPD exacerbation that required antibiotics/systemic corticosteroids or
      hospitalization in the past 12 months), concurrent medical conditions, and concomitant
      medication. At Visit 2, eligible subjects will start to take GSK573719/GW642444 125/25 mcg,
      and enter the treatment period. This treatment will be delivered via the Novel Dry Powder
      Inhaler (nDPI) once daily in the morning for 52 weeks. One nDPI will contain 30 doses of
      study medication. Subjects will be instructed to administer medication once daily in the
      morning for the duration of the 52-week treatment period. Each subject should be advised to
      adhere to this dosing regimen throughout the study. There will be a total of 8 study visits
      including at screening (Visit 1), initiation of treatment (Visit 2), and at 4weeks, 8 weeks,
      12 weeks, 24 weeks, 36 weeks, 52 weeks (Visit 3 through Visit 8, respectively). Follow-up
      (Visit 9) will be conducted by the phone contact approximately 1 week following the
      completion/withdrawal of treatment period. A subject will be considered to have completed the
      study upon completion of the last on-treatment visit (Visit 8). At the end of the treatment
      period, subjects will be prescribed appropriate COPD medication at the investigator's
      discretion. Primary endpoint is incidence and severity of adverse events. Secondary endpoints
      are clinical laboratory tests (hematology, clinical chemistry), change from baseline in vital
      signs (pulse rate and systolic and diastolic pressure), and 12-lead Electrocardiogram (ECG)
      assessments. And other endpoints are change from baseline in trough Forced Expiratory Volume
      in One Second (FEV1) and Forced Vital Capacity (FVC), number of puffs of supplemental use of
      salbutamol, percentage of rescue-free days, percentage of symptom-free days, mean symptom
      scores, incidence of COPD exacerbations, and COPD device preference questionnaire.
    
  