
    
      Safety and Tolerability of Herpes Zoster Vaccine in Patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis
      Immunized prior to biologics and tofacitinib therapy initiation Background The reactivation
      of varicella zoster virus (VZV) (herpes zoster (HZ)) is of substantial public health concern.
      Its predilection for the elderly and immunosuppressed make it an important cause of
      morbidity, causing pain, depression, and long-term disability in the form of post-herpetic
      neuralgia. The risk of HZ is increased by 1.5 to 2 times in patients with rheumatoid
      arthritis (RA) compared with the general population.This increase has been attributed to both
      the underlying disease process and treatments for RA, in particular, corticosteroids, TNFα
      blocking agents, rituximab, and tofacitinib.

      A live attenuated zoster vaccine, administered as a single subcutaneous injection, reduces HZ
      risk by 70% and 51% among immunocompetent individuals 50 to 59 years and 60 years and older
      in 2 randomized blinded trials, respectively.

      Updated ACR recommendations for RA treatment suggest that RA patients aged ≥ 50 years should
      be vaccinated before receiving biologic or tofacitinib therapy. Yet, the real world data
      proves that only minority of RA patients initiating biologic therapy are vaccinated for
      herpes zoster.

      The safety concern is that these individuals may develop varicella infection from the vaccine
      virus strain. Recently, zoster vaccine safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity were
      prospectively tested in patients on chronic low-medium dose of corticosteroid therapy. Zoster
      vaccine was generally well tolerated and immunogenic in this patient population.

      Based on the VZV incubation period, the first 42 days following vaccination was chosen as the
      primary safety risk window in the Shingles Prevention Study, a randomized blinded trial that
      preceded the FDA approval of the vaccine.

      The investigators therefore propose a prospective study to evaluate the safety, tolerability,
      and immunogenicity of a zoster vaccine (Zostavax) in patients with RA, administered at least
      2 weeks prior to initiation of anti-TNF biologic and tofacitinib therapy for RA. The study
      will specifically focus on the zoster vaccine related adverse events, including injection
      site reactions, the development of zoster-like lesions, and the rates of clinical herpes
      zoster.

      Study Objective:

        1. To evaluate the rate of adverse reactions, injection site reactions, and development of
           zoster-like lesions following Zostavax administration.

        2. To evaluate the rate of clinical herpes zoster events after initiation of biologic and
           small molecule therapies for RA following Zostavax administration.

        3. To evaluate the immunogenicity of Zostavax in RA patients immunized 2 weeks prior to
           biologic or tofacitinib therapy.

      Study Design:

      This is a 6-week open-label prospective multi-center study evaluating the safety,
      tolerability, and immunogenicity of Zostavax vaccine in the RA population prior to initiation
      of biologic/tofacitinib therapy for RA. VZV-specific immune response to vaccine in RA
      patients will be compared to healthy control subjects ≥ 50 years immunized with Zostavax.

      Healthy volunteers will be recruited from hospital staff and from relatives of patients who
      agreed to participate in this studyNine Rheumatology Departments across Israel only will
      participate in the study. These centers are Tel Aviv Medical Center, Sheba Medical Center,
      Assaf Harofe Medical Center, Shaare Zedek Medical Center, Rabin Medical Center, Bnei Tsion
      Medical Center, Rambam MedicaL Center, Hahemek Medical center, Carmel Medical Center.

      Vaccine Information:

      ZOSTAVAX is a lyophilized preparation of live, attenuated varicella-zoster virus (Oka/Merck
      strain) to be reconstituted with sterile diluent to give a single dose suspension with a
      minimum of 19,400 PFU (plaque forming units) when stored at room temperature for up to 30
      minutes. It is administered as a single subcutaneous injection into the deltoid region of the
      upper arm.

      Study Visits:

      Screening Visit/Vaccination The study Investigator will discuss, with each subject, the
      nature of the study, its requirements, and its restrictions. Written informed consent must be
      obtained prior performance of any protocol specific procedures. Upon recruitment, patients
      will be examined by a treating rheumatologist, in order to verify the diagnosis of RA and
      review the pertinent to vaccination medical history. Patients will be subsequently assessed
      for RA disease activity.

      Procedures to be performed during the screening period include:

      Informed Consent Confirmation of RA diagnosis and Classification of RA: subject must have a
      score of 6 or greater on the 2010 American College of Rheumatology/European League Against
      Rheumatism classification criteria for rheumatoid arthritis Medical History as pertinent to
      HZ vaccination including history of prior and concomitant medications, history of any prior
      episodes of herpes zoster, and zoster vaccine history.

      Assessment of RA activity:

      Blood test (ESR, CRP), varicella-zoster virus (VZV) antibody titers by glycoprotein
      enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (gpELISA), (will be carried out centrally at tel Aviv
      Sourasky medical center Immunology laboratory) and future analysis (excluding any genetic
      tests).

      After the screening, the eligible patients who provided the informed consent, will be
      administered the zoster vaccine.

      2- week phone interview based follow up/ Biologic or tofacitinib treatment initiation
      (etanercept and tofacitinib will comprise 80% of total therapies) At the 2-week visit,
      vaccine safety will be assessed. Following a two-week interval from the zoster vaccine
      administration, biologic or tofacitinib treatment will be initiated as scheduled by a
      treating rheumatologist.

      Importantly, no biologic treatment of any kind would be provided by the study project.

      4- week phone interview follow up Vaccine safety and adverse effects assessment. 6- week
      visit Vaccine safety and adverse effects assessment. Assessment of RA activity. Subject
      Withdrawal Subjects may withdraw from the study at any time at their own request.

      Assessments:

      Assessment of RA Disease Activity At each study visit, patients will be subsequently assessed
      for RA disease activity Patient Assessment of Arthritis Pain Patient Global Assessment of
      Arthritis. Physician Global Assessment of Arthritis Health Assessment Questionnaire -
      Disability Index (HAQ-DI) Safety Assessment Any adverse reactions/events following zoster
      vaccine administration will be registered and assessed.

      Injection site adverse reactions:

      Local pain/erythema/swelling/pruritus/warmth/hematoma/induration Hypersensitivity Post
      vaccination non-injection-site zoster-like and varicella-like rashes Post vaccination herpes
      zoster occurrence Systemic adverse reactions Progression/worsening of underlying disease

      Adverse effects will be defined according to the following definitions:

      MILD Does not interfere with subject's usual function. MODERATE Interferes to some extent
      with subject's usual function. SEVERE Interferes significantly with subject's usual function.

      Blood tests Samples of 15 cc blood only will be taken at two visits: pre-vaccination and
      post-vaccination (6 weeks). VZV antibody titers will be measured by commercially available
      ELISA kits.

      All data will be deidentified. Only the principal investigator will have access to the table
      key linking the data sets with personally identifiable information. The study documents will
      be kept locked at department of rheumatology. The study will be financed by the research
      funds of the principal investigator.
    
  