
    
      Design

      Non-pharmacological clinical trial

      Methods

      Study population The population of endoscopists under study includes specialists in the
      digestive system with more than one year of experience in endoscopies.

      Candidate patients to be included will be those scheduled to perform a colonoscopy on a
      non-urgent basis. The patient will be invited to participate prior to the performance of the
      colonoscopy.

      Stages of the study Stage I: estimation of incomplete polypectomies

      All participating endoscopists will include polyps in order to perform the baseline estimate.
      To avoid that the estimation is made on the basis of a small group of participants, a minimum
      number of lesions will be required and a maximum threshold for polyps will be established.
      These thresholds will be estimated as follows:

      Minimum: sample size / (number of participating endoscopistsx1.5). It can never be less than
      25 injuries.

      Maximum: sample size / (number of participating endoscopists / 1.5) Once there are a
      sufficient number of endoscopists who are at the thresholds allowing their samples to reach
      the established sample size, the end of patient recruitment will be set for the baseline
      estimate 30 days later. After this period, all endoscopists who do not reach the minimum
      threshold will be excluded from the study.

      Stage II: Randomization of training measures Endoscopists who reach the minimum injury
      threshold may participate in stage II. If the number of endoscopists is greater than 20, they
      will be divided by pure randomization. If the number is 20 or less, they will be divided into
      3 tertiles based on their proportion of incomplete polypectomies. The endoscopists from each
      tertile will then be randomly divided into 2 groups so that each group has the same
      proportion of endoscopists from the first, second and third tertiles. Each group will be
      randomly assigned the intervention to receive between training course (group A) or
      notification of its proportion of incomplete polypectomies (group B).

      Online training course (group A) An online course will be offered that will explain the
      technique for excision of lesions with a cold loop and the importance of complete resection,
      techniques to determine the edges of the lesion and possible remains at the polypectomy base
      through images, video clips. and interaction with the speakers.

      Incomplete polypectomy report (group B) Each participant will receive the global data, the
      results obtained by all the endoscopists (anonymously except for each interested party, the
      rest being identified by codes), as well as a detailed analysis of their results, comparing
      them with the joint data and the 3 tertiles.

      After the training measures, each endoscopist will proceed to recruit a minimum number of
      polyps that will be determined based on the sample size reached in phase I. Once the
      pre-established sample size has been reached, this phase will be closed.

      E) Recruitment, procedure and follow-up Patient recruitment is the same in all phases.
      Patients who meet the inclusion criteria and do not present any exclusion criteria
      (pre-endoscopic) will be invited to participate in the study. Informed consent will be
      completed in accordance with law 41/2002 on patient autonomy without thereby altering the
      relationship with their doctor or causing any harm to their treatment.

      Anonymized video clips of all polypectomies will be recorded in each of the phases, including
      from when the polypectomy loop is inserted into the endoscope until the biopsies are taken
      from the base of the polyp.

        1. Endoscopic act The interventions will be carried out in each of the participating
           centers. The examinations will be carried out under sedation, following the protocols
           established in each center. Once the lesion is identified, it will be removed using a
           cold loop. This will be carried out following the usual standards recommended by
           international companies. If macroscopic remains of the lesion are observed, a fragmented
           polypectomy should be performed using, in the same way, the cold loop.

           Once the polypectomies are completed, its base will be carefully evaluated, taking
           biopsies 2 random biopsies at the base of the polypectomy, at two of the ends of the
           eschar.

        2. Post-endoscopic follow-up In the 5th week post-colonoscopy from the endoscopic
           examination, the patient will be contacted by telephone to collect possible
           complications (they will be questioned about visits to the hospital and in a directed
           way about the most frequent symptoms of the usual complications (fever, bleeding,
           abdominal pain ), and if so, the medical history will be reviewed to assess the severity
           of the complication.

        3. Histological analysis The analysis of the polypectomy specimens will be carried out in
           each center according to its usual protocol. The analysis of the biopsies of the base of
           the polyp will be performed centrally by a pathologist with more than 5 years of
           experience in digestive pathology. Samples from the base of the polyp will be sent from
           each center for centralized study. The pathologist will be blinded as to the
           histological diagnosis of the removed polyp. Samples submitted for centralized analysis
           will not be kept, but will be destroyed once the study is completed according to
           standard protocols

      1) Endoscopic act The interventions will be carried out in each of the participating centers.
      The examinations will be carried out under sedation, following the protocols established in
      each center. Once the lesion is identified, it will be removed using a cold loop. This will
      be carried out following the usual standards recommended by international companies. If
      macroscopic remains of the lesion are observed, a fragmented polypectomy should be performed
      using, in the same way, the cold loop.

      Once the polypectomies are completed, its base will be carefully evaluated, taking biopsies 2
      random biopsies at the base of the polypectomy, at two of the ends of the mucosal defect.

      F) Sample size According to the results obtained in our previous work, we observed an
      intra-subject correlation coefficient (taking the endoscopists as subjects) of 0.017.

      The sample size will depend on the number of participating endoscopists. Assuming a baseline
      proportion of incomplete polypectomies of 7.5%, to detect an absolute risk reduction of 3.5%
      (that is, to identify as different proportions equal to or less than 4%) with an alpha risk
      of 5% and a 80% power, the required number of polyps will vary depending on the group of
      participating endoscopists as follows:

      No. endoscopists 15 20 25 30 No. of polyps 1395 960 825 750 Polyps / endoscopy 93 48 33 25

      According to our previous work, a 2.5% loss should also be assumed. Given that to estimate
      the proportion of incomplete polypectomies with a margin of error of +/- 1.5% for any value
      below 3.5%, a maximum of 558 polyps would be needed, in case of presenting a baseline
      proportion of incomplete polypectomies < 4%, we could estimate the confidence intervals
      accurately.

      G) Data collection All the variables concerning the characteristics of the endoscopist, the
      patient and the injuries included will be collected in each center. The variables related to
      the histological diagnosis of the polypectomy specimen will be collected in the same way at
      the respective center. The variables concerning the follow-up will be collected centrally,
      through a telephone call that will be made the 5th week after the procedure. The variable
      related to the histological study of the base of the polyp will be collected centrally by the
      pathologist in charge of analyzing the samples. The video clips will be stored in a
      collection created de novo and centralized in the main researcher center

      2) Post-endoscopic follow-up In the 5th week post-colonoscopy from the endoscopic
      examination, the patient will be contacted by telephone to collect possible complications
      (they will be questioned about visits to the hospital and in a directed way about the most
      frequent symptoms of the usual complications (fever, bleeding, abdominal pain ), and if so,
      the medical history will be reviewed to assess the severity of the complication.

      3) Histological analysis The analysis of the polypectomy specimens will be carried out in
      each center according to its usual protocol. The analysis of the biopsies of the base of the
      polyp will be performed centrally by a pathologist with more than 5 years of experience in
      digestive pathology. Samples from the base of the polyp will be sent from each center for
      centralized study. The pathologist will be blinded as to the histological diagnosis of the
      removed polyp. Samples submitted for centralized analysis will not be kept, but will be
      destroyed once the study is completed according to standard protocols.

      Data collection The data from the data collection notebooks will be collected anonymously by
      the main investigator or collaborating investigators, encrypted and dissociated from the
      clinical information by means of a patient identification code (ID), in a database created by
      the program Research Electronic Data Capture Tool (RedCap) (17) attached to the Spanish
      Society of Digestive Endoscopy, which allows coordinating data collection through access from
      different national centers. Subsequently, for their analysis, they will be merged by the
      principal investigator or the encrypted and dissociated collaborating investigators, in a
      database created using the STATA Stata Corporation program. 2013. Stata Statistical Software:
      Release 13. College Station, Texas: Stata Corporation. The data entered in the database will
      be encrypted and the database will be protected with a password to which only researchers
      will have access. The video clips will be completely anonymized and identified by a code,
      which will be provided by the main researcher. In no case will identifying data of the
      patient appear in said videos.

      The unified file will be kept at the Río Hortega University Hospital and will be kept until
      the end of the study. Regarding the application of the Organic Law on Data Protection 15/1999
      and the Royal Decree 1720/2007 that develops it, it should be noted that the protocol defined
      in the project aimed at epidemiological analysis determines that the files will record
      information completely anonymized.

      Statistical analysis In the quantitative variables, the arithmetic mean and standard
      deviation will be calculated (the variables that do not follow a normal distribution
      according to the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test will be described with median and interquartile
      range), and the qualitative ones will be expressed as percentages and their intervals of 95%
      confidence.

      The main objective, the difference in the proportion of indicators collected in the reports
      made with free fields or with standardized reports, will be compared using logistic
      regression models based on generalized estimating equations (GEE), taking into account the
      within-subject correlation. .

      Among the secondary endpoints, the proportion of complications in both groups, the proportion
      of fragmented polypectomies and polypectomies that require repositioning will be compared
      using the homogeneity z-test without using the Yates correction. Multivariate logistic
      regression techniques will be used to evaluate the factors associated with incomplete
      polypectomies and those associated with a failed cold polypectomy. The individual evolution
      of the endoscopists will be displayed graphically. Cumulative summatory learning curves will
      be used to graphically represent the individual evolution of the endoscopists.
    
  