
    
      Noncirrhotic Portal Hypertension (NCPH) includes a spectrum of chronic liver diseases
      characterized by increased pressure within the portal circulation in the absence of
      cirrhosis. The complications from NCPH are similar to that of cirrhosis induced portal
      hypertension which includes the development of gastrointestinal varices, portal hypertensive
      gastropathy, splenomegaly, sepsis and ascites. However, unlike cirrhosis related portal
      hypertension, NCPH is characterized by well-preserved hepatic synthetic function. With
      increasing recognition both of patients with noncirrhotic portal hypertensive liver diseases,
      and mortality due to NCPH, it is clear that the specific mechanism(s) and the natural
      history(s) of noncirrhotic portal hypertensive liver disease have yet to be elucidated and
      described. At the Clinical Center of the NIH, various cohorts of patients have been
      identified to be at increased risk for the development of noncirrhotic portal hypertensive
      liver diseases such as those with Cystic Fibrosis (CF), common variable immunodeficiency
      (CVID), Turner s Syndrome (TS) and congenital hepatic fibrosis (CHF) to name a few. We
      propose to study individuals with NCPH, and those at risk of developing NCPH within these and
      other cohorts of patients known to be at risk for NCPH for an indefinite period of time.
      Through continued evaluation and scientific discovery, our aim is to provide a greater
      understanding of noncirrhotic portal hypertensive liver diseases and the different underlying
      biological processes that lead to the development of NCPH. We also aim to further the scant
      existing knowledge regarding the natural history of this disease and the global phenomenon of
      portal hypertension. From the data obtained from this natural history protocol, future
      studies will be planned to evaluate specific hypothesis in specific disease cohorts. Patients
      with diseases known to cause cirrhosis will be excluded. Patients 12 years of age and older
      thought to be at risk for the development of NCPH will undergo preliminary testing which
      includes; History and physical examination, blood, urine and stool tests, radiologic imaging,
      echocardiogram and fibroscan. Adults and minors who are likely to have NCPH will also undergo
      transjugular or percutaneous liver biopsy with transjugular hepatic venous gradient
      measurements and endoscopy. After these evaluations, those without strong evidence of NCPH
      will be asked to return for biannual clinic visits for updated history and physical
      assessments. Those with evidence of NCPH will be followed every six months with additional
      testing that may include imaging and laboratory evaluations. Over time, those individuals
      that develop NCPH will be converted to the intensive characterization and monitoring schemata
      as described in the protocol. All patients with NCPH will undergo preventative screening
      examinations for complications of NCPH. There is no planned treatment for patients with
      existing or newly diagnosed NCPH, as no such treatment currently exists. Treatment for
      complications of NCPH will be offered according to the standard of care with referrals as
      appropriate.
    
  