
    
      The study will employ a prospective, cluster randomized controlled trial design and will
      involve fee-for-service family physicians in NL. Randomization will be performed at the
      clinic level and stratified by clinic size. Clinics will be randomized into one of four
      groups: i) the control group will not receive any incentive; ii) the poster group will
      receive posters only; iii) the letter group will receive thank-you letters only; and iv) the
      double incentive group will receive both posters and thank-you letters. The number of clinics
      in each group will be equal.

      The study will test two interventions. First, it will examine the impact of placing a poster
      in a physician's examination room containing motivational messages about the important roles
      that doctors and patients can play in reducing unnecessary care. The second incentive will
      involve sending thank-you letters to physicians aiming to encourage them to following
      Choosing Wisely's recommendations by recognizing their contribution in reducing unnecessary
      care. The study will focus on physicians' prescribing of antibiotics and serum ferritin
      tests. The posters will be designed to contain inspirational messages and pictures that
      highlight the important and unique roles that physicians and patients play in reducing
      unnecessary care and health care costs. These will be displayed in physicians' examination
      rooms so that they are salient to doctors and patients. The thank-you letters will contain
      two types of information: the changes in the rates of antibiotics and serum ferritin tests
      ordered since Choosing Wisely NL's introduction and a thank you message from the NL Medical
      Association (NLMA). These will be sent to doctors quarterly (to reinforce the message) with
      the changes in the rates of antibiotics and serum ferritin tests ordered being updated.

      These incentives will be delivered over a 12-month period. The researchers will measure
      changes in the study outcomes at the end of this 12-month intervention period. Further, to
      examine if the effects of the intervention are sustained, these changes will be evaluated
      again 6 months after the withdrawal of incentives. The two incentives will be delivered via
      NLMA to its member family physicians. As such, physicians will be blinded to this study
      (i.e., they would not know that these posters and letters are part of a study). The study
      will focus on fee-for-service physicians in NL as data on the number of patients are only
      available for these physicians.
    
  