
    
      Fuchs Endothelial Corneal Dystrophy (FECD) is the most common corneal endothelial disorder
      and has been estimated to affect approximately 4% of the US population over the age of 40.
      Corneal transplantation is currently the primary treatment modality available to treat FECD,
      and there are no medical therapies that treat the disease or stall its progression.
      Therefore, there is an unmet need to identify pharmacotherapeutic interventions that would
      prevent the endothelial cell loss in early through late stages of FECD, as well as after
      corneal transplantation, aiding in the survival of the corneal grafts.

      The investigators know that cell loss in FECD is caused by increased oxidative stress in the
      CEC and aqueous humor of FECD. The investigators have in vitro and in vivo data showing that
      the processes involved in the development of FECD can be arrested with administration of
      N-acetyl cysteine (NAC). Currently topical solutions of NAC are already used in ophthalmology
      for application in keratoconjunctivitis sicca (using 20% weight/volume solution or 10%),
      meibomian gland dysfunction (using 5%) and Sjögren's dry eye syndrome (also using 5%).

      This is a single center, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized trial. Adult
      participants with advanced FECD and cataracts who qualify for the standard treatment
      (combined Descemet Membrane Endothelial Keratoplasty (DMEK) and cataract surgery) will be
      enrolled at Massachusetts Eye and Ear.

      After meeting eligibility criteria and completing informed consent, 30 eyes from up to 30
      participants with advanced FECD and cataracts with indication for combined DMEK and cataract
      surgery will be initially enrolled. (NOTE: Some participants may be enrolled twice if they
      elect to have both eyes treated within the study.) Eyes will be randomized 1:1 to NAC 10% and
      the placebo, Visine Tears Dry Eye Relief artificial tears ophthalmic solution. Each
      participant will self-administer 1 drop of study drug four times a day in the planned
      operative eye for 28 days prior to planned surgery.

      After interim analysis of the study with 30 eyes, if a significant difference in the primary
      endpoint between NAC 10% and placebo is not found, an additional 15 eyes from up to 15
      participants will be enrolled and assigned to 20% NAC.

      Prior to and after using the study medication, participants will complete patient-reported
      visual disability questionnaires and have corneal measurements and images taken. Participants
      additionally will complete a tolerability and medication adherence questionnaire after using
      the study medication.

      In the operating room, a standard incision will be made to collect the fluid from the
      anterior part of the eye and replaced with a salt solution or viscous agent routinely used
      during the surgery. This procedure is routinely performed during this type of surgery,
      however, some of the aqueous fluid will be collected and analyzed rather than being
      discarded. Additionally, corneal tissue which is normally removed during corneal
      transplantation surgery and discarded will be kept for further research on FECD.
    
  