
    
      The investigators believe that amniotic tissue allografts may be an effective modality to
      treat osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee. One important mechanism of action may be stimulation
      of the synovial cells to increase production of endogenous hyaluronic acid (HA). A second
      mechanism may be the increase in the anabolic factors and a decrease in degenerative factors
      in the joint. The Investigators propose to quantify the concentration of HA and selected
      anabolic and degradative factors in synovial fluid aspirate pre and post implantation. While
      the treatment provided is designed to provide pain relief for symptoms, the purpose of this
      study is to learn more information about the impact of amniotic tissue allografts on
      inflammatory markers and growth factors in the knee joint.

      The purpose of this study is to determine the changes in the composition of synovial fluid
      resulting from implantation of amniotic tissue allograft in the knee.

      This study will characterize the chemical profile of painful osteoarthritic joints and the
      influence of various injections containing cells and/or growth factors on that chemical
      profile. The addition of amniotic tissue allograft to HA injections may be an, effective
      treatment for people with knee pain resulting from OA and furthermore may lead to
      customization and/or the identification of the most efficacious combination of joint
      injections.

      Prior to any study-related treatment, participants will undergo an Institutional Review Board
      (IRB)-approved informed consent process for aspiration of synovial fluid, followed by a
      randomized injection of either A) saline only, B) hyaluronic acid, C) amnionic allograft, or
      D) hyaluronic acid plus amnionic allograft, with a second aspiration performed 1 week after
      injection. Synovial fluid samples from 88 participants indicated for amniotic tissue
      implantation will be analyzed in vitro to determine the cellular and biochemical
      characterization of the fluid obtained.

      The aim of this study is to determine the changes in composition of synovial fluid resulting
      from implantation of amniotic tissue allograft in the knee. There is always a possibility
      that the insertion of a needle may in itself result in a change in the composition of
      synovial fluid and therefore to increase the strength of the study control arm (placebo) is
      necessary. The placebo controlled group is justified to provide evidence that the standard of
      care and research treatments are safe and efficacious.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups:

      Group A: Placebo - saline Group B: Standard of care treatment - hyaluronic acid, Group C:
      Standard of care treatment - amnionic allograft, or Group D: Research treatment: hyaluronic
      acid plus amnionic allograft.

      Prior to undergoing treatment, participants will be asked to complete a series of subjective
      health questionnaires. Upon completion of the questionnaires, a 1-2mL sample of synovial
      fluid will be aspirated from each subject. The collection of the synovial fluid is performed
      strictly for research purposes related to this study. Treatment will be administered
      according to the group the participant was randomly assigned to.

      One week (+/- 3 days) following the treatment, the participant will return to the clinic, and
      will complete a second set of questionnaires, after which a second aspiration of 1-2mL of
      synovial fluid will be taken. If the participant received a placebo injection (saline only),
      they will be given an opportunity to receive an amniotic tissue allograft injection and/or
      hyaluronic acid .

      Participation in this study will require that the investigators perform some procedures in
      addition to the standard of care. Standard of care is defined as:

        -  Receipt of a therapeutic injection of hyaluronic acid or implantation of amniotic tissue
           allograft

        -  Completion of subjective outcome questionnaires prior to treatment

      Research specific procedures are defined as:

        -  Aspiration of knee synovial fluid during treatment

        -  Aspiration of knee synovial fluid one week after treatment

        -  Completion of subjective outcome questionnaires at one week following treatment

        -  Analysis of knee synovial fluid for increased levels of anabolic factors, IL1ra, TMP1,
           TMP2, HA, and IGF1 as well as decreased levels of degradative factors, IL-1, TNF-alpha,
           IL-10, MMP-2, MMP-9, TGF-beta
    
  