
    
      The objective is to determine whether the introduction of routine affordable HbA1c
      determination with immediate feedback to patients and relevant education in an underserved
      population without any further intervention on drug supply would significantly improve
      diabetes control. As this will be an after-versus-before type study, each patient will be his
      own control.

      Study setting The study will be undertaken in 10 existing diabetes care centre in two
      countries, including 4 regional centers in Guinea, a West African country of 10 millions
      inhabitants, and 6 regional centers in Cameroon, a Central African country of 18 million
      inhabitants.

      The health districts covered in Guinea are Conakry, Labe, Kankan and Boke each being situated
      in a different ecological and cultural areas. In Cameroon, the health districts covered are
      Biyem Assi in Yaoundé, Garoua, Limbe, Ebolowa, Bamenda, Bafoussam also covering the 4
      ecological zone of Cameroon.

      All these health districts have existing diabetes care centre with trained personnel run in
      public hospital with prices and medicine affordable to most of the population covered.
      However, none of these centers have an HbA1c machine, and diabetes control is mainly
      evaluated using blood glucose, most often fasting.

      Target population The aim is to provide the service to all patients followed in the selected
      centers at low cost however the first eligible 1000 patients will be included in the formal
      intervention free of charge.

      Eligibility All patients with a physician-confirmed diagnosis of diabetes and who have been
      followed in the diabetes centre for at least one year are eligible Sample size In order to
      detect a difference of 1 unit (1% glycated haemoglobin) between to samples with a standard
      deviation of 1.2%, alpha coefficient of 0.001 and 0.8 power using a two-sided test, a minimum
      population of 80 subjects is required. The minimum sample size if alpha is 0.01 is 55
      subjects. We therefore decided a sample size of 100 patients per centre in order to be able
      to analyze data taking into account center or physician effect. It thus give an overall
      sample size of 1000 subjects.

      Sampling method We will use a systematic sampling, enrolling consecutive eligible patients
      volunteering to participate until completion of the sample size in each individual centre.

      Inclusion All eligible patients, not intending to migrate from the study site within 1 year,
      and volunteering to participate will be enrolled. At inclusion the following will record of
      demographic characteristics, past medical history, characteristics of diabetes, evaluation of
      patient knowledge, and measurement of anthropometric characteristics, blood pressure,
      haematocrit, HbA1c, and urinary albumin excretion at baseline.

      Intervention and follow up:

      Data will be collected using a clinical record form designated to this effect. The
      intervention will consist of the measurement of HbA1c at baseline, 3, and 6 months with
      immediate feedback to patients and provision of targeted education after each determination,
      on level, significance, and targets.

      Treatment will follow usual guidelines with no additional intervention. Adjustment of
      treatment will be done by the health care personnel in a treat-to-target fashion. No change
      in drug supply will be introduced. No specific recommendation will be given concerning the
      frequency of hospital visit between the study visits at baseline, month 3, 6, and 12. Each
      centre will continue with usual follow up frequency.

      At month 12, we will repeat the evaluation of patient knowledge, and the measurement of
      anthropometric characteristics, blood pressure, haematocrit, HbA1c, and urinary albumin
      excretion for comparison to baseline.

      Timeframe

        -  Start date: Month 7

        -  End of enrollment: Month 12

        -  End of follow-up of last patient enrolled: Month 24

      Outcome measures

      Primary outcome: Change in HbA1c from baseline to 12 months

      Secondary outcomes:

        -  Change in percentage of patients at HbA1c target from baseline to 12 months

        -  Change in urinary albumin excretion from baseline to 12 months The other measures will
           serve for the interpretation of data Deliverables

        -  Dataset for each centre between Month 24 and Month 26
    
  