
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the rate of in vivo histologic response in patients with osteosarcoma treated
           with neoadjuvant cisplatin, methotrexate, and doxorubicin with dexrazoxane (as
           cardioprotection).

        -  Determine the event-free and overall survival of patients with nonmetastatic disease who
           show good response to neoadjuvant therapy and receive adjuvant therapy with the same
           regimen.

        -  Determine the event-free survival of patients with nonmetastatic disease who show poor
           response to neoadjuvant therapy and receive adjuvant therapy with the same regimen.

        -  Determine the event-free survival and overall survival of patients with metastatic
           disease who receive neoadjuvant therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Neoadjuvant therapy: Patients receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy comprising dexrazoxane IV
           over 15 minutes, doxorubicin IV over 15 minutes, and cisplatin IV over 4 hours on days 1
           and 2 in week 0. Patients also receive methotrexate IV over 4 hours followed by
           leucovorin calcium in weeks 3 and 4. Patients then receive filgrastim (G-CSF)
           subcutaneously (SC) once daily beginning 24 hours after completion of chemotherapy and
           continuing until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats every 5 weeks for 2 courses in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Surgical resection: Patients undergo definitive surgery in week 11.

        -  Adjuvant therapy: Patients receive dexrazoxane, doxorubicin, cisplatin, methotrexate,
           and leucovorin calcium as in neoadjuvant therapy*. Treatment repeats every 5 weeks for
           up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *Cisplatin is not administered in courses 3 and 4 of adjuvant therapy

      Patients are followed within 4 weeks, every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 2 years,
      and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 100 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  