
    
      Numerous factors are known to contribute to post-traumatic morbidity and mortality. Acute
      blood loss, hypovolemia, and systemic inflammatory response syndrome can often develop
      following severe traumatic injury and are, frequently, further exacerbated by the presence of
      pre-existing health conditions. The culmination of these insults and/or pre-existing
      conditions can precipitate an imbalance in oxygen delivery and consumption leading to tissue
      ischemia and resultant organ dysfunction.

      Tissue ischemia precipitates a disruption in the balance of oxygen delivery and consumption
      often yielding a conversion from aerobic to anaerobic processes in order to maintain
      metabolic functionality. The conversion to anaerobic processes leads to the production of
      lactic acid and a resulting consumption of the body's basic buffers. Clinically, the
      consumption of the body's basic buffers is frequently referred to as the development of a
      base deficit. Both the production of lactic acid and the development of a base deficit have
      been positively linked to the increased morbidity and mortality in multiple critically ill
      patient populations, including those with traumatic injuries.

      Multiple studies have linked the rate at which base deficit corrects or lactic acid clears to
      the likelihood of survival. Accordingly, hemodynamic monitoring can provide vital information
      concerning cardiovascular function including vascular volume, vascular capacitance, and
      cardiac performance. Obtaining this information enables clinicians to tailor interventions to
      target specific components of the cardiovascular system in order to most effectively reverse
      the cause of tissue hypoxia, elevation in lactic acid, and base deficit, while simultaneously
      decreasing the likelihood of causing harm through unnecessary or unwarranted changes in
      management.

      Advancements in hemodynamic monitoring technology now allow clinicians to obtain data by
      using minimally invasive techniques. Devices utilizing this technology can be connected to
      vascular access routinely utilized in the intensive care setting such as arterial lines.
      These devices provide parameters such as systolic pressure variation (SPV), pulse pressure
      variation (PPV) and stroke volume variation (SVV) to predict fluid responsiveness of
      critically ill, mechanically ventilated patients. Studies evaluating these parameters have
      shown them to have a 84-94% positive predictive value for fluid responsiveness. In addition,
      higher variability in studied parameters were indicative of patients who were more likely to
      be responsive to fluid challenges.

      Modern clinical management in critically ill patients with cardiovascular dysfunction hinges
      on reversal of the underlying cause of cardiovascular dysfunction. Recent management
      strategies have used a multi-faceted approach in which multiple processes of potential
      dysfunction can be monitored and managed simultaneously. Management is goal directed with
      clearly defined endpoints for the management of vascular volume, cardiac performance as well
      as maintenance of vascular capacitance. Hemodynamic monitoring technology is essential in
      providing data that will allow clinical interventions to be tailored to patient-specific
      physiology and provide goals for titration of therapy.

      In recent years, data has emerged using goal directed therapy in the surgical patient
      population with favorable outcomes suggesting a decrease in post-operative organ dysfunction,
      ICU and hospital length of stay, however, there is limited data in the trauma patient
      population. This study endeavors to determine if the implementation of intra-operative
      monitoring will decrease the incidence of post-operative complications such as acute lung
      injury, infections, thromboembolism, cerebral vascular accident, acute kidney injury,
      myocardial infarction; in addition to the traditional outcome measures of mortality and
      length of stay.
    
  