
    
      Osteoarthritis is the result of the degeneration of the cartilage to articulate, being
      currently considered as having an multifactorial cause. Of the histological point of view it
      is characterized for alterations of the loss of the natural viscoelasticity, giving to origin
      the foci of "softening" in the cartilaginous surface that if gets depressed becoming
      discontinues for the appearance of "fibrillation zones" provoking reaction of the subcondral
      bone that if condemns in the pressure areas (sclerosis) and proliferates together to the
      edges of the joint (osteophytic). It is that affect millions of people annually and one of
      the main and a common condition causes pain functional incapacity generating enormous
      economic load for the community. The knees are one of the affected joints more due to
      overload that constitutes the main activator or determinative mechanism for the development
      of the illness. Beyond pain it has important reduction of the amplitude of movement and the
      muscular force that causes functional limitation and posture's alterations intervening with
      the activities of daily life. Therefore, the main objective of this study will be to
      characterize the posture's alterations and the electromiographic activity in patients with
      osteoarthritis of knees. For this study 60 citizens will be evaluated, 30 with diagnosis of
      OA of knees unilaterally and 30 healthful citizens, both the groups will be of the feminine
      sex with age between 65 to 75 years. The selected patients will answer a questionnaire of
      personal dates and will have an evaluation fiche, in which will be written down: age, index
      of corporal mass (IMC), index of Lesquene, index WOMAC (Western Ontario and Mac Master),
      personal and familiar date of the diagnosis, antecedents, instituted treatments, date of the
      last x-ray, radiological classification of the osteoarthritis according to Scale of Kellgren,
      electromiographics date and seeming of the postural evaluation. For the electromiographic
      evaluation the activity of the muscles vastus lateralis and medial oblique in the isometric
      contraction maximum volunteer (ICMV) and in the march will be analyzed. And for the postural
      evaluation will be made three photographs in the sights previous frontal and sagittal right
      and left, being that, for the analysis of the posturais alterations the program will be used
      SAPO (software for postural evaluation - version 0.63).

      In the analysis descriptive statistics the average, medium and shunting line will be used
      standard. The level of significance will be established in α < 0,05.
    
  