
    
      1. Patients

             -  All patients should sign a written informed consent form before enrollment, and the
                study should be approved by the Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center Ethics Board.

             -  Baseline of patients: Computed tomography (CT) scans of the chest, abdomen, and
                pelvis, magnetic resonance imaging studies of the head and neck, and bilateral bone
                marrow aspiration or biopsy. Positron emission tomography-CT scans (optional).
                Epstein-Barr virus (E B V) DNA blood levels, titer of EBV antibody (EA-IgA,
                VCA-IgA), β2-micro globulin (β2-MG) and soluble CD 25 (sCD 25) in the serum.

             -  Recheck before and after every course: Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA blood levels,
                titer of EBV antibody (EA-IgA, VCA-IgA), β2-micro globulin (β2-MG) and soluble CD
                25 (sCD25) in the serum.

             -  Recheck every two course: Computed tomography (CT) scans of the chest, abdomen, and
                pelvis, magnetic resonance imaging studies of the head and neck, and bilateral bone
                marrow aspiration or biopsy. Positron emission tomography-CT scans (optional)

        2. Treatment Protocol - The GELOX regimen consist of the following drugs: gemcitabine ：1250
           mg/ m2 on days 1,ivdrip oxaliplatin ：85 mg/m2 on day 1, ivdrip pegaspargase : 2500 IU/m
           2 daily on day 1,intramuscular The treatment cycle was repeated every 14 days.

             -  IFRT was delivered using 6-MeV linear accelerator using 3-dimensional conformable
                treatment planning. The IFRT dose was 56 grays (Gy) in 28 fractions, we define the
                clinical target volume of limited stage IE disease as the bilateral nasal cavity,
                bilateral ethmoid sinuses, and ipsilateral maxillary sinus; and the clinical target
                volume would extend to involved tissues for patients who had extensive stage IE
                disease. For patients who had stage IIE disease, the clinical target volume also,
                included the bilateral cervical lymph node area.

                  -  Disease Progression during the treatment should be treated with second-line
                     therapy.
    
  