
    
      Disability glare is a phenomenon commonly described as starbursts and halos that results in
      difficulty seeing clearly in the presence of bright "blinding" light. It can appear as if a
      veil of light is cast over the world outside. Optically, this occurs when incoming light is
      scattered in the eye instead of being focused on the retina. This is called straylight, and
      it diffusely illuminates the retina which causes desensitization of the photoreceptors and
      reduces the contrast of the retinal image (Lombardo & Lombardo, 2010). The main sources of
      scatter in the human eye are opacities in the clear ocular media, primarily due to diffusion
      and loss of transparency in the cornea and lens, as well as within the retina. While the lens
      is the largest contributor to light scatter (especially with cataract formation and aging),
      opacification of the cornea (e.g. scars or haze) can similarly cause intraocular light
      scattering, resulting in disability glare and decreased contrast sensitivity (Fan-Paul et
      al., 2002).

      Due to the subjective nature of disability glare and contrast sensitivity, it is fairly
      difficult to develop a reliable objective way to measure and quantify this phenomenon. One of
      the most commonly used clinical tests for disability glare is the Brightness Acuity Tester
      (BAT), which is described as an ice cream scooper 60 mm in diameter with a 12 mm hole in the
      center. With the patient viewing a visual acuity chart through the hole, a uniform luminance
      at three different settings-high (white sand beach), medium (clear day), low (overhead
      lighting)-is used to induce glare and simulate the various real-life conditions. The drop in
      visual acuity with the various glare settings is used as a measure of disability glare. The
      BAT test has been found to be a reliable predictor of outdoor visual acuity (clinically
      validated for use in measuring disability glare secondary to cataracts), is ubiquitously
      available, and is easy to administer. To further and more accurately reflect real life
      situations, it can be used in conjunction with a contrast sensitivity chart rather than the
      regular black-on-white Snellen letter chart (Aslam et al., 2007). Contrast sensitivity can be
      tested using letter-based charts (e.g. Pelli-Robson letter sensitivity chart) that consist of
      letters of the same size but with decreasing contrast, or contrast gratings, which are based
      on sinusoidal waves of light (e.g. Vistech MCT-8000 or FACT).

      Opacification of the cornea in the form of scars or haze is a natural response to a wide
      array of pathological insults (e.g. infection, degeneration, corneal dystrophies) and can
      result in light scatter and glare. Measurement of corneal haze was previously crudely
      performed via standard slit-lamp examination and human measurement. Recently, an automated,
      non-invasive, and objective method to measure corneal scar density was introduced using
      Scheimpflug imaging. This Pentacam device (Oculus Optikgerate GmbH, Wetzlar, Germany)
      consists of a rotating camera that captures images of the cornea at an angle, and analysis of
      these anterior segment images can be employed to quantify scattered light in various
      diameters and depths of the cornea. The generated maps of the amount of scatter in different
      regions of the cornea are called corneal densitometry maps, and they are displayed along with
      maps of corneal topography (elevation) and pachymetry (thickness). Normative values for
      Scheimpflug densitometry have recently been established (Dhubhghaill et al., 2013).
      Measurements have also been obtained after various surgical procedures to analyze their
      impact on corneal clarity. This includes analysis of corneas after refractive surgery such as
      LASIK (Cennamo et al., 2011; Fares et al., 2012) and PRK (Takacs et al., 2011), as well as
      various forms of corneal transplantation (Koh et al., 2012; Bhatt et al., 2012;
      Arnalich-Montiel et al., 2013; Ivarsen & Hjortdal, 2013) and collagen cross-linking
      (Gutierrez et al., 2012; Greenstein et al., 2010). Furthermore, it has been used to
      characterize pathological conditions including infectious keratitis (Otri et al., 2012;
      Orucoglu et al., 2014) and congenital corneal opacities (Elfein et al., 2013). However, no
      functional correlation has been made with these anatomical maps, and the relationship between
      scattered light as measured by densitometry and its effect on visual function such as
      contrast sensitivity and disability glare has not been well-characterized.
    
  