
    
      Purpose: For the pilot phase, if the visual memory assessment test developed in this study
      can adequately assess periods of amnesia during the procedure, then it can be used for the
      phase of the study that randomizes patients to moderate or deep sedation. The purpose of the
      randomized phase is to compare the rate of amnesia and respiratory depression in patients who
      receive moderate sedation to those that received deep sedation. The goal is to determine
      whether moderate sedation could provide a safer sedation while still resulting in adequate
      amnesia of the procedure. Secondary goals would be to compare the duration of sedation, the
      success of the procedures for which the patient is sedated, procedural difficulty, the rate
      of hypotension and other adverse events, and the patient perception of the quality of the
      sedation (pain or recall of procedure).

      Background: Adequate pain control and alleviation of anxiety improves quality of care and
      patient satisfaction. Numerous studies have found that procedural sedation (PS) in the ED is
      safe, and when properly administered, the incidence of reported complications, including
      clinically significant respiratory depression, is rare. Procedural sedation is used for
      procedures such as fracture reduction, dislocation reduction, cardioversion, incision and
      drainage, and chest tube placement. Propofol is an anesthetic agent frequently used for PS in
      the Emergency Department (ED) and produces sedation, hypnosis, and amnesia, but lacks
      analgesic properties. In studies conducted at Hennepin County Medical Center (HCMC), we have
      found that patients are unable to recall whether or not they experienced pain during the
      procedure when sedated with propofol. However, there is the possibility that certain parts of
      the procedure can be later recalled by the patient. If extensive parts of the procedure can
      be recalled, then this is not an effective sedation. Previous studies of memory during
      sedation at HCMC have used verbal prompts only, but research has shown that people can more
      readily remember images. Images may provide a more sensitive way to determine the degree of
      amnesia during sedation.
    
  