
    
      The aim of the study is to compare the efficacy and effect on the patient subsequent to
      pharmacological treatment with single dose tolterodine compared to surgical treatment with
      TVT in patients with urodynamically demonstrated mixed urinary incontinence, but with
      prevailing symptoms of stress incontinence. Secondary aims are the identification of
      parameters predictive of success or failure for the two treatments (echography, duration of
      the symptoms) and the necessity for further treatment after the primary therapy. The primary
      objective is to reduce the number of incontinence episodes after treatment with either
      modality.

      The design will be randomisation of 40 patients, with 20 in the surgical group and 20 in the
      pharmacological treatment group. The patients must be female and aged between 35 and 70. They
      should not be intending to fall pregnant and be capable of completing a questionnaire about
      their incontinence symptoms and quality of life, a diary of their incontinence episodes and
      account of the passing of their urine, as well as be able to give informed consent to
      participate in the study.

      The study will last for approximately 12 months and will consist of 5 visits. At the first
      visit, the patient will be seen to verify their suitability for admission into the study,
      have baseline blood tests, and urine analysis, as well as urodynamic assessment. They will
      also be given a diary to fill out an account of their urine passing which they will be asked
      to complete for the course of 3 days prior to their next appointment.

      At the second appointment, the patient's diary will be collected and reviewed, a quality of
      life questionnaire will be completed, as well as an ultrasound scan performed to assess the
      thickness of the wall of their bladder. The patients will then be randomised into the
      pharmacological and surgical groups. Those in the surgical group will be put onto the waiting
      list for TVT (which they will have within 2 weeks of the second appointment), or commence
      treatment with tolterodine.

      4 weeks after either treatment the patients are seen again and their symptoms are assessed
      and a second diary of the urinary behaviour (completed by the patient for the week prior to
      this visit) will be reviewed.

      On the final visit, which will be after 12 weeks of treatment, the patients undergo
      urodynamic testing, diary assessment, symptom assessment, a quality of life questionnaire is
      completed and an appraisal of the patient's satisfaction with their treatment is collected.
      The discussion of need for any further treatment will take place and at this stage the
      patient may then have their treatment changed to either the tolterodine or surgery depending
      on their symptoms. These patients will then be finally seen after six months to review their
      progress.
    
  