
    
      Lumbar spine fusion is the gold standard technique for the treatment of low-back pain due to
      various spinal pathologies mostly related to degenerative conditions. Pedicle-screws
      constructs are widely used to achieve a strong fixation but may be associated with potential
      complications.

      ROMEO® 2 PAD is composed of two polyaxial titanium teethed plates to adapt to anatomical
      variations, one step locking mechanism and a radiolucent polymer cylinder.

      The ROMEO®2 PAD is a posterior non pedicle supplemental fixation device intended for use in
      combination with an inter-somatic device, to achieve fusion at single or multilevel in the
      lumbar spine (L1-S1 inclusive). A range of six heights (from 8 to 18mm) are designed to fit
      anatomical variations. It is intended for plate fixation to the spinous process for the
      purpose of achieving spinal fixation.

      The main objective of the study is the evaluation of functional improvement as measured by
      changes in Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) at 12 and 24 months after surgery, respectively.

      The secondary objectives are:

        -  Evaluation of fusion rate at 12 and 24 months after surgery, respectively, based on CT
           scans.

        -  Evaluation of mobility at the treated level at 12 and 24 months after surgery,
           respectively, based on ROM (Range of motion) assessed using dynamic lumbar
           flexion-extension radiography.

        -  Evaluation of functional capacities post-surgery, as measured by ODI. Comparison between
           preoperative status and controls at 6 weeks, 6 months after surgery, respectively.

        -  Evaluation of Health-related Quality of Life (HR-QOL) improvement and patient
           satisfaction, as measured by SF-36 (Short Form 36) scores, the physical (PCS) and mental
           (MCS) components; comparison between preoperative status and controls at 6 weeks, 6, at
           12 and 24 months after surgery, respectively.

        -  Evaluation of low back and legs pain as measured by Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) (changes
           in VAS scores): comparison between preoperative status and controls at 6 weeks, 6, 12
           and 24 months after surgery, respectively.
    
  