
    
      Research method: This project includes two parts of research.

      Study 1:

      1.1 Research object 1.1.1 Research population: 5 nurses in the top three hospitals in
      Zhejiang Province Exclusions: training nurses, rotation nurses, and nurses who have been
      working for <1 year.

      1.1.2 Sample size: 80 people 1.2 Time: January 2019 - June 2019 1.3 Content

        1. Through self-designed questionnaires (see Attachment 1), the questionnaires cover the
           general information of the respondents including gender, age, working years,
           professional titles, academic qualifications, etc., including basic knowledge of
           postoperative sputum, and current preventive measures , knowledge needs and other
           aspects. The questionnaires on postoperative delirium knowledge were divided into two
           parts: subjective and objective. It mainly includes the concept of postoperative
           delirium, clinical manifestations, contents of nurses' evaluation form, diagnosis and
           treatment, risk factors and hazards. For the subjective and objective knowledge points,
           the choice is the main form.

        2. The questionnaire was distributed on the spot to 80 nurses in the top three hospitals in
           Zhejiang Province. The knowledge dimension consisted of 11 items. The correct answer was
           1 point, the wrong score was 0 points, and the total score was 0 to 11 points. The
           percentage of points and full marks is taken as the average scoring rate. The average
           scoring rate is ≤60%, which means that the nurses fail to master the relevant knowledge;
           the attitude dimension is 7 items, and the Likert 4 level is used. "Very disagree~very
           agree" ~4 points", the total score is 7 to 28 points. The important information can not
           be filled out as a complete questionnaire.

        3. According to the working years of less than 3 years, 4 to 10 years, more than 10 years,
           the nursing staff can be divided into three levels: low, medium and high. The level of
           knowledge and attitude of the nursing staff at different levels are compared.

      1.4 Method: Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS 22.0 software. The measurement data
      that conforms to the normal distribution is described by the mean value and the standard
      deviation, and the measurement data that does not conform to the normal distribution are
      described by the median and the interquartile range. The count data is described by a pie
      chart or a bar chart. In the stratified analysis, the comparison of the measurement data that
      conforms to the normal and the homogeneity of the variance is performed by t test or ANOVA.
      The comparison of the measurement data that does not conform to the normality or the
      homogeneity of the variance is performed by nonparametric test, and the comparison of the
      count data is performed by chi-square test. .

      Study 2:

      2.1. Research object 2.1.1 Study population: patients after neurosurgery 2.1.2 Research time:
      2011.06-2020.06 2.1.3 Sample size: 300 people; 2.1.4 Inclusion criteria:

        1. Age ≥ 18 years old, <75 years old, gender is not limited;

        2. Those with clear consciousness after neurosurgery craniotomy;

        3. Sign the research informed consent form. 2.1.4 Exclusion criteria:

      1) The patient has a history of cognitive dysfunction, mental illness, senile dementia, and
      stroke before surgery; 2) Patients and their families with poor behavioral compliance; 3)
      Patients with drug dependence and alcohol dependence; 4) Serious postoperative complications
      (such as infection, bleeding, etc.). 2.1.5 Elimination criteria:

      1) Patients who have changed their condition during the study, or who have been transferred,
      discharged, and died.

      2.2 Grouping method: During the period from June 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019, 150 patients
      with craniotomy who met the criteria and signed informed consent were included in the control
      group, from January 1, 2020 to June 30, 2020. During the period, 150 patients who met the
      standard neurosurgical craniotomy were included in the observation group.

      2.3 Content:

      (1) Performing a weak debilitating phenotype screening on the patients before surgery; (2)
      Patients in the control group were treated according to the general nursing routine after
      neurosurgery; (2) The observation group implements the early rehabilitation intervention
      process:

        1. Postoperative vital signs were stabilized for 2 hours and then assisted to turn over; 2
           to 3 hours to change position, awake without swallowing dysfunction, to fluid diet; 6
           hours later, raise the bed 15 to 30 °, eat a half-flow diet.

        2. On the first day after surgery, raise the bed 45 °, row and position training; catheter
           clamping training; assessment of pain, preventive analgesia. Early rehabilitation
           training was performed for 60 minutes each time for 5 consecutive days. The details are
           as follows:

             1. Active or passive assisted state of extension of the shoulder, elbow, ankle and
                knee joints to maximize the extent of movement of the distal extremity to prevent
                contracture. (10 minutes).

             2. Strength training (10 minutes) for the trunk and upper and lower limbs under active
                or passive assistance.

             3. Strengthen the functional training of the upper limbs and hand fine movements (15
                minutes).

             4. Balance training, starting with the sitting position and gradually transitioning to
                the station position, especially after the patient can complete the standing
                movement (even in the case of assistance), strengthen the training of standing
                balance (10 minutes).

             5. Walk back and forth with assistance and gradually transition to walking back and
                forth (15 minutes) with only surveillance protection.

        3. From the second day after surgery to five days after surgery, daily daily life training,
           including washing, dressing, eating, etc. Walk 2 times a day for 30 minutes each time.

        4. The rest of the care is the same as general postoperative care routine. (4) Urgent
           treatment, once the patient is found to have timely treatment intervention, including
           drug and non-drug treatment.

      2.4 Observation indicators and observation time 2.4.1 Observation time

        1. T1: return to the ward after surgery to 5 days after surgery;

        2. T2: at the time of discharge;

        3. T3: 1 week after discharge;

        4. T4: 1 month after discharge. 2.4.2 Observation indicators

      (1) T: Phase 1 MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Debilitating index, incidence of delirium. Secondary
      observation indicators: 谵妄 related adverse events (accident extubation, falls, etc.); (2) T2
      phase: Postoperative hospital stay, hospitalization expenses, and activities of daily living
      activities, using the Barthel Index (BI), patient satisfaction (3) T3: the ability of daily
      living activities; (4) T4: activities of daily living activities
    
  