
    
      Background

      The investigators and others have shown that long-term hydrocortisone replacement therapy at
      higher doses of hydrocortisone replacement therapy at higher doses of hydrocortisone
      replacement (as previously recommended) is associated with higher mortality. The
      pathophysiology for the association of hydrocortisone-replacement dose and mortality remains
      unclear. A possible underlying mechanism is nonalcoholic fatty liver disease which is more
      prevalent in patients with hypopituitarism. Patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
      are at a higher risk for overall-mortality.

      It remains to be established whether the insulin resistance, associated with increased
      intrahepatocellular lipids and increased intramusculoskeletal lipids, is implicated in the
      pathophysiology of these epidemiological findings.

      Interestingly, it has been shown that a reduction of hydrocortisone replacement dose from
      20-30mg/d to 10-15mg/d resulted in a loss of body fat and a significant decrease of plasma
      total cholesterol and triglyceride concentration. The effect of IMCL and IHCL is so far
      unknown.

      Patients with hypopituitarism with hydrocortisone replacement therapy provide a unique
      disease model to study the short-term effects of previously recommended dose (higher dose) of
      hydrocortisone versus lower dose of HC replacement therapy on ectopic lipids (IMCL; IHCL)
      lipids, as well as on subcutaneous and visceral fat mass and on parameters of insulin
      resistance. Combining MRI and MR-spectroscopy techniques, different fat mass (subcutaneous
      and visceral) and ectopic lipids can be repeatedly and non-invasively assessed.

      Objective

      To investigate the impact of today's standard of hydrocortisone dosage (lower) versus
      previous (higher) hydrocortisone dosage on flexibility and partitioning of ectopic lipid
      depots after a standardised fat load followed by a short-term aerobic exercise in patients
      with corticotropic pituitary insufficiency.

      Methods

      Ectopic lipids are measured by MR-spectroscopy, separate assessment of visceral and
      subcutaneous fat mass will be performed by MR-imaging, standardized exercise capacity test
      using spiroergometry. Short-time exercise consists of 2h aerobic cycling at 50% VO2max.
      Laboratory analysis include lipid profile, free fatty acids, HOMA-Index, hormones.
    
  