
    
      PAD occurring in the legs is a serious disease that affects about 8 million people in the
      United States. A person's risk for PAD increases with age but can also be raised by smoking
      or having diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, or heart disease. Symptoms of PAD
      may include leg cramps or pain while walking, foot pain while resting, and skin wounds or
      ulcers on feet and toes. However, because only about one in three people with PAD knows to
      seek treatment for these symptoms, many end up with advanced disease that requires
      significant medical intervention, such as an endovascular or other surgical procedure to open
      the blocked arteries. While these procedures are helpful in treating people with severe PAD,
      lifestyle modifications and certain medications are also needed for long-term management of
      PAD and improved quality of life. An intensive combination of lipid modifying medications may
      be superior to standard lipid modifying medications in reducing PAD-associated risk factors
      and improving overall health in people with PAD. This study will compare the effectiveness of
      an intensive combination of lipid modifying medications versus standard lipid modifying
      medications in preventing blockages and re-narrowing of arteries in people with significant
      PAD who have had an endovascular intervention.

      Participation in this study will last a minimum of 2 years and a maximum of 5 years. All
      participants will first undergo baseline assessments that will include a medical history,
      vascular and physical exam, electrocardiograph (EKG), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan,
      3D ultrasound, blood pressure measurement test in the legs, treadmill walking distance test,
      urine test, blood draw, and questionnaires. A portion of the blood draw will be used for DNA
      analysis and genetic testing.

      Participants who have not had an endovascular intervention in the 3 months before study entry
      will undergo a standard of care percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) procedure. First
      these, participants will complete a series of clinical review assessments that will include a
      review of social, vascular, and clinical history. Next, they will undergo the PTA procedure,
      which will involve the inflation and deflation of a small balloon in the area of the blocked
      artery. Additionally, participants may have a metal mesh tube called a stent placed in the
      blocked area, if deemed necessary by their physicians.

      All participants will then be assigned randomly to receive standard care plus an intensive
      combination of lipid modifying medications (Simvastatin, Plavix, aspirin, Ezetimibe, and
      Niaspan) or standard lipid modifying medications with placebo (Simvastatin, Plavix, aspirin,
      placebo Ezetimibe, and placebo Niaspan). Participants will take their assigned medications
      daily for 24 months. Follow-up visits will occur at Day 10; Week 6; and Months, 6, 12, and 24
      after beginning the study medications. During follow-up visits, participants will repeat the
      baseline assessments and the clinical review assessments from the pre-PTA visit. The Week 6
      follow-up visit will include only a blood draw, questionnaires, and the clinical review
      assessments. Participants will also be contacted by phone to check their status every 2 to 3
      months during treatment and every 6 months after treatment for up to 3 years.
    
  