
    
      This is a two-part study. Patients participating in Part A will be consented and trained on
      the completion of questionnaires about the severity of itching and overall health. Patients
      will be required to complete questionnaires during their visits to the dialysis center and
      also while at home on other days. Results of the screening questionnaires will assess
      eligibility for the study. Additional laboratory tests and measurements for safety will also
      be completed during the screening period. Patients meeting all criteria for entry into Part A
      of the study will be randomized to receive either one of three different doses of CR845 or a
      placebo. Patients will receive the study drug for eight weeks IV after each hemodialysis
      treatment (i.e. 3 times per week). Assessments for intensity of itch and safety will also be
      completed during the 8 week treatment period. When patients have completed treatment, a
      Follow-up visit will be completed 7 days later.

      Patients participating in Part B will be consented and trained on the completion of
      questionnaires about itching and overall health. Patients will be required to complete
      questionnaires during their visits to the dialysis center and also while at home on other
      days. Laboratory tests and measurements for safety will also be completed during the
      screening period to determine study eligibility. Patients meeting all criteria for entry into
      Part B of the study will be randomized to receive either CR845 or a placebo. The dose of
      CR845 used will have been determined based on the safety and efficacy from Part A. Patients
      will be dosed with either CR845 or placebo for twelve weeks after each hemodialysis treatment
      (i.e. 3 times per week). Assessments for intensity of itch and safety will be completed
      during the treatment period also. When patients have completed treatment, a Follow-up visit
      will be completed 7 days later.
    
  