
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a corporate wellness program to
      improve the health of its employees and to save healthcare costs.

      Many studies have been done evaluating the effectiveness of corporate wellness programs. Over
      the past 30 years, multiple iterations of corporate wellness programs have been utilized,
      causing a continual shift in philosophy and implementation. The current program is following
      closely the model instituted by Cleveland Clinic, utilizing recommendations and tools
      provided by the CDC and WELCOA via their web sites and publications.

      Description of Program to be Evaluated MHS is initiating a corporate wellness program to be
      offered to all adult employees. The program will include a health risk assessment (HRA),
      which is the minimum required for enrollment in the program, as well as many additional
      optional benefits, such as access to exercise equipment, personal coaches, stress management
      classes, etc. There will also be corporate wide changes to the environment to include food
      options in the cafeteria and vending machines.

      The HRA will be offered annually, and before and after completion of specific activities
      offered by the wellness program.

      The HRA includes a survey, which requires about 30 minutes to complete, lab evaluation and
      biomarkers.

      Research to Evaluate the Program As people are enrolling in the wellness program on line,
      participants will be invited to participate in this study. People can participate in the
      wellness program without participating in this study.

      The invitation to participate will provide a brief description of the study and a link which
      will take them to the consent. Once consented, there will be a link to return to the on line
      program enrollment. They will have the option to email members of the research team with any
      questions or to request a paper version of the consent and survey.

      They may decline study participation, without any penalty, and will be allowed to participate
      in the wellness program as would anyone who is participating in the study.

      There will be an option to use a paper consent. If a paper consent is utilized, these will be
      collected by the research team. Paper consents will then be stored in a secure location at
      MHS.

      To participate, subjects will also be asked to sign a study specific HIPAA authorization form
      allowing access to personal health information to be utilized for the study.

      Data collected for this study will be maintained with multilevel encryption; devices and
      cloud storage will be encrypted. Data will need to be identified to allow collation of data
      from various sources.

      For the evaluation of absenteeism and health claims data, aggregated de-identified data for
      groups of subjects will be requested from HR. These groups will be determined by level of
      participation in various wellness activities.

      The data will be analyzed by the research team to determine overall effectiveness in
      improving health and reducing health care expenses, as well as looking for correlations with
      specific variables (age, gender, participation in particular components of the program, etc.)

      It is anticipated that aggregated de-identified results will be presented publicly in the
      form of abstracts, posters and publication.
    
  