
    
      The experience of sexual abuse in childhood is one of the forms of interpersonal
      victimization most associated with the development of psychological problems since it
      involves a serious violation of the rights and sexual and affective freedom of children and
      adolescents. The different types of child abuse and neglect are, in turn, associated with
      moderately severe psychological sequelae in adulthood. Its effects in adult life can affect
      physical, psychological, and social functioning and generate psychopathological alterations,
      being the most frequent consequences. Women who were abused in childhood, in their adult life
      more frequently presented sexual dysfunction and less perceived sexual satisfaction, less
      trust, and more difficulties in communicating with the partner.

      Trauma-Focused Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (TF-CBT) is an evidence-based treatment model
      designed to help patients (children, adolescents, youth) and their families overcome the
      symptoms resulting from exposure to a traumatic experience. Numerous investigations that
      support it, today it is considered a well-established intervention for the treatment of
      post-traumatic stress and associated symptoms.

      Desensitization and reprocessing psychotherapy using eye movements. It is one of the
      transdiagnostic psychotherapeutic models of choice in international guidelines for dealing
      with the sequelae of traumatic life experiences. Trauma-focused treatment carried out with
      the EMDR therapeutic approach is feasible and safe for patients with PTSD derived from
      childhood sexual abuse.

      A Randomized Clinical Trial is proposed, without a control group, and assignment to two types
      of treatment 1) TF -CBT, 2) EMDR.

      After the initial evaluation, the participants will be randomly assigned to one of the two
      treatments. Subsequently, and after allowing the same time period that the intervention
      protocols will last, they will be evaluated again to measure changes without having received
      treatment. After this second evaluation, they will receive the treatment protocol to which
      they have been assigned after randomization. After receiving the first treatment, they will
      be evaluated again. After this evaluation, they will receive the other protocol of the
      intervention. Finally, after finishing the second intervention, they will be evaluated again.
      Thus, for example, participants who first received TF-CBT will subsequently receive the EMDR
      intervention, and participants who first received the EMDR intervention will subsequently
      receive the TF-CBT intervention. In this way, it will be possible to evaluate both the
      effectiveness of each of the protocols separately (intragroup comparison of each treatment
      condition), as well as the level of effectiveness obtained by comparing both treatment groups
      (intergroup comparison, after the application of each type of intervention ).

      The subjective measures will include the following Psychometrics:

      Satisfaction with life scale Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale Symptom Checklist-90-Revised
      Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Symptom Severity Scale according to DSM-5 (EGS-R) DSM-5
      Personality Inventory - Short Version (PID-5-BF) Adults Scale of emotional regulation
      difficulties Dissociative Symptom Scale Satisfaction scale with received treatment
      Satisfaction scale with received treatment
    
  