
    
      Recruitment process:

      The investigators selects the candidate of the study that fulfill the inclusion criteria and
      not violate any exclusion criteria from patients with spinal cord injury that admitted to the
      department of neurosurgery - Danang hospital. The investigators then ask the patients and
      patients family for informed consent. The patients that submit the informed consent to
      participate is recruited to the study.

      Procedure description:

      The patients is moved to operation theater at the day of the procedure. The bone marrow of
      the patients is harvested by two investigators. The mononuclear cells of the bone marrow is
      extracted from the bone marrow by using gravity centrifugation with Ficoll Paque 1.073. The
      mononuclear cells is transferred to 5 mL syringe and handed back to the investigator. The
      investigator will transplant the whole cell preparation back to the patients by lumbar
      injection.

      A final supernatant layer of the preparation is also sent to the lab for microbiological and
      endotoxin testings. One small portion of the cell preparation is sent to the laboratory for
      cell count and cluster of distribution tests.

      The patient is transferred back to the patient room and monitor for the outcomes at 2 weeks,
      4 weeks, 2 months, 4 months, 6 months. All of the data is entered, stored and monitored via
      the eCB database system of TRI Cente, Kobe.

      Data Analysis:

      Primary Endpoint:

      A list is prepared for each subject with the name of AE developed, its severity and
      seriousness, causal relationship with the treatment, and outcome. In addition, the incidence
      of AEs in all cases and the 95% confidence interval are estimated. For each AE type, the
      incidence, incidence by severity, and incidence by seriousness are calculated in addition to
      estimation of the rate of each AE and its 95% confidence interval in all cases.

      Secondary Endpoint:

      Regarding secondary endpoints, the Wilcoxon signed rank test is used to compare the baseline
      value at registration and value at 6 months after cell transplantation. In addition, assuming
      the scores in each secondary endpoint to be consecutive scores, a linear mixed model with
      time point as a fixed effect and cases as random effects is fitted to the data at
      registration and 2 and 6 months after cell transplantation after assuming an appropriate
      covariance structure between time points to assess their chronological changes.
    
  