
    
      Vitamin A (VA) and vitamin E (VE) are fat-soluble vitamins, which participate in the
      metabolism of important substances in the body and are indispensable substances in life
      activities.

      VA, also known as retinol, plays an important role in visual function, normal formation and
      development of epithelial cells, development and growth of bones, immune function and
      reproductive health. During fetal development, VA affects cell differentiation and
      proliferation by regulating gene expression, which is of great significance for the growth
      and development of embryonic cells, especially for the development of fetal vertebrae, spinal
      cord, limbs, heart, eyes and ears. Maternal lack of VA will lead to the fetal,s organ tissue
      dysplasia, even serious fetal development deformity. In addition, VA can promote the growth
      of columnar epithelial cells on the surface of alveoli, and has a certain protective effect
      on the maturation of neonatal lungs. VA deficiency can cause the decrease in the activity of
      enzymes needed to catalyze the formation of progesterone precursors in pregnant women, reduce
      the production of steroids in adrenal glands, gonads and placenta, and seriously affect the
      functions of multiple organs such as heart, liver and skeletal muscle in pregnant women.

      VE, also known as tocopherol, has non-enzymatic antioxidant function, and maintains the
      balance of REDOX reaction in vivo by efficiently removing free radicals generated by lipid
      peroxidation.VE can increase the synthesis of nitric oxide (NO) in endothelial cells, release
      electrons to stabilize free radicals, protect NO from inactivation of free radicals, and
      improve vascular endothelial function. Long-term use of VE has been found to improve
      endothelium-dependent vasodilation in patients with impaired vasodilation.VE can promote sex
      hormone secretion, improve fertility, prevent abortion, clinically commonly used VE treatment
      threatened abortion and habitual abortion. Pregnancy women the body's metabolism, increases
      produce free radicals, lipid peroxidation, low levels of VE will result in the accumulation
      of excess free radicals, which cause the placenta aging, vascular endothelial damage,
      increase the risk of the occurrence of PIH and adverse outcome rate, and cell membrane damage
      of membranes, the occurrence of premature rupture of membranes increased risk.

      Gestational hypertension disease is a group of disease and high blood pressure, pregnancy
      rate is about 5% - 12%, serious impact on maternal and child health, is a major cause of
      maternal and perinatal mortality increase, mainly including gestational hypertension,
      preeclampsia preeclampsia (PE), eclampsia, and chronic hypertension complicated by
      preeclampsia and chronic hypertension with pregnancy. Preeclampsia is the most common type,
      including mild and severe preeclampsia, of which severe preeclampsia accounts for about 30%
      to 50%.The cause of PE is unknown, but studies have found that it may be related to
      insufficient recast of spiral uterine arterioles, excessive activation of inflammatory immune
      system, damage of vascular endothelial cells, genetic factors, nutritional deficiency and
      insulin resistance. Recent studies have found that free radical oxidative damage may also be
      one of the main reasons for the occurrence and development of PE.PE occurs, the placenta bed
      vasospasm, ischemia, angiogenesis blocking and endothelial atherosclerotic changes,
      strengthen local immune cell activity, increase the free, free radical and lipid peroxide
      interfere with the vascular endothelial cell function, make blood-vessel loose material such
      as nitric oxide (NO), top ring element synthesis reduce I2, materials and shrink blood
      vessels, such as endothelin (ET), thromboxane A2, such as synthetic increase, promote
      vascular spasm, platelet condensed state is changed, thus appeared a series of PE.

      Previous studies have shown that oxygen free radicals and lipid peroxides increase in the
      body of patients with PIH, and excessive antioxidants are consumed. However, the levels of VA
      and VE are closely related to the antioxidant capacity of the body, and the lack of them can
      lead to the imbalance of redox reaction homeostasis in multi-tissue cells in the body, thus
      resulting in the occurrence of oxidative stress in the body. Studies have found that
      oxidative stress can cause the occurrence and development of PE when the levels of VA and VE
      are reduced. Therefore, it is not clear whether the application of VA and VE can reduce the
      incidence of PE and improve the prognosis of neonates. Since both VA and VE belong to the
      family of fat-soluble vitamins and are widely present in daily food, are they independent or
      combined in influencing the occurrence and development of PE. Therefore, this study intends
      to evaluate the correlation between VA, VE and VA+VE in PE during pregnancy through
      multi-center clinical studies, and explore and summarize the feasibility of VA and VE in PE
      adjuvant treatment.
    
  