
    
      Infections with antibiotic resistant bacteria cause a significant burden of disease
      worldwide. Bloodstream infections may arise from a variety of sources, are commonly
      encountered in clinical practice, and are associated with significant morbidity and
      mortality. Antibiotics that have activity against a broad spectrum of pathogens are commonly
      suggested in treatment guidelines to adequately cover bloodstream infections. Increasing
      rates of resistance to antibiotics commonly used for bloodstream infection are problematic
      and may lead to initial empiric therapy not having activity against the pathogen isolated. In
      patients with bloodstream infections and sepsis, delay until the receipt of effective therapy
      is associated with an increase in mortality .

      Increasing rates of antibiotic resistance in Gram-negative organisms due to the presence of
      extended spectrum beta lactamases (ESBL), hyperproduction of AmpC enzymes, carbapenemases and
      other mechanisms of resistance are identified in common hospital and healthcare associated
      pathogens including Enterobacteriaceae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Acinetobacter baumannii.
      Uncommonly, Gram-negative organisms such as Klebsiella pneumoniae and, in tropical areas such
      as south-east Asia and northern Australia, Burkholderia pseudomallei can cause severe
      community-acquired pneumonia resulting in bloodstream infection.

      Cefiderocol (previously S-649266) is a novel siderophore cephalosporin antibiotic with a
      catechol moiety on the 3-position side chain. The catechol side chain enables ferric iron ion
      binding, and the resulting complex of cefiderocol and iron ions is actively transported into
      bacteria via ferric iron transporter systems with subsequent destruction of cell wall
      synthesis. Cefiderocol has been shown to be potent in vitro against a broad range of
      Gram-negative organisms, including carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE) and
      multi-drug resistant (MDR) P. aeruginosa and A. baumannii . This activity is considered to be
      due to not only efficient uptake via the active siderophore systems but also the high
      stability of cefiderocol against carbapenemase hydrolysis. Limited in vitro data suggests
      cefiderocol may have activity against B. pseudomallei .

      Recent clinical data has shown cefiderocol to be effective in the setting of complicated
      urinary tract infections , including patients with concomitant bacteremia. A study examining
      the use of cefiderocol in the setting of infections caused by carbapenem-resistant organisms
      is currently underway, as is a study of cefiderocol for hospital acquired pneumonia
      (ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02714595 & NCT03032380). Given the broad spectrum of activity against
      Gram-negative organisms, including those with resistant phenotypes, cefiderocol may be an
      ideal agent for empiric use in the setting of bloodstream infections acquired in the hospital
      or healthcare setting but as yet no clinical trial has examined this
    
  