
    
      Inadequately treated postoperative pain after gynecological surgery may untowardly affect
      early recovery and also lead to the development of chronic pain. Opioid-based analgesia is
      associated with side-effects, such as respiratory depression, postoperative nausea and
      vomiting and occasional induction of tolerance and hyperalgesia. Therefore, in recent years
      research has focused on the quest for non-opioid-based regimens for perioperative analgesia
      in the context of multimodal analgesic techniques. These techniques have been shown to
      possess significant advantages, such as allowing earlier mobilization after surgery, early
      resumption of enteral feeding and reduced hospital length of stay.

      In this context, the intraoperative intravenous injection of lidocaine has been reported to
      improve postoperative pain control, reduce opioid consumption and improve the quality of
      postoperative functional recovery after general anesthesia. Intraoperative infusions of
      ketamine (an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor inhibitor) have also been correlated with reduced
      pain scores and a decrease in analgesic requirements postoperatively. Lastly, magnesium
      (acting through modification of the action of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors) is another
      agent, which, as an adjuvant to general anesthesia may improve postoperative recovery and
      pain control through inhibition of cardiovascular response, reduction in general anesthetic
      needs, enhanced analgesia and anti-inflammatory response.

      There is insufficient data in literature investigating the effect of combinations of these
      agents intraoperatively. It would be of interest to demonstrate whether the administration of
      combinations of infusions can lead to enhanced postoperative recovery, an improved
      opioid-sparing effect and a decrease in the development of chronic pain as compared to the
      administration of a sole agent alone. Therefore, the aim of this study will be to investigate
      the effect of a combination of intravenous infusions of lidocaine and magnesium versus a
      combination of intravenous infusions of lidocaine and ketamine versus an intravenous infusion
      of lidocaine alone on recovery profile, quality of recovery and postoperative pain after
      elective gynecological surgery.
    
  