
    
      This project will develop and test a set of patient self-report measurement tools to assess
      the perceived contextual factors, such as patient attitudes and expectations, patient
      provider relationship factors, and environmental factors that contribute to healing. Our
      project is synergistic with the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Roadmap initiative,
      Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS), and will use the rigorous
      instrument development and validation methodology of PROMIS. The overall objective of this
      study is to develop efficient self-report instruments to measure CAM-relevant contextual
      factors important in healing, hereafter referred to as the Healing Encounters and Attitudes
      Lists (HEAL), and conduct initial validation in persons seeking CAM and conventional
      treatment for pain. Specific Aim 1: Develop an item bank. We will employ several iterative
      steps used successfully in PROMIS to identify items that assess contextual factors of healing
      relevant to CAM. Initial steps in developing an item bank include: a) compilation and
      evaluation of existing instruments and relevant questions, b) consultation with experts, and
      c) focus groups with individuals who participate in CAM and conventional medicine
      interventions, and d) item editing. During the initial year of this study, we expect to
      identify conceptual areas of potential importance to CAM interventions and patients, and
      identify and edit items to create an item bank assessing these conceptual areas. Specific Aim
      2: Calibrate items. We will use item response theory (IRT) and classical test theory (CTT) to
      calibrate the items from Aim 1 on three samples: 1) an internet-based sample (n= 1400), 2)
      125 outpatients participating in CAM interventions at our Center for Integrative Medicine
      (CIM), and 3) 125 outpatients at a General Internal Medicine clinic. During year 2-3 we
      administer the items in the item bank to the 1650 persons, conduct IRT and CTT analyses and
      refine the item bank to only those items that best assess the constructs. Specific aim 2 will
      result in a Computerized Adaptive Testing (CAT) version of the HEAL, which maximizes
      information while minimizing patient time burden. A static short form of the HEAL will be
      derived from the HEAL CAT in Aim 2. Specific Aim 3: Conduct initial validation studies. We
      will evaluate convergent, discriminant, and predictive validity of the Healing Encounters and
      Attitudes List (HEAL) in a sample of chronic low back pain (CLBP) patients receiving CAM and
      conventional medicine treatments. The validity studies will use two samples of adults with
      CLBP: 100 persons receiving CAM treatments: chiropractic manipulation (CM) or
      mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) at the CIM, and 100 persons receiving conventional
      care (physical therapy) at Centers for Rehab Services referred by the General Internal
      Medicine Clinic (GIMC) of the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center (UPMC). We will
      administer the CAT version of the HEAL questionnaire developed in aims 1 and 2 as well as
      conventional measures of treatment expectancy, confidence in treatment provider, psychosocial
      functioning, and treatment outcome measures for CLBP of pain and disability. • Hypothesis 3a:
      Scores on the HEAL measure will display moderate to large correlations (r's > .50) with
      similar self-report measures, supporting convergent validity. • Hypothesis 3b: Scores on the
      HEAL measure will correlate modestly (r's = .20-.35) with self-report measures of general
      psychosocial functioning, supporting discriminant validity. • Hypothesis 3c: HEAL scores will
      account for a significant proportion of variance in treatment outcome in both samples. In
      addition, we predict that HEAL scores will demonstrate incremental validity, i.e., they will
      account for significant incremental variance in outcome beyond that accounted for by existing
      measures of treatment expectancy and related constructs.
    
  