
    
      Anxiety and stress-related disorders are very common. One in three people experience some
      form of anxiety disorder including phobias, PTSD, and OCD. These disorders chronically limit
      one's ability to function and enjoy life. In addition to the common prevalence, wars in Iraq
      and Afghanistan have left about 13% of the returning veterans with combat PTSD, and even more
      with partial symptoms. Lifetime prevalence of PTSD is as high as 10% in women. Economic
      burden of anxiety disorders is between 42 to 52 billion dollars, one third of the country's
      total mental health bill. Near 30% of this money is spent in treatment costs. Burden of lost
      workdays only for PTSD is $3 billion.

      Exposure therapy is the most effective treatment for cue-related anxiety disorders such as
      specific phobias, social phobia, OCD, and PTSD. The core principle is exposure to the feared
      objects/situations guided by a clinician. For example, in arachnophobia (fear of spiders)
      patient is exposed to picture of a spider on a computer, or from distance in the office, and
      gradually, with help of the clinician, they tolerate view of the spider from a closer
      distance. Clinician has a crucial role as the social safety cue in this process.

      Although exposure therapy is very effective in treatment of phobias, OCD, and PTSD, there are
      limitations. Access and adherence to, and efficacy of exposure therapy are limited to 50% by
      multiple factors: First, there is a national shortage of psychiatrists and psychotherapists;
      patients often have to be on waiting list for weeks to months, and in many geographical
      locations such services are extremely scarce or do not exist. More than 50% of clinicians are
      not trained in exposure therapy, and there is usually geographical barriers for access to
      skilled therapists. In general, more than half of the US counties are unable to recruit
      mental health providers. Very frequently patients only receive medication or supportive
      therapy for several years before they can see a specialist trained in exposure therapy.
      Certain conditions like social phobia or PTSD make it increasingly difficult to leave the
      house and go to the clinic. Second, the feared objects are not always available in office for
      exposure and exposure most of the times is limited to pictures, movie clips, imagination,
      narrative, or memories. Imaginary exposure commonly lacks the level of arousal that is
      required for development of new safety learning. Third, patients have to practice real-life
      exposure on their own. In vivo treatment is commonly limited: often patients do not create
      situations that elicit the optimal safety learning, do not know how to create exposure
      situations, or simply do not follow through because of high anxiety in the absence of someone
      to coach them. This gap between exposure in the office, and real-life exposure remains a
      significant roadblock in successful exposure therapy. Fourth, clinicians are usually unable
      to provide treatment across multiple physical, temporal and social contexts that can promote
      contextualization of safety learning. Exposure mostly happens in the physical, emotional,
      social, and temporal context of the office visits. A fifth limitation is that current
      exposure therapy methods, do not address overgeneralization of the fear response.

      Augmented Reality Augmented reality (AR) is the next wave of interactive human-computer
      technology that provides an opportunity of mixing virtually created objects with reality.
      Instead of creating a completely synthetic environment, AR adds virtually created objects to
      the real non-synthetic context. These elements become part of the real context, or cover some
      of its components. AR technology ultimately becomes less expensive than virtual reality (VR)
      technology because it does not require modeling the whole environment.

      The investigators have developed a proof of concept prototype. The prototype that includes a
      scenario for treatment of fear of spiders (arachnophobia), and fear of snakes. Software
      platform connects the patient to a clinician who is located in the same or a different
      physical space, the patient wears the AR device, the clinician is able to see the patient's
      field of view, and positions a virtual spider/snake on a surface in the patient's
      environment, clinician determines direction/velocity of motions of the virtual spider/snake,
      clinician leads patient through the process of exposure therapy process until patient is
      desensitized to the view of the spider/snake. Exposure can then advance to higher number of
      spiders/snakes, or larger ones.

      Subject Recruitment: Subject recruitment will happen at the Wayne State University (WSU)
      Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neurosciences (DPBN) psychiatry clinic, through
      flyers spread on the campus, and advertisement on Wayne State's student website. The
      investigators aim to pre-screen a minimum of 50 individuals. The actual number of
      participants to be enrolled is 50, and the investigators have a minimum pre-screening of 50
      anticipating that some may not qualify.

      Treatment will take place at the Stress, Trauma, and Anxiety Research Clinic at the WSU
      department of psychiatry in Detroit. Participants will do 1-4 sessions of augmented reality
      exposure therapy (ARET), each lasting 90 minutes. The first session will include a short
      refresher on principles of exposure therapy, and training the use of the AR equipment.

      At any time the level of distress due to exposure is determined too high, both patient and
      the provider can abort the exposure. This will be done similarly to any other conventional
      exposure therapy method.
    
  