
    
      adAPT is a randomised double-blind placebo-controlled Phase IV clinical trial.

      Metformin, a licensed medicine but will be tested out with its current license (off-label).
      Participants will either receive metformin (liquid) or matched placebo in a double blind
      manner; neither the participant or study team will know the allocation.

      Metformin, the study medication, reduces the demand for insulin in Type 2 diabetes (T2D).
      adAPT will test if metformin can also reduce insulin demand in children at risk of Type 1
      Diabetes (T1D). adAPT has an adaptive design with each stage informing the next with
      progression depend upon the previous stages outcome Stage 1 exposes each participant to
      metformin or placebo for four months, following which they seamlessly enter Stage 2. However,
      because recruitment rolls over 15 months many of those recruited early on will have entered
      Stage 2 before some even reach Stage 1. Accordingly, the protocol and submission also
      outlines Stages 2.

      A successful Stage 1 will lead-on to a clinical outcome trial (Stages 2 and 3) which, if
      successful, will fundamentally change our understanding of what causes diabetes and how to
      prevent it. Stage 1 is required to confirm that adAPT trial design is achievable. Outcome
      evaluation will be undertaken at 21 months. Stage 2 (proof-of-concept) will test if metformin
      can slow-down the development of diabetes. The outcome data form Stage 1 will allow for power
      to be calculated to drive the number of participants required for the study for Stages 2 (and
      3). It is proposed that once the power and thus population numbers are established for Stage
      2 (out with this protocol) that new participants will enter Stage 1 via screening and follow
      the established trial pathway.

      Diabetes biological markers will be measured and formally assessed at the end of Stage 2,
      after 36 months. Stage 3 will occur if metformin treatment in Stage 2 is proven to be better
      than placebo for slowing the development of diabetes. Stage 3 will further investigate the
      development of diabetes between the groups, using biological markers and clinical outcomes at
      five years.

      Children/adolescents aged between 5-16 years (inclusive) at the time of screening and who are
      siblings or offspring of people diagnosed with type 1 diabetes before the age of 25 are
      eligible to be invited to participate in the screening phase of adAPT. Families/ children
      will be invited to participate in screening and will informed of the study by invitation
      letter (via the index T1D patient) from their designated clinician/Principal Investigator
      (PI) or via their family practitioner through Scottish Primary Care Research Network/Clinical
      Research Network (SPCRN/CRN). In addition potential participants may contact the study team
      independently (self-referral) in response to media/press and internet coverage. Those invited
      via letter will be requested to either return the reply slip, or call/Short Message Service
      (SMS)/email the study team to register their interest.

      Parent and child age-appropriate Screening Information will be provided and written consent
      and assent will be completed. Consent/assent will only occur after a minimum of 24 hours has
      elapsed from study information provision.

      Screening will take place in clinically appropriate locations. Screening requires a small
      non-fasting blood sample (3.5 mls). Participants will be offered topical anaesthesia prior to
      the blood sample being taken.

      This sample will be tested for four islet-related antibodies. Two or more antibodies will
      infer a positive test, while one or less will conclude a negative test. It is anticipated
      that approximately 5% of the screened population will present with a positive results and
      thus a 40% risk of diabetes over 5 years and thus are eligible to be invited into Stage 1 of
      the study. It is expected that 95% of people screened will test negative and their
      participation will conclude (except for remote data linkage relating to diabetes diagnosis
      for 10 years post study participation). The antibody tests are posted to the study's partner
      laboratory in Bristol, United Kingdom (UK) with results being available within an 8 week
      timeframe.

      Antibody positive participants/families will receive a result consultation and an invitation
      to the intervention stage of the study. Age-appropriate information sheets will be provided
      for children/adolescents in addition to parents/guardian information.

      If child/adolescent and parent/guardian assent/consent to participant in the RCT phase the
      following visits will take place:

      Stage 1 Month 0 (M0) visit - lasting approximately 2.5 to 3 hours:

      Measure participant height, weight and waist circumference. Urine pregnancy test for all
      menstruating female participants. Topical anaesthesia will be offered and applied if
      participant agreeable. (Following assessment of anaesthesia) a cannula will be inserted for
      blood sampling.

      Safety blood samples to measure fasting glucose levels, full blood count, liver function,
      urea and electrolytes. Samples sent to local National Health Service (NHS) hospital
      accredited laboratories.

      Research blood samples: Antibodies, Immunology, deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA -with consent and
      Vitamin B12.

      Mixed Meal Tolerance Testing (MMTT) baseline samples (Insulin, C-peptide and Glucose)
      followed by Ensure Plus (or equivalent) drink at 6ml per kg dose (maximum 360ml) with 4
      further blood tests being obtained at 30 minute intervals (via the in situ cannula) for 2
      hours; Time points: 0, 30, 60, 90, 120 minutes.

      Randomisation will occur following eligibility criteria and safety sample results review by
      PI. If the participant is not eligible the participant and parent will be informed of the
      rationale for non-eligibility and the participant' s family doctor will be informed of any
      clinically significant findings (with consent.) Participants will be provided with study
      medication (Metformin or placebo) and given instructions on dose and administration after
      randomisation has taken place at M0 visit.

      If eligible, more than one sibling can be screened and, if seropositive, recruited. To avoid
      treatment contamination, immediate family members will be allocated to the same treatment
      group, with the first family member tested being the one who is randomly allocated.

      The required study medication dose is calculated using the participant's weight using a
      dosing algorithm using 2.5kg increments to the nearest 0.5mls.

      On commencement of treatment metformin can cause gastric intolerance, therefore to minimise
      side effects for the first two weeks participants will be requested to take once daily
      10mg/kg - half the target dose. Medication is administered/ taken orally.

      Month 0 + 2 weeks:

      Research nurse will contact the parent/participant to review tolerability and if tolerated
      increase to twice daily dosing of 10mg/kg and will assess adverse event profile. New written
      dosing instructions will be provided. If the participant is not tolerating dose they will be
      withdrawn from the study.

      Month 1 Visit - lasting approximately 2.5 to 3 hours:

      Procedures are the same as M0 without an antibody blood sample. Study medication is increased
      to the target dose of 20mg/kg, twice daily. Participants are provided with new written dosing
      instructions.

      Month 1 + 1 week:

      Research nurse will phone the parent/participant to review tolerability of up-titrated dose
      and assess adverse event profile. If the dose is not tolerated they their dose will be
      reduced to the previous tolerated dose of 10mg/kg, twice a day which will continue for the
      remainder of the trial. Where down-titration occurs new written dosing instructions will be
      provided.

      Month 4, 8, 12, 18, (Late Stage 2: 24, 30, 36) - lasting approximately 2.5 to 3 hours:

      Procedures are the same as M0 with antibody sample. Clinical significant results will
      reported as per local laboratory ranges and protocol.

      Months 1, 2 & 3 and every 3 months or as required the research nurse will contact
      parent/participant to assess adverse event profile.
    
  