
    
      Esophagectomy for esophageal cancer is a technically complex procedure which is associated
      with high perioperative mortality, even in high volume centers[1]. To facilitate the
      postoperative recovery of esophagectomies patients by reducing surgical trauma, an increasing
      number of surgeons have attempted minimally invasive esophagectomy (MIE) to treat patients
      with esophageal cancer.[2-10] However, there is no consensus regarding the optimal method for
      performing an esophagectomy with the minimally invasive surgical technique. In addition, the
      benefit of this approach has not been well confirmed based on the limited retrospective
      comparative studies at the present time [3, 11-12], although its potential benefit improving
      the immediate postoperative including the total morbidity and pulmonary complication has been
      demonstrated by meta-analyses[13]. Especially it is unclear whether adding laparoscopic
      procedures in MIE can contribute to further improvement of the perioperative outcome of the
      patients.[3] Previously, we have found that adding of laparoscopic procedure in performing
      the esophageal reconstruction procedure after VATS esophagectomy can provide further benefit
      in reducing the postoperative major complications and fasten the postoperative recovery16.
      For the most cases, the patients was receiving tri-incision esophagectomy, i.e. VATS
      esophagectomy in the chest, laparoscopic gastric mobilization in the abdomen and left
      cervical esophagogastrostomy. In such circumstances, a cervical incision was required for
      esophagogastrostomy after esophagectomy and gastric mobilization. However, for the patients
      with lower-to mid third esophageal cancer, some surgeon performed Ivor Lewis esophagectomy,
      which performing the esophagogastrostomy in the chest after gastric mobilization without
      cervical incision wound. Although both of these procedures have been demonstrated to be
      feasible and safe, there is much debate about the advantage and disadvantage of these two
      approaches. For tri-incision esophagectomy, patients have the chance to have cervical lymph
      node dissection and the esophagus can be resected up to the neck. However, it is more
      time-consuming and associated with more surgical trauma by adding a cervical incisional wound
      and more tissue dissection around the cervical trachea as compared to that done by Ivor Lewis
      esophagectomy. In contrast, for the Ivor Lewis esophagectomy, the resection of esophagus was
      limited to the level of thoracic inlet and cervical lymph node dissection was impossible
      unless a neck incision was further created. However, it takes less time in performing the
      whole procedure by saving a neck incision.

      In this study, we would conduct a prospective randomized study to compare the surgical
      results between the Tri-incision and Ivor Lewis approaches for esophagectomy in treating
      esophageal cancer. Both of the procedures will be performed by video-assisted thoracic
      surgical (VATS) esophagectomy and laparoscopic gastric mobilization and esophageal
      reconstruction. The primary end-point will be the overall survival and secondary end-point
      would be perioperative complication, postoperative recovery and quality of life.

      Patients and Methods This study will include patients with a diagnosis of esophageal cancer
      who will undergo curative surgical resection in the surgical department of the National
      Taiwan University Hospital. All the patients will receive staging study for the tumor
      including computed tomography (CT) of the brain, neck, chest and abdomen, panendoscopy with
      endoscopic ultrasound (EUS), position emission tomography with computed tomography
      (optionally) and bronchoscopy for the tumor locating at the mid-to-low third of thoracic
      esophagus. The patient was cared according to the perioperative routine protocols of the
      thoracic surgical department of the National Taiwan University Hospital, including
      preoperative respiratory and exercise training, nutritional support and postoperative
      bronchoscopic toileting, and chest physical therapy. Jejunostomy feeding was started in the
      postoperative day 2 or 3, the oral intake was started 10 days to 2 weeks after surgery once
      no anastomotic leakage is demonstrated by the contrast swallowing image studies.

      Exclusion criteria:

      Poor lung function with FEV1 less than 70% of prediction. Major systemic co-morbidity : e.g.
      CVA, end-stage renal disease, coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure.

      Presence of tracheal invasion or distant metastasis of the tumor

      Primary end point:

      Overall survival duration

      Secondary end pint:

      Disease-free survival duration Surgical complication Postoperative ICU stay and hospital stay
      Quality of Life Change of lung function after surgery

      Anesthesia and perioperative care Epidural analgesia once agreed by the patients was
      administered before surgery. The patients were intubated and ventilated with double-lumen
      endotracheal tube during surgery. After surgery, extubation was given once satisfactory
      general condition including oxygenation, spontaneous breathing and vital signs are observed.
      However, temporary ventilator support will be given to the patients with high surgical risk
      in the intensive care unit (ICU) and was weaned off based on weaning parameters and the
      general condition of the patients. Jejunostomy feeding was begun after stool or flatus
      passage was detected. Oral intake began after an esophagogram examination revealed no
      anastomotic leakage, and was usually 10 to 14 days after surgery.

      Postoperative clinical follow-up The patients will be followed up in the out-patient clinics
      after discharge at least tri monthly. Pan-endoscopy, computer tomography of brain, neck,
      chest and abdomen will be done every three months immediately 2 years after surgery and every
      six months thereafter. Life quality and lung function will be evaluated one, three and six
      months after surgery.

      Power calculation:

      With the difference of 10% in postoperative complication between the two groups of study, 50
      patients will be required to recruited in each study group. The status of surgical
      complications, disease progression or recurrence and survival will be evaluated each year.
      Any significant difference once detected under analysis will call to early termination of the
      study to protect the patients from injury by inadequate treatment.
    
  