
    
      By 2008, market data suggest that the most commonly prescribed initial treatment regimen for
      HIV-1 will consist of Truvada® (FTC and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF)) and Sustiva®
      (efavirenz (EFV)). A newly formulated drug called Atripla™ containing all three active
      ingredient has now been approved by the US FDA. Therefore, second line treatments that are
      currently in development should provide activity against resultant mutations, primarily
      M184V/I (17%) and much less commonly K65R (0 to 5%), and ideally prevent or be effective
      against mutations that may occur during second line therapy.

      The goal of our program is to identify an AZT/DAPD co-formulation with reduced resistance
      development and an improved safety profile for the treatment of HIV infections. DAPD has
      increased sensitivity to M184V/I strains and is active against thymidine analog mutations
      (TAMs) that may have occurred during previous antiretroviral regimens. AZT offers anti-K65R
      activity which is believed to be conferred by the 3'-azido moiety containing pseudo-sugar
      structure and base components of AZT. Hence, AZT could potentially be incorporated to prevent
      the emergence of the K65R mutation that could limit the long-term benefit of DAPD.

      Since nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) require intracellular
      phosphorylation to form their active triphosphates, it is preferable to combine NRTIs with
      different critical kinases. Thymidine kinase-1 is the critical enzyme for the phosphorylation
      of AZT to its monophosphates. The enzyme involved in the initial phosphorylation of the
      active metabolite of DAPD, DXG, is guanosine kinase. Nucleotide competition studies conducted
      using activated human peripheral blood mononuclear (PBM) cells performed with DAPD and AZT
      with concentrations between 0.1-10 µM demonstrated no competitive inhibition of
      DXG-triphosphate formation.

      The approved dose for AZT is 300 mg bid, and AZT is available as a 300 mg tablet or 100 mg
      capsule. A previous study in 10 HIV seropositive individuals comparing cellular AZT-mono, di-
      and tri-phosphate nucleotides at normal and reduced doses, 100 mg tid versus 300 mg bid,
      demonstrated a significant decrease in plasma AZT and intracellular AZT-monophosphate
      (AZT-MP) levels, (AZT-MP is associated with toxicity), without significant changes in
      AZT-triphosphate (AZT-TP) levels in activated PBM cells or antiviral activity. These findings
      on the effect of AZT dose on intracellular AZT-TP are supported by computer simulations.
      Maximal predicted cellular levels of AZT-MP and AZT-TP at steady-state, following 200 mg bid
      and 300 mg bid dosing in 3,000 simulated individuals demonstrated a high overlap between the
      AZT-TP histograms (> 85 %), suggesting similar efficacies for the 200 and 300 mg bid doses.
      The low degree of overlap between the AZT-MP histograms (< 8 %) for the two dose regimens,
      suggests that there may be fewer toxicities with the 200 mg bid dose, supporting our
      hypothesis that a zidovudine dose of 200 mg bid could reduce the AZT-MP levels without
      compromising the AZT-TP levels that would be obtained with a 300 mg bid dose.

      This 10 day, proof of principle, pharmacokinetic study will provide important information
      about reduced AZT dosing to support the development of an AZT/DAPD co-formulation which may
      prevent the emergence of K65R mutations.
    
  