
    
      ELIOS will consist in a digital system that distressed users can contact via different social
      media or traditional communication channels. Participants randomized to the ELIOS group will
      be offered to interact online with a web-clinician who will deliver adapted interventions to
      alleviate their distress and refer them to appropriate care.The ELIOS web-clinicians will be
      psychologists and nurses supervised by a psychiatrist, specially trained to carry out crisis,
      counselling and motivational at distance interventions with AYA. In addition, they will
      receive a special training module dedicated to the interaction constraints and possibilities
      that the social media imply, but also to the textual and iconographic communication
      modalities. Human resources of ELIOS will be shared with those of the VigilanS program.

      The ORIAS study primarily aims at showing the superiority of the ELIOS system in decreasing
      suicidality at 3 months in comparison to simple professional contact delivery among the AYA
      who seek help online for suicidal ideations.

      With that purpose, participants will be randomly allocated to 2 parallel arms

        -  In addition to receiving the same generic mental health resources as in the control
           group, the participants of the ELIOS arm will benefit from the intervention of the ELIOS
           team. This includes an initial systematic contact with an ELIOS web-clinician,
           systematic recontacts by the ELIOS web-clinicians, scheduled at 24h, 72h and/or 7 days,
           depending on the participants' level of suicide risk and the opportunity to
           spontaneously contact the ELIOS system and get in contact with a web-clinician. All the
           ELIOS interventions will be subordinated to the two main goals of reducing the users'
           distress and suicidality and achieving an effective referral to the mental health care
           services. To do so, the web-clinicians will variably combine three complementary
           psychotherapeutic techniques: crisis intervention, counselling and motivational
           guidance. The interventions will be constrained by the imperative of rapidly bringing
           the participants from social media channels to more engaging channels (phone call or
           video-conference) in order to gain degrees of freedom in the interaction.

        -  Participants of the control arm will receive generic professional help contacts. Three
           types of resources will be suggested via the ELIOS website: the General Practitioner
           (GP), the closest Medical and Psychological Center, the emergency services. The order of
           presentation of the resource contacts will depend on the participants' intensity of
           suicidal ideation.

      In both arms, data will be collected by means of online self-questionnaire before the
      intervention or provision of resource contacts (T0) and 3 months later (T1).

      As primary efficacy analysis, the change in the Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale
      Intensity of Ideation-subscale score between baseline and M3 will be compared between the 2
      arms using the constrained longitudinal data analysis (cLDA) model. To take into account the
      stratified factor considered in randomization, gender will be included as a covariate in the
      cLDA model. The treatment effect (mean between-arms difference in the 3-months change from
      baseline) will be estimated by the time-by-arm interaction. If normality of the model
      residuals is not satisfied (despite the log-transformation of the data), non-parametric
      analysis will be used; absolute changes between baseline and M3 will be calculated and
      compared between the 2 arms using non-parametric analysis of covariance adjusted for baseline
      values. Primary analysis will be conducted according to the ITT principle after handling
      missing values. A complete case-analysis will be performed as sensitivity analysis. In a
      second sensitivity analysis, the primary endpoint will be compared between the 2 arms by
      including in the cLDA model pre-specified covariates known for their association with
      suicidal behaviors, namely age, regular consumption of tobacco, regular consumption of
      alcohol, regular consumption of drugs, known pre-existing psychiatric disorder and personal
      history of suicide attempt. The necessary subjects number is 386 (193 per arm).
    
  