
    
      Cesarean section accounts for nearly 30% of all deliveries in Canada, and is the most
      commonly performed surgery by Obstetrician Gynecologists (OBGYNs) in Canada. Therefore, it is
      important to understand the short and long-term complications of this procedure. Recently,
      emphasis has been placed on cesarean scar isthmocele as a long-term complication. An
      isthmocele is a defect at the cesarean section scar site with a depth of at least 1-2mm.
      Isthmoceles can lead to major obstetrical complications such as cesarean scar pregnancy,
      invasive placentation, and uterine rupture. More commonly, patients present with gynecologic
      symptoms: abnormal uterine bleeding, pain, and infertility. Up to 30-50% of patients with an
      isthmocele report symptoms when inquired. Isthmoceles have an incidence of 19-88% following
      cesarean section. This wide range is due to discrepancies in study technique, diagnostic
      criteria, and patient characteristics.

      While medical and surgical treatment options are available for cesarean scar isthmocele, our
      focus should turn to prevention at the time of cesarean section. Evidence suggests
      double-layer (vs. single-layer) uterine closure decreases the formation of cesarean scar
      isthmocele and increases residual myometrial thickness (RMT). Additionally, uterine closure
      with a locked suturing technique may result in greater isthmocele depth and size, and a
      thinner RMT at the cesarean scar site. To our knowledge however, no study has determined the
      impact of a locked vs. unlocked double-layer closure technique on isthmocele prevention.
      Locked sutures, believed to be more hemostatic, may cause tissue necrosis and impair wound
      healing. Interestingly, evidence does not support reductions in operative blood loss with
      locked closure techniques. The hypothesis is that unlocked double-layer uterine closure can
      reduce isthmocele formation and thus improve longterm maternal outcomes without impacting
      operative blood loss or other short-term surgical outcomes.
    
  