
    
      After recruitment, women will be randomly assigned to: Intervention Group (Mat Pilates and
      usual activities) and Control Group (usual activities). At patients in the intervention group
      will be submitted to 10 sessions of Mat Pilates for a period of 5 weeks (from beginning to
      end of adjuvant radiotherapy). The Mat Pilates program will be based on group sessions with
      the supervision of physiotherapists specialized in technique. The groups will consist of a
      maximum of 4 patients, to achieve the basic principles of the technique that include
      concentration, control, accuracy and fluidity of movement. Mat Pilates sessions will be held
      in the physiotherapy gymnasium of Cancer Hospital III / INCA. The Mat Pilates program will be
      held twice a week and the duration of sessions will be 60 minutes, consisting of 5 minutes of
      exercises 50 minutes of strengthening exercises with flexibilization of the muscular fibers,
      where the concentric phase of the movement will be performed at the expiration, followed by 5
      minutes of relaxation and stretching. The movements will be carried out slowly and with the
      maximum of 2 sets of 10 replicates. The Swiss ball and elastic band accessories will be used.
      The Mat Pilates intensity exercises will be controlled by means of the adapted Borg Scale
      (0-10), where the perception of the effort will vary from 2 (very light) to 7
      (moderate-intense). On days of the week in which the patient will not practice the Mat
      Pilates program, the usual upper limb exercises will be maintained by the physiotherapists on
      the first postoperative day at Cancer Hospital III / INCA. Patients allocated to the control
      group will not participate in the Mat Pilates program, but will be directed to maintain the
      usual exercises for upper limbs, guided by physiotherapists in the postoperative. In both
      groups, the patients will be submitted, the functional capacity evaluation composed of the
      Disability Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) questionnaire, flexibility assessment, presence of
      lymphedema, radiodermatitis and application of the questionnaires International Questionnaire
      of Physical Activity (IPAQ), Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy- Fatigue (FACT-F) for
      Fatigue, European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life
      Questionnaire (QLQ) Core-30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) and specific module EORTC QLQ Breast-23 (EORTC
      QLQ-BR23) for quality of life, and Geriatric Depression Scale(GDS) for depression at the time
      of study inclusion and in the follow-up (end of radiotherapy, 30 days and 6 months after
      end).
    
  