
    
      For the purpose of statistical preliminary analysis, the part related to the comparison of
      the dependent two sample means (t test) was used in the G * power 3.1 program. The power of
      the test was taken as 90%, margin of error 5% and effect size 0.50. The total sample size was
      found to be 44. In this study, the required number of participants was determined to be at
      least 44, since the split-mouth technique in which both the experimental and the control
      groups will be used in each patient, and the number of participants to be included in the
      study was determined as 50 considering the ''drop-outs'' that may occur during the study.
      Then, randomization will be achieved using the blocked randomization technique. Randomization
      will be done on www.sealedenvelope.com website. For blocked randomization, the seed number
      will be 12345 and the block width will be 2.

      After applying to Başkent University Faculty of Dentistry, dental caries are detected as a
      result of the clinical and radiological examination, and female or male volunteers to be
      included in the study will be selected among the patients who are referred to the Department
      of Restorative Dentistry for treatment. Participation in the study is on a voluntary basis
      and the participants who accept the invitation will have the Informed Consent Form read and
      signed. If deemed necessary, the participants will be given oral hygiene motivation and
      initiatives will be started after their oral hygiene is achieved to a satisfactory level.

      Before starting treatment of individuals diagnosed with caries clinically and radiologically,
      the vitality of the relevant teeth will be measured using a vitalometer (Model D624, Parkell
      Inc, New York, USA). After the opening of 2 cavities in each participant, the cavities will
      be isolated, and Teethmate Desensitizer will be applied randomly to one of the two cavities.
      In order to ensure randomization, the randomization list prepared using the program on
      www.sealedenvelop.com will be put in an opaque envelope. When the application will be made,
      the envelope will be opened. Then, calcium hydroxide (Dycal, Dentsply Sirona, York, USA) will
      be applied to the point where the pulp is closest to it. Restorations will be performed after
      the matrix system (mylar strip, crab or Tofflemire) is applied when necessary according to
      the cavity type. All cavities one-step self-etch an adhesive (Clearfil SE Bond, Kuraray
      Noritake, Tokyo, Japan) LED light applied according to the user instructions (Ledmax Cordless
      550 Benlioğlu Dental, Ankara, Turkey)> 1,500mw / cm2 for 10 seconds polymerized. The cavities
      will be restored using an oblique incremental technique with a universal composite resin
      filling material (Filtek Z250, 3M Espe, St. Paul, MN, USA). Each composite resin layer will
      be polymerized for 20 seconds using the same LED light source. Finishing and polishing of the
      restorations will be done using diamond finishing burs, tires and polishing discs (Soflex, 3M
      Espe, St. Paul, MN, USA). Restoration will be done by a single operator (LK). After the
      restoration, patients will be given two forms, one for each tooth, where they will record
      their daily pain levels for a week, and how to register on this form will be explained
      (Appendix-3). These forms given to the participants will include a Numerical Rating Scale
      (NRS) with values between 0-4 and a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) of 0-100mm for 1 week. When
      patients will be called to the control appointment after a week, the forms in which they
      score the sensitivity level will be taken back. 6 weeks after the restorations are applied,
      the patients will be invited to a control appointment and the restorations will be checked.
      At the one-week and six-week control appointments, the restorations will be evaluated by
      another physician (KY). At the end of the sixth week, the vitality of the teeth will be
      checked with the same vitalometer, if the tooth is vital, then for evaluating the
      postoperative sensitivity, a cooling spray will be applied (Ice Spray, Picdare SpA, Casnate
      con Bernate, Italy) to the middle of the buccal surfaces using the cotton pellets for 5
      seconds. The postoperative hypersensitivity will be evaluated and recorded according to VAS
      on a new registration form where the patient has no previous measurements. During the
      six-week study, patients will be asked not to use any pain medication, and if the participant
      uses painkillers during the study, the participant will be excluded from the study.
    
  