
    
      Surgical patients who require post-surgical critical care are usually transferred from the
      operating room (OR) to the intensive care unit (ICU) for ongoing care. The process of
      transferring the patient from the OR to the ICU is called a "handoff." Handoffs involve the
      transfer of patient information and transfer of patient care responsibilities from the OR
      team to the ICU team. Multiple studies suggest that these handoffs can expose patients to
      preventable harm, which can be avoided with standardization of the handoff. The Handoffs and
      Transitions in Critical Care (HATRICC; IRB #819726) study, started in 2014, developed and
      implemented a standardized OR to ICU handoff process in two Penn surgical ICUs (SICUs) that
      did not have a standardized handoff process.

      Four clinicians (surgeon, anesthetist, ICU provider, and ICU nurse) from two teams (surgical
      and intensive care) usually take part in handoff communication. During the HATRICC study, the
      investigators evaluated handoff communication between the OR and ICU teams before and after
      implementation of the new standardized handoff process (the "HATRICC process") in multiple
      ways, using observations, interviews, focus groups, and surveys. The investigators
      demonstrated a 20% improvement in information exchange after implementation of the HATRICC
      standardized handoff process, a process tailored to meet the needs of the different
      clinicians participating in OR to ICU handoffs.

      Prior studies have indicated short-term success in standardizing OR to ICU handoffs, but
      sustainability of these improvement interventions has been less well studied. Two studies
      have demonstrated sustained or improved information exchange following the institution of
      structured OR to ICU handoff processes, but the factors influencing sustainability remain to
      be elucidated.

      The aims of this study are to:

        1. Ascertain determinants of OR-to-ICU handoff protocol adoption and use in 12 adult and
           pediatric ICUs in five health systems.

        2. Adapt handoff protocols using engineering approaches and select tailored implementation
           strategies with implementation mapping.

        3. Test the effectiveness of tailored, multifaceted, multilevel implementation strategies.

        4. Design and create a digital toolkit for other ICUs to identify implementation
           determinants, customize OR-to-ICU handoff protocol, and select appropriate
           implementation strategies.
    
  