
    
      Purpose and Objectives

      The primary objective of this study is to determine if ER-targeted therapy, ARIMIDEX and
      FASLODEX, used in combination is superior to ARMIDEX alone in hormone receptor positive
      breast cancer.

      Primary study objective 1. To determine the efficacy of primary breast cancer, as measured by
      decrease in proliferation (KI67), to the combination of ARIMIDEX, and FASLODEX at high dose

      Secondary study objectives 1. To study molecular changes in response to treatment. 2. To
      correlate changes in Ki67 with clinical response 3. To determine the pathologic response
      rate. 4. To assess the tolerability and safety of the combination regimen.

      This is a phase II randomized multi-center study. As indicated in the study design schema
      found in the protocol document attached to Section S, patients will be initially randomized
      to receive ARIMIDEX, or ARIMIDEX+FASLODEX (high dose) for 16 weeks (112 days). A
      computer-generated randomization scheme will be generated by the study statistician at the
      Breast Center, Baylor College of Medicine. A 1:1 randomization scheme using permuted blocks
      will be employed. Randomization will be centralized at the Breast Center, Baylor College of
      Medicine and accomplished via access to a secure web-based procedure that is currently being
      implemented in our other multi-center clinical trials. Enrollment, eligibility, and
      randomization information will be stored in an Oracle database on the Breast Center's Sun
      server and will be accessible only through secure web-based applications. Communication with
      the pharmacy will be handled by email which will contain only patient identification number
      and initials and by FAX or hardcopy. The hardcopy will be used by physicians to send to the
      pharmacy a signed computer-generated pharmacy order to legally dispense study drug.

      Within 30 days prior to randomization subjects will sign the study consent form, and have a
      history and physical exam, including all concurrent medications. Blood will be drawn for CBC,
      platelets, serum chemistries, BUN, creatinine, and liver function tests. If necessary to
      determine menopausal status FSH, LH and serum estradiol will be obtained. An EKG, CXR PA and
      lateral will be performed and a bilateral mammogram and US of primary breast cancer will be
      done within 90 days of randomization. Subjects will then be randomized to receive either
      ARIMIDEX 1 mg po q day (Group A), or ARIMIDEX 1 mg po q day and FASLODEX 500 mg IM, day 1,
      day 14, day 28 and thereafter once every 28 days (Group B). Study medications will be
      dispensed within 60 days of randomization. On day 28, subjects will be evaluated for side
      effects and a second breast core biopsy will be obtained. Evaluation for tumor response and
      tolerability of the regimen will be evaluated every 28 days in outpatient clinic visits. ALL
      treatment will continue until day 112 when patients with a clinical response or stable
      disease will receive appropriate surgical resection. If the tumor is unresectable on day 112,
      a core needle biopsy will be done. The surgical specimen will be obtained for further
      molecular analysis. After surgery, patients will be off study and will receive additional
      breast cancer therapy at the discretion of their treating physician. Patients who develop
      progressive disease on protocol will be taken off study and offered alternative treatment.
      All patients will have a safety follow-up 1 month after the surgery (or the alternative core
      biopsy).

      Treatment will be administered on outpatient basis. After the baseline breast biopsy,
      patients will be randomized to receive ARIMIDEX 1mg po q day (group A), or ARIMIDEX 1mg po q
      day with FASLODEX 500 mg day 1, day 14, day 28, and thereafter every 28 days (Group B). After
      28 days a second biopsy will be obtained in all patients. All patients will continue on the
      same randomized treatment for the total duration of the study of 112 days till the day before
      surgery. No investigational or commercial agents or therapies other than those described
      below may be administered with the intent to treat the patient's malignancy.

      Study Visit Procedures: Pre-Study Procedures will include the following: informed consent,
      breast biopsy, demographics, medical history, concurrent medication list, physical exam,
      blood draw, bidimensional tumor measurement, bilateral mammogram, primary breast ultrasound
      and chest x-ray.

      Day 1 procedures will include the following: study drug administration, clinic visit.

      Day 14 procedures will include the following (group B only) study drug injection and clinic
      visit.

      Day 28 procedures will include the following (group B only) study drug injection. Both group
      A and B, breast biopsy, concurrent medication list, physical exam, blood draw, clinic visit,
      adverse events evaluation, bidimensional tumor measurement.

      Day 56 procedures will include the following (group B only) study drug injection. Both group
      A and B, concurrent medication list, physical exam, blood draw, adverse events evaluation,
      clinic visit and bidimensional tumor measurement.

      Day 84 procedures include (group B only) study drug injection. Both group A and B, concurrent
      medication list, physical exam, blood draw, adverse event evaluation, clinic visit and
      bidimensional tumor measurement.

      Day 112 procedures include study drug administration, concurrent medication list, physical
      exam, blood draw, adverse events evaluation, bidimensional tumor measurement, bilateral
      mammogram, primary breast ultrasound and tumor resection.

      Day 140 procedures include blood draw, clinic visit and safety evaluation for adverse events.

      Duration of Therapy In the absence of treatment delays due to adverse events, treatment will
      continue for 4 months or until one of the following criteria applies: Disease progression,
      Intercurrent illness that prevents further administration of treatment, Unacceptable adverse
      events(s), Patient decides to withdraw from the study, or General or specific changes in the
      patient's condition render the patient unacceptable for further treatment in the judgment of
      the investigator.

      This protocol will close 6 months after the last patient is enrolled. Patients will receive
      study medications from day 0 until day 111, which is the day before their planned surgery. On
      day 140, patients will have a safety follow up visit and to determine the need for further
      treatment after surgery.

      Breast Core Biopsy All subjects will have a breast tumor core biopsy at the beginning of the
      study, and a second biopsy after 2 weeks. Core needle biopsies are planned because they will
      provide sufficient histologically evaluable tissue for the assays proposed in this study.
    
  