
    
      This will be a randomised, controlled, parallel group, multicenter, open-label trial.
      Patients will be recruited among patients with type 2 diabetes referred to the IMPACT
      intervention.

      144 patients will be randomised in two arms : IMPACT intervention group (n : 72) and usual
      care group (n : 72).

      IMPACT intervention : a referent is assigned to the patient. A referent is a health worker
      (nurse, nutritionist, psychologist …). Patient builds with his referent a free care program.
      The patient can choose individual consultation (for example : nutrition, tabacology,
      psychology …) and/or collective care (for example : patient education, physical activity,
      relaxation …). A community health worker can help patients with his health administrative
      procedures.

      Patients will have 3 visits. First visit (inclusion visit) : investigator collects baseline
      characteristics (sociodemographic data, comorbidity, treatment, diabetes complications,
      weight, height, body mass index, impedancemetry, HbA1c, lipids, creatinine,
      albuminuria/creatinuria ratio). Then the patient will be randomised.

      Second visit (midpoint visit) : investigator collects weight, BMI, impedancemetry, HbA1c and
      adverse events Third visit (end point visit) : investigator collects weight, BMI,
      impedancemetry, HbA1c, lipids and adverse events.

      Analysis : The primary outcome is change in glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) from baseline to 6
      months. The primary outcome will be analysed using a linear mixed effects model. Study
      groups, districts, time, group-time interaction and district-group interaction will be
      included as fixed effects. The model will include patients as a random effect. Sub-group
      analysis will be made with baseline HbA1c, sex, age, Epices score (French precarity score)
      and diabetes duration. The robustness of the model will be tested by replacing missing data
      with multiple imputation methods. The same statistical modelling approach will be used for
      the secondary outcomes.
    
  