
    
      In Israel there are approximately 16,000 new cases of stroke per year and recently stroke has
      been recognized by the Israeli health-care policy planners as a top priority disease.
      Individuals who have sustained a stroke constitute a large population with significant needs
      for rehabilitation. The most common symptom following stroke is paresis or paralysis to half
      of the body, contralateral to the side of brain lesion. These individuals experience
      difficulties performing basic activities of daily life (BADL) such as dressing and walking,
      in addition to instrumental activities of daily life (IADL) such as shopping and cooking.

      Physical activity has been strongly recommended for these individuals to maintain their
      functional level which was achieved during rehabilitation. In addition regular physical
      activity can prevent secondary conditions such as heart disease, diabetes, obesity and
      decreases the risk of a recurrent stroke. Reduced physical activity can also lead to disuse
      atrophy and cardiovascular de-conditioning, which can result in deterioration of the person's
      physical condition. However, recent findings suggest that people with stroke do not perform
      enough physical activity with their upper and lower extremities.

      The use of Virtual Reality (VR) for rehabilitation has been found to have potential for
      encouraging active purposeful movement. Many researchers have assessed the feasibility &
      usability of different VR systems and environments for individuals with stroke. Costly VR
      systems in addition to off-the-shelf video game consoles (e.g. Sony PlayStation EyeToy,
      Nintendo Wii) have been found to have great potential to encourage active purposeful
      movement. However, to date, only a limited number of studies have investigated the
      effectiveness of VR therapy post-stroke.

      Since physical activity has been recognized to be a main factor in facilitating recovery post
      stroke and an important factor in preventing a recurrent stroke and due to the fact that
      individuals with stroke are not participating sufficiently in physical activity. Their
      physical and functional ability may deteriorate leading to expensive hospitalization and
      devastating outcomes, therefore, I suggest to carry out this study.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES:

      The overall aim of this study is to assess the effectiveness of using novel technology of VR
      therapy to promote the participation in daily physical activity of individuals with stroke. A
      'Community based' VR program will be compared to a traditional therapy program in promoting
      daily physical activity of the lower and upper extremities.

      METHODS:

      A Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) comparing VR therapy to traditional therapy will be
      applied. Eligible participants will be randomly allocated to the experimental or the control
      group. Blind assessors will assess their ability pre and post a 3-month intervention and at
      3-month follow-up. Novel instrumentation of VR systems and video-game consoles will be
      applied for the intervention of the experimental group and accelerometers (that measure the
      intensity and duration of movement) will be utilized for assessing 'free-living' daily
      physical activity of the upper and lower extremities of both groups. In addition clinical
      assessments will be administered to assess the motor and functional ability of these
      individuals.

      The main hypotheses are:

        1. Daily walking post intervention will increase significantly more in the VR therapy
           groups compared to the traditional therapy groups.

        2. Daily use of the weak upper extremity post intervention will increase significantly more
           in the VR therapy groups compared to the traditional therapy groups.

        3. Daily walking on follow-up will be significantly higher in the VR therapy groups
           compared to the traditional therapy groups.

        4. Daily use of the weak upper extremity on follow-up will increase significantly more in
           the VR therapy groups compared to the traditional therapy groups.

      Secondary hypotheses;

        1. Post intervention and on follow-up, the motor and functional ability of the weak upper
           extremity of the individuals in the VR therapy group will improve significantly more
           compared to the motor and functional ability of the weak upper extremity of individuals
           in the traditional therapy group.

        2. Post intervention and on follow-up, the motor and functional ability of the weak lower
           extremity and balance of the individuals in the VR therapy group will improve
           significantly more compared to the individuals in the traditional therapy group.

        3. Participation in ADL post intervention and on follow-up will be significantly higher in
           the VR therapy groups compared to the traditional therapy groups.

        4. The executive functions of the individuals post intervention and on follow-up will be
           significantly higher in the VR therapy group compared to the traditional therapy group.
    
  