
    
      Study background & rational:

      The Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) launched the 90-90-90 targets for
      2020 based on the result of newly-acquired scientific evidence that - irrespective of CD4
      count - early antiretroviral treatment (ART) for HIV-positive individuals is beneficial to
      them and prevents HIV transmission. UNAIDS expects that the 90-90-90 targets will lead to a
      reduction in the yearly global HIV incidence from 2 million currently to 500,000 by 2020.

      A crucial step to achieve the third pillar of the UNAIDS 90-90-90 targets - 90% viral
      suppression among HIV-positive individuals on treatment - and thus ensure a successful
      treatment outcome is the monitoring and management of first-line ART failure.

      Since 2013, the WHO recommends routine viral load (rVL) measurement as the preferred
      monitoring strategy in resource-limited settings and defines virological failure as confirmed
      VL 1000 copies/mL despite good adherence. Specifically, the guidelines recommend that in case
      of a VL ≥ 1000 copies/mL the patient should undergo enhanced adherence support and a second
      VL test 3 months later. A second VL ≥ 1000 copies/mL with confirmed good adherence would
      trigger the switch to a second-line regimen, whereas if the VL is < 1000 copies/mL the
      patient should continue unaltered first-line ART. However, the optimal threshold for defining
      virological failure and the need for switching ART regimen has not yet been determined. In
      fact, people with VL levels of less than 1000 copies/mL, but not fully suppressed (usually
      defined as 50-100 copies/mL), are at a increased risk for drug resistance mutations (DRM) and
      subsequent virological failure. A recently published study from our research consortium in
      Lesotho indicates similar findings, demonstrating a significant accumulation of drug
      resistance mutations in patients with VL levels of less than 1000 copies/mL.

      The VL threshold of 1000 copies/mL recommended by the WHO and the Lesotho national guidelines
      for the switch to second-line ART is likely to miss a substantial number of patients on
      first-line ART with persisting virus replication below 1000 copies/mL with DRM. In
      resource-limited settings where VL monitoring is not as frequent as in high-income countries,
      this could have serious implications: after a VL below 1000 copies/mL the patient may not
      receive a follow-up VL for up to a year, and thus may continue on a failing regimen for a
      long period of time. In conclusion, such patients are at increased risk for DRM, accumulation
      of further resistance mutations, drug-resistant virus transmission, and subsequent
      virological failure.

      Study hypothesis:

      Our research consortium hypothesizes that in patients on first-line ART with two consecutive
      unsuppressed VL measurements equal/more than 100 copies/mL, where the second VL is between
      100 and 999 copies/mL, switch to second-line ART (intervention group) will lead to a higher
      rate of viral resuppression (VL < 50 copies/mL) and is therefore superior compared to not
      switching to second-line ART according to WHO guidelines (control group, standard of care).

      Study design:

      Multicenter (2-12 centers), parallel-group (1:1 allocation), open-label, superiority,
      prospective randomized clinical study.
    
  