
    
      Background:

      Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a rare, but devastating disease that affects both adult and
      pediatric patients. Mortality is high with 84% survival at one year and 50% survival at five
      years in adult populations despite treatment. The cause of death is typically either from
      right ventricular failure or sudden cardiac death, likely secondary to a pulmonary
      hypertensive crisis. The resuscitation of patients with PH after cardiac arrest is extremely
      difficult. The use of epinephrine, a pulmonary vasoconstrictor, during resuscitation may
      impair filling of the left ventricle. The ideal resuscitation drug(s) would dilate the
      pulmonary vascular bed to help fill the left ventricle while constricting the systemic
      vascular bed to maintain coronary perfusion.

      Objectives:

      The assessment of pulmonary vascular reactivity is critical to the clinical management of
      patients with pulmonary hypertension (PH). The goals of this pilot study include
      determination of the hemodynamic effects of low dose vasopressin infusion and the effects of
      a combination of low dose vasopressin infusion and inhaled prostacyclin in a population of
      pediatric patients with PH.

      Methods:

      The investigators propose a prospective, pilot study to examine the acute hemodynamic effects
      of low dose vasopressin infusion and the combination of low dose vasopressin infusion and
      inhaled prostacyclin in pediatric pulmonary hypertension patients. The investigators
      anticipate recruiting 10 pediatric patients with pulmonary hypertension over the course of
      one year.

      Study Protocol:

      The study will be performed in the cardiac catheterization laboratory. All subjects will be
      intubated and mechanically ventilated for the study as per laboratory protocol. Sedation and
      anesthesia will be performed at the discretion of the pediatric anesthesiologist to provide a
      consistent anesthetic during the period of hemodynamic study. Arterial and venous access will
      be obtained via the femoral approach by standard techniques. Right and left catheterization
      will be performed to record hemodynamic measurements at baseline and after pulmonary
      vasoreactivity testing with oxygen and nitric oxide as per usual. Catheterization data to be
      collected includes right atrial pressure, systolic, diastolic and mean pulmonary artery
      pressure, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, systemic arterial pressure, cardiac index,
      pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) index, systemic vascular resistance (SVR) index and
      PVR/SVR ratio. After a period of time to allow for nitric oxide washout, acute vasoreactivity
      testing to assess the hemodynamic response to low dose vasopressin infusion followed by the
      combination of low dose vasopressin infusion and inhaled PGI2 will be performed.
    
  