
    
      One of the great challenges in Psychotraumatology is the high risk (20-40%) of post-traumatic
      stress disorder (PTSD) relapse, which markers remain understudied. Identification of these
      markers is of particular interest for the development of strategies to prevent relapse. Based
      on clinical and experimental data, it appears that (i) the so-called residual clinical
      symptoms (such as sleep disturbance, irritability) and (ii) the neuropsychological
      dysfunctions (cognitive difficulties), persisting after remission, may constitute markers of
      PTSD relapse. Moreover, all of these potential markers have also been linked with
      dysfunctions, persisting or reoccurring, in the prefrontal cortex after remission.

      The main objective of this study is to identify these clinical and neuropsychological markers
      of PTSD relapse in children and their families. The secondary objective is to demonstrate the
      link between prefrontal dysfunctions and relapse.

      This longitudinal study will include 4 experimental groups:

        -  30 children with PTSD

        -  30 children with past PTSD (children in remission)

        -  30 parents of children with PTSD

        -  30 parents of children with past PTSD The first visit is planned during the symptomatic
           phase (T0). The second visit (T1) is planned at the end of the symptomatic phase (or 6
           months later T0). The last visit is planned 3-months after T1.

      The psychological assessment will include:

      A structured interview with a psychiatrist An assessment of PTSD symptoms (IES-R, CPTS-RI for
      children) An assessment of the co-morbidity (STAI C and CDI for children, STAI A-B, BDI for
      adults).

      An evaluation of the social life (EAS for children and SAS-SR for adults).

      The neuropsychological assessment will include:

      An evaluation of the attentional treatment (Go-No / go and visual search) An evaluation of
      executive functions (TMT A and B) A brief evaluation of the IQ (items memory of figures,
      matrix and resemblance) An evaluation of the memory (Grober and Buschke) Tests include an
      adult and children versions that are validated. All studies will be conducted at the Nice
      University Hospital, Tours University Hospital and Toulouse University Hospital.
    
  