
    
      A longitudinal framework was designed to collect data from childhood cancer survivors (8-18.9
      years of age) and parents of participating cancer survivors (i.e., dyads) when they visit the
      After Completion of Therapy (ACT) clinic at St. Jude in three consecutive years
      (approximately 1 year apart; T1, T2, and T3).

      Participants will complete pediatric patient-reported outcomes (PRO) survey/questionnaires, a
      neurocognitive assessment and physical performance evaluation will be completed, and parental
      surveys will be conducted. In addition, any data collected as part of the SJLIFE protocol may
      also be used as part of this study.

        1. The Pediatric PRO survey/questionnaires collection information on PROs. They include
           questions about general health, pain interference, fatigue, psychological stress
           experiences, stigma, sleep disturbance, sleep-related impairment, positive affect,
           meaning and purpose, depressive symptoms, anxiety, and physical function-mobility. Each
           cancer survivor will complete these during annual follow-up visits at three time points:
           years 1, 2 and 3. This process takes approximately 30-40 minutes.

        2. Neurocognitive evaluation is done by tests given by a licensed or certified
           psychological examiner to evaluate how the participant processes information. The tests
           evaluate how problems are solved, how well information is remembered, how well the
           participant pays attention, how quickly they understand information, and their
           assessment of quality of life. The tests are commonly used standardized tests that take
           about 2 hours to complete.

        3. Physical performance evaluation will measure heart and lung fitness, flexibility,
           mobility, muscle strength, endurance, balance and physical mobility. Testing takes about
           2 hours to complete and includes six-minute walk test, walking speed test, muscle
           strength and flexibility, and balance.

        4. The parental survey is a parent-report form (PRF) to be completed by parents/legal
           guardians of participants. Information collected on the PRF includes demographic
           information, parental quality of life, social support, family dynamics, parenting
           behaviors, and the child's health care utilization data. The child and parent data will
           be compared. Parental questionnaires will be completed at one time point, year 1, 2, or
           3, and will take approximately 40 minutes to complete.
    
  