
    
      Invasive fungal infections are often life-threatening in persons with immunocompromise.
      Persons with prolonged neutropenia secondary to cytotoxic chemotherapies are at high risk for
      these infections. Patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation, receiving prolonged
      corticosteroid or other immunosuppressive therapies, and persons with HIV infection and AIDS
      are also at risk. With the use of currently approved antifungal therapy, many of these
      infections may still be associated with a high mortality. Amphotericin B in its conventional
      form, is the current standard treatment for most life-threatening fungal infections. Because
      of its nephrotoxicity and other adverse effects, alternatives to conventional amphotericin B
      have been sought. Alternate agents include three lipid formulations of amphotericin B,
      fluconazole, and itraconazole. Although all of these agents are associated with a decrease in
      adverse effects, their efficacy in most life-threatening fungal infections has not been shown
      to be equivalent to conventional amphotericin B.

      Voriconazole is an investigational antifungal drug currently being brought to phase III
      trials in the US. This azole has been shown active against many fungal pathogens in vitro. In
      animal models and early human trials this new agent has been shown to be effective against
      aspergillosis. It has been shown to be well-tolerated and is available in an intravenous and
      oral formulation.

      This is a non-comparative, open label study to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and toleration
      of voriconazole in the treatment of invasive fungal infections. This agent will be used as
      primary therapy in those fungal infections in which no antifungal agent is currently approved
      or in patients unable to tolerate the approved agent. Voriconazole will also be used as a
      secondary treatment in those patients who have failed therapy with the primary approved agent
      or are unable to tolerate that agent or have unacceptable toxicity.
    
  