
    
      A total of 140 female patients, aged 40-60, normotensive or stage 1-2 hypertensive, scheduled
      for myomectomy or hysterectomy were randomly enrolled to 4 groups: Group ND
      (normotensive-dexmedetomidine); Group HD (hypertensive-dexmedetomidine); group NM
      (normotensive-midazolam); Group HM (hypertensive- midazolam). Twenty-one patients were
      excluded. The study drugs were administered 15 min before induction of anesthesia via
      intravenous infusion. Group ND (N= 29) received dexmedetomidine 0.5 µg.kg-1 in normotensive
      patient; Group HD (N= 30) received dexmedetomidine 0.5 µg.kg-1 in hypertensive patient; group
      NM (N= 30) received midazolam 0.025 mg. kg-1 in normotensive patient; Group HM (N= 30)
      received midazolam 0.025 mg. kg-1 in hypertensive patient. The study drugs was prepared by
      the anesthetist not included in the study in unlabeled syringes that determined by computer
      according to the group. The investigators and attending anesthesiologists were blinded to the
      randomization. Monitoring devices included noninvasive arterial blood pressure,
      electrocardiography, capnography, pulse oximetry and bispectral index.

      For induction of anesthesia with fentanyl 1 µg. kg-1 IV and propofol infusion was in the
      presence of BIS monitoring. Propofol infusion was stopped when BIS value was 60. Endotracheal
      intubation was performed after rocuronium 0.6 mg. kg-1 iv administered, Anesthesia was
      maintained with sevoflurane in air/oxygen 50:50 mixture, titrated to achieve a BIS value
      between 40 and 60. If the MBP value was increased > 25% of the baseline value on two
      consecutive readings within 2-3 min, antihypertensive therapy was administered
      (nitroglycerine 5 µg.min-1 iv infusion) after excluded possible cause ( inadequate
      anesthesia, hypoxia, hypercapnia etc). Bradycardia ( HR< 45 beat/min) persisting for > 2 min
      was treated with atropine 0.5 mg IV, boluses. At the end of the surgery sevoflurane turned
      off, and 100% oxygen was administered. Tramadol 1 mg.kg-1 IV was administered for
      postoperative pain control. Neuromuscular block was antagonized with neostigmine (0.04
      mg.kg-1 IV) and atropine (0.01 mg.kg-1 IV). Tracheal extubation was performed when obeying
      simple commands (open eye, squeeze hand etc) Systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood
      pressure ( DBP), mean blood pressure ( MBP) and heart rate ( HR) were recorded at several
      times as follows: baseline (T0 ), 5 minutes after administration of study drugs (T1), 10
      minutes after administration of study drugs (T2), immediately after induction (T3), 1 minute
      after intubation (T4), 5 minute after intubation (T5), at surgical incision (T6), 15 minutes
      after surgical incision (T7), 30 minutes after surgical incision (T8), 1 minute after
      extubation (T9), 5 minute after extubation (T10). Propofol amount for induction, time between
      induction and initial surgery, demand of antihypertensive therapy, rescue atropine were
      recorded. Side effects (bradycardia, dryness of the mouth, respiratory depression) were
      evaluated.

      The group sizes (N= 30) were calculated to detect a 25% changes in MBP value with a power of
      80% and a significance level of 0.05. Quantitative clinical and demographic characteristics
      were compared using One Way ANOVA. Chi-square tests (Likelihood ratio or Pearson) were used
      to examine the relationships between categorical demographic data and groups. Baseline
      measurements of hemodynamic parameters showed significant differences between groups for the
      initial values of the measurement period values have been adjusted by subtracting the
      beginning. The values obtained after the correction in respect of groups were compared using
      one-way analysis of variance. In addition, perioperative use of antihypertensive drugs that
      affect the measurements were evaluated by analysis of co-variance, but there is not
      significant effect was removed from the model. Additionally periodic variations were examined
      by One way Repeated Measures Analysis of Variance for groups separately, and a significance
      level of 0.05.
    
  