
    
      The investigators propose a multicentre observational prospective study according to the
      clinical routine practice of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients. All patients will
      be clinically evaluated at admission according to standard clinical practice. All data
      present in the inpatient medical record will be used for the study.

      The study cohort will be composed by consecutively enrolled COVID19 confirmed inpatients
      (case group) and COVID19 negative patients hospitalized for other reasons (controls group)
      referred to the participants centres from May 1, 2020.

      Patient's follow up will start at discharge and will continue for 12 months.

      Definitions Confirmed COVID19 cases The definitions of COVID19 state are according to the
      World Health Organization (WHO) document released in March 2020.

      A person with laboratory confirmation of COVID-19 infection, irrespective of clinical signs
      and symptoms. Patients categorized as suspect or probable COVID19 cases will be excluded from
      enrolment.

      COVID19 negative patients (controls) Consecutive COVID19 negative in-patients admitted for
      any clinical condition other than a primary gastrointestinal disease fulfilling the inclusion
      criteria.

      Visits and evaluations After enrolment, all patients will be contacted telephonically at 1
      month after discharge for reassessment of Gastrointestinal Symptom Rating Scale (GSRS).
      Subsequently, patients will be contacted every 6 months for a total of 12 months. At
      telephonic evaluation at 6 and 12 months after discharge patients will undergo the GSRS
      questionnaire, the Rome IV Diagnostic Questionnaire for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders
      in Adults (R4DQ) and the hospital anxiety and depression scale (HADS) and thus the onset of
      PI-IBS will be recorded.

      Data Management Data flow Data will be collected in custom electronic Case Report Forms
      (e-CRFs) on REDCap platform. System backups for data stored and records retention for the
      study data will be consistent with standard procedures.

      Electronic Case Report Forms eCRFs are to be completed using RedCAP system. Sites will
      receive training and a have access to a manual for appropriate eCRF completion. eCRFs will be
      submitted electronically and should be handled in accordance with instructions. All eCRFs
      should be completed by designated, trained site staff. eCRFs should be reviewed and
      electronically signed and dated by the investigator or a designee.

      Safety of Electronic data Data will be collected in an ad hoc electronic record storage. The
      creation and the management of electronic record storage will be evaluated preliminarily with
      institution information technology staff. Data will be collected in REDCap platform. Redcap
      platform is an online platform maintained in a server that is propriety of the institution.
      Access and data transfer from and to REDCap platform are managed under https protocol and
      128-bit encryption wit SSL certificate (a secure connection with encrypted data transfer).
      The access at the site is allowed only for the investigators and require a user-specific
      password of at least 8 characters including number and special character. Redcap comes with a
      system of user privileges, so only the account of the principal investigator has the
      authorization to explore the entire dataset. The sub-investigators and data manager have
      limited authorizations,and can see only data that they entered personally. REDCap provider
      and the principal investigator guarantee that creation and management of username and
      password are compliant with privacy law.

      The access of REDCap platform is regulated by law for protection of personal data.
      Administrative procedures on applications (e.g. user creation and suspension, study
      configuration, query creation, data mining) are pertinence of the principal investigator and
      his information technology support team. REDCap platform, to manage identity of people
      involved in the study, generates a unique identification number associated at every eCRF of
      the subject, that allow the investigators to maintain association with name and surname of
      the subject locally.

      Data collected on REDCap, even if they do not allow to associate data with a specific subject
      or to recognize the subject, are registered in double-key SSL encryption, and maintained with
      AES 128 encryption. As regulated by law for protection of personal data, REDCap and the
      principal investigator guarantee the weekly backup of data in a password-protected storage.

      Data will be accessed only by principal investigator and his support team (sub
      investigators), and they will have confidentiality obligation.
    
  