
    
      The purpose of this prospective, double-blind, repeated measures study is to assess the
      efficacy of Binaural Beat Technology (BBT- a sound technology that uses special tones
      [embedded in music] through stereo headphones to affect your brainwaves in order to put you
      in a more relaxed state) on anxiety and anxiety related cardiovascular measures as well as to
      assess the feasibility of implementing a BBT intervention in a military population during the
      high risk post-deployment window.

      A sample of 74 Warriors who have deployed will be randomly placed into two groups (music with
      BBT and music without BBT). Each group will be exposed to their respective intervention for
      30 minutes at bedtime, 3 times a week, for 4 weeks. Quantitative and qualitative measures
      will be collected as follows…

        1. Cardiovascular reactivity, c-reactive protein, and state anxiety measures will be
           collected at baseline and after the 4 week intervention.

        2. Morning blood pressure (BP) surge and evening BP decline measures will be collected at
           baseline and weeks 0, 2 and 4.

        3. Input from the participants will be collected via daily logs and at the completion of
           the 4 week intervention.

      Aim 1 - To assess the feasibility of implementing a binaural beat technology intervention in
      a military population during the high risk post deployment window. Feasibility will be
      measured by assessing:

        1. retention

        2. number of refusal during recruitment

        3. number of drop outs

        4. reason for drop outs

        5. reason for staying

        6. number of days the technology was used

        7. selection of music

        8. ease of use and comfort of equipment

        9. adherence to the protocol

       10. evaluation of recruitment strategies

      Aim 2 - To assess the impact of binaural beat technology on anxiety and relevant CV health
      measures. These measures included:

        1. Comparison of pre and post intervention state anxiety scores

        2. Observing the trend of morning blood pressure surge over time

        3. Observing the trend of evening blood pressure decline over time

        4. Comparison of pre and post intervention heart rate variability measures

        5. Comparison of pre and post intervention c-reactive protein measures
    
  