
    
      Internal hemorrhoidal disease is classified according to the Goligher classification into
      grades I, II, III and IV according to its grade of prolapse and reducibility. The treatment
      of patients should be oriented by the presence of symptoms and the impact on life quality,
      aspects that are valued on the Sodergren scale.

      The hemorrhoidal bleeding, usually mild, may be severe in patients under antithrombotic
      medications (antiplatelet or anticoagulant) as well as in patients with bleeding disorders
      non-induced by drugs. With the increase of life expectancy and the high prevalence of atrial
      fibrillation, the consumption of anticoagulants has also been increasing. Similarly, the use
      of antiplatelet medication has also increased, especially through its use in the primary and
      secondary prevention of cardiovascular events. Vitamin K antagonists and antiplatelet drugs
      are associated with an incidence of digestive bleeding between 1.5% - 4.5% with a short-term
      mortality of 10-15%. The relation between the use of new oral anticoagulants (NOACs) and
      digestive bleeding remains a matter of debate, with some studies showing different results
      when comparing bleeding risk with vitamin K antagonists. Similar to what happen with this
      subset of patients, those with inherited bleeding disorders are a known subgroup of patients
      predisposed to hemorrhagic complications. Hemophilia represents the main cause of inherited
      defects of clotting factors VIII and IX. With the advent of intravenous clotting factors
      concentrates, the perioperative mortality in this subgroup as decreased in the mid-20th
      century. However patients with this hematologic disease still have a higher risk of bleeding,
      delayed wound healing and postoperative infections. To the investigator's knowledge little is
      known about the prevalence of hemorrhoidal disease in patients with inherited bleeding
      disorders. Bearing in mind the high rate of surgical complications in these patients, they
      could represent the ideal candidates for less invasive office-based hemorrhoidal therapy.
      Instrumental, office-based treatment is reserved for internal hemorrhoidal disease grades I
      to III. Regardless of the applied technique, the goal is to decrease vascularization,
      decrease hemorrhoidal volume and increase the fixation of the fibrovascular pedicle to the
      rectal wall, thus treating the bleeding and hemorrhoidal prolapse. Rubber band ligation is
      considered the method of choice in the treatment of hemorrhoidal disease. However, its use is
      associated to bleeding rates after procedure ranging between 3.5 - 50% and late bleeding
      rates between 13% - 18,3% that may occur until 7-14 days after treatment. The hemorrhagic
      event is significant in 0.8% of cases and may even prove fatal. For this reason, this
      technique is contraindicated in patients with bleeding disorders. In patients on
      antithrombotic medication, discontinuation of this medication is recommended for 7 days
      before the ligation procedure and 7-10 days after the procedure, which substantially
      increases the risk of cardioembolic events. In contrast, sclerotherapy is a technique with a
      low rate of bleeding complications and can be used to treat hemorrhoidal disease grades I to
      III. After intravascular injection of sclerosing agent above the pectineal line - Blanchard
      technique - an inflammatory and fibrotic response is obtained that interrupts the blood
      supply. Although there are multiple sclerosing agents, in Portugal, the most frequently used
      is liquid polidocanol. As a nonionic detergent its use as a foam (obtained by the technique
      of Tessari which uses a device that combines two syringes and a three-way tap in which the
      polidocanol is mixed with air under mechanical force) appears to be associated with greater
      efficacy even with lower doses of sclerosing agent. Sclerotherapy with liquid polidocanol is
      effective in the treatment of grade I hemorrhoidal disease with a study demonstrating
      superiority of foam formulation in this grade of hemorrhoidal disease. A recently published
      Portuguese study sought to study the efficacy and safety of foamed polidocanol sclerotherapy
      in patients with grade I to IV hemorrhoidal disease. On the findings, which included 2000
      participants, 210 of them on anticoagulant and/or dual antiplatelet therapy, the authors
      conclude that this instrumental procedure is effective and safe even in patients on
      antithrombotic therapy. However, no comparison was made between the incidence of
      complications occurred in this subgroup of patients with the remaining patients without
      antithrombotic therapy. As far as we know there are no published studies comparing
      polidocanol foam sclerotherapy to other ablative techniques.

      The investigators are conducting a multicentric longitudinal prospective study including
      adult patients, with or without bleeding disorders, with hemorrhoidal disease grades I to III
      submitted to polidocanol foam sclerotherapy in three health institutions during an inclusion
      period of 1.5 years. Efficacy is assessed using Sodergren score of symptoms, bleeding and
      Goligher grades, and recurrence during follow-up. For the safety evaluation, complications
      are recorded. Efficacy and safety outcomes will be compared between two groups of patients:
      with bleeding disorders (Group A) and without bleeding disorders (Group B).
    
  