
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an acquired demyelinating disease of unclear etiology, occurring
      mainly in adults. Multiple sclerosis occurs in 30-100 people per 100 000. Usually the disease
      attacks young adults aged between 20 and 40 years. The peak of this occurrence is in the
      population of 30-35 year olds.

      The main feature of the disease is multifocal (disseminated) injury of the central nervous
      system. The injury causes various neurological symptoms and signs that go on and off
      (relapsing-remitting form) or progress steadily, and with time cause irreversible damage of
      the nervous system and permanent disability. In neuropsychological studies, 40-65% of MS
      subjects show cognitive impairment with prominent involvement of memory, sustained attention
      and information processing speed. Multiple sclerosis subjects with different disease courses
      have different cognitive profiles.

      Cognitive dysfunction can have a dramatic impact on a subject's QoL, influencing the
      fulfillment in work and social life, independently from physical disability. The methodology
      of cognitive status assessment in MS is based on established sets of tests, which could be
      conduced by qualified neurophysiologists. There is a need of simple test that could be
      quickly conducted by every physician, providing information of cognitive status/ or one of
      its parameters (attention/concentration). That kind of information could be immediately used
      by the physician during the visit to adjust the way of taking history or giving advices to
      subjects.

      During the last 10 years there's been an enormous progress in the MS treatment. New drugs
      appeared that proved to diminish clinical activity of the disease and slow its progress.
      Early treatment with disease modifying therapies may reduce cognitive impairment or slow down
      the progression of cognitive deficits.

      The scope of this study is to evaluate the cognitive status (attention/concentration) and the
      influence of cognitive impairment on QoL in subjects with RRMS during two years of treatment
      with RNF.

      OBJECTIVES

      Primary objective:

        -  To evaluate the QoL in subjects with RRMS during two years of treatment with RNF

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To evaluate the cognitive status (attention/concentration) and the influence of
           cognitive impairment on QoL in subjects with RRMS during two years of treatment with RNF
           Subjects will be treated according to widely-acknowledged standards for MS treatment and
           the choice of drug will depend solely on medical indications. The potential subjects
           will have been prescribed Rebif for the first time by their treating physicians and will
           then be given the option to enter in this observational study. As this is purely an
           observational study, the subjects will be followed by their treating physicians,
           according to current medical practice and Rebif SmPC (Summary of Product
           Characteristics) requirements (i.e monitoring of thyroid and liver enzymes prior to the
           start of therapy, and hepatic function at months 1, 3, 6 and periodically thereafter,
           prescription of antipyretics etc.) After each control visit, the treating physician will
           complete subject's observations chart. The planned schedule of visits will be identical
           to the routine schedule of control visits dictated by the National Health Found: 1st
           Visit - 3 months after RNF therapy start, 2nd Visit - after 6 months, 3rd Visit - after
           9 months, 4th Visit - after 12 months, 5th Visit - after 18 months, 6th Visit - after 24
           months.

      "0" visit - doctors will be asked to complete data from subjects history (doctors will be
      given the proposal of testing (MusiQoL[Multiple Sclerosis International Quality of Life],
      MMSE [Mini Mental State Examination] and 10-PCT [10-Point Clock Test]) most subjects on the
      visit when the disease-modifying drugs [DMD] therapy is instituted).
    
  