
    
      Depressive symptoms and impaired self-care respectively occur in up to 58% and 80% of older
      hospitalized patients with heart failure, and each doubles the risk of rehospitalization.
      These two conditions are closely intertwined with shared core behaviors/experiences, i.e.,
      hopelessness/negative expectation, loss of motivation, impaired problem-solving skills, and
      social isolation/poor social support. As such, integrated interventions that explicitly
      address both depressive symptoms and impaired HF self-care are more efficacious than
      interventions that focus on depressive symptoms or HF self-care alone. In separate studies,
      problem-solving therapy (PST) has been effective to improve depressive symptoms and self-care
      for heart disease in older adults, including those with mild cognitive impairment. Though
      promising, there is no evidence regarding PST efficacy in addressing both depressive symptoms
      and self-care in HF patients. This is due to 1) sample heterogeneity, as only 18% to 77% of
      the subjects in prior studies had HF, and 2) separate interventional foci, as HF information
      was not used to link depressed mood to impaired self-care. Characteristics of hospitalized HF
      patients such as timing and cognitive function were also not considered. The first three
      months after hospital discharge is the period when depressive symptoms are most likely to
      change and when impaired HF self-care is mostly likely to lead to rehospitalization.
      Moreover, more than half (54%) of older depressed HF patients have mild cognitive impairment
      that can lead to dementia, especially in the context of impaired self-care, uncontrolled HF
      and restricted cerebral blood flow. However, no PST interventions have been specifically
      provided in the post-discharge period or among HF patients with mild cognitive impairment. To
      date, there is no evidence regarding the efficacy of integrated PST interventions on both
      depressive symptoms and impaired self-care in HF patients after hospital discharge.

      The ultimate goal of this research program is to prevent rehospitalization in HF patients
      using integrated PST interventions to simultaneously improve depressive symptoms and
      self-care. Built on the investigator's prior work with depressive symptoms in home health
      care (HHC), this study will examine the feasibility of a home-based, telephone-enhanced PST
      intervention (PST-HF) in these patients after hospital discharge.
    
  