
    
      -  Burden: Watery diarrhea including cholera continues to be a major cause of childhood
           mortality in developing countries, with an estimated 1.5 million children dying each
           year. This figure has greatly reduced from approximately 5 million diarrheal deaths
           annually 20 years ago, a phenomenon often attributed to the utilization of oral
           rehydration solution (ORS).

        -  Knowledge Gap: ORS is very effective in correcting dehydration and reducing mortality,
           but is not adequately used in many countries, partly due to the fact that it does not
           reduce diarrhea. The physiological basis for ORS is that glucose-stimulated sodium and
           fluid absorption is not inhibited by cyclic 3',5'-adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and
           other diarrhea mediators which inhibit sodium chloride absorption. The conventional
           glucose-based ORS does not reduce duration or severity of diarrhea and may in fact
           paradoxically increase fecal fluid losses. Advances in ORS composition have included the
           universal adoption of hypo-osmolar ORS (HO-ORS) in 2003. Recent technological
           innovations have led to the use of amylase-resistant starches and their modifications in
           the treatment of diarrhea. Short chain fatty acids (SCFA), which are produced in colon
           from these non-absorbed carbohydrates, enhance sodium absorption. An orally
           administered, non-absorbed starch (i.e., one resistant to digestion by amylase)
           significantly reduced fecal fluid loss and the duration of diarrhea in patients with
           cholera.

        -  Relevance: Efforts are continuing to improve the efficacy of oral rehydration solution.
           As glucose stimulates sodium and water absorption in small intestine, short chain fatty
           acids (SCFAs) stimulate sodium and water absorption in the colon. In cholera, colonic
           function is also impaired due to the lack of SCFAs. The main source of SCFAs is the
           unabsorbed carbohydrates that are fermented in the colon by the colonic bacteria. The
           maize starch contains substantial amount of amylase resistant starch that escapes
           digestion and absorption in the small intestine and is fermented in the colon,
           liberating SCFAs. We expect that our experimental ORS containing maize starch will
           reduce the severity (stool volume) and enhance recovery (reduce duration) of diarrhoea.
    
  