
    
      This is a double blind randomised controlled trial. The aim of the study is to compare the
      biomechanical performance of knee replacements with different bearing designs to that of a
      native or natural knee. The hypothesis is that a mobile bearing design with a high congruency
      bearing will allow the knee replacement to work more like the native knee and give more
      natural movement when carrying out everyday tasks.

      The current evidence on whether fixed or mobile, low or high congruency bearings give the
      most natural movement or provide better knee function is sparse. By carrying out a randomised
      controlled trial including a cohort of healthy individuals and taking indepth functional
      assessments of a number of different common activities of daily living it should be possible
      to show what level of functional outcome the three bearings being used give.

      Ninety patients scheduled for total knee arthroplasty under the care of four consultant
      orthopaedic surgeons at the Golden Jubilee National Hospital who meet the inclusion/exclusion
      criteria will be recruited and randomised into one of the three study groups (low congruency
      fixed bearing, high congruency fixed bearing or high congruency mobile bearing).

      Invitation letters and participant information sheets will be sent out to suitable patients
      prior to their preoperative consultation. They will be approached at their consultation visit
      to seek consent to take part in the study. At this time they will be given the opportunity to
      ask questions about the study. Following written consent, the patient will be randomised
      using sequentially numbered opaque sealed envelopes. A nominated person, independent of the
      approach and consent of the patient, will sign and open the envelope and inform the hospital
      research team of the randomisation. The patient and the university research team will be
      blinded to randomisation. For each patient arrangements will be made for their preoperative
      movement analysis testing session. Subsequently, they will have their surgery and
      rehabilitation prior to discharge according to standard hospital practice. Participants will
      then return to the hospital for standard follow up appointments at six weeks and one year. At
      the same time arrangements will be made for them to attend their follow up movement analysis
      sessions. Clinical data recorded at preoperative assessment and postoperative follow up
      appointments, such as range of movement, Oxford Knee Score, patient satisfaction, EQ5D and
      radiographic measurements will be collected for study patients to compare to the functional
      outcomes measured during the movement analysis sessions.

      Participants will be asked to attend movement analysis testing sessions at the University of
      Strathclyde in Glasgow on three separate occasions; preoperatively, at 4 to 8 weeks
      postoperatively and at one year postoperatively. Each of these sessions will follow the same
      procedure. Prior to data collection, participants will be asked to change into the tight
      fitting shorts and vest tops provided (male participants will be asked to forego the vest
      tops) in the changing rooms within the laboratory facility. Measurements of weight and body
      dimensions will be taken (required for processing the data) and then reflective markers will
      be attached to the legs, pelvis, torso and arms. These will be attached using toupee tape or
      elasticated straps as required. They will be asked to wear a headband (provided) with another
      four markers attached on their head. There will be eight activities of daily living (ADLs) in
      the test protocol, which will be carried out in one of two laboratories; one a standard
      motion capture laboratory (S) and the other in a laboratory with a CAREN system (Motek
      Medical, Amsterdam, Netherlands) which consists of a virtual reality screen, moving platform
      and treadmill (M). The ADLs will be:

        1. Level walking in a straight line (S)

        2. Level walking along a curved pathway (S)

        3. Sit to stand to sit (S)

        4. Sit to stand to walk (S)

        5. Ascending and descending stairs (S)

        6. Getting into and out of a car (S)

        7. Single leg balance (M)

        8. Walking on an incline (M)

      Participants will be asked to perform each ADL in a fixed order several times until three
      good sets of data have been collected. Participants will be given instructions on how to
      perform each ADL prior to performing it and will be asked to practice them before data is
      collected. During the demanding tasks, participants will be supported by a harness to prevent
      falls and hand rails will be provided on the test staircase. Participants will be allowed
      rest breaks between each ADL and during tests if required. At the end of each task the
      participant will be asked a set of questions about how they found performing the task. On
      completion of the test protocol, the markers will be removed, the participant will get
      changed and will be free to leave. It is expected that each testing session will last up to 4
      hours.

      The three good data sets will be averaged to reduce variability. Statistical analysis will be
      carried out using an appropriate statistical package to determine if any significant
      differences exist in the data between the three patient groups and between the patient groups
      and the control group. All data will be tested for parametricity. Parametric data will be
      analysed using analysis of variance (ANOVA) tests with post hoc Bonferroni correction. If the
      data is found to be nonparametric, KruskalWallis tests will be used. For data over time
      appropriate repeated measures analysis will be used. A 95% confidence level will be used
      throughout.

      The study is being funded over a three year period. The first year involves the set up and
      development of the protocol and the recruitment of the control participants. It is hoped that
      the recruitment of the patients will start nine months into the study period and will take 25
      months to complete the data collection and analysis. This will allow two months for the
      reporting of the study.
    
  