
    
      Diabetes is a chronic metabolic endocrine disorder characterised by the inability to
      metabolise glucose effectively. It is associated with reduced life expectancy, significant
      morbidity due to specific diabetes related complications, and increased risk of complications
      such as heart disease, stroke, and diminished quality of life. The incidence of diabetes is
      on the increase with approximately 347 million adults affected worldwide. Type 2 diabetes
      accounts for 90-95% of these cases and figures are estimated to increase to 552 million by
      2030.

      Lifestyle changes such as a reduction in exercise and an increase in dietary intake over the
      past number of years have been flagged as being responsible for this dramatic surge in the
      prevalence of Type 2 diabetes on a global scale.

      Because diabetes is a chronic and progressive condition people not only require regular
      access to medical care, but the ability to self-manage symptoms on a daily basis is now
      considered to be an essential part of treatment. Self-management involves the continuous
      monitoring of dietary intake, physical activity, general health, stress levels, blood sugar
      levels, and adherence to medication regimens. Diabetes is a demanding illness that requires
      complex self-management maintenance/care on a daily basis. Coping with these demands and
      maintaining lifestyle changes can often be overwhelming for individuals and this can result
      in significant distress that includes feelings of anxiety, guilt, helplessness, defeat, and
      depression.

      Research has demonstrated that those who display high levels of such symptoms are not
      necessarily clinically depressed; rather they experience high levels of emotional distress
      related to diabetes and their management of the disease. Diabetes distress is a distinct
      condition that directly relates to diabetes outcomes. It is characterised by unique emotional
      issues that directly relate to the burden of living with diabetes such as worry, frustration,
      concern and aspects of burnout.

      Several factors prevent people with diabetes from accessing support and treatment for any
      distress they may experience in self-managing, such as poor education, personal finances,
      physical access to services, lack of social support, poor motivation, low self-efficacy, and
      negative attitudes to treatments. In addition the concept of diabetic distress is relatively
      new and unknown. This highlights the growing need to develop effective treatment options to
      overcome barriers to access for people with type 2 diabetes.

      A significant amount of research in recent years has focused on diabetes self-management
      education and its effectiveness for improving diabetes care and glycemic control.
      Face-to-face lifestyle interventions with a particular focus on behaviour change are not new
      in the treatment and management of type 2 diabetes. In recent years, computer-based
      interventions have been shown to be effective for behaviour change (e.g. in smoking
      cessation). Researchers are now investigating whether there is a practical and cost-effective
      use for computer-based interventions to address more complex behaviour change such as that
      required in chronic disease self-management such as Type 2 diabetes .

      Previous reviews of internet-delivered interventions for people with diabetes demonstrated
      some effects on physical and lifestyle self-management but failed to have any great impact on
      psychological outcomes. Previous work seems to demonstrate the need for further more
      integrated approaches that considers both health behaviours and their modification and
      behavioural health, specifically addressing significant distress that includes feelings of
      anxiety, guilt, helplessness, defeat, and depression. However, can an internet-delivered
      intervention address the self-management of diabetes through a comprehensive consideration of
      the distress that so often underlies the dysregulation of self-management regimes and the
      inevitable consequences of that? The current study seeks to begin an attempted answer by
      considering the clinical feasibility of a newly developed intervention called Space from
      Diabetes.

      Design:

      A mixed-method approach will be used that captures both quantitative and qualitative data.
      After completing screening questionnaires, eligible patients will be invited to use the
      intervention over an 8 week period.

      Sample:

      The investigators intend to recruit participants from Enfield Community Service. A sample
      size of 35 participants is proposed. This sample size will allow us to estimate the standard
      deviation of the symptom outcome measures for a future RCT.

      Procedure:

      Eligible patients will be invited to use the intervention over an 8 week period. The program
      will be advertised to patients through Enfield Community Service and GP surgeries via
      leaflets distributed by staff members. Participant information sheets will be administered
      before beginning the programme and consent forms will be obtained at the point of sign-up
      online. Participants can sign up online using the link provided on the leaflet to get access
      to the program. Participants will sign the consent form and complete screening measures
      online before beginning the program. Participants will then be referred to a supporter from
      within Enfield Community Service. Participants' post outcome measures will be gathered 8
      weeks after their initial login or activation of the programme.

      Ethical considerations:

      Information made available to all prospective participants will inform them of exactly what
      is involved in participating, including the objectives of the trial and its importance.
      Informed consent will be obtained from each participant before they begin to use the
      programme. Participants will know that their involvement is voluntary and they can withdraw
      their participation at any time without prejudice. In order to record participant data
      gathered during the survey questionnaire and focus groups, participants will be fully
      informed about all the material that is recorded. Moreover, data will be anonymised and
      stored in a secure and encrypted server and retained for seven years as original source.
      Postal information will be collected for the purpose of participant remuneration only. This
      data will be kept on a separate secure and encrypted server with unique identifiers.

      All materials will be submitted to appropriate ethics committee for review and approval.
    
  