
    
      African Americans have a much greater risk of type 2 diabetes compared to Caucasians in the
      United States. Similarly, recent evidence has emerged that fitness level, a major risk factor
      for type 2 diabetes also tends to be lower in African Americans. Many scientific studies have
      shown that exercise training has a beneficial impact on fitness levels and a variety of other
      type 2 diabetes risk factors such as the reduction of glucose/insulin levels, and body fat
      Importantly, studies performed in mostly Caucasian populations suggest that exercise training
      at a vigorous intensity may promote greater improvements in type 2 diabetes risk factors
      compared to moderate intensity exercise, which may suggest that it has greater promise in
      reducing type 2 diabetes risk. However, few exercise training studies compare the health
      benefits of different exercise training programs (such as exercise intensity) in African
      Americans, which is clinically important due to their greater type 2 diabetes risk, and that
      fact that they are less likely to meet public health recommendations for physical activity
      compared to their Caucasian counterparts.

      The High Intensity exercise to Promote Accelerated improvements in CardiorEspiratory fitness
      (HI-PACE) study will evaluate the effect of exercise intensity on cardiorespiratory fitness
      (CRF) and insulin sensitivity in obese (BMI: 30-45) African Americans (40-65 yrs.) with at
      least 1 additional T2D risk factor. Participants (n=60) will be recruited in collaboration
      with the ECU Center for Health Disparities, and subsequently randomized to moderate intensity
      (MOD-INT, n=20) or high intensity (HIGH-INT, n=20) aerobic exercise training, or to a control
      group (CON, n=20) for 24 weeks. Supervised exercise training will be performed at a heart
      rate associated with ~50% and ~75% of VO2 max in the MOD-INT and the HIGH-INT groups,
      respectively at the same exercise volume of 600 MET-minutes per week (consistent with public
      health recommendations). The primary outcome is the change in CRF, which will be assessed at
      baseline, mid-intervention, and follow-up. Insulin sensitivity will be measured via an
      intravenous glucose tolerance test at baseline and follow-up. Other secondary measures
      include mitochondrial oxidative capacity using infrared and measurements on muscle biopsies
      (PGC-1α and other indices of mitochondrial content), the expression of a protein involved
      with insulin action (GLUT-4 expression) in skeletal muscle as well as systemic inflammation,
      adiposity, quality of life and exercise enjoyment measures.
    
  