
    
      Obstetric hemorrhage is associated with severe maternal morbidityש and maternal death. The
      use of tocotonic drugs following delivery is routine practice as part of the active
      management of the third stage of labor, to increase uterine tone and reduce blood loss.
      However, the use of these drugs is not without side effects and complications. Oxytocin
      causes profound vasodilatation, hypotension and increased cardiac output and has been
      associated with chest pain, reduced arterial oxygen saturation and ST segment changes on ECG.
      Ergometrine, on the other hand, causes systemic vasoconstriction and hypertension, and
      reduced cardiac output. As oxytocin and ergometrine are associated with opposing hemodynamic
      sequelae, there is a rationale to justify the co-administration of both of these drugs in an
      attempt to cancel out their side effects.

      No clinical studies have attempted to titrate the dose of tocotonic drugs against a
      quantified measure of uterine tone. As a consequence, comparisons of the hemodynamic side
      effects of oxytocin and other tocotonic agents (particularly ergometrine) have not been based
      on a knowledge of equipotential doses, making the rational comparison of side effects
      impossible.

      In this study we hypothesize that infused combinations of oxytocin and ergometrine will
      exhibit fewer cardiac and neurological side effects than equipotent infusion of oxytocin
      alone. In order to perform this study we perform the following steps:

      1) We validate a quantitative measure of uterine tone as our primary endpoint. 2) We use this
      endpoint measure in order to determine equipotential doses of different tocotonic drug
      regimens, based on the ED50 for each. 3) Using equipontial ratios based on the ED50, we
      compare hemodynamic and other side effects of these tocotonic drug regimes. Plasma levels of
      oxytocin will be measured to enable pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic assessments to be made.
    
  