
    
      Investigator's will perform a prospective, randomized, controlled study. All subjects in this
      group will be adults who have sustained a distal radius fractured treated with cast
      immobilization (non-operative) at San Antonio Military Medical Center (SAMMC) clinic system.
      Participants will be provided information about the study and inclusion/exclusion criteria,
      and upon conclusion of the formal consenting process, and signature of the consent document,
      will be considered enrolled in the study. Prior to intiation of any study procedures each
      patient must be cleared for participation in treatment by his or her surgeon as per standard
      post-fracture protocol. Medical clearance will be documented on the Enrollment form (Appendix
      A) and the Medical History form (Appendix K). This will be verified by accessing the medical
      record to confirm that a referral was made for post-fracture rehabilitation. Before
      initiation of treatment, the enrolled subjects will be randomized to either a standard
      rehabilitation group or an occlusion training rehabilitation group. Randomization with be
      performed with a random number generator. Treatment will be initiated approxmiately 6 weeks
      s/p fracture (when cleared by the orthopedic surgeon). Participantswill undergo approximetely
      8-12 weeks of treatment with therapy sessions two to three days a week (consistent with
      standard of care), and will have re-assessments completed at approximately 4 weeks, 8 weeks,
      and 12 weeks after initiating the training protocol. The 12-week time point (after initiation
      of therapy) will be at approximately the same time that patients are released for full
      activity per standard of care.

      The control (non-occlusion training) group will follow the standard s/p distal radius
      fracture rehabilitation protocol. Treatment will include passive, active assistive,active
      range of motion (P/AA/AROM) to wrist, forearm and hand; desensitization as needed; edema
      control as needed; heat/cold modalities as needed; and strengthening exercises. Specific
      strengthening exercises will include wrist flexion/extension over a foam wedge, forearm
      pronation/supination with arm positioned at side and elbow at 90 degrees, thumb opposition
      (pinch strength) as well as grip strengthening. The amount of resistance used with be
      determined by patient tolerance and post operative precautions.

      The occlusion training group will follow the same protocol as described above but will
      utilize occlusion training with the strengthening exercises. We will use an established
      occlusion training protocol already being used at the CFI. The resistance for strength
      training will be determined based on the individual participants tolerance. A cuff will be
      wrapped around the most proximal portion of the arm of the involved extremity. In order to
      individualize the pressure for each subject, the limb occlusion pressure will be measured
      (with dopplar ultrasound over the radial artery at the wrist level) at the first scheduled
      therapy visit. Limb occlusion pressure is the pressure necessary to completely occlude
      arterial blood flow. The cuff pressure utilized during the post-operative exercises will be
      set at 50% of the limb occlusion pressure. Repetions will be 30, 15, 15 and 15 for each of
      the four sets. A 30-second rest will be given between sets. The tourniquet will stay inflated
      throughout the entire exercise and rest sessions, and no longer than 30 minutes consecutively
      for any time that the tourniquet is inflated. After completion of the 4 sets the tourniquet
      pressure will be deflated. The subjects' strength will be re-assessed approximately every 2-4
      weeks and the load will be increased as tolerated.
    
  