
    
      An innovative dietary approach to obesity, based on the set-point theory of body weight and
      associative learning, was developed by Seth Roberts, professor of psychology at the
      University of California at Berkeley. The set-point theory was first proposed by G. Kennedy,
      who hypothesized that body fat, like body temperature, is controlled by a set point in a
      thermostat-like system. Based on this theory and subsequent work, Roberts hypothesized that
      people have a strong conditioned response to specific food items, which raises the weight set
      point, like a thermostat, stimulating appetite and storing the excess calories as fat. In an
      environment with attractive, easily accessible, inexpensive food, many people will gain
      weight. Roberts also hypothesizes that consistency in the presentation, labeling, and taste
      of mass produced food items today elicits a stronger conditioned response than in the past.
      Roberts's approach focuses on dissociating flavor and calories by consuming small amounts of
      very bland but calorie-dense foods such as extra-light olive oil or sugar water between
      meals. Roberts believes that the dissociation between flavor and calories lowers the body
      weight's set point, suppressing appetite and thereby inducing weight loss without causing
      hunger. Decreased oral intake naturally follows a decrease in appetite, without the hunger
      that normally quickly appears when people reduce their caloric intake, so people can eat an
      amount that feels comfortable without conscious dietary restriction. Roberts outlined this
      approach in a book titled "The Shangri-La Diet" because it is not really a diet at all. Given
      the originality of this approach, the successful outcomes accounted in the book and in
      anecdotes on the internet definitely warrant a closer look. Studying the feasibility of the
      Shangri-La Diet is particularly relevant to patients taking drugs that cause increased
      appetite and weight gain as a side effect, as increased hunger makes the usual calorie
      restriction approach even more difficult than it normally is. Low-income people have a diet
      higher in prepackaged standardized foods, which may be one contributing factor to their
      higher risk of developing obesity.

      Specific Aims

        -  To test the acceptance of, and the patients' compliance rate to, the Shangri-La Diet

        -  To ascertain whether a controlled clinical trial of the Shangri-La Diet would be
           feasible.

        -  To see if the weight loss documented anecdotally in many people is reproducible in
           patients from low-income areas who are overweight and taking prescribed medications
           associated with increased appetite and weight gain.

      Methods

      2. Subjects will receive light olive oil, and capsules of fish oil and flaxseed oil, to take
      daily at home with weight based dosing, based on the doses recommended in Dr. Roberts' work.
      Doses are within the recommended dietary ranges to improve intermediate outcomes for coronary
      artery disease (HDL, LDL, and triglycerides) and ranges associated with a decreased risk of
      cardiac and all cause mortality in epidemiological studies. They will return weekly for
      measurement of weight, waist measurements, discussion of any problems with the oils, and dose
      adjustment of the oils.

      3. Evaluation: At the end of 6 weeks of the intervention, the subjects will complete the same
      questionnaires as at baseline, and an evaluation form about the intervention.

      Analysis: The primary end point will be acceptability of the dietary intervention as measured
      by the final interview and the evaluation form-is this something patients would be willing to
      do over the long term? Secondary outcomes will be changes in the participants' weight, waist
      measurements, anxiety, and depression scores.
    
  