
    
      Study design:

      This is a phase 3, multi-center, randomized, Evaluation Committee-blinded study in patients
      undergoing noncuffed central venous catheterization using either a single lumen or
      multi-lumen catheter, and for whom the catheter is expected to be in place for at least 48
      hours and for no longer than 28 days. Patients will be randomized within 4 hours of the
      insertion of the first study CVC.

      The first study catheter for all patients must be a noncuffed (nontunneled) central venous
      catheter (CVC). Additionally, only catheters inserted using povidone iodine to prepare the
      insertion site are eligible to become study catheters. CVCs will be inserted either into the
      axillary, jugular, subclavian, or femoral vein. Following the first study CVC insertion,
      additional CVCs, as well as arterial catheters and PICC lines will be allowed as study
      catheters. Only catheters that have not been impregnated with an antimicrobial substance
      (e.g. bonded catheters, antimicrobial impregnated, silver tipped, etc) may be used as study
      catheters. Study catheters must have a skin/catheter interface; for example, introducers will
      be allowed as study catheters but any catheter, including a CVC, inserted through the
      introducer will be deemed a non-study catheter. Once a patient has been randomized to either
      treatment, all study catheters will receive the same treatment.

      NIH (NCID) and/or local hospital guidelines will be followed for maximal sterile barrier
      precautions. The catheter site will be disinfected using 10% povidone iodine for a minimum of
      2 minutes per established CDC guidelines prior to catheter insertion. Patients randomized to
      the omiganan 1% gel group will receive an application of omiganan 1% gel around the catheter
      insertion site following catheter insertion. Patients randomized to the povidone iodine group
      will receive no further antisepsis treatment other than cleansing the site with povidone
      iodine at dressing changes. For patients in both groups, the catheterization site will be
      covered with a semitransparent dressing provided by the sponsor.

      Every 3 days the dressing will be changed. Skin irritation, erythema and edema will be
      assessed as well as the presence of purulence, moisture, ecchymosis, abnormally warm tissue
      temperature and/or site pain/tenderness.

      Patients will be discharged from the study following the removal of the final study catheter
      or on study day 28, whichever is sooner. Patients or their legal representatives will be
      contacted at least 28 days after study discharge/withdrawal for safety follow-up purposes.
    
  