
    
      Brief contact interventions are distinct from other treatments for suicide and suicidal
      behaviour, in that the goals include maintaining long-term contact with patients, and through
      this, provide opportunities for them to re-engage with mental health services when needed.
      Additionally, brief interventions are not required to be carried out by mental health
      professionals (i.e. psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers), and they are provided over
      a structured schedule over a prolonged period post discharge.

      The brief intervention and contact (BIC) model followed in this study is based on the BIC
      model that was utilised by the WHO as part of the Multisite Intervention Study On Suicidal
      Behaviours (SUPRE-MISS). A sub-project of the SUPRE-MISS study involved the implementation of
      a brief intervention that included an hour-long information session about suicide and
      suicidal behaviour around the discharge period, and nine periods of follow up through an
      in-person visit or phone call to assess the patient's well-being and provide referrals to
      clinical services as needed. Following implementation, an analysis of the effectiveness of
      the BIC model in five different countries, Brazil, India, Sri Lanka, Islamic Republic of
      Iran, and China, outline its potential utility. Compared to patients in the control group,
      there was a reduction in suicide rates in patients who received the BIC intervention.

      This is a pilot study to test the feasibility of implementing the BIC protocol in a large
      multisite trial. We will, however, provide the objective of the main study to provide an
      overview of the study and the intended outcomes in addition to the pilot study objectives as
      below.

      Study question and hypothesis of the main study:

      For patients with suicidal behaviour admitted to inpatient units of acute and tertiary
      hospitals, does the addition of a brief intervention and contact program decrease suicide
      re-attempts, reduce depressive symptoms, improve social connectivity, and reduce further ER
      visits, compared to treatment as usual after 18 months of follow-up? The pilot study will be
      for 6 months only. We hypothesize that brief intervention and contact is an effective
      intervention for reducing suicidal behaviour in patients who have attempted suicide.

      The intervention:

      Patients in the intervention group will receive the BIC intervention, alongside treatment as
      usual. BIC consists of a 1-hour information session about the epidemiology and presentation
      of suicide and suicidal behaviour at the time of discharge, along with follow-up with
      patients at 1, 2, 4, 6 weeks, and 3, 4, 5, and 6 months. The intention of the frequency of
      follow up is to increase the time between follow up visits as per the original protocol and
      eventually discontinue. Follow-up contact will involve assessing how patients feel and
      whether they need additional support. The WHO protocol that contains all questionnaires to be
      used for follow-up is attached to this protocol.

      The control:

      Patients in the control group will receive treatment as usual. Pilot Study Objectives

      Primary objectives:

      The main goal of pilot phase is to enhance the success of the full trial by testing the
      feasibility of conducting a randomized controlled trial to assess the effectiveness of a
      brief intervention and contact program for suicide delivered through a face to face, phone or
      text-based intervention in addition to treatment as usual to reduce suicide attempts,
      depressive symptoms and ER visits, and improve social connectivity.

      The pilot primary objectives are therefore summarized after Thabane and colleagues (cite the
      ref here):

        1. Assess the feasibility of the study process in terms of recruitment, retention, number
           of follow-ups completed, and data completion

        2. Assess resources needed including the use of mobile phones for contacting patients,
           interview spaces for initial intake questionnaire and consent processes.

      Pilot study secondary objectives

        1. Assess reduction in subsequent suicide attempts and completed suicides through access to
           medical records over 6 months post discharge

        2. Assess the change in depressive symptoms using the Beck Depression Inventory between and
           within the intervention and control groups

        3. Explore the change in sense of social connectivity and social support using the
           Bille-Brahe Social Support Questionnaire, the Sarason Social Support Questionnaire
           (short form), and two questions pertaining to the places and activities the patient
           engages in most often between and within the intervention and control groups

        4. Assess the reduction in ER visits between and within the intervention and control groups
    
  