
    
      This is a prospective open label clinical trial comparing serum albumin levels and total
      protein intake in the peritoneal dialysis patient population. Two treatment groups were
      established: a natural food group who was instructed by their dietician in how to reach their
      goal protein intake through purely increasing the consumption of natural foods rich in
      protein versus a protein supplement group who was instructed by their dietician in how many
      protein supplements to consume in addition to their natural food intake in order to reach
      their goal protein intake. To increase compliance, patients were allowed to choose which
      treatment group they wanted to participate in. Patients, however, were not allowed to change
      groups during the study.

      At the initiation of the study patients were asked to record food diaries so the dietician
      can calculate their baseline protein intake. Each patient had an assigned dietician who met
      with the patient monthly. The food diaries were collected during their monthly visits.
      Patients were also randomly called and asked to give their food intake during the last 24
      hours in order to minimize recall bias. Each month the participant's dietician calculated
      their protein intake deficit and educated the patient on how to increase their protein intake
      to reach their goal of 1.4g/kg/day. The recommended protein intake for peritoneal dialysis
      patients is between 1.2 to 1.5 g/kg/day. Therefore, a goal of 1.4g/kg/day was set, which is
      at the higher end of the goal range in order to ensure an adequately high protein intake.

      The patient's serum albumin levels, phosphate levels, kt/v, and total protein intake were
      recorded at baseline, month 1 (M1), month 2 (M2), and month 3 (M3). Furthermore, all major
      comorbidities in each patient were recorded and compared. Data was extracted from the
      electronical medical record system and entered into a password protected file. This data was
      then analyzed.
    
  