
    
      Colleges and universities have seen a large increase in the number of students referred to
      the administration for the violation of alcohol policies. However, research indicates that
      the majority of mandated students may not require extensive treatment. Stepped care assigns
      individuals to different levels of care according to their response to treatment. Encouraging
      research indicates that minimal interventions and BMIs may reduce heavy drinking in mandated
      college students. Thus, implementing stepped care using these interventions could maximize
      treatment efficiency and reduce the demands on campus alcohol programs.

      Participants will be students mandated to attend an alcohol program at a northeastern private
      university. All participants will receive Step 1, a 15-minute minimal intervention including
      a discussion of the referral incident and the provision of a booklet containing advice to
      reduce drinking. Participants will be assessed six weeks later, and those continuing to
      exhibit risky alcohol use will receive Step 2, randomization to: (a) a 60-90 minute brief
      motivational intervention (BMI) or (b) an assessment-only control. All students will complete
      3, 6, and 9 month follow-up assessments. The three groups will be compared on two outcome
      measures: frequency of binge drinking episodes and alcohol-related problems in the past 30
      days. Predictors of treatment response (readiness to change, alcohol expectancies, age of
      first drink, sensation seeking, descriptive norms, and reaction to the referral) will also be
      evaluated for both steps of the intervention. Research findings will assist college alcohol
      programs in determining the most effective and efficient allocation of their limited
      resources in treating mandated students. The long-term objectives of this research are to
      inform preventive intervention research about the utility and cost-effectiveness of
      stepped-care approaches and to identify individual and situational factors that qualify these
      effects.
    
  