
    
      Fasting, even if for brief periods, results in a marked reduction in insulin sensitivity.
      This insulin resistance developed after surgery has been implicated in the increase of the
      length of stay at the hospital. Randomized studies involving either preoperative glucose
      infusion or ingestion of a carbohydrate-rich beverage have shown that postoperative insulin
      resistance may be reduced by about 50% when preoperative fasting is avoided.

      One of the recommended methods to avoid the insulin resistance in the perioperative period is
      the provision of isotonic, carbohydrate-containing clear fluids up to 2 hours preoperatively,
      so that patients begin their surgery in a fed rather than fasted state. This has been called
      "carbohydrate loading". An amount of 50 g of carbohydrates is sufficient to produce an
      insulin response similar to that of a mixed solid meal.

      Beverages containing different combinations of carbohydrate or protein have been used in
      different patient populations and support the safety of their use in the perioperative
      period. Although there is substantial evidence that gastric emptying is similar in
      non-laboring term pregnant women and non-pregnant it is unknown whether the maternal anxiety
      preceding the procedure and the addition of a 50 g carbohydrate containing beverage may cause
      delayed gastric emptying and increase the risk of aspiration in the obstetric population.

      Bedside ultrasound assessment of the gastric content has shown good intra- and inter-rater
      reliability. Our group has previously demonstrated that in 103 women scheduled for elective
      cesarean, 95% of fasting subjects presented with an antral cross-sectional area ≤10.3 cm2.

      In order to implement and to standardize a beverage containing 50 g of complex carbohydrate
      offered to women when admitted to the hospital in preparation for their elective cesarean
      delivery, the investigators must ensure that women have an empty stomach by the time they
      arrive to the operating room.
    
  