
    
      Initial dosing regimens of ZDV were based on the plasma half-life of the drug. However,
      recent studies of the intracellular metabolism of ZDV have demonstrated that the active
      anabolite, ZDV-TP, is present within the cell for an extended period of time relative to the
      drug in the plasma. This suggests that antiviral activity may be present for a sufficient
      time frame with less-frequent dosing of the drug. Careful comparison of the rate and extent
      of intracellular phosphorylated ZDV metabolites as a function of schedule will determine
      whether less-frequent dosing has a sound pharmacological basis. Also, the intracellular
      metabolism of 3TC is via different enzymes than that of ZDV and there are quantitative
      differences in the amount of triphosphate formed from both drugs. This study will provide
      information about intracellular metabolites when both ZDV and 3TC are concurrently
      administered.

      This is a study of 2 schedules of Combivir therapy. At study entry or Part I, all patients
      take Combivir twice daily for the 7-day adherence assessment. Patients who have demonstrated
      70 percent or greater adherence [AS PER AMENDMENT 7/20/01: 70 percent compliance with the
      study regimen for Combivir. This corresponds to taking at least 10 of the prescribed 14
      Combivir tablets during the 7 days prior to an adherence assessment, including all scheduled
      doses in the 24-hour period prior to that assessment.], and have taken all scheduled Combivir
      doses in the previous 24 hours, have pharmacokinetic samples obtained and are randomized to
      Group A or Group B in Part II. Group A patients take 2 Combivir tablets once daily; Group B
      patients take 1 Combivir tablet twice daily. After patients have completed the targeted
      duration of Part II (7 days for Group A and 7-14 days for Group B), they are assessed for
      adherence. Patients who have demonstrated 70 percent or greater adherence, and have taken all
      scheduled Combivir doses in the previous 24 hours, have pharmacokinetic samples obtained and
      then change to the alternate dosing schedule. Group A patients take 1 Combivir tablet twice
      daily; Group B patients take 2 Combivir tablets once daily. After patients have completed the
      targeted duration of Part III (7-14 days for Group A and 7 days for Group B), they are
      assessed for adherence. All patients who meet the adherence criteria have pharmacokinetic
      samples obtained. After completion of Part III pharmacokinetic studies, patients have
      completed the study. (Note: Combivir will not be provided in this study.)
    
  