
    
      Breastfeeding is the recommended infant feeding method by leading health authorities. This
      recommendation is based on the many health benefits breastfeeding provides to both women and
      their infants. Breastfeeding rates in Canada, however, are suboptimal, with nearly half of
      mothers discontinuing exclusive breastfeeding in the first three months and less than
      twenty-five percent of mothers meeting the recommendation of exclusive breastfeeding to six
      months.

      There are many factors associated with the premature cessation of exclusive breastfeeding.
      They include demographic, biological, psychosocial, and social factors. Some of these factors
      are not modifiable, such as age, social status, and education level, as they are not amenable
      to an intervention. One possible modifiable factor, which may assist women in overcoming
      breastfeeding difficulties, is fathers' support with breastfeeding. Fathers' favourable
      attitude and support of breastfeeding positively impacts breastfeeding initiation, duration,
      and exclusivity. Research on ways to assist fathers in providing support for breastfeeding is
      needed. The ways in which fathers can provide effective support can best be determined
      through intervention studies designed to increase fathers' supportive behaviour towards
      breastfeeding. Specifically, a coparenting framework to guide such interventions would be
      optimal as coparenting teaches parents to work in partnership towards positive child health
      outcomes. The purpose of this proposed randomized controlled trial is to evaluate the effects
      of a coparenting breastfeeding support intervention, delivered to primiparous breastfeeding
      mothers and the infants' fathers (the breastfeeding woman's male partner, who is jointly
      responsible for the child). It is hypothesized that this intervention will increase exclusive
      breastfeeding at 12 weeks postpartum. The secondary outcomes will be breastfeeding duration,
      perceived breastfeeding support, and coparenting at 6 and 12 weeks. Paternal breastfeeding
      self-efficacy and infant feeding attitude will be assessed at 6 weeks postpartum.

      Participants will include first-time breastfeeding women and the infants' fathers who have
      singleton births and full term healthy infants. Eligible parents who consent to participate
      will be randomized into either the intervention group or the control group. The control group
      will receive standard postpartum care, which is routine care in the hospital and community
      related to breastfeeding. The intervention group will receive standard postpartum care, plus
      a multifaceted support intervention that includes: (1) a professional-based in-hospital visit
      in the first two days postpartum that uses a take-home workbook, breastfeeding booklet, and
      video, (2) two follow-up emails in the first and third week postpartum, (3) one telephone
      call to the mother at two weeks, and (4) access to a secure study website for a three month
      period. All of the components in this intervention will contain extensive information on
      coparenting and breastfeeding. Follow-up data will be collected by the method chosen by
      participants, either by web-based survey or telephone interview. This data will be collected
      by a research assistant blinded to group allocation and data collection points will be at 6
      and 12 week postpartum.

      The results of this study will be of interest to health care professionals who work with
      breastfeeding women and their families, as well as policy makers designing programs to meet
      the needs of childbearing families.
    
  