
    
      Rationale:

      Septic shock is a major medical challenge associated with a high mortality rate and
      increasing incidence. It has become clear that the majority of septic patients do not succumb
      to an initial pro-inflammatory "hit", but at a later time-point in a pronounced
      immunosuppressive state, so called 'immunoparalysis'. Noradrenaline is a catecholamine and
      the cornerstone treatment for the improvement of hemodynamic parameters in septic shock.
      However, catecholamines exert profound immunomodulatory effects which have mainly been
      studied for adrenaline. It profoundly inhibits LPS-induced production of TNF-α, and enhances
      production of anti-inflammatory IL-10 in vitro, as well as in animal and human models of
      inflammation. Although in vitro studies have shown that noradrenaline inhibits LPS-induced
      pro-inflammatory cytokine production as potently as adrenaline, the effects of noradrenaline
      on the immune system in vivo have not yet been studied. Furthermore, effects on the immune
      system of viable vasopressor alternatives for the treatment of septic patients, namely
      phenylephrine and vasopressin, need to be established in humans in vivo.

      Objective: To investigate whether noradrenaline exerts immunomodulatory effects in humans in
      vivo and to compare noradrenaline to other vasopressors (phenylephrine and vasopressin).

      Study design: A randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study in healthy human volunteers
      during experimental endotoxemia.

      Study population: 40 healthy male volunteers, aged 18-35 yrs.

      Intervention:

        1. The noradrenaline group (n= 10): subjects that will receive intravenous infusion of
           noradrenaline 0.05 μg/kg/min for 5 hours, starting 60 minutes before intravenous
           administration of 2 ng/kg LPS.

        2. The phenylephrine group (n=10): subjects that will receive intravenous infusion of
           phenylephrine 0.5 μg/kg/min for 5 hours, starting 60 minutes before intravenous
           administration of 2 ng/kg LPS. .

        3. The vasopressin group (n = 10): subjects that will receive intravenous infusion of
           vasopressin 0.04 IU/min for 5 hours, starting 60 minutes before intravenous
           administration of 2 ng/kg LPS.

        4. The placebo group (n = 10): subjects that will receive intravenous infusion of NaCl 0.9%
           for 5 hours, starting 60 minutes before intravenous administration of 2 ng/kg LPS.

      Main parameters/endpoints:

      The difference of LPS-induced TNF-α plasma concentrations following endotoxemia between the
      noradrenaline and the placebo groups
    
  