
    
      Research on the importance of quality of life in chronic neurological patients has
      occasionally occupied the international scientific community. Due to the large scale of
      strokes occurring at young ages as well as multiple sclerosis, more and more research is
      focusing on the quality of life of these individuals.

      The present study is retrospective as well as prospective. The purpose of this study is to
      investigate the physical, psychological, social and functional aspects of life in relatively
      young people suffering from vascular stroke and in people diagnosed with multiple sclerosis
      of the same age group and to generally assess the subjective perception of these patients
      about their general health and well-being. In addition, to assess the degree of depression
      experienced by people in this age group who suffer from these diseases. Additional objectives
      are to investigate important factors that negatively affect the quality of life in this group
      of patients, according to the international literature, and to highlight targeted
      interventions to promote mental and physical health in order to improve the quality of life
      in these chronic patients.

      In particular, the research questions that this study is trying to answer are:

        -  Do young stroke patients exhibit the same quality of life as healthy populations of the
           same age?

        -  Do young people with multiple sclerosis have the same quality of life as the healthy
           population of the same age?

        -  Do young people with stroke have the same quality of life as patients with multiple
           sclerosis of the same age?

        -  Are patients (either with multiple sclerosis or stroke) with almost the same degree of
           physical independence and are older patients characterized by greater depression and
           reduced quality of life compared to younger ones?

        -  Is degree of disability associated with decreased quality of life and increased
           depression between the two groups of chronic patients?

        -  Does gender affect the quality of life and the presence of depression?

        -  Do marital and economic status affect the indicators of depression and quality of life
           in both populations to be investigated?

        -  Is location of living a factor that contributes to the reduced quality of life and the
           triggering of depression in young people with stroke and multiple sclerosis compared to
           the healthy population?
    
  