
    
      Morbid obesity is a major problem affecting the lives of millions in the US. As of 2008,
      overall prevalence of obesity as defined by body mass index (BMI) greater than 30 kg/m2 was
      33.8%.1 Obesity adversely affects the lives of millions of Americans by increasing the risk
      for co-morbid conditions such as diabetes mellitus, obstructive sleep apnea, hypertension,
      and even certain cancers.2-4 The laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding (LAGB) procedure is
      a safe, effective, and durable treatment option for refractory morbid obesity and its related
      health consequences.5 This minimally invasive technique is now a popular approach for
      bariatric surgery, and it offers obvious advantages such as decreased operating time, shorter
      hospital stay (often same day surgery), and favorable complication rates as compared with
      other bariatric procedures.4,5

      One of the biggest drawbacks to LAGB [when compared to the 'gold standard' of bariatric
      surgery: Roux-en-Y gastric bypass] is that patients tend to have a slower, less dramatic
      weight loss in the first few months after surgery.5-7 In addition, the LAGB procedure is
      associated with an approximate 3% chance of "band slippage" complications.8 In order to
      address some of these issues modifications in the technique of LAGB surgery have been made.
      Techniques such as a "pars-flaccida approach" to tissue dissection and the placement of
      plication sutures to "anchor" the redundant stomach around the newly placed band device were
      introduced and shown to have positive results in reducing band complication rates.8 More
      recently, sleeve gastrostomy procedures (the greater curvature and significant portion of the
      body of the stomach is resected over a sizing bougie; leaving a narrow 'sleeve' of stomach)
      have also become popular in treating patients with morbid obesity.9 Combining these concepts,
      a modified technique of plicated LAGB was introduced.

      At the time of LAGB placement, plication sutures can be placed along the body & greater
      curvature of the stomach to "tighten" and "cinch up" the stomach in a sleeve-like
      orientation. It was recently reported that this modified technique of plicated LAGB could
      result in lower band slippage complication rates and faster, early weight loss.8

      However, as of today there exists no prospective, randomized study that compares the outcomes
      of this modified surgical technique to the standard procedure (SLAGB).

      This is a prospective randomized clinical trial comparing PLAGB versus SLAGB. All adult (age
      older than 18 years) morbidly obese patients meeting NIH criteria for bariatric surgery (BMI
      > 35 + co-morbid disease or BMI > 40) who are undergoing bariatric surgery at the Duke
      Metabolic and Weight Loss Surgery Center and the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center will
      be recruited. All enrolled patients will be randomly assigned to either the SLAGB (control)
      group or the PLAGB (study) group. Variables to be studied include patient age, gender,
      ethnicity, co-morbid disease conditions, height, weight, BMI, intra-operative data such as
      operative time and blood loss, and post-operative outcomes including length of hospital stay,
      complication rates, weight loss, and co-morbid disease resolution. In addition, each patient
      will complete standardized surveys rating their satisfaction from surgery, their quality of
      life (OWL-QOL-17), and their sleepiness (Epworth Sleepiness Scale) at three distinct time
      intervals: pre-operatively and at weeks 24 & 48.

      Each subject will be followed and data collected according to the following schedule of
      visits:

      Study Visit Schedule:

      Year 1:

      Visit 1: Screening Visit Visit 2: Day 0 (surgery) Visit 3: Week 2 (+/- 2 days) Visit 4: Week
      4 (1 month) Visit 5: Week 8 (2 months) Visit 6: Week 12 (3 months) Visit 7: Week 16 (4
      months) Visit 8: Week 20 (5 months) Visit 9: Week 24 (6 months) Visit 10: Week 30 Visit 11:
      Week 36 Visit 12: Week 42 Visit 13: Week 48

      Year 2:

      Visit 14: Week 60 Visit 15: Week 72 Visit 16: Week 84 Visit 17: Week 96

      Year 3:

      Visit 18: Week 128 (2.5 yrs) Visit 19: Week 156 (3 yrs)

      Data gathered from PLAGB subjects will be compared to SLAGB controls. Pre- and post-operative
      care will be delivered consistent with our established protocols and standard practices;
      without regard to surgical approach. This includes a standard preoperative evaluation and
      patient education period followed by surgery. After surgery, patients are usually discharged
      from the hospital within the first 24 hours. Follow-up of patients will include an initial
      post-discharge clinic visit within the first 2 weeks, and subsequent visits scheduled at the
      time intervals as listed above. Subjects will be followed for a period of approximately 12
      months.

      This study compares a modified bariatric surgical approach. PLAGB will be studied and
      compared to the SLAGB procedure through a prospective randomized clinical trial.

      Please note: Per our FDA approved modification of 6/18/2014, all study specific testing was
      eliminated, and only safety assessments were completed in the surgical office at 6 months and
      1 year after surgery.
    
  