
    
      Acute Lymphoblastic Leukaemia (ALL) is the most frequent cancer in children. Each year
      approximately 220 children are diagnosed with ALL within the Nordic and Baltic countries.

      The survival rate has improved significantly during the last decades, but the treatment still
      fails to cure approximately 15 % of the patients. A significant proportion of these relapses
      are likely to reflect adverse drug disposition rather than resistence to antileukemic agents.
      This emphazises the importance of developing new dosing strategies for reduction of relapse
      rates.

      Most ALL relapses occur during or after maintenance therapy, and recent studies have
      indicated that almost 50% of these relapses are caused by insuffient exposure of DNA to the
      cytotoxic metabolites of 6MP.

      Childhood Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (NHL) constitutes approximately 5% of all childhood
      malignancies in the Nordic countries and one out of four children with NHL has lymphoblastic
      lymphoma (LBL), the majority being T cell lymphoblastic lymphoma (T-LBL). Nordic children are
      treated in accordance with the EURO-LB 02 protocol, and every year 12-15 children are
      diagnosed with T-LBL within the Nordic countries. During the last 25 years, the cure rate for
      childhood T-LBL has increased from 25% to 75%, however, among patients failing first line
      therapy almost none survive.

      The treatment of childhood and adolescent T-LBL and pre B cell lymphoblastic lymphoma
      (pB-LBL) resembles that of ALL and consists of an induction phase, a re-induction phase and a
      maintenance phase with oral 6MP/MTX, which is continued until 2 years from diagnosis to
      eliminate residual disease.

      Adult LBL accounts for approximately 2% of all NHL, the majority being T-LBL (85-90%). LBL
      occurs more commonly in children than in adults, mostly in males, and has a highly aggressive
      nature. The prognosis in adults has dramatically improved with the introduction of pediatric
      intensive chemotherapy regimens for ALL, in concert with the prognosis of childhood NHL, with
      a disease-free survival reaching 45-72% in adults. However, a broadly accepted standard
      treatment for adult T- and pB-LBL has not yet been defined. Patients with T-LBL and pB-LBL,
      classified as non-HR, and in first remission will be eligible for inclusion into this study.

      The cytotoxic property of 6MP relies upon conversion of 6MP into thioguanine nucleotides
      (TGN). TGN is a substrate for the DNA polymerase, and can be incorporated into DNA instead of
      guanosine or adenine (DNA-TGN). Incorporated TGN is hereafter occasionally mismatched to
      thymidine, which causes cell death second to activation of the mismatch repair system. During
      thiopurine-based therapy patients vary widely in their DNA-TGN levels and patients with low
      DNA-TGN levels may have an increased risk of relapse.

      The investigators will explore

        1. If individualized addition of 6TG to maintenance therapy can obtain a stable mean
           DNA-TGN level > 500 fmol/microgram DNA after addition of 6TG. DNA-TGN calculated as a 4
           weeks mean.

        2. The toxicities encountered during 6TG/6MP/MTX therapy.

      The investigators hypothesize that 6TG/6MP/MTX combination therapy will achieve significantly
      higher DNA-TGN levels, and they will describe toxicities and thiopurine metabolite levels
      during MTX/6MP/6TG combination therapy.

      The TEAM Study is designed as a prospective, multicentre, non-randomised, phase 1-2 clinical
      trial. This trial is a "proof of principle" and feasibility study planned with a modified
      crossover design, where participants serve as their own (historical) controls.

      Additionally, data from the maintenance therapy substudy by Nielsen et. al (Lancet Oncol.
      2017 Apr;18(4)) will be used in order to compare DNA-TG levels in patients receiving MTX/6MP
      based maintenance therapy, and DNA-TG levels in patients treated according to TEAM strategy
      (i.e. maintenance therapy with MTX/6MP/6TG).

      Pharmacological target:

      The investigators will include 30 participants. Upon inclusion in the TEAM study; 6MP dose is
      reduced to 2/3rd, if the current 6MP dose is > 50 mg/m2/day. However, if 6MP dose reduction
      is indicated, 6MP dose is not reduced below 50 mg/m2/day. If the current 6MP dose is < 50
      mg/m2/day, the patient continues on this 6MP dose without dose reduction. 6TG treatment is
      initiated concomitantly. MTX dose is not changed. The investigators give A) incremental doses
      of 6TG (steps of 2.5 mg/meter square, max 12.5 mg/meter square) until a mean DNA-TGN of at
      least 500 fmol/µg DNA is obtained; and B) analyze the changes in DNA-TGN as well as Ery-TGN
      and MeMP. The dose increments of 6TG in steps of 2.5 mg/square metre will be spaced by
      intervals of at least two weeks, and DNA-TGN measurements will be measured weekly during 6TG
      dose increments. 6TG dose increments will continue until a mean DNA-TGN level > 500 fmol/µg
      or a maximum dose of 6TG of 12.5 mg/square metre is reached. If tolerated, the participant
      can then continue on that 6TG dose until the end of ALL/LBL therapy. Participants can at any
      time point drop out of TEAM by their own decision or by that of the treating physician. 6TG
      is provided as a liquid formulation to ease precise dose titration.
    
  