
    
      Background

      Currently, DM foot admissions account for up to 2% of all admissions in CGH, with up to 50%
      of patients with peripheral vascular disease (PVD). CGH Vascular service performs 100-150
      peripheral angioplasties for limb ischaemia per 6 months, the majority of which are for limb
      salvage procedures. The angioplasty procedure is performed below the knee (BTK) and the BTK
      vessels are involved in more than 80% of the time. Restenosis is common in peripheral
      interventions.

      In the recently published DESTINY trial, the superiority of Everolimus DES (XIENCE, Abbott
      Vascular) was proven over BMS (Bare Metal Stents). This landmark study suggests that for
      short lesions in the BTK segment, DES improved patency rates and reduced the need for
      re-interventions for restenosis.

      Re-interventions for previously stented arteries are technically difficult. In the coronary
      bed, the Bioabsorbable stents have been developed to provide the functions of a drug eluting
      stent but yet provide a temporary scaffold to allow the vessel to heal. The absence of a
      permanent metallic implant in the vascular tissue may facilitate any required
      re-interventions on the target vessel / lesion or side branches either by percutaneous or
      surgical means, thus enabling a broader range of treatment options after bioresorption of the
      scaffold. In addition, unlike permanent metal implants, polymeric implants do not cause
      imaging artifacts during non-invasive CT or MR evaluation providing additional benefit

      Rationate and justification for the study

      The safety of the BVS has already been demonstrated in man in the Coronary Bed. It is
      currently CE marked for this indication.

      In the ABSORB Cohort A Study, it showed excellent long term clinical outcomes with low MACE
      rates out to 4 years with absence of any target lesion revascularization, Q-wave myocardial
      infarction, and scaffold thrombosis. Cohort B confirms these findings out to 1 year;
      including patency comparable to XIENCE V. Absorb BVS thus performs all the functions of a
      drug-eluting stent while offering future potential benefits resulting from the absence of a
      permanent metallic implant.

      An optimal post procedural follow-up imaging technique is as yet uncertain for this stent.
      Assessment of conventional stents with CT angiography has been limited by streak and
      susceptibility artefact on MRA. Doppler Ultrasound is known to be time intensive. Hence, if
      MRA or CTA proof to be accurate modalities for evaluation, it would be easier for follow-up
      and evaluation of these patients.

      The aims of this study are:

        1. to study which non-invasive imaging modality would be most appropriate in follow-up for
           Bioabsorbable Everolimus Eluting Bioresorbable Vascular Scaffold System (BVS, Abbott
           Vascular) patency deployed in subjects with critical limb ischemia (CLI) following
           percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) of the tibial arteries. The aim is to
           establish stent patency as well as imaging features of the stent.

        2. to investigate the effects of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty using Bioabsorbable
           Vascular Scaffold (BVS) in patients with Critical Limb Ischaemia CLI) and Below the Knee
           (BTK) lesions in an Asian Population. One of the side arms of the study is to establish
           imaging features of this new stent system with Doppler ultrasound, CT angiography and MR
           angiography. The study aims to establish stent patency, as well as imaging features of
           stent as it bio reabsorbs.

      Study design

      The study will prospectively collect consecutive cases treated with BVS for patients with CLI
      and BTK lesions recruited over a 2 year period and followed up for 1 year. The results of
      these patients will be compared to a similar historical cohort consecutively treated with
      XIENCE DES (metallic Drug Eluting Stents, Abbott Vascular).

      This pilot study will involve recruitment of 12 patients x 1 year followed by another year of
      post implantation follow-up. If feasible, the recruitment will be extended to another year
      for another 12 patients giving a total of 24 patients.

      Patients not on chronic antiplatelets therapy should receive a loading dose of Plavix 300 mg
      and Aspirin 300 mg started 6 to 72 hours prior and not later than 1 hour after the procedure.
      Pre procedure clinical assessment including pulses and Transcutaneous O2 measurement around
      the affected wound. In the absence of a wound, this will be performed on the dorsum of the
      foot. Demographic data including comorbidities, medication history, Rutherford class will be
      recorded.

      Symptomatic patients would be screened with a duplex ultrasound prior to intervention. After
      informed consent for a standard angiography/intervention, the patient will undergo a planned
      intervention under general or local anaesthesia in an angiographic facility. Either antegrade
      or retrograde approach is allowed. After common femoral artery sheath access, a diagnostic
      angiogram will be performed as per any standard angioplasty procedure. 2 plane angiography of
      the target lesions will be performed. Of note will be the lesion characteristics like length,
      location, and degree of stenosis and calcification. Degree of runoff will also be assessed on
      angiography. If the 2 plane angiography confirms > 50% stenosis or occlusion, the patient
      will be eligible for BVS. The target vessel chosen should preferably be but should not
      limited to, the wound relate artery in accordance to the angiosome concept. There should at
      least be one vessel runoff to the foot.

      After angiographic assessment for suitability for BVS, heparin 2500 to 5000 IU will be
      administered intra-arterially as per standard angioplasty according to body weight. The
      stenosis of occlusion will be crossed (true lumen or subintimal crossing is allowed) with a
      guidewire of choice and pre-dilatation with a balloon catheter will be performed.
      Pre-dilatation should be in accordance with manufacturer guidelines an should not extend
      beyond the proposed treated segment

      Post intervention angiography will subsequently be performed to assess the success of
      treatment repeat balloon inflation is allowed. Any residual stenosis and the degree of
      stenosis at the end of the intervention will also be recorded. Post dilatation should be
      confined to the previously scaffolded area and not exceed manufacturer recommendations with
      respect to size. Subsequent treatment of the runoff tibial vessels is allowed.

      Post procedure, standard post angioplasty regimes will be followed. Patients will be started
      on supplementary Clopidogrel (Plavix) 75 mg once a day together with Aspirin 100mg once a day
      i.e. dual antiplatelets for 6month post intervention followed by Aspirin for life unless
      contraindicated.

      Clinical follow-up will be performed immediately post procedure at 1 month, 6 months and 1
      year post intervention. Assessment of the pulse, clinical patency will be performed at each
      visit. TCOMs will be performed at 6 and 12 months. Duplex ultrasound to assess for
      re-stenosis will be performed at 6 and 12 months, while CT angiography and MR angiography
      will be performed at 12-month post-procedure.
    
  