
    
      The objective of this project is to implement and evaluate the effectiveness of a
      sophisticated Web-based, electronic health record (EHR)-linked clinical decision support
      (CDS) system designed to improve primary and secondary cancer preventive care. To achieve
      this objective, a link from EHR data to evidence-based cancer prevention algorithms in a
      secure Web site is created to: (a) identify at the point of care all eligible patients not up
      to date on their cancer prevention interventions; and (b) present to both patient and primary
      care provider (PCP) and/or a key member of the primary care team, certified medical assistant
      (CMA), appropriate evidence-based primary cancer prevention interventions and cancer
      screening options at the point of care. The Cancer Prevention-CDS will focus on breast cancer
      screening in women aged 50-74, colorectal cancer screening for both sexes aged 50-75,
      cervical cancer screening for women aged 21-65, human papilloma virus (HPV) vaccination for
      both sexes aged 11-26, and referrals for weight management and smoking cessation in all
      adults aged 18 and older. Effectiveness is assessed by cluster-randomizing 30 primary care
      clinics with roughly 285 PCPs and 153,000 study-eligible patients into one of three
      experimental conditions: Group 1: PCP-focused CDS intervention in which the PCP triggers use
      of the CDS system and engages patients in appropriate cancer prevention strategies. Group 2:
      SDMT-focused CDS intervention in which the CMA triggers use of the CDS system along with
      additional shared decision making tools and interacts with the patient to engage them in
      appropriate cancer prevention strategies before seeing their PCP, who will approve or discuss
      the plan with their patient. Group 3: clinics provide usual care with no intervention-related
      activity related to cancer prevention. With 10 clinics, 95 PCPs, and 51,000 potentially
      eligible patients per study arm, this study will formally test the hypothesis that Groups 1
      and 2 are superior to Group 3 over an 18-month follow-up period with respect to: (a)
      significantly higher rates of appropriate screening for breast, cervix, and colorectal
      cancer, as defined by the United States Preventive Services Task Force; and (b) significantly
      higher rates of human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination in males and females aged 11-26 years.
      The investigators further posit that Groups 1 and 2 will have higher short-term health care
      costs but better long-term cost-effectiveness than Group 3. The Consolidated Framework for
      Implementation Research (CFIR) and RE-AIM conceptual frameworks will be used to guide
      implementation planning, organization, conduct, and impact evaluation of the intervention in
      a large rural healthcare system.

      This project will engage a rural population with substantial healthcare disparities and gaps
      in the receipt of primary and secondary cancer prevention. Results will advance dissemination
      and implementation research methods that can reduce health disparities and improve healthcare
      for millions in medically under-served areas.
    
  