
    
      Current management of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC, with no susceptible
      molecular alterations (EGFR mutation, ALK translocation, ROS1 fusion), includes combinations
      based on platinum in the first line of treatment, while in the second Line, there are three
      possibilities in monotherapy: docetaxel, erlotinib and pemetrexed. Pemetrexed is exclusively
      indicated for patients with a NSCLC of non-squamous histology. Although all of them have been
      shown to increase progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS), the median time
      to progression is maintained at 3 months, and the median overall survival at 8-9 months.

      Recently, other therapeutic options have been incorporated in the context of the second line.
      Firstly, two antiangiogenic drugs: nintedanib and ramucirumab. The combination of nintedanib
      or ramucirumab with docetaxel in the second line of treatment has been shown to provide a
      significant increase in SLP and SG compared to docetaxel (9,11). One of the criticisms of the
      results of these two trials, common to all antiangiogenic treatments, is the lack of
      predictive factors that help us to better select the patients who would benefit from such
      treatment, as well as a better rationalization of Economic costs. On the other hand, recent
      data from new strategies based on immunotherapies in lung cancer indicate that nivolumab, a
      PD-1 antibody (Programmed cell death-1), has shown benefit in terms of survival versus
      docetaxel monotherapy both in Histology as squamous adenocarcinoma after failure to a
      platinum-based prior line.

      Based on the above, the objective of this project is to analyze a panel of soluble mediators
      by means of multiparametric immunoassay techniques in samples of peripheral blood (at
      baseline, during treatment, and progression of the disease) obtained from patients With
      advanced lung adenocarcinoma, without molecular alterations treatable with anti-target drugs,
      that have progressed to a first line of chemotherapy, irrespective of whether they have
      received treatment with immunotherapies, and that they will be treated in the second line
      with chemotherapy (docetaxel) In combination or not with an antiangiogenic. It is a question
      of analyzing markers or panels of them with a prognostic / predictive meaning, as well as
      those that could be related to mechanisms of resistance to the administered treatments.
    
  