
    
      FALCON is a pragmatic, blinded (patient and outcome assessor), 2x2 factorial, stratified,
      multi-centre randomised controlled trial, with an internal pilot, to evaluate measures to
      reduce Surgical Site Infection (SSI) rates in patients undergoing surgery with an abdominal
      incision.

      Surgical site infection (SSI) represents a major burden for patients, doctors, and health
      systems across all settings. SSI is the commonest postoperative complication worldwide and
      the commonest healthcare-associated infection in low and middle income countries (LMICs).
      SSIs cause pain, discomfort, disability, and increase the time taken to return to work (3).
      SSIs increase healthcare costs in all health settings. Whilst there is no direct data on the
      costs of SSI in LMICs, within the UK National Health Service, SSIs cost approximately £3500
      per patient and £700 million per year in total. The impact of increased healthcare costs on
      patients, communities, and providers can be major in LMICs where personal income is low and
      patients may be required to pay for their own treatment. SSI has also been associated with
      one-third of postoperative deaths and accounts for 8% of all deaths caused by a hospital
      acquired infection.

      Strata in FALCON trial are defined according to the anticipated category of wound
      contamination: (1) clean-contaminated and (2) contaminated/dirty. Eligible patients will be
      randomised at the level of the individual in a 1:1:1:1 ratio between:

      A. 2% alcoholic chlorhexidine and non-coated suture B. 2% alcoholic chlorhexidine and
      triclosan-coated suture C. 10% aqueous povidone-iodine and non-coated suture D. 10% aqueous
      povidone-iodine and triclosan-coated suture.

      Participant will be recruited from hospitals in Low and Middle Income Countries (LMICs).
      Participants who is undergoing abdominal surgery with an anticipated clean-contaminated,
      contaminated or dirty surgical wound will be selected to enter the trial.

      The 6 month internal pilot will assess the feasibility of recruitment, compliance with
      treatment allocation and patient retention and follow-up rates. The main RCT will recruit
      5480 participants.
    
  