
    
      Central venous access device (CVAD)-associated skin impairment (CASI) is common in adult
      allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell (HSCT) recipients. CASI is defined as chemical, mechanical
      or microbiological damage to the skin occurring within a 7 cm radius of a CVAD exit site.
      CASI is associated with discomfort, complex dressing changes, and increased infection risk
      due to disruption of skin barrier function. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant
      (HSCT) recipients receiving post-transplant care in the outpatient HSCT setting may be at
      higher risk of CASI. No-dressing of embedded tunneled CVAD (T-CVAD) exit sites may decrease
      CASI without increased risk of CVAD-related bloodstream infection (CRBSI), but no studies
      have been conducted to test this hypothesis. A pilot study will determine the practicality of
      testing this hypothesis. The proposed pilot study will be conducted at an outpatient HSCT
      clinic located at a large tertiary hospital. The primary aim is to evaluate the logistics of
      comparing no-dressing to dressing in the outpatient adult allogeneic HSCT population. A total
      of 26 allogeneic HSCT recipients will be enrolled. Enrollment will commence once the
      following conditions are met: REB approval, institutional approval, and assignment of an NCT
      ID number. Eligible participants will have embedded T-CVADs, be within 35 to 60 days of
      transplant, meet criteria for neutrophil engraftment, and be without pre-existing severe
      CASI. Participants will be randomized to either a dressing or no-dressing group. A modified
      version of the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) skin toxicity scale will be used to
      grade CASI at baseline and weekly for up to six weeks. Primary and secondary endpoints will
      be tested statistically to generate estimates of effect size and standard deviations, for the
      purpose of future study design. Information useful for planning large-scale studies will be
      reported, such as enrollment metrics, participant compliance, procedure fidelity, and missing
      data characteristics. Feedback will be collected from participants regarding their study
      experience.
    
  