
    
      This is an adaptive cluster randomized control trial (RCT) to evaluate whether newly designed
      EHR-based tools designed using behavioral principles reduce inappropriate prescribing and
      adverse outcomes among older adults. This study will be conducted in outpatient and acute
      care practices of Atrius Health, a large integrated delivery network in eastern and central
      Massachusetts, which uses the Epic EHR system.

      In Phase 1, approximately 200 primary care providers at Atrius Health will be randomized to
      receive usual care or an active intervention. Providers randomized to the active intervention
      will be randomly assigned to one of 15 active intervention arms. They will then be followed
      for 6 months. Providers randomized to one of the 15 active intervention arms will receive a
      newly-designed EHR tool to guide their care of eligible patients. Providers randomized to
      usual care will receive no newly-designed EHR tool. Providers will receive these EHR tools
      for their patients who meet the following criteria: 1) older adults (aged 65 years or more)
      and 2) who have been prescribed at least 90 pills of benzodiazepine or sedative hypnotic in
      the last 180 days.

      At the end of Phase 1 follow-up, the 15 active intervention arms will be ranked based on
      their observed effectiveness at reducing prescribing high-risk medications and select up to
      the 5 more promising arms for Phase 2. In Phase 2, the providers assigned in Phase 1 to usual
      care will be randomized with equal probability to be assigned to one of the 5 most promising
      treatment arms identified or usual care. Providers randomized to one of up to the 5 selected
      treatment arms will receive an EHR tool to guide their care of eligible patients. After this
      analysis, the Phase 1 providers in the "winning" arms (i.e., the promising arms) will be
      randomly assigned to continue to receive their original treatment assignments or to usual
      care. Similarly, the Phase 1 providers assigned to treatment arms determined to be
      statistically inferior will be randomly assigned in equal proportions to one of the winning
      arms or to usual care.
    
  