
    
      Epicardial fat tissue (EFT) is is most commonly defined as adipose tissue surrounding the
      heart, located between the myocardium and the visceral layer of pericardium Once considered
      only as a mere storage compartment, the adipose tissue is now recognized for its extensive
      metabolic and endocrine function, EFT is a storage fat that covers 80% of the heart's
      surface, representing 20% of the organ total weight, EFT is considered to be a part of
      visceral adipose tissue. This fat is a major source of biomolecules and compartmentalized
      production of cytokines and hormones, acting as a localized gland.

      Moreover, EFT and the underlying myocardium share the same microcirculation, suggesting a
      close and strong interaction between these two structures, it regulates heart and blood
      vessel physiologically, via paracrine and vasocrine mechanisms. It has also been reported
      that EFT acts as important energy reservoir for cardiomyocytes, which depend on fatty acids
      oxidations as energy source especially during periods of high demand.

      Although EFT is needed for heart muscle function, in recent decades it has been published
      that increased thickness greatly enhances the risk of developing CVD and metabolic syndrome,
      becoming a new pharmacological target for primary and secondary prevention strategies.
      Therefore, the measurement of epicardial fat deposition is important. In terms of modulation,
      the use of statins could function as a possible treatment to help decrease the volume of EFT
      beside stabilization of atherosclerotic plaques.

      Detection and quantification of EFT require a variety of useful imaging techniques, including
      2-dimensional (2D) echocardiography, non-contrast computed tomography (CT) and magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) . Since fat tissue generates a strong MRI signal, both thickness and
      volume of epicardial fat can be easily measured with this modality.

      Clinical research found that it was related to coronary artery disease, where it was found to
      be independently and linearly associated with CAD and its severity, atrial fibrillation as
      well as myocardial dysfunction.

      It is known that abnormally accumulated visceral fat is a risk factor for insulin resistance,
      which can reduce insulin sensitivity, increase the expression and secretion of
      proinflammatory cytokines in adipose tissue and promote the development of DM and
      cardiovascular diseases. Since EFT is a part of the visceral fat, it carries that risk.

      Regarding relation to CAD in DM, there have been conflicting data.

      Maniam et al reported that EFT was higher in non-diabetics with CVD, but not in T2DM with or
      without CVD. This suggests EFT may play a greater role in CVD in non-diabetics than those
      with T2DM.

      However, in the past few years, several other studies have reported that EFT is abnormally
      increased in DM patients. However, small sample sizes and potential confounders (such as
      differences in EFT measurements and DM typing) were thought to affect the strength of
      previous evidence.

      A metanalysis conducted suggests that the amount of EFT is significantly higher in DM
      patients than in non-DM patients.

      Another study addressing mainly type 1 DM found that Long-term survivors of T1DM have a
      higher prevalence of coronary atherosclerosis compared to controls but EFT volume was not
      associated with coronary atherosclerosis in T1DM patients.
    
  