
    
      The proposed intervention protocol is a modification of an existing empirically developed
      treatment (Self-Injection Anxiety Counseling) for adults with injection related anxiety who
      rely on self-injection for illness management (Mohr, Cox, & Boudewyn, 2003). Self-Injection
      Anxiety Counseling (SIAC) was developed to assist psychologists and medical staff in working
      with patients individually to develop strategies to reduce anxiety and increase an
      individual's ability to self-inject. This treatment protocol has been found to result in
      increased self injection in patients who experienced injection anxiety prior to undergoing
      this treatment (Mohr, Cox, & Merluzzi, 2005). Permission has been obtained from Dr. Mohr to
      modify this treatment manual to be applied to youth in group setting.

      This modified group protocol consists of five group sessions. The goals of the first session
      include development of a group identity, psychoeducation, and physiological treatment of
      anxiety though the instruction and practice of relaxation techniques. The second session
      introduces a cognitive component to anxiety reduction and focuses on unhelpful thoughts and
      strategies youth and caregivers can use to counteract these thoughts. The third session
      implements the previously learned physiological and cognitive treatments through in vivo
      injection practice. A registered nurse skilled in working with youth and caregivers on
      self-injection will be present and active throughout this session and all infection control
      procedures will be followed. Problem solving strategies are implemented in the fourth session
      to reduce any difficulties encountered by participants as they practiced their injection goal
      throughout the week. The fifth session will occur two weeks after the fourth session. This
      extra week between sessions allows for additional practice and problem solving related to
      injection goals. The last session reviews problem solving strategies and celebrates the
      success of participants.

      Relevant outcomes for hypotheses testing will be measured before treatment, after completion
      of treatment, and at follow-up; one measure of injection-related anxiety will be utilized
      more frequently throughout the treatment.
    
  