
    
      Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive dementia characterised by an ongoing loss of memory
      function and of at least one additional cognitive domain resulting in impairment of daily
      life functioning. Treatment of diseases such as diabetes mellitus, fractures and
      cardiovascular diseases is more expensive and complicated in patients with dementia compared
      to those without. The yearly costs for treatment and care of AD patients in the US are
      estimated to exceed 100 billion USD. Life expectancy is reported to be about 10 years after
      establishment of the diagnosis and is significantly reduced compared to non-demented subjects
      of similar age and socio-economic status.

      Age is the most relevant risk factor for AD, followed by genetic factors. Prevalence is less
      than 1% amongst individuals aged 50-60, but is reported to double every 5 years beyond the
      age of 60. The prevalence exceeds 30% in the age of 85-90.

      The only standard therapy for AD are acetylcholine-esterase inhibitors (AchEI; donepezil,
      galantamine, rivastigmine). AchEI exhibit a temporary stabilizing mild effect on the
      progression of AD. Conversion rates from "mild cognitive impairment" to AD do not seem to be
      beneficially influenced by AchEI. A high percentage of premature study withdrawals owing to
      adverse events has been observed in AchEI studies published to date. The questionable benefit
      may further be outweighed by high costs of the AchEI.

      Therefore, there is a necessity for the development of more efficacious and less expensive
      disease-modifying drugs with a better safety and tolerability profile. EGCG is a promising
      compound which has proven efficacious in AD animal models and which has shown an excellent
      tolerability in our 18-month clinical trial on Multiple Sclerosis currently being performed
      at our institution (SuniMS study, NCT00525668).
    
  