
    
      Migraine is a neurological disease characterized by attacks of pulsating headache on one side
      of the head, presenting autonomic nervous system disfunction. Migraine is associated to
      significant personal and social burden. Physical activity could worsen patient´s symptoms.
      Migraine is associated with nausea, vomiting, photophobia and phonophobia Chronic migraine
      patients according to the third IHS ( International Headache Society) classification suffer
      headache at least 15 days per month no less than 3 months.

      According to Pozo-Rosich et al., migraine incidence worldwide is 2% of the general
      population. In the US the 18% of migraine patients are females corresponding the 6% to males.

      As comorbid diseases usually associated to migraine are found disability, depression, anxiety
      and biobehavioral disorders. Migraine is a chronic disease which cause biopsychosocial damage
      and decrease quality of life in its patients. Risk factors to endure Migraine are sex
      (females), obesity and overuse of headache medicaments.

      Migraine origin and its physiopathology in unknown although there are several studies that
      support a central sensitization mechanism at the level of trigeminocervical complex to
      explain migraine. Trigeminocervical complex is made by the convergence between superior
      neurons of the trigeminal nucleus caudalis and the dorsal cervical horns of the first and
      second cervical levels.

      Some authors suggest that it is a biobehavioral disorder that results from a cortical
      hypersensitivity and an associated social learning process. Behavioral habits and medication
      intake due to migraine attacks are important factors to keep in mind. Stanos et al. concluded
      that the best treatment for chronic migraine was a multidisciplinary treatment including
      biobehavioral and pharmacological approaches. Biobehavioral treatments (BBTs) for chronic
      pain patients includes therapeutic patient education (TPE) and selfcare, cognitive behavioral
      interventions, and biobehavioral training (biofeedback, relaxation training, and stress
      management).

      TPE provides contact between the care providers and patients. TPE has been extensively
      studied in the management of anxiety, stress, and pain for chronic lower back pain. It is
      thought that in chronic diseases, TPE should be adapted to the needs of patients and
      caregivers. BBTs were identified as "grade A" evidence in the American Consortium of Evidence
      Based Headache Guidelines. It has been proposed that BBT based on educational approaches be
      used to manage migraines.
    
  