
    
      The main objective is to compare measurements for different gestational age, between: the
      standard cardiotocograph with those of our device, or between the standard cardiotocograph
      and the Toconaute and the electrophysiological device, or between the Toconaute and the
      electrophysiological device.

      As a second objective, we want to build a database between the cardiotocograph, the Toconaute
      and the electrophysiological device, to optimize the development of the Toconaute device.

      The trial will include up to 35 healthy adult women pregnant between 24 and 41 weeks of
      amenorrhea requiring discontinuous monitoring. The trial will not change the usual medical
      management of women, the Toconaute device will be tested following their usual monitoring.
      The trial will last approximately 12 months, with an estimated inclusion period of 11 months.

      In order to be able to identify possible adverse effects related to the device, women
      participating simultaneously in another clinical trial can not be included. A delay of 1
      month minimum after participation in another clinical trial is requested.

      The risks associated with the use of the Toconaute in the trial are considered low and
      acceptable.

      Participating women will receive information from the investigator or the midwife who
      represents it, and will cover all the points provided for in Article L1122-1. They will be
      informed of the risks and their right to refuse to participate in a search or to withdraw
      their consent at any time without incurring any liability or prejudice. Women wishing to
      participate will receive the newsletter and then sign a consent. A copy of the consent will
      be issued to them.

      As part of the test, the care of the pregnant woman is not changed, the use of the Toconaute
      will succeed to their usual monitoring with a cardiotocograph. The investigating physician or
      midwife will therefore follow the recommendations of the usual medical procedure regarding
      measurements performed by external cardiotocography.
    
  