
    
      Primary oral infection with the herpes simplex virus (HSV) typically occurs at a young age,
      is asymptomatic, and is not associated with significant morbidity. After primary oral
      infection, HSV may persist in a latent state in the trigeminal ganglion and later reactivate
      as the more common herpes labialis, or "cold sores." Common triggers for reactivation are
      well known and include ultraviolet light, trauma, fatigue, stress, fever, inflammation, and
      menstruation. These lesions affect up to 45 percent of the U.S. population. They classically
      manifest as a well-localized cluster of small vesicles along the vermilion border of the lip
      or adjacent skin. The vesicles subsequently rupture, ulcerate, and crust within 24 to 48
      hours. Spontaneous healing occurs over seven to 10 days.

      In immunocompetent patients, herpes labialis usually is mild and self-limited. However, pain,
      swelling, and cosmetic concerns may prompt physician consultation. Orally administered
      antiviral agents, such as acyclovir (Zovirax) or valacyclovir (Valtrex), have a modest
      clinical benefit if initiated during the prodrome. Topical treatment with 1% penciclovir
      cream (Denavir) may reduce healing time and pain slightly, even if initiated after the
      prodrome. However, reduction in healing time with systemic or topical agents is modest.

      Squaric acid dibutyl ester (SADBE) is a topical immunotherapeutic agent used in the treatment
      of verruca vulgaris and alopecia areata. During a recent FDA Compounding Advisory Committee
      Meeting, it was recommended that squaric acid dibutylester be included on the list of bulk
      drug substances allowed for use in compounding under section 503A of the Federal Food, Drug,
      and Cosmetic Act. And SADBE has now been so listed under section 503A.

      A study completed by Lee et al of 29 patients with recalcitrant warts demonstrated complete
      clearance in 69% of patients with application every 2-4 weeks. Silverberg et al showed a
      complete clearance in 58% of patients (n=61) when SADBE was applied 3 times weekly. A
      placebo-controlled clinical study completed at Massachusetts General Hospital showed that
      squaric acid prevented recurrence of herpetic lesions. The effect of SADBE of delaying new
      herpes labialis outbreaks was highly significant (p<0.01) as compared to placebo.

      Primary Objective: To assess local and generalized adverse events with repeat topical
      application of 2% and 0.5% squaric acid dibutyl ester (SADBE) in subjects with frequent
      herpes labialis (4 or more episodes in the previous 12 months).

      Secondary Objective: To assess efficacy of repeat topical application of 2% and 0.5% SADBE in
      the prevention of herpes labialis episodes.
    
  