
    
      Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by tremor, rigidity and
      akinesia, but patients can also present various non-motor symptoms in the course of their
      illness, including visual hallucinations, delusions or illusions. Visual Hallucinations are
      false perceptions (no external stimulus is present; generally caused by internal
      stimulations), whereas illusions are defined by a wrong perception (an external stimulus is
      always present). Delusions are false believes .The occurrence of hallucinations in PD is of
      major importance as it has been shown to be associated with an increased risk of cognitive
      impairment and could lead to nursing home placement and to increased mortality. It is
      generally believed that delusions/illusions also imply a bad prognosis with time . However
      recent data suggest that delusions/illusion are not associated with such a poor outcome
      regarding cognitive functions and mortality compared to hallucinations suggesting different
      pathological mechanisms and anatomical substrates . Also, a recent study analyzing the
      neuropsychological correlates of minor hallucinations in PD did not find executive
      dysfunction to contribute to the onset of minor psychotic phenomena, but was specifically
      implicated in the progression to well-structured VH.

      Thus illusions and minorVH may have a different pathogenesis and a different prognosis
      compared to complex VH, however studies exploring the structural and functional changes
      associated with hallucinations in PD have mainly included patients with well-structured VH
      and moderate to severe cognitive impairment , making it difficult to define early
      abnormalities associated with minor hallucinations or illusions.

      Several hypotheses are proposed regarding the emergence of hallucinations in PD.

        -  It has been first suggested that hallucinations in PD could be mainly the result of a
           chronic exposition to dopaminergic therapy . However, the description of hallucination
           in untreated PD patients goes against that solely explication . Besides, no strong link
           has been identified between the occurrence of VH and the dosage and duration of
           dopaminergic treatment . This suggests that Dopaminergic treatment would not directly
           cause VH but could be a precipiting factor.

        -  Sleep-wake cycle disturbances have also been reported as risk factors for the occurrence
           of VH in PD , and particularly the presence of REM Sleep behavior disorders (RBD) . The
           emergence of VH in PD patients coinciding with daytime episodes of REM sleep may be
           dream imagery occurring during wake , however this hypothesis is still debated.

        -  Other risk factors have been associated with VH in PD such as the disease duration,
           motor symptom severity and mostly cognitive impairment. Indeed, VH occur mainly in PD
           patients with cognitive decline , but also VH are predictive of dementia . In fact,
           cognitive impairment in PD patients, and particularly visuoperceptive impairment, would
           lead to an impaired processing of visual information. Indeed, impaired frontal and
           parietal cortical activation have been reported in PD patients with VH while being
           presented visual stimulations, suggesting a diminished answer to external perceptions in
           posterior cortical areas associated with an increased frontal abnormal activity leading
           to the emergence of sensorial visual experiences . This shifting visual circuitry from
           posterior to anterior regions associated with attention process impairment may play a
           role in the pathophysiology of VH in PD. Thus, the occurrence of Visual Hallucinations
           in PD Patients appears to be due to a desinhibition of the "top-down" visual stream
           leading to the emergence of internal mental imagery stocked in memory, and interpreted
           like visual perceptions coming from the external environment .

        -  Yet, some evidences also points out to an impaired "bottom-up" processing that could
           lead to the emergence of VH in PD. Indeed, a dopaminergic denervation and alpha
           synuclein aggregation have been demonstrated in the retina of PD Patients , even at
           early stages of the disease . However the functional consequences of such a denervation
           are still poorly understood , even if impaired contrast discrimination and color vision
           impairment are widely described in PD . One study has reported an association between
           retinal impairment, measured with OCT, and VH in PD .

      Thus, the emergence of VH and illusions in PD could be due to an inbalance between a
      hypoactivated "bottom-up" (due to retino-striato-occipital hypoactivation) and a deshinibited
      "top-down" (mainly frontal) visual stream. However in all these studies, Hallucinations and
      illusions were not specifically discriminated and investigated in spite of the fact that they
      could be subtended by different pathophysiological mechanisms and might imply different
      prognosis for the evolution of the disease.

      Investigator hypothesize that illusions, which represent the failure to successfully
      integrate stimuli that have been physically presented, could be more related to "bottom up"
      impairment, unlike Hallucinations, which occur where there is perception in the absence of
      any stimulus and could be more related to a "top down" impairment. Thus, PD patients with
      illusions (PD-I) might present greater retinal degeneration measured by OCT compared to PD
      patients with Visual hallucinations (PD-VH) and PD patients without Hallucinations or
      illusion (PD-nVHI), suggesting a sensorial deprivation underlying these disturbed visual
      perceptions of reality. Visual Hallucinations that are more elaborated would require a more
      widespread cognitive disorder, with increased cognitive and visuoperceptive dysfunction.

      OBJECTIVE In this study investigator aim to compare PD patients with visual hallucinations
      (PD-VH), with illusions (PD-I), without Visual hallucinations or illusions (PD-nVHI)
      regarding retinal degeneration in OCT and cognitive functions (visuoperceptive and
      attentional functions) in order to determine whether PD-I might show greater retinal
      degeneration compared to PD-VH, and lesser cognitive impairment.

      DESIGN OF STUDY:

      Investigator will include 30 PD-VH+, 30 PD-I+, 30 PD-VH-I- among the patients consulting at
      our center.

      During the first visit (Baseline, inclusion visit, 2 hours), each subject will perform a
      clinical and neurological examination with : • Diagnosis of PD according to UKPDBB criteria.

      • The presence of Visual Hallucinations or Illusions will be characterized according to the
      Psychosensory Hallucination Scale. Illusions will be defined by answering "Yes" to at least
      one of the "elementary items".

      During the second visit (Day 15, one day), each patient will have a neurological,
      neuropsychological and ophthalmological examination with an evaluation of

        -  the severity of the disease (Hoehn and Yahr score, Movement Disorder Society-Sponsored
           Revision of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS))

        -  the cognitive impairment (Montreal Cognitive Assessment, Evaluation of visuo-perceptive
           functions and attention)

        -  the excessive diurnal Somnolence and sleep attacks

        -  the visual acuity, intraocular pressure, Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), contrast
           and colour evaluations.

      Circumstances of emergence and distress caused by Hallucinations/illusions was also evaluated
      by measurement of heart rate variability, electrodermal recording, spy glasses and
      self-evaluation of Stress.

      Finally, each subject will have a Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) acquisition.
    
  