
    
      It is estimated that between 50 and 80% of cancer patients in the United States (US)
      supplement their conventional medical treatment regimen with some form of complementary or
      alternative medicine (CAM) therapy or practice. A smaller percentage of these patients
      receive medical treatment from naturopathic doctors (NDs) who are board certified in
      naturopathic oncology (Fellows of the American Board of Naturopathic Oncology, FABNO) or have
      equivalent experience in caring for cancer patients. This level of care is being defined here
      as Advanced Integrative Oncology (AIO). AIO clinics provide comprehensive science- and
      experience-based naturopathic medical oncology integrated with the individual patient's
      conventional medical treatment.

      Although there have been some studies of alternative and complementary medicine use by both
      adult and pediatric cancer patients, little is known about the effectiveness of naturopathic
      medicine provided to patients with cancer in an integrative setting. Increasing numbers of
      parents of children seek out naturopathic physicians and other integrative oncologists for
      evidence-based complementary integrative therapy that is coordinated with the child's
      standard oncology treatment plan. The AIMS Institute provides nutritional and botanical
      medicine care to children with leukemia, brain cancer, and osteosarcoma. Despite the
      widespread use of integrative oncology by children with cancer, little is known about the
      effectiveness of these therapies in pediatric cancer patients.

      While there is scientific evidence supporting specific treatments that are commonly used,
      systematic study of their effectiveness, especially when used in combination as commonly
      recommended, is sparse. We believe that an early step in the evaluation of clinical outcomes
      associated with CAM is to take a health services approach and seek to answer the question:
      "Does exposure to AIO services improve the clinical outcomes of patients with cancer?"
    
  