
    
      According to the World Health Organization (WHO), in 2016, 650 million people around the
      world were already obese, for their part in 2013 the Organization for Economic Cooperation
      and Development (OCDE) indicated that globally Mexico and the United States had the highest
      rate of overweight and obesity in adults. Mexico is the second country, after the United
      States, with the highest obesity, almost one third of Mexican adults (32.4%) suffered from
      obesity in that year, a significant increase from 24% in 2000.

      According to the National Health and Nutrition Survey the states of northern Mexico, as is
      the case of Baja California, occupy the first places of obesity index nationwide. Morbid
      Obesity (MO) poses a high health risk in those who suffer from it, as multiple complications
      arise from it, therefore it is of uttermost importance that this disease is successfully
      treated and controlled, however, conventional weight loss therapeutics guided by the
      implementation of behavioral therapy, physical activity, low calorie diet and drug treatment
      , has shown short-term unsuccessful results. A treatment alternative is Bariatric Surgery
      (BS) which, according to recommendations issued in 1991 by the U.S. National Institutes of
      Health (NIH), is considered the treatment of choice for this pathology. While BS has proven
      to be a successful treatment for long-term sustained weight loss, it is accompanied by major
      complications such as micronutrient deficiency, which is attributed to intrinsic and
      extrinsic factors, intrinsic factors refer to deficiencies recorded prior to BS and are
      related to MO or to the surgical technique itself that induces changes in metabolism in
      addition to reducing the ability to food in the stomach, limit digestion and cause
      malabsorption. For their part, extrinsic factors correspond to the lack of adherence in terms
      of diet and prescribed multivitamin supplementation.

      Lack of adherence is related to the level of knowledge about the supplementation and behavior
      of the morbid patient on decision-making, as they tend to present negative thoughts about the
      prescribed treatment that are usually accompanied by lack of ability to make changes in both
      attitude and behavior, which will hardly change even after surgery; this is consistent with
      the results reported in various studies that indicate that the main behavioral factors of
      non-adherence to treatment in this population are the low self-efficacy and attitudes that
      the patient adopts towards treatment on self-care, as well as low self-esteem and distortion
      of self-concept.

      As described, BS can be considered a process of adaptation that can pose a challenge for
      those who experience it as the person must be aware of the impact of surgery on the body in
      order to effectively adhere to the agreed treatment plan, making decisions in conjunction
      with health professionals in order to reduce risk factors , focusing therefore on prevention
      and timely intervention of them.

      In this sense, psychology turns out to be a science that allows to develop instruments that
      evaluate the congruence between attitudes, thought and behavior, as well as the creation of
      strategies that promote health promoting the congruence between attitude and behavior. Leon
      Festinger in 1957 proposed the theory of Cognitive Dissonance, which states that people tend
      to change their attitudes and behaviors or justify them as a result of the divergence of two
      cognitions manifested at the same time; according to this theory, the individual strives to
      achieve consistency within himself. Opinions and attitudes tend to be present in groups that
      are internally consistent.

      Population:

      POST-operated Bariatric Surgery patients

      Sample:

      Post-Bariatric Surgery patients who permanently radiate in the Tijuana Co.

      Sampling type:

      In the first time, non-probabilistic, convenience sampling for the selection of participants
      and in a second time for randomization stratification will be performed.

      Sampling site:

      One private bariatric center in Tijuana, Baja California, Mexico. Research plan

        1. Submission and approval of the research protocol to the bioethics committee of the
           Faculty of Medicine and Psychology (FMYP) of the Autonomous University of Baja
           California (UABC)

        2. Designing the manuals of psycho-educational intervention and dissonance to promote and
           improve adherence to the multivitamin prescribed in bariatric patients.

        3. Once obtaining the bioethics committee approval, the authorities of a private bariatric
           center operating patients living in Tijuana were consulted to request their cooperation
           in conducting the research.

      (d) Data collection was carried out through the review of clinical records in accordance with
      the Mexican Official Norm (NOM) NOM-004-SSA3-2012.

      (e) Persons who meet the inclusion criteria were contacted by telephone in order to recruit
      the participants who were included in the study.

      (f) Arrange a face-to-face appointment with the person who decides to participate to sign the
      document "informed consent (IC)" version 1.0, in order to clarify doubts about the
      methodology of the project and inform him that his participation is voluntary, that at any
      time he may withdraw his consent and that the information he provides will be handled
      confidentially, in accordance with NOM-012-SSA3-2012 on Human Research.

      (g) Participants were randomly assigned to the experimental group and control group on the
      waiting list using the on-line tool GraphPad QuickCalcs.

      (h) For the application of the measuring instrument (MI) in order to comply with the
      recommendations of the WHO derived from the COVID pandemic and maintain social distancing,
      the MI containing all tests was adapted for a digital application using Google Forms and the
      group sessions were modified to be video conferences through Google Meet.

      (i) For the sessions of cognitive dissonance and psycho-education, Psychology Bachelors were
      trained and randomly assigned to the cognitive or psycho-educational intervention.

      (j) The pre-test and post-test blood samples are taken one day after the application of the
      MI (before and after the intervention), according to NOM-253-SSA1-2012 for the disposal of
      human blood.

      (k) The determination of biomarkers was carried out according to the NOM-007-SSA3-2011 for
      the operation of clinical laboratories. The analysis of calcium, phosphorus, and serum iron
      was carried out within the facilities of the UABC Medical Care and Research Centre (CUMAII)
      using colorimetric spectrophotometry; The levels of Vit-D and Folate were be analyzed by
      Enzyme-Linked ImmunoSorbent Assay (ELISA), the quantification of hemoglobin was performed
      during flow cytometry. For the determination of minerals (zinc and copper) in serum, a
      collaboration agreement will be held with the Graduate Center of the Tijuana Institute of
      Technology; the method of analysis will be Mass Spectrometry with Inductively Coupled Plasma
      (ICP/MS).

      (l) The week following sampling, 90-minute online intervention sessions will begin every two
      weeks for three months. It is important to mention that, before the first online session
      (second week) the participants of both groups will be given a bariatric multivitamin
      supplement with 60 chewable tablets, dispensing a new one of the same brand as the first,
      this in order to cover three months of treatment.

      (m) Participants were asked to inform through a phone call to the research team in case of
      presenting any adverse effects such as nausea, vomit, dizziness, or diarrhea. This will be
      noted in the corresponding document.

      (n) Once the post-test data have been obtained, databases will be developed in the SPSS
      version 26.0 statistical program for Windows, which will be analyzed by repeated-measures
      ANOVA in order to evaluate the effect of the intervention on adherence to the Multivitamin
      evidenced by biomarker levels.
    
  