
    
      For patients with eye surgery and shorter surgery, sedation is a well-established method in
      preserved consciousness and has been successfully used for several years. We have also
      developed and published a valid protocol (1).

      Remifentanil is currently used for intravenous infusion for analgesia and anxiolysis.
      Remifentanil is an opioid analgesic, which also works partially anxiolytically. It has been
      studied in detail for postnatal analgesia (2). In eye surgery, it is important that the
      patient cooperates during the operation and should not be ashamed, as injury to the eye could
      occur, because the vitrectomes are performed with a fine intraocular endoscopic technique, in
      which the operator inserts his instruments through the whiteness into the eye. For this
      reason, we have not yet added additional sedatives (for example, midazolam), which is very
      unpredictable and a rapidly shallow sedation can pass into the deeper. Remifentanil is also
      very unpredictable and it is very difficult to control it during the operation, so that the
      patient is satisfactorily analgesized at all times, but still co-operable.

      Recently, dexmedetomidine (3-5) has been successfully used in other areas of surgery (eg
      neurosurgery, maxillofacial surgery, ORL) and intensive sedation therapies. It is a safe,
      proven, active substance with alpha 2 agonistic effect, which has not yet been used in the
      field of ocular surgery and has not yet published articles in this field. The substance is
      very suitable because it works mildly sedative and at the same time analgesic (3).

      Dexmedetomidine is predominantly administered intravenously, and intranasal administration
      (6-8) has also been established in pediatric patients.

      We decided to use intranasal use because it is simple, safe and suitable for such treatments
      because intravenous dexmedetomidine could not be administered because it should be given
      enough time before surgery (at least 40 min) because otherwise the appropriate effect .
      Patients for such operations will enter the operating room directly from the departments on
      foot and dexmedetomidine could not be started earlier, as it is not possible to provide
      adequate control in the department. A sedentary patient would also not be able to walk into
      an operational one, which would greatly complicate and also increase logistics.

      The study is applicable, as it will provide objective indicators, which type of sedation is
      most effective and safe for vitreoretinal interventions.
    
  