
    
      This is a randomized, placebo-controlled, blinded study of intravenous N-acetylcysteine (NAC)
      for the prevention of postoperative myocardial dysfunction and apoptosis in infants
      undergoing arterial switch for D-transposition of the great arteries. Subjects will be age
      0-3 months, and no distinctions will be made based on gender or race. Infants operated before
      36 weeks post-conceptional age or with birth weight less than 1.8 kilograms will be excluded.
      Informed consent will be obtained from the patient's parent by one of the investigators in
      the hospital before the infants undergo surgery.

      Subjects will be randomized based on a block randomization scheme to receive placebo or NAC
      infusion, starting with a loading dose 1 hour prior to surgery. If there is any concern by
      the ICU physician that the patient is developing toxicity to the medicine, the study drug
      will be discontinued and the patient removed from the study. Patients will have a
      thermodilution catheter placed during surgery for postoperative direct measurement of cardiac
      output. Endomyocardial biopsy will be performed by the surgeon pre- and post-bypass for
      measurement of markers of apoptosis. Postoperatively, patients will continue to receive an
      infusion of IV NAC for 24 hours. Blood draws will be through existing arterial and central
      venous catheters. Serum labs collected will include serial lactate values (already collected
      routinely), liver and renal function tests, CK-MB and troponin-I levels as a marker of
      myocardial injury, and S100b level as a marker of brain injury. Total additional blood
      removed for research purposes will be less than 15 mL. Cardiac output will be measured
      serially by thermodilution. Serial transthoracic echocardiography will be used to determine
      left ventricular function. Inotropic score, duration of mechanical ventilation, length of ICU
      stay, and length of hospitalization will be recorded.
    
  