
    
      Many African-Americans and Latinos with diabetes do not achieve the recommended goals for
      normal blood sugar, blood pressure, or cholesterol level, placing them at high risk for
      complications. This study will evaluate the impact of a novel intervention designed to
      improve lifestyle behaviors and medication adherence, and intensify therapy to reach goals.
      The first component of the intervention includes a clinic-based pharmacist disease management
      program. The program includes detailed patient assessments, physician-approved treatment
      plans, patient education and support services to enhance medication adherence. In addition,
      this program includes intensification of medication therapy to improve blood sugar, blood
      pressure, and cholesterol levels to reach recommended goals. The second component of the
      intervention includes health promoters (HPs), or community-based lay health workers. Health
      promoters are commonly found in minority communities and provide assistance for individuals
      overcoming language, cultural, and other barriers to conventional health care services. They
      may provide autonomy support and solve problems related to medication adherence barriers.
      Furthermore, health promoters may complement pharmacist activities by improving access to
      medications, assisting in continuity of care with providers, monitoring response to therapy,
      and reinforcing educational messages. The proposed study will determine whether the addition
      of health promoters to clinic based pharmacist service delivery improves care. The study will
      involve the recruitment of 300 African-American and Latino adults with uncontrolled diabetes
      through the University of Illinois Medical Center in Chicago and randomization to one of two
      groups: (1) pharmacist management (Pharm) for 12 months; or (2) pharmacist management with HP
      support (Pharm+HP) for 12 months. Cross-over will occur at 12 months such that the Pharm
      group will be intensified by the addition of HP support and HP support will be phased out
      from the Pharm+HP group to assess maintenance. The specific aims include: (1) To evaluate the
      effectiveness of Pharm+HP compared with Pharm alone on diabetes behaviors (including healthy
      eating, physical activity, and medication adherence), hemoglobin A1c, blood pressure, and
      LDL-cholesterol levels; (2) To evaluate the maintenance of improved diabetes behaviors as
      well as clinical outcomes by phasing out HP support from the Pharm+HP group after year 1; (3)
      To evaluate the intensification offered by adding an HP after one year of Pharm alone; and
      (4) To evaluate the cost and cost-effectiveness of Pharm+HP and Pharm alone.
    
  