
    
      Classical chemotherapeutic agents include the class of alkylating agents with covalent
      modification of biopolymers and in particular, bases of DNA, as proposed mechanism of
      cytotoxic action. Bifunctional alkylating agents, which yield inter- or intrastrand
      cross-links include nitrogen mustards, mitomycin C and platinum complexes. In contrast,
      monofunctional alkylating agents act by reacting with single electron-rich sites in bases of
      DNA strands. The most prominent class of the latter group is the triazene, which is based on
      nitrogen-rich chemistry. It is generally accepted that triazenes, upon metabolic activation
      via N demethylation, yield highly reactive carbocations, which covalently bind to
      biopolymers. The novel triazene TriN 2755 differs from other triazenes through its
      physicochemical properties such as high hydrophilicity and photostability, and in particular
      by its potent, dose dependent antitumor activity in a spectrum of cancers including
      dacarbazine-resistant tumors, where treatment options for metastatic disease are still not
      satisfactory and medical needs exist.

      This is an open-label, parallel-group, two-center, safety, activity and pharmacokinetic study
      of TriN 2755 given at increasing dose levels as intravenous infusions administered over 4
      hours. The study is divided into two parts: Part I a dose escalation phase and Part II an
      extension phase.

      Part I of the Study (Dose Escalation Phase):

      In the first part of the study, two treatment schedules will be investigated in parallel:

      Treatment schedule A: The study medication will be infused once every 28 days in a 4-week
      cycle (Group A) Treatment schedule B: The study medication will be infused once every 7 days
      in a 4-week cycle (Group B)

      In treatment schedule A (Group A), the planned starting dose to be investigated is 25 mg TriN
      2755 given once followed by a recovery period of 4 weeks. Subsequent patients can only be
      included on a new dose level when the safety review from all patients included at the
      preceding dose level(s) at Day 28 after infusion (end of Cycle 1) does not indicate relevant
      toxicity.

      In treatment schedule B (Group B), the planned starting dose to be investigated is 800mg,
      given once every 7 days in a 4 week cycle. Subsequent patients can only be included on a new
      dose level when the safety review from all patients included at the preceding dose level(s)
      at Day 28 after the start of the first infusion (end of Cycle 1) does not indicate relevant
      toxicity.

      Plasma samples to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of TriN 2755 are collected at predefined
      schedules after the first administration at each dose level and at pre-dose and at expected
      peak times during the subsequent administrations within the first treatment cycle only (Group
      B). Urine samples are collected over 24 hours after the first administration at each dose
      level within the first treatment cycle only.

      Once the MTD is reached, two expanded cohorts of patients are treated with the Maximum
      Recommended Dose (MRD) which is one dose level below the MTD or at lower dose levels, if
      indicated. This second part of the study (expansion) allows for enrolment of approximately
      additional 9 patients per treatment schedule, at the chosen dose, in order to better assess
      the safety and possible antitumor activity of TriN 2755. The exact number of patients to be
      enrolled in this expanded phase is decided by a Monitoring Board. The patients are treated at
      or near the planned phase II dose, without expanding or prolonging the study excessively.
    
  