
    
      Increasing HIV testing rates among young, Black men who have sex with men (YBMSM) is critical
      to reducing the disproportionate disease burden in the Black community. MSM comprised almost
      two-thirds of new HIV diagnoses in the United States (US) in 2010. We propose a study to
      design and test a brief intervention to increase uptake of consistent HIV self-testing among
      YBMSM using a novel and culturally-relevant "buddy system" approach. In our model, peer
      educators train pairs of YBMSM (or "buddies") to initiate self-testing and support each other
      in consistent self-testing (past 3 months) and sexual and AOD use risk reduction. We propose
      a study to design and test a brief intervention to increase uptake of consistent HIV
      self-testing among YBMSM using a novel and culturally-relevant "buddy system" approach. In
      the model, peer educators train pairs of YBMSM (or "buddies") to initiate self-testing and
      support each other in consistent self-testing (past 3 months) and sexual and AOD use risk
      reduction.

      The specific aims of this developmental R01 study are:

        1. To conduct qualitative formative research to adapt couples testing for self-testing with
           a buddy;

        2. To assess the preliminary efficacy of the intervention to increase the proportion of
           YBMSM who self-test regularly (i.e., past three months) over 12 months using a 2-arm
           randomized, controlled study design.

      The investigators will achieve the aims of the study in three phases, recruiting YBMSM using
      web- and app-based approaches. In Phase 1, the investigators conducted 30 in-depth interviews
      to identify barriers to, facilitators of, perceptions of and preferences for regular HIV
      self-testing, describe how AOD use and sexual behavior influence HIV self-testing behaviors,
      and assess participant perspectives on the proposed buddy intervention. In Phase 2, based on
      the formative research, the investigators adapted couples testing, integrating enhanced
      motivational interviewing techniques to create a brief, peer educator-delivered, face-to-face
      intervention. In Phase 3, for which the investigators currently seek IRB approval, the
      investigators will use web- and app-based, face-to-face and word-of-mouth approaches to
      recruit 376 HIV-negative, BMSM aged 18 to 34 who will be randomized as pairs to either the
      intervention arm (HIV testing together, HIV self-testing screening information and skills
      training; free test kits on demand; tailored booster messages) or the control arm (HIV
      testing separately, generic health screening information; free test kits on demand) and
      followed for 12 months to estimate the intervention's efficacy in increasing regular HIV
      self-testing according to self-report. If demonstrated to be efficacious, this innovative and
      efficient approach can be adapted easily for widespread distribution, with the potential to
      diffuse along naturally occurring, social networks among YBMSM.
    
  