
    
      Background: The use of aggressive treatment for HNC, particularly combined modality treatment
      regimens has resulted in an increase in survival. Unfortunately, this improvement has come
      with a marked increase in acute and late-effects. These undesirable treatment outcomes exact
      a heavy toll on functional capacity, contribute to a myriad of problematic physical and
      psychological symptoms, negatively impact Quality of Life, and likely create a significant
      economic burden to both the patients and the health care system.

      Objective: This four year, longitudinal study will examine the development, patterns, nature,
      progression, and prevalence of late-effect fibrosis and/or lymphedema, explore potential host
      biological correlatives (pro-inflammatory cytokines and genetic polymorphisms), and examine
      select psychological stressors (depression, social withdrawal), associated with late-effect
      fibrosis and lymphedema in HNC survivors.

      Specific Aims:1. To determine the prevalence and nature of late-effect (≥3 months
      post-treatment) fibrosis and/or lymphedema in HNC patients. 2. To explore the relationships
      among the biological mechanisms of inflammatory response, genetic polymorphisms, treatment
      factors, and late-effect fibrosis and/or lymphedema in HNC patients. 3. To explore the
      relationships among late-effect fibrosis and/or lymphedema and psychosocial stressors
      (depression and social withdrawal) in HNC patients.

      Study Design: HNC patients will be assessed at baseline, end of treatment (EOT), and every
      six weeks after treatment up to one year after treatment, and twice more at 15 and 18 months
      post-treatment. These intervals were chosen to reduce subject burden as they routinely
      coincide with scheduled laryngoscopic procedures. At baseline, the follow assessment will be
      undertaken: 1) demographic information and alcohol and tobacco use history; 2) disease
      characteristics; 3) presence of tumor related fibrosis and/or lymphedema (laryngoscope with
      digital photographs and scoring of internal lymphedema with Patterson Scale) and external
      fibrosis/lymphedema with digital photography, physical exam for fibrosis/lymphedema using the
      Foldi criteria, and CT scans; 4) blood for inflammatory mediators and polymorphisms; 5)
      psychosocial assessments (Center for epidemiological Studies Depression Scale, Liebowitz
      Anxiety Scale); and 6) functional assessments (MBVS, Cervical Range of Motion [CROM], Neck
      Disability Index and VHNSS). Post-treatment, and every scheduled assessment thereafter,
      patients will undergo repeat assessments for everything except: demographic information,
      medical history, ETOH and smoking history, polymorphisms and MBVs.
    
  