
    
      All AAA interventions performed during the period 2000 to 2015 were retrospectively
      identified in a National Health Service (NHS) administrative database, the hospital morbidity
      database, formerly designated as Diagnosis-Related Groups (DRGs) database. This database was
      provided by the Portuguese Central Health System Administration (ACSS) and contains a
      registration of all hospitalizations (retrospective consecutive case entry) occurring in
      public hospitals in mainland Portugal.

      Each episode includes information about diagnoses (primary and secondary diagnoses) and
      medical or surgical procedures, both coded using the International Classification of
      Diseases, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification (ICD-9).

      All admissions considered have a primary diagnosis ICD-9 codes for ruptured and non-ruptured
      AAA. The primary diagnosis of an episode represents the main condition investigated or
      treated during that hospital stay.

      The rate of the repair was calculated based on the episodes of care with the above-mentioned
      disease ICD-9 codes plus the ICD-9 procedure codes suitable for AAA repair. Admissions with a
      primary diagnose of AAA that lacked a ICD-9 procedure code suitable for AAA repair were
      excluded, assuming that no repair was performed during that hospital stay. General indication
      for iAAA repair in Portugal are a maximum transverse diameter ≥5.5cm in men and ≥5.0 cm in
      women, as recommended by guidelines.

      The number of deaths accounted for all patients that fail to be discharged alive from the
      hospital admission where the repair took place, irrespective to the direct cause of death.
      The number of admissions for repair in which the patient died divided by the number of all
      admissions for repair was used as a proxy of in-hospital mortality due to iAAA. The number of
      resident population in each year under analysis was provided by the National Institute of
      Statistics (INE) from 2000 to 2015. Resident population per year was used to calculate the
      rate of AAA repair and the death associated with AAA repair (thereafter mentioned as
      mortality to distinguish from the above-mentioned in-hospital mortality).

      Death certificate with AAA-specific mortality was provided from the National Institute of
      Statistics (INE) from 2000 to 2015. INE data includes deaths outside the hospital besides
      those certificated at the hospitals.

      In both databases, patients <50 years of age were excluded.
    
  