
    
      Aluminum contamination of parenteral nutrition (PN) solutions has been a concern for decades
      because of its link to metabolic bone disease (MBD) due to it's high aluminum content.
      Currently in the United States, FDA regulations are in place to protect American patients on
      PN from the effects of aluminum (AL) toxicity. Despite these regulations, pediatric patients
      on PN are still receiving higher than recommended AL intakes from PN.

      Unlike the United States, there are no regulations governing AL content of or intakes from PN
      solutions in Canada. Consequently, the investigators are unaware of the AL content of the
      various PN solutions given to our patients. The investigators (the authors) have observed
      that a significant number of our patients on long-term PN (Home PN), have MBD. Some of our
      patients have also had bone fractures. The investigators have also observed alteration in
      calcium and phosphate concentrations as well as suppressed PTH. In an effort to understand
      the etiology of the MBD the investigators have measured serum AL concentrations in our
      patients and have found them to be high; between 900 - 2000 nmol/L compared to 0 to 220
      nmol/L reported in healthy adults. This has led us to believe that there is a significant
      problem of AL contamination in PN solutions in Canada. Because the investigators are unable
      to obtain information on the AL content of the various PN solutions from the PN suppliers,
      the investigators have decided to report on the serum AL concentrations of our patients as
      well as the AL concentration of a random sample of PN solutions provided to patients. Plasma
      aluminum concentrations have already been analyzed in each of the cases. Blood was drawn for
      routine clinical monitoring on each subject after they had been on PN for six weeks or more.

      This is the first step towards raising awareness of the potential problem. It is our hope
      that this will provide initial evidence to help guide Health Canada's decision regarding
      regulations on AL content in PN solutions in Canada.
    
  