
    
      Purpose: Determine dietary protein requirements using the indicator amino acid oxidation
      (IAAO) method in a group of thoroughly phenotyped school-age children who engage in different
      levels of Physical Activity.

      Hypothesis: Daily dietary protein requirements are greater in children with high level of
      physical activity vs. sedentary children.

      Justification: Adequate dietary protein intake is essential to support cellular integrity,
      physical growth and function. Although dietary protein malnutrition is not prevalent in the
      U.S., highly active individuals may require greater than the average protein intake to
      support both increased metabolic demands and skeletal muscle repair and remodeling. The
      current Institute of Medicine (IOM) guidelines do not have separate dietary protein estimated
      average requirement (EARs) for physically active children.

      Research Design: This is a comparative two-group (sedentary vs. physically active), single
      center, prospective cohort study designed to estimate and compare the dietary protein
      requirements among sedentary and active children between the ages of 8-10 years. Each
      participant will be assigned to 7 one-day dietary protein levels with the goal of obtaining
      measures of phenylalanine oxidation corresponding to each level of protein intake.

      Up to 30 children will be recruited for this study at the Arkansas Children's Nutrition
      Center (ACNC) with the expectation of a 20% attrition rate resulting in a total of 24
      children (n=12/group) in the final analysis. The recruitment will ensure equal representation
      of both sexes of children. After screening, the children and parents will attend an in-person
      or remote assent/consent visit.

      After the assent/consent visit, children will consume a 2-day run-in diet to ensure protein
      intakes of 1.5 g/kg/day and energy intakes of 1.7 x resting energy expenditure. Each child
      will participate in 7 testing days, following an overnight fast before each visit. At each of
      these testing days, participants will be randomly assigned to one of 7 test protein dosages
      (0.2-2.4 g·kg-1·d-1) consisting of 8 isocaloric and isonitrogenous meals provided hourly,
      each meal presenting 1/12 of the daily energy requirement. Study day diet is composed of a
      crystalline amino acid mixture based on the amino acid profile of egg protein and protein
      free diet toddler and 2 formulas for carbohydrate and fat. A stable isotope tracer will be
      added to the 5th through 8th meals. Investigators will measure the rate of oxidation of this
      tracer expired in breath (F13CO2), and flux of this tracer by its enrichment in urine.
    
  