
    
      Methods: 15 sonography-guided PENG injections and catheter placement were performed in
      consecutive HF patients who were admitted to a single level 3 center and who report severe
      pain despite a standardized analgesia protocol. Patients were assessed by the Pain Service as
      part of a multidisciplinary care pathway and CPENGB was offered as a component of a
      multimodal analgesic regimen. All patients, or their legal representatives, provided written
      informed consent for procedure. Demographic and clinical characteristics were reviewed. To
      determine feasibility, time to perform the procedure was recorded, number of attempts and
      complications. To assess pain control, patient reported pain scores were used and the amount
      of morphine intravenous equivalent consumption (MIVEC) before and after block. Patients were
      asked to rate the severity of their pain on a 4-point numeric rating scale (Verbal Rating
      Scale with four response categories, VRS-4): 1) no pain, 2) mild pain, 3) moderate pain, and
      4) severe pain or ''worst pain imaginable''. Pain at rest and on movement (pain on 15° leg
      lift of the fractured leg) were evaluated at baseline and at different times after procedure
      (10 minutes, 30 minutes, 24 hours and 48 hours after procedure) while the catheter was in
      situ. Pain relief [PR, 0 (none), 1 (slight), 2 (moderate), 3 (lots), 4 (complete)] was
      recorded at 30 minutes after procedure. A reduction of severe dynamic pain to mild pain or no
      pain, according to verbal report of patients, and a pain relief of 2 (moderate) were
      clinically significant findings. Type of fracture (extra or intracapsular), periprocedural
      complications, the presence of analgesic-related adverse effects and bromage score (30
      minutes after catheter placement and each 24 hours during routine medical round) were also
      recorded. Complications were assessed until first orthopedic review (at 3-6 week
      postoperative). Procedure: All procedures were performed by two anesthesiology
      co-investigators who had more that 5 years of experience performing regional techniques in
      clinical practice and who underwent one prior training PENG blocks to standardize the
      approach. Injections were performed using a curvilinear low-frequency ultrasound probe (3.5-
      to 5-MHz). The lateral border of iliopsoas tendon in an oblique axial plane at level of
      iliopectineal eminence provides target for needle placement. Toggling the transducer was
      necessary to optimize visualization of the iliopsoas tendon secondary to anisotropy.
      Injections were performed using an 18-gauge Tuohy needle under sterile conditions. Following
      negative aspiration, a test injection was performed using 10 ml 1% lidocaine in 3-mL
      increments while observing in real time for ensure adequate peritendinous fluid spread of
      local anesthesia. Then, 10 mL 0.25% bupivacaine was administered and a 20-G polyamide
      catheter (connect to a filter) was advanced into the space. The end point of the catheter
      placement was the direct visualization of microbubbles in a peritendinous distribution using
      a bolus of agitated saline applied through threaded catheter connected to not purged filter.
      After catheter placement patients received a 0.1% bupivacaine continuous infusion at a
      constant rate of 8 ml per hour. If needed per anesthesiologist discretion, rescue bolus was
      administrated and continuous infusion rate was increased until adequate analgesia was noted.
      In addition, patients received a standardized analgesia protocol (preoperatively and later in
      the ward) consisting of 1 g paracetamol orally 2-3 times a day and opioid rescue analgesia as
      needed if pain moderate or severe was reported (0.05-0.1 mg/kg of intravenous morphine, or
      hydromorphone or tramadol equivalent, 4-6 times a day). Patients in who there were other
      possible causes of pain (per example: multiples traumatic lesions) received an opioid regimen
      by schedule plus rescue doses or intravenous patient-controlled analgesia under standardized
      protocols.
    
  