
    
      Sjögren's syndrome (SS) is a systemic autoimmune inflammatory disease that affects the
      exocrine glands and less frequently the internal organs, presenting intense lymphoplasmacytic
      infiltration mainly in the epithelium of the involved tissues, leading to the destruction and
      loss of the secretory function. SS can manifest itself in isolation, without association with
      other diseases, in this situation it is called Primary Sjögren's Syndrome (PSS), being
      considered the second most common autoimmune rheumatic disease, prevalent in women (9: 1).
      The inflammatory process can affect any organ, resulting in a generally severe clinical
      condition, and may involve the musculoskeletal, pulmonary, gastrointestinal, hepatic,
      hematological, vascular, dermatological, renal and neurological systems, leading to an
      evident decline of the physical functions with decrease in aerobic capacity, muscular
      strength, joint mobility and static balance, as well as psychological and social deficit.
      Patients with PSS also present a marked physiological characteristic with a high level of
      fatigue. Thus, resistance exercise becomes a non-drug strategy, aiming to improve
      musculoskeletal fitness, allowing the execution of daily activities with more independence,
      autonomy and safety, while influencing the patient's functional fitness. The aim of the
      present study is to analyze the effectiveness of resistance exercise in daily motor behavior
      and functional fitness in women with Primary Sjögren's Syndrome. After the use of actigraphy
      for 15 days, equipment that measures the level of daily physical activity, and evaluation of
      functional fitness, volunteers underwent a supervised resistance exercise program for 16
      weeks. The following muscular clusters were exerted: latissimus dorsi, deltoid, pectoralis
      major , triceps brachialis, biceps brachialis, quadriceps, hamstring, thigh adductor muscles,
      thigh abductor muscles and gastrocnemius. The subjects performed in each exercise 3 sets of
      10 maximum repetitions. The training sessions were held twice a week.
    
  