
    
      Thyroid nodules are a common medical problem. With the wide use of various imaging
      modalities, incidentally detected thyroid nodules are becoming more common. However most of
      these nodules are benign with only a small proportion of 5-10% being malignant. With the
      increasing number of nodules detected, evaluation of these thyroid nodules presents a
      diagnostic challenge since the imaging modality used for evaluation at present, i.e.,
      ultrasound (US) alone, has a low specificity of approximately 50-70%. In order to improve
      specificity to confidently diagnose malignancy in the thyroid nodule, a fine needle
      aspiration (FNA) biopsy is performed.

      In recent years, US elastography has been shown to have high specificity of 90- 98% in
      various studies in differentiating between benign and malignant nodules. US elastography
      works on the principle of detecting the stiffness within a tissue by applying compression
      which can be manual compression or by generation of a remote radiation force by focused
      ultrasonic beams called as shear waves. Shear Wave Ultrasound (SWUS) elastography is an
      objective method of US elastography that detects the stiffness within the nodule since the
      strength of the shear wave generated is known and can be controlled. SWUS elastography has
      shown promise in being able to noninvasively diagnose papillary carcinoma in previous studies
      involving preoperative patients.

      The investigators propose to perform a study to investigate the efficacy of SWUS elastography
      in diagnosing malignant thyroid nodules and noninvasively decreasing the number of FNAs
      performed by avoiding FNA in benign nodules. The Investigators will enroll patients with
      thyroid nodules before they undergo FNA biopsy or surgery. We also propose to compare routine
      US and SWUS elastography and their combined use in differentiating malignant from benign
      nodules. The investigators hypothesize that SWUS elastography can be used as a noninvasive
      screening tool, prior to an FNA, to screen out benign and malignant nodules with high level
      of confidence and reduce the number of biopsies in the future.
    
  