
    
      Background In the first wave of a large population-representative study of older adults in
      rural South Africa, the 'Health and Aging in Africa: A Longitudinal Study of an INDEPTH
      Community in South Africa (HAALSI)' study, large gaps in knowledge of HIV status were found
      among participants, coupled with low rates of recent HIV testing and high rates of sexual
      behaviour that can lead to acquisition and transmission of HIV. In general, older adults
      should test for HIV at least once per year (HIVAge.org), but few do so, in part because
      current HIV testing programmes have traditionally focused on young and middle-age adults and
      HIV testing facilities are often difficult to access for older populations. Only 17% of older
      adults in the HAALSI community reported having tested for HIV in the past 6 months.

      Home testing can provide a powerful approach to bring the health systems 'function' of HIV
      testing to older adults in rural Africa. In the routine health system, community health
      workers, such as the South African community care givers, could provide this 'function' on a
      regular basis. Home rapid HIV testing and HIV self-test kits have been intensively studied in
      many populations. HIV self-test kits have recently become available as over the- counter
      products in South Africa, after the South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) lifted a ban on
      their sale in pharmacies in December 2016.

      To date, however, no study has compared head-to-head different 'forms' of home testing for
      HIV. In this study, the investigators aim to establish the comparative effectiveness and
      cost-effectiveness of three different options of home HIV testing among older adults in rural
      South Africa: (1) home delivery of HIV self-test kits, (2) home HIV rapid testing, and (3)
      both home delivery of HIV self-test kits and home HIV rapid testing.

      Overall, home HIV testing is likely attractive for older adults because it allows testing
      without having to visit a health care facility. Home delivery of HIV self-testing kits has
      the additional advantage that it allows HIV testing in a place and at a time of one's own
      choosing. Home approaches to HIV testing are particularly policy-relevant at this time,
      because South Africa and many other countries in sub-Saharan Africa are currently expanding
      in re-designing their community health worker programs, through which home HIV testing could
      be provided on a routine basis.

      Preliminary evidence in this and in other populations have suggested that HIV testing and
      linkage to HIV treatment and care improve health care utilization for other non-HIV chronic
      care and reduce risky sexual behavior. The investigators will thus not only assess the
      effects of the different home HIV testing offers on HIV testing but also assess comparative
      effects on healthcare utilization, noncommunicable disease endpoints, and sexual behaviors.

      Research Aims

      This study thus aims to:

        1. Establish the comparative effectiveness of three options for home HIV testing for older
           adults in rural South Africa

        2. Identify spill-over effects of the different options for home HIV testing to other
           adults in the families and communities of the older adults receiving the testing options

        3. Establish the comparative cost-effectiveness of the three options for home HIV testing
           among older adults.

      Study Design Participants in Wave 2 of the HAALSI study will be offered one of three options
      (randomly assigned 1:1:1) for home HIV testing: (1) three oral HIV self-test kits with a
      brief introduction to HIV self-testing (home HIV self-testing arm), (2) home rapid HIV
      testing and counselling (home rapid HIV testing arm), and (3) three oral HIV self-test kits
      with a brief introduction to HIV self-testing plus home rapid HIV testing and counselling
      (home HIV self-testing and HIV rapid testing arm). The brief introduction to HIV self-testing
      will include encouragement of both self-use and onward distribution to household and
      community members.

      The HAALSI participants were randomized (sample ~3,600; 1,200 individuals in each of the
      three arms). Randomization has occurred during routine HAALSI fieldwork visits, using a
      pre-programmed randomization process that is integrated into the tablet-based HAALSI
      computer-assisted personal interview (CAPI). This randomization was completed during a
      three-month period between May and July 2019.

      Outcome Assessment The primary outcomes (1-2) and a group of secondary outcomes (3-21) will
      be assessed by telephone at 9 months after randomization. Based on the timing of
      randomization, primary data collection will take place from February through May 2020. Then,
      both the primary and an expanded set of secondary outcomes including several
      biologically-measured secondary outcomes (1-25) will be assessed at 18-24 months, during the
      subsequent, planned cohort-based data collection (HAALSI Wave 3).

      Power Calculation In the first wave of the HAALSI study, the proportion of people having
      tested for HIV in the past 6 months (which was about 17%) was measured. Assuming uniform
      distribution of testing over time, it would be expected that about 3% of older adults in the
      HAALSI population tested in the past month. Based on the HAALSI 1 data, the proportion of
      older adults who ever tested for HIV is 65%. Given these estimates for the endpoints in the
      control arm, this study is powered to detect a 3 percentage point difference in HIV testing
      in the past month and a 6 percentage point difference in ever testing for HIV across the
      three arms. For this power calculation the investigators further assumed, 20% loss to
      follow-up, 80% power and a significance level for rejecting the Null hypothesis of 0.0167.
      This significance level results from the adjustment of the standard 0.05 significance level
      for multiple hypothesis testing - each arm compared to each other arm - using the
      Holm-Bonferroni method.

      Data Analyses The investigators will measure risk ratios for all the binary outcomes in this
      study, using modified Poisson regression implemented in generalized linear models with
      Poisson distribution and log link. Furthermore, the effect sizes for count outcomes using
      generalized linear models with negative binomial distribution and log link will be measured;
      the investigators will measure effect sizes for continuous outcomes using generalized linear
      models with normal distribution and identity link. All estimations will be adjusted for
      clustering of outcomes at the household level as well as for baseline values of the
      endpoints. Baseline values of our primary and secondary endpoints will be assessed during the
      baseline visit before the HAALSI participants receive the trial exposure.
    
  