
    
      Background: Legumes (e.g. chick peas, beans, lentils, peas, soy, peanuts, lupins) are a
      source of slowly digestible carbohydrate, vegetable protein, fibre, and potassium. Canada's
      Food Guide encourages consumption of legumes such as beans, lentils, and tofu "often" as meat
      alternatives, and the dietary guidelines for Americans include beans, peas, and soy products
      as "foods to increase", and as possible components of a healthy eating pattern. While the
      European (EASD), Canadian (CDA), and American (ADA) Diabetes Associations recommend the
      consumption of dietary pulses as a means of improving diabetes control, and the American
      Heart Association (AHA) recommends the consumption of a healthy eating pattern which includes
      legumes for cardiovascular health, consolidated evidence for the specific recommendation of
      legumes for heart health is lacking.

      Need for a review: The lack of data to support health claims and other cardiometabolic
      recommendations represent an urgent call for stronger evidence. A systematic review and
      meta-analysis of controlled feeding trials remains the "Gold Standard" of evidence for
      nutrition guidelines development.

      Objectives: To provide evidence-based guidance for public health policy, health claims, and
      nutrition guidelines relating to legumes, the investigators will conduct a systematic review
      and meta-analysis (knowledge synthesis) of randomized controlled feeding trials to assess the
      effect of legumes on blood pressure.

      Design: The planning and conduct of the proposed meta-analyses will follow the Cochrane
      handbook for systematic reviews of interventions. The reporting will follow the Preferred
      Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines.

      Data sources: MEDLINE, EMBASE, and The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials will be
      searched using appropriate search terms.

      Study selection: Intervention trials that investigate diets high in legumes compared with
      control diets not-containing legumes on blood pressure outcomes in humans will be included.
      Studies that are <3-wks duration or lack a control will be excluded.

      Data extraction: Independent reviewers (≥2) will extract information about study design,
      sample size, subject characteristics, type and form of legume, dose, follow-up, and the
      composition of the background diets. Mean±SEM values will be extracted for all outcomes.
      Standard computations and imputations will be used to derive missing variance data.

      Outcomes: The proposed analysis will assess blood pressure control, looking at systolic,
      diastolic, and mean arterial blood pressure. Where data for both change-from-baseline
      differences and end differences are equally available, the investigators will use the
      difference in change from baseline as the primary end point for analyses.

      Data synthesis: Pooled analyses stratified by underlying disease status will be conducted for
      each area of metabolic control using the Generic Inverse Variance method with fixed or random
      effects models, depending on the number of relevant studies obtained. Random-effects models
      will be used in the case of collection of 5 or more studies, even in the absence of
      statistically significant between-study heterogeneity, as they yield more conservative
      summary effect estimates in the presence of residual heterogeneity. Paired analyses will be
      applied to all crossover trials. Heterogeneity will be tested by the Cochran Q statistic and
      quantified by the I2-statistic. Sources of heterogeneity will be explored by sensitivity and
      subgroup analyses. A priori subgroup analyses will include legume type, legume dose, duration
      of follow-up, sodium intake (absolute level, within-treatment change, and between-treatment
      change), dietary fibre intake (absolute level, within-treatment change, and between-treatment
      change), design (crossover, parallel), study quality, and baseline endpoint values.
      Significant unexplained heterogeneity will be investigated by additional post hoc subgroup
      analyses. Meta-regression analyses will assess the significance of subgroups analyses. When
      >=10 studies are available, publication bias will be investigated by inspection of funnel
      plots and formal testing using the Egger test and the Begg test. If publication bias is
      suspected, then the investigators will attempt to adjust for funnel plot asymmetry by
      imputing the missing study data using the Duval and Tweedie trim and fill method.

      Evidence Assessment: The strength of the evidence for each outcome will be assessed using the
      Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE).

      Knowledge translation plan: Results will be disseminated through traditional means such as
      interactive presentations at local, national, and international scientific meetings and
      publication in high impact factor journals. Target adopters will include the clinical
      practice, public health, industry, research communities, and patient groups. Feedback will be
      incorporated and used to guide areas for future research.

      Preliminary findings: The investigators previously conducted a systematic review and
      meta-analysis of the effect of dietary pulses (a subset of legumes - does not include
      leguminous oil-seeds) on glycemic control in 41 controlled feeding trials. It was found that
      pulses alone or as part of low-glycemic index or high-fibre diets improved markers of
      glycemic control. The investigators also previously conducted a systematic review and
      meta-analysis of the effect of dietary pulses on blood pressure in 8 isocaloric controlled
      feeding trials. It was found that diets high in dietary pulses significantly lowered systolic
      and mean arterial blood pressure compared with diets not containing pulses.

      Significance: The proposed project will aid in knowledge translation related to the effects
      of legumes on blood pressure, updating our knowledge synthesis on dietary pulses and
      broadening it to assess the effect of all types of legumes, and strengthening the
      evidence-base for dietary recommendations and health claims and improving heart health
      outcomes through informing healthcare providers and patients, stimulating industry
      innovation, and guiding future research.
    
  