
    
      Corneal ulcers are the second cause of preventable blindness in tropical countries, which are
      produced by a wide variety of eye infections that can lead to visual impairment, As a
      consequence of the cicatrization of the lesions caused. The World Health Organization (WHO)
      estimates that around 1.5-2.0 million new cases of monocular blindness secondary to this type
      of lesions occur every year.

      Corneal ulceration is attributed to mycotic aetiology between 6 and 53% of the cases,
      recognising at least 70 different genera. Studies in developing countries have reported the
      presence of a wide variety of pathogenic fungi isolated from corneal ulcers, most prominently
      highlighting Candida spp. And Aspergillus spp., however, the appearance of less common fungal
      pathogens, but of great medical importance, owing to increased morbidity in healthy patients
      and especially in the immunocompromised population. These pathogens include the filamentous
      fungi Fusarium spp.

      Fusarium spp. Is a universally distributed opportunistic fungus, ubiquitous and of great
      economic importance because it is usually phytopathogenic. This fungus causes human
      infections such as keratitis, endophthalmitis, among others. A predisposing factor for
      Fusarium spp. Is the corneal trauma, with an incidence ranging from 7% to 89.9%. Some
      research shows that these lesions were caused by different agents, it includes plant material
      (rice, hawthorn, hay, among others), animal (insects, cat scratch, among others), dust,
      earth, mud, stones, glass, metal objects and nails. Other factors that affect the appearance
      of keratitis by this type of fungus include the use of topical corticosteroids, previous eye
      surgery, pre-existing eye diseases (lagophthalmos, chronic dacryocystitis, corneal scarring
      or corneal ulcer), systemic diseases such as diabetes mellitus, leprosy, among others. These
      mycotic infections tend to be resistant to conventional antifungal agents, presenting more
      severe complications than other types of infections.

      The epidemiological pattern of Fusarium spp. keratitis varies from country to country,
      predominating in regions that share climatic conditions, as described in Florida, Ghana, and
      China. Even in one country, its distribution is not homogeneous, as evidenced by studies in
      southern India, between the years 1991 to 2000, where 1360 mycotic keratitis was present, 506
      (37.2%) attributed to Fusarium spp. By contrast, a study conducted in northern India over 6
      years found 61 cases of mycotic keratitis, 10 of them (16.4%) secondary to Fusarium spp.

      In June 2006, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) confirmed an outbreak of
      Fusarium spp., In 164 patients with contact lenses in 33 states and 1 US territory, being the
      most important outbreak reported in this country.

      The keratitis caused by Fusarium spp. Occurs infrequently in European countries with
      temperate climates. A study conducted in Paris between 1993 and 2001 reported 19 mycotic
      keratitis, 4 cases (21%) attributed to Fusarium spp.

      In Spain, it has been realised clinical case studies of Fusarium spp, however, no
      descriptions of the epidemiological profile have been made.The aim of this study was to
      describe the clinical-epidemiological characteristics of a series of cases of fungal
      keratitis associated with Fusarium spp., In Spain during the years 2012 to 2014.
    
  