
    
      Heart disease is about to become the most important cause of maternal deaths in
      industrialized countries. In addition, heart disease in pregnancy is associated to an
      increased rate of fetal growth restriction, premature birth, preeclampsia and other pregnancy
      complications for the mother and the baby. As many women with congenital or acquired heart
      disease now go through pregnancy and childbirth, more knowledge about the risk of
      complications and adverse outcomes for the mother and the baby is needed to guide clinical
      care in this diverse patient group.

      The National Unit for Pregnancy and Heart Disease is located at Oslo University Hospital,
      Rikshospitalet, and receive moderate and high risk pregnant women as referrals from hospitals
      nationwide for follow-up and treatment. The unit has established Oslo University Hospital
      Register for Pregnancy and Heart disease; a quality register for maternal and fetal outcome
      in women with heart disease.

      The purpose of this study was therefore to, in a cohort of pregnant women with heart disease;

        -  determine fetal growth, and risk of fetal growth restriction and preterm birth

        -  determine whether maternal blood biomarkers are associated with development of
           preeclampsia, the time of delivery and maternal and perinatal adverse outcomes

        -  determine the risk of hypertensive pregnancy complications

      By the next two years, 150 patients will be included in two prospective longitudinal studies.
      In the first study fetal growth and utero-placental-fetal blood flow will be assessed by
      serial measurements at specific gestational ages. The mother's cardiac function will also be
      measured. Primary outcome is fetal growth curve and wellbeing at birth.

      In the second study, biomarkers in maternal serum will be measured during the last half of
      pregnancy to assess if angiogenetic factors are prognostic for the risk of hypertensive
      complications.

      In the last study the researchers will use retrospective data from the Oslo University
      Hospital Register for Pregnancy and Heart disease to determine the association between heart
      disease and hypertensive complications in a retrospective cohort of approximately 800
      patients.

      The expected outcome of the project is to increase the knowledge of optimal diagnosis and
      treatment of women with heart disease that go through pregnancy to be able to improve
      clinical care and the outcomes for mother and baby.
    
  