
    
      A disparity exists in the prevalence of overweight and obesity between non-Hispanic white
      (NHW) and African American (AA) women. More AA women (78.2%) are overweight or obese compared
      to NHW (61.2%). Obesity increases the risk of developing numerous chronic diseases, including
      type 2 diabetes (T2DM), hypertension, cardiovascular disease, and some cancers. Among AA
      women, there is a higher prevalence, and almost double the risk, of developing T2DM compared
      to NHW. African Americans also have higher rates of complications and mortality from T2DM,
      and are more at risk for hypertension compared to NHW. Obesity is a costly epidemic.
      Fortunately, weight is a modifiable risk factor for reducing or preventing obesity and
      related diseases.

      Interventions to reduce overweight and obesity through lifestyle change have been less
      effective for AA women compared to NHW women. African American women tend to lose less weight
      in standard behavioral weight loss interventions. A potential reason for smaller weight loss
      is that compared to NHW women, AA women have been shown to engage in less physical activity
      (PA) during these interventions.

      The Sisters in Health study will test the efficacy of a 6-month randomized controlled trial
      in overweight and obese African American women. Women will be recruited to participate in
      this study comparing a standard behavioral weight loss intervention (BWI) to a physical
      activity enhanced BWI (BWI-PA) for 6 months. The primary objective of this study is to
      determine if AA women randomized to the BWI-PA will experience greater weight loss and PA
      compared to women receiving the BWI. Women in both groups will receive 18 face-to-face
      sessions on a tapered basis (weekly to biweekly). Face-to-face sessions will provide women
      with the knowledge, behavioral skills and strategies for weight loss.
    
  