
    
      Neuroimmunology is a rapidly expanding field since major advances have been made in basic
      immunology and numerous new clinical entities have been identified in the last 10 years. Even
      if these discoveries have led to major advances in patient's management and treatment, a lot
      of work needs to be done to improve the diagnosis and prognostic biomarkers. It is widely
      known that the immune system is implicated in a variety of neurological disorders such as
      infections, encephalitis or multiple sclerosis. Numerous neurological disorders affecting the
      central and peripheral nervous system can be attributed to the immune system and need to be
      recognized as some of them can be cured by appropriate immunotherapy. These neurological
      disorders include autoimmune encephalitis and paraneoplastic neurological syndromes but also
      myasthenia, chronic demyelinating inflammatory polyneuropathy and other neuromuscular
      pathologies.

      These neurological disorders are characterized by the presence of autoantibodies in the
      patient's sera or cerebral spinal fluid (CSF). These autoantibodies are generally highly
      specific and necessary to make the diagnosis. However, in some cases, despite strong clinical
      arguments for a neuroimmunological disorder, we do not identify autoantibodies, leading to
      inappropriate treatment and a blind follow-up considering the risk of recurrence or of
      associated tumor. Furthermore, even if the specific role of some autoantibodies or of immune
      T cells in some of these pathologies are suspected or already documented, for most of them
      the exact mechanism is still unknown. We need to explore the sera and CSF of these patients
      to identify new diagnosis and prognosis biomarker. Moreover, the availability of immune cells
      isolated from these patients will help us to decipher the pathophysiological mechanisms to
      create new therapeutic strategies. For this, animal models are already available in Centre
      Physiopathology Toulouse and in the French reference center in Lyon. As genetic
      susceptibilities may underlie, at least in part, the variability of the clinical
      manifestations and of the response to treatment, DNA from patients will be collected and
      immune genes sequencing will be compared to other control groups, included international
      database.
    
  