
    
      Aerobic exercise training of moderate intensity is recommended as safe and effective for all
      stable outpatients with chronic heart failure who are able to participate in improving
      physical conditioning. Emerging data suggest that high-intensity exercise training in select
      heart failure patients may achieve even greater improvement in functional capacity than
      moderate intensity training leading to a better quality of life. In the few studies to date,
      aerobic capacity, heart function is increased to a better extent in heart failure patients
      that undergo an eight-week high-intensity exercise program (32 exercise sessions) compared to
      the standard of care. The goal of this pilot study is to collect data on safety and efficacy
      of high-intensity interval training in stable heart failure patients to demonstrate better
      physiological and clinical outcomes with fewer long-term health care costs compared to the
      standard of care. Twenty participants with stable heart failure (age range = 40 to 65 years
      of age) will be randomized into two different groups: the standard of care group, in which
      subjects will exercise for 40 minutes at 40 to 60 % of heart rate reserve (HRR) for eight
      weeks (32 sessions); and the high-intensity interval training group, in which subjects will
      perform four sets of 4-minutes at > 85% of HRR, with three minutes of active rest between
      intervals, for six weeks (32 sessions). The functional outcomes measured will be cardiac
      function (i.e. stroke volume, cardiac output, ejection fraction), pulmonary function
      (diffusing capacity, lung volumes, spirometry), exercise capacity (peak oxygen uptake) at
      rest and during exercise before and after eight weeks of exercise training (32 sessions).
      Adverse events related to each exercise training session (i.e. cardiac arrest, myocardial
      infarction during exercise, or within the first hour afterward) as well as arrhythmias will
      be recorded via Holter monitoring 24-hrs post-exercise. Quality of life will also be
      measured. The exercise training will be supervised at Grady Hospital. This novel approach has
      the chance to become impactful to these patients and will challenge the current negative
      perception of high-intensity exercise training in this patient population. The investigators
      anticipate this study will help reform the current exercise guidelines in these participants.
    
  