
    
      Absence or reversal of end diastolic flow (AREDF) in the umbilical artery is associated with
      poor outcome. This is further exaggerated by the presence of intrauterine growth retardation
      and oligohydramnios. Elective premature delivery of such fetuses is common. AREDF leads to
      circulatory redistribution with decreased blood flow to the lung, intestines, kidneys, skin,
      and muscle, and blood diverted to the brain, myocardium and adrenals. This reduction in
      visceral perfusion has been associated with an increased risk of necrotising enterocolitis,
      cerebral haemorrhage, and neonatal morbidity. Because of concern that feedings may increase
      the risk of necrotizing enterocolitis, some high-risk infants (most studies on preterm AGA)
      have received prolonged periods of parenteral nutrition without enteral feedings. Providing
      trophic feedings (small volume feedings given at the same rate for at least 5 days) during
      this period of parenteral nutrition was developed as a strategy to enhance feeding tolerance
      and decrease time to reach full feedings. Whether trophic feedings result in better outcomes
      than initially withholding feedings or providing progressively increasing feedings can be
      established only in proper clinical trials.

      There are no standard guidelines to feed these preterm SGA infants born to mothers with
      abnormal antenatal Doppler studies. Furthermore, there are no randomized trials on feeding
      strategies in this group of neonates and hence we planned to carry out this study on
      comparison of early versus delayed initiation of feeding in preterm SGA infants with AREDF.

      The purpose of this study is to compare the time to reach full enteral feeds, time to regain
      birth weight etc. in babies who are fed carefully versus those who are not fed for the
      initial days. It is postulated that early gut priming may stimulate the gut to secrete
      certain trophic and growth factors which may make it better able to tolerate enteral feeds
      improving the overall growth and also reducing chances of infection.
    
  