
    
      Use of stem cell transplant (mostly for hematologic cancers) is expected to increase 5-fold
      by 2030, when the number of survivors will reach 500,000. This highly toxic treatment causes
      a range of acute physical and psychological symptoms, which then persist for years for up to
      45% of patients. To address gaps in existing symptom-focused behavioral interventions that
      can be added to standard patient care, the investigators developed Expressive Helping (EH), a
      low-cost, low-burden intervention that targets a range of physical and psychological symptoms
      in a broad group of transplant recipients. EH is completed in 4 brief structured writing
      sessions during and immediately after transplant, with instructions focused on having
      participants write about their transplant experience. Based on promising preliminary data,
      the investigators propose to determine whether EH can be used during and immediately after
      transplant to reduce common acute physical and psychological symptoms and prevent development
      of persistent physical and psychological symptoms. Assessments of physical symptoms and
      psychological symptoms will occur at baseline (prior to randomization), "nadir" (Day 7
      post-transplant), "engraftment" (Day 14 post-transplant), 1 week post-intervention, 3-months
      post-intervention (primary endpoint, early post-transplant), 6-months post-intervention, and
      12-months post-intervention (primary endpoint, later post-transplant). The investigators will
      also assess a select set of potential mediators and moderators of intervention effects.
      Participants will be adult cancer patients scheduled for allogeneic or autologous stem cell
      transplant at the study sites. After screening and consent, eligible patients will be
      enrolled in a parallel-group, 1:1 randomized controlled trial. Randomization will be
      stratified by study site (JTCC, Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center, LCCC, or Robert H.
      Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center, RHLCCC); sex (linked with patient outcomes), age (18-59, ≥
      60), and transplant type (autologous, allogeneic). Staff performing assessments will be blind
      to study assignment. Participants cannot be blinded, but hypotheses will not be revealed to
      them until trial completion. They will be asked not to reveal their assignment to staff.
    
  