
    
      Intravenous lipid emulsions (ILEs) have been recently used in treatment of acute toxicity
      caused by lipophilic drugs including local anesthetics, antidepressants, anti-arrhythmics,
      beta blockers and calcium channel antagonists with few case reports concerning their use in
      treatment of acute antipsychotics overdose (Muller et al., 2015).

      To the best of our knowledge, no randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have been performed to
      evaluate the antidotal effect of ILEs on the level of consciousness of acutely poisoned
      patients by antipsychotics and their routine metabolic profile tests.

      Acute poisoning by antipsychotics could result in various life-threatening toxic effects
      mainly on cardiovascular and central nervous systems (CNS). Tachycardia, hypotension, and QT
      prolongation in electrocardiogram are the most common cardiovascular findings while sedation,
      extrapyramidal symptoms, agitation, and coma are the most common CNS findings following acute
      antipsychotic exposures (Divac et al., 2014).

      As acute antipsychotic drugs overdose lack specific antidote, the primary goal in treatment
      is aggressive supportive therapy. In order to prevent CNS depression and respiratory failure,
      patients may need to be supported by mechanical ventilation. Hypotension is treated by
      intravenous fluids with use of direct-acting vasopressors (Orazel et al., 2019).

      Several mechanisms for the antidotal properties of ILEs have been proposed including their
      ability to capture lipophilic drugs and extract them from vital organs such as the heart and
      brain thus reducing their toxicity, preferential distribution of lipophilic drugs into a
      circulating lipid phase, thereby reducing tissue drug concentrations. In addition, ILEs have
      direct inotropic effect due to improved fatty acid oxidative metabolism resulting in
      restoration of myocardial contractility (Zyoud et al., 2016 & Kehayova et al., 2019).

      Sample size:

      • Based on the calculated sample size by statistics committee (Community Medicine,
      Environmental, and Occupational Medicine Department - Faculty of Medicine, Ain shams
      University), a total of at least 30 patients with history of acute intoxication by
      antipsychotic drugs will be enrolled and randomly assigned into case (n=15) and control
      (n=15) groups.

      Method of rondamization:

      • Randomization will be achieved via a computer-generated random -sequence table.

      On admission, the patient will receive the conventional management including history taking,
      clinical examination, investigations and treatment .

      Examination will be repeated every six hours through the period of hospital stay of the
      patient.

      All clinical data of the patient will be recorded in a special sheet that include the
      following data :

        1. Sociodemographic data:

             -  Age.

             -  Gender.

             -  Residence

        2. Intoxication data:

             -  Type of antipsychotic drug responsible for intoxication.

             -  Amount of antipsychotic drug (if available).

             -  Mode of poisoning, whether suicidal, accidental, criminal or therapeutic error.

             -  Route of intake of the poison.

             -  Time elapsed between the exposure and arrival to the PCC-ASU (delay time).

             -  Preconsultation management.

             -  Presence of comorbidities (as underlying medical or psychiatric diseases).

             -  The current medications used by the patient including all drugs used in treatment
                of diseases.

        3. Clinical data (on admission and during hospital stay):

             -  In both groups, detailed examination of the patients will be carried out on
                admission and routinely according to the severity of poisoning.

             -  Assessment of the level of consciousness of all patients under the study will be
                carried out on admission and every six hours by using Glasgow coma scale (GCS) and
                Alert, Voice, Pain, Unresponsive (AVPU) scale till the patient discharge or
                mortality.

        4. Investigations:

             -  Laboratory: all required laboratory investigations will be performed including
                arterial blood gas (ABG) analysis, and routine metabolic profile tests (e.g.
                glucose, sodium, potassium, urea and creatinine).

             -  Other required investigations: Electrocardigraphy (ECG) will be done on admission
                and 12 h later, then every 24 h till the patient discharge or mortality.
    
  