
    
      A randomized assessor-blinded comparative study of low irradiance ambulatory LED devices with
      conventional hospital-based LED devices for superficial non-melanoma skin cancer. Preliminary
      observations suggest that low irradiance LEDs cause less pain but are as effective, so the
      investigators are examining this in a clinical trial of patients with lesions </= 2cm
      diameter of non-melanoma skin cancer (Bowen's disease and superficial basal cell carcinoma).
      Patients with these conditions referred to the PDT clinic will be invited to participate and
      if they are eligible and consent to treatment then they will be prospectively randomized to
      either ambulatory PDT or conventional PDT. Pain and phototoxicity scores will be recorded and
      clinical efficacy will be assessed up to one year after the last treatment.
      Computer-generated block randomization will be performed and at 90% power to detect as
      significant at the 5% level a mean difference in pain score of 2 in one group compared with 4
      in the other, 36 patients will be needed, and as the participants will often be elderly and
      frail the investigators will aim for a safety margin of recruiting 50 participants to account
      for drop-outs. Participants will receive two treatments of either arm at a one week interval
      and will be assessed clinically at three months and if residual disease remains then the two
      treatments a week apart are repeated. Pain assessed using a visual analogue scale (VAS) score
      and phototoxicity on a semi-quantitative scale are recorded at 7 days when the participant
      returns for their second treatment. Follow up for clinical assessment is at 6 months and one
      year after treatment. Participants also give their opinion of treatment at one year follow
      up. Assessors of adverse effects and efficacy will be blinded. Data recording and analysis
      will be undertaken by the study statistician Dr Robert Dawe and analysis will be on an
      intention to treat basis using appropriate statistical tests comparing the pre-planned
      outcome measures, with pain as primary outcome and outcome, efficacy and patient satisfaction
      as secondary outcomes
    
  