
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine whether live freeze-dried lactic acid bacteria probiotic (VSL#3速) is
           effective in reducing the acute treatment-related bowel function disturbances, as
           measured by the FACIT-D diarrhea subscale score in patients receiving concurrent
           chemotherapy and pelvic RT as adjuvant or primary treatment for malignancy.

      Secondary

        -  To determine whether VSL#3速 can reduce chronic treatment-related bowel dysfunction
           following completion of therapy.

        -  To examine whether VSL#3速 appears to have an impact on disease-free survival.

        -  To bank blood products for future studies. (exploratory)

        -  To characterize changes in the fecal microbiota and examine for correlation with
           treatment assignment and symptom scores. (exploratory)

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Patients are
      stratified according to site of primary tumor (rectum/anus vs other), history of anterior
      resection of the rectum (yes vs no), total planned cumulative dose (including boost of
      external-beam radiotherapy [RT] or brachytherapy) (4,500-5,350 cGy vs > 5,350 cGy), and use
      of intensity-modulated RT [IMRT] for pelvic RT (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive live freeze-dried lactic acid bacteria probiotic (VSL#3速) orally
           (PO) 3 times a day during RT (5-8 weeks) and for 2 weeks after completion of RT.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive placebo PO 3 times a day during RT (5-8 weeks) and for 2 weeks
           after completion of RT.

      Patients self-report symptoms using the FACIT-D, PBFQ, PRO-CTCAE, and Uniscale/fatigue weekly
      during RT, for 2 weeks after completion of RT, and at 12 months following the completion of
      RT.

      Blood and stool samples may be collected from some patients for correlative studies.
    
  