
    
      Summary:

      The purpose of the proposed study is to test the hypothesis that the key thyroid-related
      factor in early fetal brain development is T4 derived from the maternal circulation.
      According to this hypothesis, low circulating maternal levels of free T4 may adversely
      influence fetal brain development, even when the mother is clinically euthyroid (i.e. has
      normal TSH levels).

      Specific Aims:

      The proposed project aims to determine whether free T4 levels at or below the 3rd centile in
      euthyroid women during early pregnancy are associated with reduced neuropsychological
      development in their offspring. We will recruit a cohort of 5,000 pregnant women whose serum
      samples have been submitted for routine prenatal screening for Down syndrome and neural tube
      defects in the early second trimester of pregnancy. After the women provide consent,
      thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) measurements will be performed. The women defined as
      euthyroid by TSH measurement will comprise the study group. Free T4 measurements will be
      performed on their stored sera after delivery. Then, a nested case-control study design will
      be used. Inclusion criteria will include: liveborn, singleton infant delivered in Maine at 36
      weeks or later, weighing at least 2,500 grams, and with no reported congenital anomalies.
      Multiple gestations will be excluded. Eligible women with free T4 measurements below the 3rd
      percentile (cases) will each be matched with a woman/infant pair with normal free T4
      measurements (controls). Overall, 100 offspring in each category will undergo
      neurodevelopmental testing at age 2 years, using a test battery that will focus on language
      development and attainment of milestones and motor development. The study will have an 80%
      power to detect a 6 point difference in full scale IQ.

      Study Timeline:

      Phase 1. Preparation for Recruitment (months 1-4):

      Validate reference ranges for TSH and Free T4 Assays; Implement clinical reporting and
      management system for TSH measurements; design and implement a Data Management System;
      develop Provider and patient materials; visit offices to introduce the project; develop
      informed consent.

      Phase 2. Active Recruitment (months 4-24):

      Recruit 5,000 pregnant women, classified as euthyroid based on second trimester TSH
      measurements; measure free T4 measured in stored serum aliquots after the pregnancies have
      delivered.

      Phase 3. Identification of Study Subjects (months 18-36):

      Identify 100 cases (euthyroid women fulfilling all inclusion criteria and with free T4
      measurements at or below the 3rd centile) and 100 matched controls (normal free T4) among the
      5,000 euthyroid recruits.

      Phase 4. Locate/Recruit Cases and Controls (months 20-38):

      Locate and re-recruit the women/infant pairs identified in phase 3; obtain newborn
      hypothyroidism screening results.

      Phase 5. Neurodevelopmental Testing (months 36-58):

      Perform neurodevelopmental testing and measure other thyroid analytes (total T4, T3 and
      thyroid antibodies) in the cases and controls.

      Phase 6. Data Analysis (months 59-60):

      Compare demographic data, along with pregnancy- and delivery-related information, between
      case and control mother/child pairs to verify matching and to compare non-matched variables
      between the two groups. Include covariates that differ significantly between cases and
      controls (and that might be related to neurodevelopment) in a more refined model to determine
      whether the unadjusted findings are robust.

      Significance:

      The knowledge gained from this study will expand our understanding of the role that thyroid
      hormone plays in normal pregnancy. If the hypothesis under study in this proposal proves to
      be correct, it will define a broader group of pregnancies in which fetal brain development
      might be suboptimal. The primary benefit to documenting such a problem would be the
      opportunity to develop strategies for identifying and treating high risk women to avoid the
      adverse consequences in their children.
    
  