
    
      Nearly 37% of all Veterans are clinically hypertensive, making hypertension the most common
      medical condition in the VA Health Care System. Importantly, of the 67 million Americans
      diagnosed with hypertension less than half are being effectively treated for their condition.
      Hypertension constitutes a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease and when left
      untreated leads to the development of heart failure, coronary heart disease, peripheral
      artery disease, stroke, and renal disease. Exercise and regular physical activity are
      considered the cornerstones of prevention and management of hypertension. However,
      individuals with hypertension exhibit exercise intolerance characterized by impaired skeletal
      muscle blood flow and heightened afferent fiber sensitivity leading to an exaggerated or
      greater than normal physiologic increase in blood pressure during exercise (i.e. exercise
      pressor reflex or EPR). This imbalance between the beneficial effects of exercise and
      exercise intolerance creates an interesting paradox, the causes and consequences of which are
      poorly understood. The etiology of hypertension is undoubtedly complex, however a common
      denominator in this condition, elevated oxidative stress, may contribute to impaired muscle
      blood flow and heightened skeletal muscle afferent feedback leading to the exaggerated EPR.
      Previous work from the investigators' laboratory and others suggests that elevated oxidative
      stress associated with aging impairs muscle blood flow. Additionally, free radicals, the
      initiators of oxidative stress, can directly stimulate skeletal muscle afferent fibers
      leading to the exaggerated EPR. Importantly, the role of oxidative stress in regulating
      muscle blood flow and afferent fiber function in human hypertension has not been determined.
      Preliminary studies support a significant role of oxidative stress in impairing muscle blood
      flow and contributing to the exaggerated EPR in hypertension. With this information as
      context two aims are proposed that will systematically identify the consequences of elevated
      oxidative stress in hypertension. Specific Aim 1 will determine the consequences of oxidative
      stress by examining how elevated free radicals contribute to heightened skeletal muscle
      afferent feedback and impaired muscle blood flow during exercise in hypertension leading to
      the exaggerated EPR. Additionally, vascular endothelial cells collected from an antecubital
      vein will provide novel insight regarding the endothelium as potential source of elevated
      oxidative stress in hypertension. Specific Aim 2 will determine the effectiveness of combined
      antioxidant therapy and exercise rehabilitation in the treatment of hypertension. The overall
      goal of this proposal is to provide novel information regarding the role of oxidative stress
      as a critical regulator of cardiovascular and hemodynamic responses to exercise in
      hypertension. By identifying potential causes and consequences of oxidative stress, important
      insight will be gained facilitating the development of novel approaches and therapeutic
      strategies for the treatment of hypertension. Importantly, the practical applications tested
      in these studies (i.e. antioxidant treatment and combined exercise rehabilitation) are
      designed to identify and document effective countermeasures to aid in the treatment and
      management of hypertension allowing for the safe performance of exercise in a large number of
      Veterans.
    
  