
    
      Cancers located in the upper aerodigestive tract of the head and neck (HN) region present
      unique management challenges due to the crucial functions in this anatomic region along with
      its anatomic density. As such, cancers themselves and the actual treatment can be
      functionally debilitating. Of these, the ability to effectively and safely transport a
      swallow bolus from the oral cavity to the esophagus is particularly important. This
      consideration has had a major influence regarding the optimal management for head and neck
      cancers as both oncologically effective and function-preserving therapies are desired.
      Accomplishing this therapeutic goal has been elusive due to a lack of tools that effectively
      and longitudinally evaluate swallow function over the course of a treatment and in follow-up.
      Standard of care approaches including modified barium swallow studies are typically used to
      characterize dysphagia once a clinical event has occurred such as pneumonia. As such, we
      surprisingly lack a clear understanding of the natural history of head and neck cancer
      treatment - related swallow dysphagia (HNCTD) regardless of the treatment modality.
      Understanding which patient has HNCTD is especially important given increasing evidence that
      demonstrates that late secondary aspiration contributes to non-cancer related mortality in
      head and neck (HN) cancer patients.

      To address this problem, the investigator hypothesizes that the use of quantitative and
      validated approaches to measuring dysphagia will allow us to better define the heterogeneity
      seen in patients with dysphagia to gain insights into its prevention including the mortality
      risk of aspiration pneumonia our group recently demonstrated 1. Work to date using the
      quantitative patient-reported outcome (PRO) instruments, the Sydney Swallow Questionnaire
      (SSQ) and the MD Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI) has demonstrated that a reproducible
      signature of swallow scores can define dysphagia in irradiated HNC patients. Pilot work to
      date has also demonstrated that pressure flow analysis (PFA) with artificial neural network
      (ANN) of pharyngeal high resolution manometry and impedance (pHRMi) studies in a
      heterogeneous cohort of HNC patients can significantly predict for the risk of clinical
      aspiration and for pneumonia. This pilot study will investigate the use of serial pHRMi to
      identify biomechanical changes in the swallow function of HNC patients treated with
      radiotherapy and secondarily evaluate how the PFA may add to our current PRO-defined swallow
      signature.
    
  