
    
      The three core features of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) are impairments in social
      interaction, restricted range of interest, and stereotyped/repetitive behavior. However,
      autism is a heterogeneous disorder, and individuals with a diagnosis vary widely in specific
      presentation. For example, despite an overall impairment in social behavior, some individuals
      with an autism diagnosis still frequently initiate social interactions with others. In
      contrast, others may engage in problem behaviors maintained by escape or avoidance of social
      interactions.

      A progressive ratio (PR) assessment is one method for directly quantifying the degree to
      which an individual values a particular stimulus or event. Within a PR assessment,
      reinforcement occurs under schedule requirements that increase following each set of
      responses within a single session until responding ceases. The highest schedule requirement
      completed (i.e., breakpoint) can then be used as a measure of how much an individual is
      willing to respond for a given stimulus.

      The study will include about 65 children, 25 children with ASD and 15 typically developing
      children, and 25 children with developmental disabilities other than ASD. Children with
      autism, typically developing children, and children with non-ASD developmental delays other
      than ASD will be compared in terms of how they value social attention and toys. The child
      participants will be asked to do an action, such as pressing a button, to receive either an
      item or attention. At first, the participants will only be required to do the action once,
      but after the first time the children will be required do more and more before they can get
      the item or attention. Eventually, most children stop responding for the preferred item or
      attention. The study will consider the child as done working when they go for one minute
      without performing the action. Sessions will end after 30 minutes if the child keeps working
      without stopping. This study will examine how many times the child will respond for items and
      attention. 15 of the children with ASD will be asked to come back for an additional
      appointment one week after they complete the assessment of how they value attention and toys.
      The PR assessment will be repeated see if the children respond the same way at different
      times.

      The second part of the study will include 10 children diagnosed with ASD ranging in age from
      two to six. All of the procedures described in part one of the study will be included. The PR
      assessment will be completed prior to intervention and again after intervention. All
      appointments will be conducted over a maximum of 4 weeks. The intervention will be based on
      the principals of respondent conditioning; social interaction will be paired with the
      delivery of other reinforcers, such as edible items, to increase the value of social
      interaction. Sessions will be conducted 5 days per week and will be up to two hours long.
      Following the intervention, the participant will repeat the PR assessment in order to assess
      whether the intervention increased the value of social interaction.
    
  