
    
      This is a Phase II, open label, single arm, multi-centre study investigating the safety and
      efficacy of ofatumumab plus bendamustine in subjects with untreated or relapsed CLL.

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the investigator assessed overall response
      rate (ORR), using the International Workshop for Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia (IWCLL)
      updated National Cancer Institute-sponsored Working Group (NCIWG) guidelines, in two
      populations i.e., subjects with previously untreated CLL and subjects with relapsed CLL
      administered ofatumumab plus bendamustine.

      Secondary objectives are to evaluate the overall response rate with computed tomography scan
      (CT scan) assessment, complete response rate with and without CT scan assessment, progression
      free survival, overall survival, duration of response, safety and tolerability, disease,
      prognostic and biological marker correlation with clinical response in the two populations
      i.e., subjects with previously untreated CLL and subjects with relapsed CLL administered
      ofatumumab plus bendamustine.

      Exploratory objectives are to investigate the relationship between genetic variants in host
      DNA and the efficacy, safety and/or tolerability of ofatumumab.

      Each subject from the screening phase who is willing to participate in the study and is found
      eligible according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria will enter the treatment phase and
      will receive a maximum of 6 Cycles of study treatment (ofatumumab plus bendamustine). All
      subjects will receive 3 Cycles of study treatment (Cycles 1, 2 and 3). Eligibility to receive
      study treatment for Cycles 4, 5 and 6 will be assessed following the 3rd Cycle. Subjects who
      have achieved at least stable disease with acceptable toxicity following 3 Cycles of
      treatment will be eligible to continue to receive study treatments for a maximum of 3 further
      Cycles. In case of progressive disease, at, or at any time after the start of Cycle 4,
      subjects must discontinue further study treatment and move into the study's follow-up period.

      During the treatment phase, all eligible subjects will be allocated to receive the following
      study treatments:

        1. Subjects with Untreated CLL: Up to 6 monthly intravenous infusions of ofatumumab (Cycle
           1: 300 mg Day 1 and 1000 mg Day 8; subsequent Cycles: 1000 mg at Day 1 every 28 Days) in
           combination with up to 6 Cycles of intravenously infused bendamustine (90 mg/m2, Days 1
           and 2, every 28 Days).

        2. Subjects with Relapsed CLL: Up to 6 monthly intravenous infusions of ofatumumab (Cycle
           1: 300 mg Day 1 and 1000 mg Day 8; subsequent Cycles: 1000 mg at Day 1 every 28 Days) in
           combination with up to 6 Cycles of intravenously infused bendamustine (70 mg/m2, Days 1
           and 2, every 28 Days).

      Prior to each treatment Cycle, subjects must have an absolute neutrophil count > 1.0 x 109/L,
      a platelet count > 75 x 109/L, and must have recovered to Grade 1 or baseline from all
      clinically significant non-hematologic toxicities, other than nausea, vomiting or alopecia.
      If these retreatment criteria are not met, a treatment delay of up to 28 Days is permitted;
      thereafter, study treatment with bendamustine and ofatumumab must be discontinued. In cases
      of delays up to 14 Days, bendamustine treatment should be continued at the same dosage, but
      in case of a delay between 15-28 Days, the dosage of bendamustine must be reduced to 60 mg/m2
      for all subsequent treatment Cycles for subjects recruited to the study with previously
      untreated CLL and 50 mg/m2 for all subsequent treatment Cycles for subjects recruited to the
      study with relapsed CLL.

      Additionally, if within any Cycle, a subject develops a clinically significant Grade 3/4
      non-hematologic toxicity, other than nausea, vomiting or alopecia, an absolute neutrophil
      count < 1.0 x 109/L, or a platelet count < 50% of the pre-treatment value, the bendamustine
      dose will also be reduced as stated above for all subsequent treatment Cycles.

      Blood samples, lymph node examination, spleen and liver measurements, and constitutional
      symptom evaluations are performed monthly throughout the treatment phase. A bone marrow
      examination is required to confirm complete response (CR) at least two months after the final
      study treatment and when a subject fulfils the IWCLL updated NCI-WG requirements for CR.
      CT-Scans will also be performed, at least two months after the final study treatment, for
      subjects achieving a CR or partial response (PR) according to the IWCLL updated NCI-WG
      requirements. Follow-up assessments will be performed every 3 months following the last study
      treatment. The follow-up period will last for a maximum of 3 years. Response evaluation
      assessments to determine subject response or progression will be performed during the
      follow-up period, according to the IWCLL updated NCI-WG guidelines [Hallek, 2008]. Following
      progression, only survival status and details concerning the subject's next CLL therapy will
      be recorded.
    
  