
    
      Heart Failure (HF) represents one of the major social and health problems, for its high
      prevalence and its huge economic impact, as well as the elevated morbidity and mortality
      associated. In Spain, the estimated prevalence is 7% over 45 years old, and it increases
      until 18% over 75 years old. Currently, HF is the leading cause of hospital admission over 65
      years and the mortality for patients with symptomatic HF remains worse than the majority of
      cancers. The estimated minimum expenditure is 1.1% of total health care costs and 2% of
      specialized medical care. This accounts for a staggeringly large financial burden on the
      health care system.

      Chronic HF is a complex disease, whose progression involves multiple pathophysiological
      systems. It is well established the deleterious effect of activation of
      renin-angiotensin-aldosterone and sympathetic nervous systems. The blockage of these systems
      by beta-blockers, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin-receptor
      blockers (ARBs) and aldosterone antagonists has improved prognosis. However, in spite of
      these therapies, the prognosis of patients with chronic HF remains poor.

      During the HF progression to advanced stages, it has been shown an anabolic and metabolic
      deterioration, resulting in a predominance of catabolic processes. The deficiency of anabolic
      hormones correlates with greater severity of symptoms, activation of neuroendocrine and
      inflammatory systems, insulin resistance, metabolic impairment, exercise intolerance, anemia
      and cardiac cachexia. All these processes take part of the final progression of the HF
      disease until death, when HF becomes a systemic disease. In men with HF, levels of
      testosterone (the main anabolic hormone) are decreased; in fact, 30% of men have levels below
      the 10th percentile of a reference healthy population adjusted for age. The deterioration of
      anabolic hormones correlates inversely with the severity of HF disease and it determines a
      higher mortality. In fact, low testosterone levels are associated with reduced cardiac
      output, greater symptomatic limitation and higher mortality. Therefore, testosterone
      deficiency in men with HF has a detrimental impact on symptoms and prognosis.

      In addition, testosterone has shown to have beneficial effects on HF patients, such as
      vasodilatation of coronary and peripheral arteries, inotropic effects, reduction of
      neurohormonal activation, anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory actions, reduction of
      cytokine production and improvement of muscle strength. All these actions have a potential
      benefit in patients with HF, because they are involved in the progression of the disease,
      especially at advanced stages.

      The rational approach "testosterone replacement for improving the prognosis of patients with
      advanced HF and testosterone deficiency" has strong pathophysiological plausibility. To date,
      no other clinical trials have evaluated the effect of testosterone replacement on morbidity
      and mortality.

      However, in the last years, numerous editorials in leading journals have concluded on the
      need to clarify the effect of testosterone therapy on cardiac function and the morbimortality
      in patients with advanced HF.

      Our group has worked in the last years in this field, confirming the presence of a
      testosterone deficiency in men with chronic HF, which is associated with a worse prognosis
      and a greater decline in exercise capacity.

      Therefore, the investigators propose a clinical trial of morbimortality in a population with
      advanced heart failure and associated deficiency on testosterone; in which, the previous
      background justifies the potential benefit of testosterone replacement therapy. In addition,
      the large clinical impact of this disease supports the priority need of an independent study.
    
  