
    
      The aim of this study was to compare the etiologic agents, the antimicrobial resistance
      rates, and the risk factors associated with a HA-UTI and CA-UTI among complicated and
      uncomplicated UTI patients in a tertiary-care hospital in Mexico.

      This study was performed according to the principles expressed in the Declaration of Helsinki
      with the approval of the Local Ethics Committee of the School of Medicine of the Universidad
      Autónoma de Nuevo León (UR14-004).

      All patients with a UTI and a positive urine culture (> 100,000 UFC/mL) from March to October
      2015 were included. The study was carried out at the Hospital Universitario "Dr. José
      Eleuterio González" hospital, a tertiary-care teaching hospital in Monterrey, Mexico. This
      hospital has 500 beds, serves a population of approximately 5 million people, and has an
      average of 250,000 medical consultations and 22,000 hospitalizations annually.

      A UTI was defined as the presence of symptoms related to the urinary tract, pyuria (≥10
      leucocytes per high-power field) and a positive urine culture (≥105 CFU/mL) of one
      uropathogen according to the guidelines of the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA)
      and the European Association of Urology (EAU). Patients with urine cultures with
      significative counts of two or more bacterial species were excluded.

      Patients' charts were reviewed for clinical and demographic characteristics. The
      classification of UTIs as either complicated or uncomplicated, and hospital-acquired or
      community-acquired, was based on the IDSA and EAU criteria. Cases which could not be
      classified due to insufficient clinical information were excluded.

      Urine cultures were performed according to standard protocols. Species identification of all
      isolates was performed using MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry (Microflex, Bruker Daltonics,
      Billerica, MA). The drug resistance profile of all E. coli isolates was determined using the
      broth microdilution method for gentamicin, amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, aztreonam,
      ceftriaxone, ertapenem, ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, nitrofurantoin,
      trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, and colistin; except fosfomycin, in which the agar dilution
      method was used. The results were interpreted according to the Clinical and Laboratory
      Standards Institute (CLSI) criteria.

      Multidrug resistance (MDR) was defined as non-susceptibility to at least one agent in three
      or more antimicrobial categories. All isolates with resistance to at least one
      third-generation cephalosporin were evaluated for production of ESBL in E. coli using the
      double-disc test according to the CLSI.

      Categorical variables were expressed as frequencies and percentages. Numerical variables were
      expressed as a mean and standard deviation. Clinical and demographic characteristics were
      analyzed using the χ2 test for categorical variables and the t-test (or Mann-Whitney test in
      the absence of normal distribution) for continuous variables. Statistical significance was
      set at p <0.05. Statistical analysis was performed with the SPSS software version 20.0 (IBM
      Corp, Armonk, NY).
    
  