
    
      Parenteral nutrition (PN) is a life-sustaining therapy required in patients who do not have a
      functioning gastrointestinal tract. This can be either second to surgical removal, or
      malfunction (such as in malabsorptive conditions and dysmotility). The intravenous provision
      of nutrition requires central venous access where a hyperosmolar nutrient solution can be
      infused. A variety of central venous catheters (CVCs) can be used, including peripherally
      inserted central catheters (PICC), tunneled catheters and implanted ports. The most common
      complication, and most frequent cause of hospitalization in patients on home PN is
      bloodstream infection.

      There are several new devices or solutions that are being developed to be used as primary
      prophylaxis for CRBSI. These include catheters with antibacterial and/or anti-biofilm
      properties and different catheter lock solutions. Antibiotic lock solutions have been used
      for salvage of central venous catheters in confirmed CRBSI. However, it is not recommended as
      a primary prophylaxis due to the creation of resistant organisms. According to the United
      States Center for Disease Control (CDC), antibiotics 'should be used only to manage
      infection.' However, one antimicrobial solution, taurolidine, has not been found to promote
      the emergence of resistant bacterial strains and it has been used successfully as a lock
      solution to prevent CRBSI. Although an antibiotic may have anti-biofilm properties in high
      concentrations but it does not have anticoagulant properties. Ethanol lock solutions (varying
      concentrations, but usually 70%) have also been used successfully to reduce CRBSI, however,
      there have been adverse events when they are used in polyurethane lines and it does not
      inherently have anticoagulant properties. Historically, citrate lock solution has also been
      used to maintain catheter patency, but in a meta-analysis, there was no difference between
      heparin and citrate lock with regards to catheter thrombosis or catheter related bloodstream
      infection.

      Although its use has been evaluated in hemodialysis catheters, there are no known studies
      examining the use of a tetra-sodium EDTA catheter lock solution in central venous catheters
      of patients on home PN. Although both hemodialysis and home PN require central venous
      catheters, there are many differences inherent to the different usages. First, the types of
      catheters that are used can differ. There is more variety in the types of catheters used for
      home PN. Second, most patients undergo hemodialysis on a fixed schedule, three times per week
      for 4 to 8 hours each time, and, for the majority of patients, this is done in-center, with
      the assistance of a nurse. On the other hand, home PN is usually administered five or more
      days per week, at home, over 12 or more hours. It can be either administered with the
      assistance of a home care nurse or by the patient and/or their family/partner. Furthermore,
      the substance infused through the catheter is different. Specifically, amino acids and fat
      emulsions are usually only infused in home PN, although electrolytes and fluids can be
      infused in both.

      Kitelock™, 4% tetrasodium EDTA catheter lock solution is the sole product of SterileCare Inc,
      a private medical devices and equipment company registered federally in Canada, and based in
      Markham, Ontario. Kitelock™ is licensed as a medical device, class 2 (license #96962, issue
      date 2016-05-10), by Health Canada.

      The aim of this study is to perform cost- and ease-of-use analyses in patients on home
      parenteral nutrition.
    
  