
    
      Telemedicine and an emerging field of novel care delivery modalities, which encompasses all
      forms of remote-based care. These include asynchronous (store-and-forward) and consultative
      care by specialists, mobile-device based care, and real-time video chat, and synchronous
      telemedicine. Health care services delivered remotely through telecommunications and video
      technology is steadily increasing as technology evolves and access becomes more widely
      available. The increasing availability of personal technology - 89% Americans have internet
      access, 77% are online daily - offers patients and clinicians the opportunity to utilize
      real-time virtual communication to enhance access for patients when transportation
      challenges, schedules, or physical disability make office visits difficult in any geography.
      With the increased use of technology in healthcare, much emphasis has been placed on
      telemedicine as it can extend the services of providers to remote locations and overcome the
      barrier of proximity. This expands access to care and has the potential of making healthcare
      services more convenient for many patients who otherwise might suffer access barriers.

      It is increasingly evident that telehealth can improve access to healthcare services and
      specialists; prevent unnecessary delays in receiving care, and facilitate coordinated care
      and interprofessional collaboration. The World Health Organization affirms the efficacy of
      telehealth as an effective service delivery model for professionals.

      Telemedicine has been shown to improve health outcomes, increase communication with
      providers, increase access to high-quality service, decrease travel time, decrease missed
      appointments, decrease wait time, decrease repeat admissions, increase self-awareness,
      increase medication adherence, and increase self-monitoring of chronic conditions. The
      technical quality of telehealth consultation (e.g. audio and visual quality of a
      videoconference) has been shown to influence clinicians' willingness to practice in this
      manner and the satisfaction of users. A recent systematic review on patient satisfaction with
      telemedicine found that patient satisfaction can be associated with the modality of
      telehealth, but factors of effectiveness and efficiency are mixed. Telehealth is a feasible
      option to expand practices to remote areas without having to relocate or expand.
      Understanding the perceived relative value of different modes of healthcare services may help
      to shape the use of virtual or remote healthcare technologies. System learning that
      demonstrates the value of different types of "visits" for the system and the patient is
      essential.
    
  