
    
      Subcutaneous (SC) infusion has been established in high-income countries as a safe and
      effective alternative to expedite and simplify IV access. , A study from 2003 demonstrated
      the efficacy of SC hydration in elderly patients, for example. Fluid absorption via the SC
      method was almost identical to that via the IV method. A recent retrospective study compared
      SC fluid infusion with IV fluid infusion in children and showed that the SC method makes
      possible a more timely delivery of parenteral fluid with fewer needlesticks.

      Additionally, SC hydration has been shown to be even more effective with the addition of
      recombinant human hyaluronidase, an enzyme that breaks down hyaluronic acid that makes up the
      extracellular matrix. , (Note: Hyaluronidase, or Hylenex, is not an investigational drug; it
      is FDA-approved, regularly used in the U.S., and will be procured for this study through the
      pharmacy of the Massachusetts General Hospital (Boston, USA).) When hyaluronidase is injected
      subcutaneously, an area forms where fluids do not have a dense matrix to cross. Flow rates
      with hyaluronidase-assisted SC (hSC) infusion are nearly five times faster than SC fluid
      administration alone.8 U.S.-based studies comparing hSC rehydration with standard IV
      rehydration in children with mild-to-moderate dehydration have demonstrated several benefits
      of hSC, including time and success of line placement, ease of use, satisfaction, and
      cost-effectiveness.9, These studies concluded that hSC hydration is a reasonable alternative
      to IV hydration in resource-rich settings, especially for children with difficult IV access.

      While hSC infusion has been shown to be safe, successful, and cost-effective in high-income
      countries like the United States, there have been no randomized control trials in
      low-resource settings. The benefits of hSC that have been demonstrated in high-income
      countries, namely the ease of use and cost-effectiveness, may be particularly advantageous in
      low- and middle-income countries. It may even be found to be safer in these settings than
      current standards of care in light of recent findings of higher mortality with IV bolus
      rehydration among febrile children with infection in Africa. We, therefore, propose a
      feasibility study to evaluate whether hSC infusion can be effective and safe among
      moderate-to-severely dehydrated patients in rural community hospitals in western Kenya.

      Rationale

      hSC infusion can improve clinical management of patients presenting with moderate-to-severe
      dehydration. It can serve as a definitive alternative rehydration method or as a bridge to IV
      access when IV access is unobtainable.

      Hypotheses

      Hyaluronidase-assisted subcutaneous fluid resuscitation is equally effective as standard IV
      therapy for initial volume resuscitation in moderate to severely dehydrated patients in rural
      Kenya.

      Hyaluronidase-assisted subcutaneous fluid resuscitation can decrease costs, shorten time to
      IV placement (reduce needlesticks), less discomfort, and decrease complications compared to
      standard IV therapy in moderate to severely dehydrated patients in rural Kenya.

      Research questions

      This study seeks to help answer the following research questions: Can hSC be effectively
      introduced among mid-level providers in rural community hospitals in western Kenya? Can hSC
      serve as an effective and safe treatment or bridge to IV access among patients presenting
      with moderate-to-severe dehydration? What are the perceptions and attitudes of providers and
      patients upon the use of hSC? What is the cost effectiveness of hSC in this setting?

      Objectives

      To evaluate the efficacy of hyaluronidase-assisted subcutaneous resuscitation (hSC) in
      moderate to severely dehydrated patients in Kenya.
    
  