
    
      A prospective randomized controlled trial in the Department of Anesthesiology, Copenhagen
      University Hospital Nordsjællands Hospital-Hillerød Denmark. The study is approved by the
      Ethics Committee, capital region of Denmark. The aim of the study is to compare bronchoscopic
      tracheal intubation during continuous oxygenation through the AuraGain and I-gel supraglottic
      airway device. One hundred patients will be randomly allocated into two groups, group A
      (AuraGain) and group B (I-gel). Study outcomes are time to tracheal intubation confirmed by
      capnography as well as anesthesiologists reports of ease of use. Twenty-five
      anesthesiologists participates in this study, and are allocated four patient each. In random
      order, each physician will perform two bronchoscopic tracheal intubations with each SGA.

      In the preoperative setting, a complete anesthetic evaluation will be performed, including a
      detailed airway assessment determining predictors for difficulties of face mask ventilation,
      insertion of SGA and tracheal intubation. Participants are scheduled to undergo elective
      surgery under general anesthesia. Before induction, all patients will be preoxygenated with
      100% oxygen. After induction, rocuronium 0.6mg/kg will be used to facilitate neuromuscular
      blockade. Sufficient face mask ventilation will be performed before intervention.

      Group A: AuraGain:

      Time is measured from when the anesthesiologist reaches for the AuraGain LMA until the mask
      is placed and adequate ventilation is confirmed by capnography. The AuraGain LMA will be used
      as conduit for bronchoscopic intubation during continuous oxygenation, and time is measured
      until placement of the tracheal tube verified by capnography.

      Group B: I-gel:

      Time is measured from when the anesthesiologist reaches for the I-gel LMA until the mask is
      placed and adequate ventilation is confirmed by capnography.The I-gel LMA will be used as
      conduit for bronchoscopic tracheal intubation during continuous oxygenation, and time is
      measured until placement of the tracheal tube verified by capnography.

      In both groups (A and B) up to two attempts of SGA placement and up to three attempts of
      tracheal intubation are allowed.

      In case of an emerging unpredicted difficult airway and a concurrent unsuccessful SGA
      placement, the difficult airway algorithm, DAS, UK will be followed. Video- assisted
      laryngoscopy will be the first option.
    
  