
    
      Active duty military personnel are at high risk of cigarette smoking. Despite strong efforts
      by the Department of Defense to reduce tobacco use, rates of smoking among people in the
      military remain high. The military lifestyle presents unique challenges to implementing
      smoking cessation programs, including the high mobility of troops, remote locations, and
      limited access to healthcare services. Because of these challenges, many smoking cessation
      programs that are effective in the non-military population are often ineffective in the
      military population. Tobacco telephone quit lines are telephone-based tobacco cessation
      services that provide easy access to educational materials, referrals to local programs, and
      individualized telephone counseling. Because tobacco quit lines are remotely based and can
      fit into varying schedules at convenient times, they may be effective among people in the
      military. Nicotine replacement patches are another effective smoking cessation tool and can
      be used in addition to telephone quit lines. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the
      effectiveness of tobacco quit lines, in addition to nicotine replacement patches, at
      improving smoking cessation rates among members of the Air Force.

      This study will enroll military healthcare beneficiaries who have smoked at least five
      cigarettes a day in the year before study entry. Participants will be randomly assigned to
      either a proactive group, in which study researchers will initiate contact with the
      participants, or a reactive group, in which participants will initiate contact with the
      researchers. In this six-session program, phone calls will occur at 1- to 2-week intervals
      over an 8-week period. The phone sessions will focus on cutting down on cigarette smoking,
      setting a quit date, and relapse prevention. All participants will receive nicotine
      replacement patches after the second session is completed. The reactive group will receive
      two weeks of nicotine replacement patches and the proactive group will receive 8 weeks of
      nicotine replacement patches. At the end of session four and 1 year later, study staff will
      call participants to collect information on tobacco abstinence, nicotine replacement patch
      use adherence, and other smoking cessation medication use.
    
  