
    
      This single-blinded cluster randomized trial compares the effectiveness and sustainability of
      On the Move and a standard group exercise program in 400 community-dwelling older adults. We
      will also examine the acceptability and risks associated with exercise participation. We will
      accomplish the objectives by pursuing the following specific aims:

        1. Compare the effects of the On the Move group exercise program to a standard program on
           self-reported function and disability and walking ability. The On the Move program will
           produce greater gains in self-reported function and disability (Late Life Function and
           Disability Index/LLFDI) and walking ability (6-minute walk test/6MWT and gait speed)
           when delivered by an exercise leader.

        2. When feasible to be delivered by staff activity personnel, explore the effectiveness of
           On the Move compared to a standard program; and sustainability compared to delivery by
           exercise leaders (when feasible). Explore barriers to identifying and training staff
           activity personnel. On the Move delivered by staff activity personnel (when feasible)
           will produce gains in above outcomes that are greater than the standard program; and
           comparable to when delivered by an exercise leader.

        3. Compare the acceptability and the risks of the On the Move and standard exercise
           programs delivered by (a) exercise leaders and (b) staff activity personnel (when
           feasible). On the Move will result in greater satisfaction and higher attendance rates
           than the standard program. Attendance rates and satisfaction will be similar for
           exercise leader and staff activity personnel led programs when feasible to recruit staff
           personnel. Adverse event (falls, soft tissue injuries, muscle soreness, etc) rates
           during exercise will be similar between the two groups and the two facilitators when
           feasible to recruit staff personnel.

        4. Explore potential baseline predictors of benefit and risks of participation in On the
           Move program to facilitate informed patient decision making. We will be able to identify
           combinations of baseline physical, psychosocial and demographic factors associated with
           each of the treatment response and adverse events outcomes.

      This single-blinded cluster randomized trial targets community-dwelling older adults residing
      in Independent Living Facilities and Senior High Rises or living in the community and
      attending senior community centers. The trial compares type of exercise program (12 week
      standard group exercise program to the 12 week On the Move group exercise program) and the
      mode of delivery (exercise leader to staff activity personnel). Primary outcomes include
      function, disability and walking ability. We will also examine acceptability and risks
      associated with exercise participation.

      Study population We will recruit participants from the Independent Living Facilities (ILFs),
      Senior Housing sites and from senior community centers.

      Interventions:

      Exercise program comparison. The On the Move exercise program will be compared to a standard
      group exercise program. Both exercise programs will be group-based and led by a person. Both
      programs will be delivered by trained exercise leaders or trained staff activity personnel
      (only when such a person is available). When a suitable staff activity person is not
      available, the program will be delivered by one of our exercise leaders. The frequency and
      duration of the programs are identical (50 minutes, 2 times a week for 12 weeks). The main
      difference between the standard and the On the Move group exercise programs is the program
      content which is described below.

      The On the Move exercise program is based on principles of motor learning that enhance
      "skill" or smooth and automatic movement control. The program contains a warm-up (5 minutes),
      stepping patterns (15 minutes), walking patterns (15 minutes), strengthening exercises (10
      minutes), and cool-down exercises (5 minutes). The warm-up and cool down contain gentle range
      of motion exercises and stretches for the lower extremities and trunk. The stepping and
      walking patterns are goal-oriented progressively more difficult patterns which promote the
      timing and coordination of stepping, integrated with the phases of the gait cycle. The
      strengthening exercises are conducted in sitting and standing and target the lower extremity
      muscles. The majority of the program will be conducted in standing (40 minutes) with only a
      small portion conducted in sitting (10 minutes).

      The standard group exercise program is based on exercise programs that are currently being
      conducted at the facilities (i.e. standard of care). The operationally defined program
      contains a warm-up (5 minutes), upper and lower extremity strength and flexibility exercises
      (30 minutes), static balance exercises (10 minutes) and a cool-down (5 minutes). The majority
      of the program will be conducted in sitting (40 minutes) with only a small portion (10
      minutes) conducted in standing.

      Sustainability of the program: exercise leader and staff activity personnel comparison (Aim
      2). The sustainability of the program will be evaluated by assessing the effectiveness of On
      the Move compared to a standard program when delivered by staff activity personnel and by
      comparing outcomes obtained by the On the Move program delivered by exercise leaders and
      staff activity personnel.

      Outcomes:

      Our main outcomes, function, disability, and walking ability are highly associated with
      independence and are extremely important to the older adult. Our primary measure of function
      and disability is the Late Life Function and Disability Instrument (LLFDI) and our main
      measures of walking ability are Six Minute Walk Test (6MWT) and gait speed. We will also
      examine confidence in walking (Gait Efficacy Scale), walking under challenging conditions
      (challenging gait tasks and figure of 8 walk), and gait variability as additional measures of
      walking ability. All measures will be collected at baseline and immediately following the 12
      week intervention by research personnel who are blinded to the intervention group assignment.
      All testing will be conducted at the ILFs and Senior Housing sites.

      Data analysis:

      Aim 1:

      First, we will perform a multivariate Hotelling t-test to simultaneously compare the baseline
      to follow-up change in the three primary outcomes between the arms to protect the type I
      error rate from multiplicity. If significant, subsequent analyses will be performed without
      further multiplicity adjustment. If not, subsequent comparisons will be performed with a
      conservative Bonferroni correction at the α=0.05/4=0.0125 level. This protected test approach
      has been recommended in the statistical literature and used in other exercise intervention
      trials with multiple outcomes.

      Second, we will fit a series of linear mixed models using the SAS® MIXED procedure with
      baseline to follow-up change in each of the continuous outcomes (LLFDI function/disability,
      walking ability, other measures of mobility performance) as the dependent variable;
      intervention arm (standard/On the Move), as the fixed effect of primary interest; baseline
      value of outcome as an additional fixed effect covariate; and a facility random effect to
      account for greater similarity of participants from the same facility compared to different
      facilities and resulting non-independence of observations within facility (ie. clustering).
      We will construct appropriate means contrasts to estimate difference in gains in the two
      interventions when delivered by exercise leaders (Aim 1) whose statistical significance of
      the estimates will serve as formal tests of hypotheses. We will consider adding other
      baseline measures found to be significantly different between the arms or deemed important as
      additional fixed effect covariates in the model to assess robustness of the findings. We note
      that waiting of participants randomized to staff activity personnel classes constitute a
      group of control participants, if smaller, without any intervention. Therefore, we will
      perform another sensitivity analysis employing a similar analytic strategy but with three
      intervention arms (On the Move/Standard/Wait List Control).

      Aim 3(a):

      We will fit a series of generalized estimating equations (GEE) models(68) using the SAS®
      GENMOD procedure with each of the dichotomous adverse events, adherence (21+ sessions or
      ≥90%) and satisfaction outcomes as the dependent variable; a binomial distribution for the
      outcome and a logit canonical link function; intervention arm, as the effect of primary
      interest; baseline value of outcome and any other measures found to be different between arms
      or deemed important as additional fixed effects covariates; and an exchangeable working
      correlation structure to account for clustering due to facility. We will appropriately
      construct contrasts to test hypotheses of differential proportions with adverse events based
      on intervention when delivered by exercise leaders.

      Aims 2, 3(b) and 4 Exploratory Analyses

      Aim 2:

      We propose an analytic strategy with an exploratory philosophy for Aim 2 sustainability aim,
      because of the uncertainty surrounding our ability to recruit and train a staff activity
      person to lead a class safely and per protocol.

      We will fit a series of linear mixed models using the SAS® MIXED procedure with baseline to
      follow-up change in each of the continuous outcomes (LLFDI function/disability, walking
      ability, other measures of mobility performance) as the dependent variable; intervention arm
      (standard/On the Move), delivery mode (by exercise leader/staff activity personnel) and their
      interaction as fixed effects of interest; baseline value of outcome and any other measures
      found to be different between arms or deemed important as additional fixed effects
      covariates; and a facility random effect to account for greater similarity of participants
      from the same facility compared to different facilities and resulting non-independence of
      observations within facility (ie. clustering). We will construct appropriate means contrasts
      to estimate difference in gains in the two interventions when delivered by staff exercise
      personnel (Aim 2 effectiveness hypothesis); and difference in gains attributable to On the
      Move intervention when delivered by exercise leaders and staff activity personnel (Aim 2
      sustainability hypothesis). Statistical significance of the estimates will serve as formal
      tests hypotheses. We note that participants randomized to staff activity personnel had to
      wait 12 weeks since their baseline assessment and randomization to start the intervention,
      during which they may have changed; and that they underwent a second baseline assessment
      immediately prior to starting the exercise intervention. Therefore, we will repeat the above
      analysis using their second baseline assessment instead of the first one to assess the
      sensitivity of results.

      Aim 3(b):

      We will fit a series of generalized estimating equations (GEE) models using the SAS® GENMOD
      procedure with each of the dichotomous adverse events, adherence (21+ sessions or ≥90%) and
      satisfaction outcomes as the dependent variable; a binomial distribution for the outcome and
      a logit canonical link function; intervention arm, delivery model and their interaction as
      effects of interest; baseline value of outcome and any other measures found to be different
      between arms or deemed important as additional fixed effects covariates; and an exchangeable
      working correlation structure to account for clustering due to facility. We will
      appropriately construct contrasts to test hypotheses of differential proportions with adverse
      events based on intervention when delivered by staff activity personnel and delivery mode.

      Aim 4:

      We will perform the exploratory analyses to identify combinations of baseline predictors of
      treatment response and risks of participating in On the Move program.
    
  