
    
      Study Objectives and Purpose

      1. By cross-sectional analysis, determine if there are significant differences in average and
      SD of LLT in a group of patients who are considering blepharoplasty (cases) as compared to a
      group of patients from a general ophthalmology clinic who have no lid disturbances
      (controls).

      2a. Via a prospective study, determine the average and standard deviation of LLT in a group
      of patients undergoing blepharoplasty, and how these change in a one month period after
      surgery.

      2b. Identify, through the same prospective study, if factors such as age and gender are
      associated with the direction and magnitude of changes in LLT.

      Study design:

      Cross-sectional study and Prospective cohort study

      Rationale:

        1. A cross-sectional study comparing LLT, TBUT and corneal staining in patients who are
           about to undergo blepharoplasty against patients who have no complaints of any lid
           disturbances.

        2. A prospective study observing changes in LLT, TBUT and corneal staining after
           blepharoplasty, and if age and gender was associated with these changes.

      Methods:

      30 patients who are about to undergo blepharoplasty will be recruited from the oculoplastic
      clinic. These patients will form the "case" group of the cross-sectional study, and will be
      on follow-up for the prospective study.

      Another 30 patients will be recruited from the general ophthalmology (ECS) clinic. These
      patients are cleared to have no lid disturbances in terms of function or anatomy, and will
      serve as the "control" group of the cross-sectional study.

      The following assessments will be performed for each patient who is recruited. For patients
      involved in the cross-sectional study, they will be assessed only once. For the patients
      involved in the prospective study, they will be assessed during the pre-surgery consultation,
      and at the standard post-surgery consultations at 1 week and 1 month after surgery

      Procedures to be done

        1. LLT measurement with LipiView tear interferometer

        2. Fluorescein Dye Tear Break-up Time (TBUT)

        3. Fluorescein Dye Corneal Staining

      Duration of study: 1 year
    
  