
    
      Introduction:

      Atelectasis and consolidation of lung tissue is a well recognized clinical scenario following
      anaesthesia, musclerelaxation and mechanical ventilation. In cardiac surgery during
      cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), the lungs are collapsed to a degree depending on surgical
      opening of the pleura, time on bypass, and gasmixture on termination of ventilation.
      Recruitment of the lungs on commencement of mechanical ventilation after CPB generally must
      be repeated before extubation. There are several different approaches to Recruitment
      Manoeuvers (RM). Increasing pressures in the ventilator (peak-pressures and PEEP), increasing
      tidal volumes and inspiratory hold are facilities offered by the ventilator. Different body
      positions by interaction of the abdomen and thorax through the diaphragm, and the action of
      gravity on the lungs and adjoining organs, are other principles. The contribution of
      spontaneous ventilatory efforts also play a major roll.

      Study rationale:

      The study comprises two different objectives. Longitudinal description of postoperative
      pulmonary dysfunction in the cardiothoracic surgery patient, and the comparison of two
      different lungrecruitment strategies.

      All patients undergoing cardiothoracic surgery develops some degree of postoperative
      pulmonary dysfunction (PPD), including hypoxemia, increased work of breathing, shallow
      respiration and ineffective cough. Respiratory symptoms of larger clinical significance are
      better investigated, known as postoperative pulmonary complications (PPC), including pleural
      effusion, atelectasis, pneumonia and ARDS. Pathophysiology is complex and multifactorial, and
      there is a continuum between PPD and PPC that has not yet been well explored. A large
      proportion of patients readmitted to CICU present respiratory failure, significantly
      accounting for morbidity, mortality, and costs.

      Regarding lungrecruitment, supine position is compared to modified prone position with
      similar ventilator settings. Initial measurements preoperatively in the awake patient, then
      during sedation and ventilator treatment, followed up by measurements before discharge from
      the surgical ward on postoperative day 4-5.

      Effect of RM is evaluated from ventilator measurement of compliance (C), arterial oxygenation
      and P/F-ratio from the arterial blood gas (ABG), and electrical impedance tomography (EIT).
      EIT measures the impedance of a thoracic sagittal section by emitting and sampling electrical
      currents between 16 electrodes fixed on a submamillar belt. Radiology report from routine
      chest X-ray and ultrasonography of the lungs and pleura will be added.

      Should RM in prone position prove to be more efficient, postoperative complications in terms
      of respiratory failure and pneumonia could be reduced, facilitating postoperative recovery
      and shortening convalescens. This would justify the increased burden of care in the cardiac
      ICU.

      Study objectives:

      The study aims to compare lung recruitment in two different body positions, supine (elevated
      30 degrees) to left modified prone position (left side up, 120 degrees). Parameters
      investigated are global and regional pulmonary impedance (EIT), lungcompliance, and arterial
      oxygenation. Chest X-ray and lung ultrasound will be performed for additional analyses.

      A descriptive longitudinal study of the 20 patients lungrecruited in supine position will
      also be performed.

      Study design:

      Prospective, randomized clinical trial. Two groups with 20 cardiac surgery patients in each.

      Study procedure:

      Protocol

      Day -1:

      1 day preop. EIT measurement in supine (30 degrees elevated) and modified left prone position
      (left side up, 120 degrees). Two measurements of each 2 min duration in both positions. ABG
      is performed after breathing through a Venturi-mask delivering FiO2 0.5 for 10 minutes.
      Randomization to either of the two groups.

      Day 0:

      Day of surgery. Standard periop care in coherence with department routines. Preoxygenation
      using FiO2 1.0 during induction of anaesthesia, and before commencing cardiopulmonary bypass
      (CPB). Inhalational anaesthetics during surgical preparation, and again after weaning from
      CPB. Apnoea without PEEP or intermittent ventilation during CPB. Before weaning from CPB
      manual lung recruitment with the APL-valve set to 30 cm H2O, and visual guidance of the
      lungparenchyma or pleura. After chest closure, FiO2 is set to 0.5, volume controlled
      ventilation 4-6 ml/Kg titrated according to pCO2, and PEEP is set to 5 cm H2O. Patient
      ventilation circuit will be broken twice in conjugation with the use of a transport
      ventilator device before arrival in the CICU. Ventilator settings in the CICU is
      pressure-regulated volume-controlled ventilation (VKTS), tidal volumes of 4-6 ml/Kg titrated
      according to pCO2, respiratory frequency of 14/min, and PEEP 8 cm H2O.

      Recruitment maneuver (RM) is performed within 10 min on arrival in the CICU. Patient must be
      stabile in hemodynamic parameters, including volume status. PEEP is set to 20 cm H2O,
      pressure controlled ventilation with peak pressure 40 cm H2O for 30 s (5 inspirations),
      thereafter PEEP-trial starting from 15 cm H2O for optimal PEEP using the "Open Lung Tool"
      (Maquet Flow-i software). During the PEEP-trial, VKTS for tidal volumes of 6 ml/Kg is used.

      Supine position group: RM in supine position. EIT, ABG and lung compliance measurements in
      supine position before RM (30 degrees elevation), then immediately and 30 min after RM, and
      again 30 minutes after extubation. FiO2 0.5 at all ABG measuring points.

      Modified prone position group: RM in modified prone position (120 degrees, left side up).
      EIT, ABG and lung compliance measurements in supine position before RM (30 degrees
      elevation), and then immediately after RM when turned back to supine position (30 degrees
      elevation), and 30 minutes after RM. Finally, measurements 30 minutes after extubation. FiO2
      0.5 at all ABG measuring points.

      Day 4-5:

      Supine and prone position groups: EIT in supine position (30 degrees elevation) and ABG
      repeated at day 4-5 postop. ABG is performed after breathing through a Venturi-mask
      delivering FiO2 0.5 for 10 minutes. Ultrasonography of the pleurae. Chest-X-ray performed
      routinely on the day after chest-drain removal.
    
  