
    
      The current dominant malaria vector control tools remain critically important and have saved
      many lives. Yet, they are not well-suited for malaria vectors that avoid contact with indoor
      insecticides by predominantly biting outdoors, by frequently biting animals, and by resting
      outdoors or remaining within houses only briefly when they do enter. These behaviors allow
      residual populations of vector mosquitoes to survive, expand, and to increasingly contribute
      to malaria transmission, despite high coverage. These vectors can sustain endemic
      transmission even if they rarely bite humans. An. arabiensis is a particularly important
      source of persistent residual transmission despite Long Lasting Insecticide-treated Net
      (LLIN) scale-up; this mosquito prefers to feed on animals, and, often bites and rests
      outside, and has limited indoor exposure. There is need for new vector control tools to
      target residual outdoor transmission.

      In addition to the biological need for female Anopheles species to take a blood meal to
      obtain protein necessary for egg production, all Anopheles must feed regularly and frequently
      on liquid and carbohydrates (sugars) to survive. Common sources of liquid and sugar meals
      include plant tissue and floral nectar. Mosquitoes are guided to sugar sources by chemical
      attractants. The Attractive Target Sugar Baits (ATSBs) is designed specifically to attract
      the mosquito with a source of liquid and sugar and include an ingestion toxicant to then kill
      the mosquito. Using sugar sources to attract mosquitoes to an ingestion toxicant is a
      relatively simple and inexpensive, strategy that has been shown to be highly efficacious for
      mosquito control in a limited number of trials. Limited data suggest efficacy, even in
      sugar-rich environments, due to the high frequency of sugar feeding.

      Early studies examined the effect of spraying ingestion toxicants on attractive flowers to
      use their scent as bait. While these flowers effectively attract the target mosquitoes, the
      impact on non-target insects, especially pollinators, can be devastating. Furthermore, this
      approach is not suitable where there is a lack of flowering vegetation. Subsequent studies
      evaluated locally available plants and fruits as attractants. While such attractants can be
      sprayed onto non-flowering green vegetation, further studies evaluated products (bait
      stations) that could be used across a wide variety of settings including indoors and in areas
      without suitable vegetation.

      Westham Compagny recently developed a bait station that contains a plant-based mosquito
      attractant, sugar as a feeding stimulant, and an active ingredient (the neonicotinoid,
      dinotefuran) to kill the foraging vectors. The bait station has a protective membrane that
      covers and protects the bait from rain and dust, but that allows mosquitoes to feed through
      it. The Westham ATSB can remain effective in the field for at least six months and has a
      shelf life of greater than three years with no specific requirements for storage. This
      Attractive Target Sugar Bait (ATSB) is now being produced at an industrial scale, uses simple
      and widely available ingredients, and is environmentally friendly. The bait station was
      designed to have the lowest practicable material content with a high proportion of the mass
      being fully biodegradable. The protective membrane allows mosquitoes to feed, but it serves
      as a barrier to pollinators. Field studies to-date have also shown that the ATSB has a
      minimal impact on non-target organisms. This includes evidence specifically for the toxicant
      that will be used, dinotefuran. Initial environmental assessment and subsequent field trials
      in Mali have demonstrated that when deployed within the ATSB, the toxicant does not pose
      safety risks to non-target organisms, including pollinators and humans.

      ATSBs may be a particularly important vector control tool in the context of insecticide
      resistance. Insecticide resistance for the six insecticide classes currently used in LLINs
      and IRS threatens malaria prevention efforts. Resistance to pyrethroids (used in LLINs and
      IRS) is commonly reported. If pyrethroids lose most of their efficacy, more than 55% of the
      benefits of vector control could be lost. ATSBs can help mitigate insecticide resistance to
      these contact insecticides because they can use ingestion toxicants from very different
      chemical classes. There are many existing ingestion toxicants that may be used in a bait
      station, which could facilitate resistance prevention strategies, such as rotation or
      combination approaches.
    
  