
    
      There is a substantial and growing body of literature that has identified medical students as
      a group that suffers from increased levels of depression, anxiety, and other markers of
      "psychological distress". Other studies have demonstrated that in conjunction with the
      "psychological distress", medical students suffer from sleep deprivation, sleep disruption,
      and daytime sleepiness. Finally there is some preliminary evidence that residents and interns
      show increased symptoms of fatigue. It might reasonably be assumed that all of these symptoms
      are inter-related and more importantly detrimental to both the student and those patients
      under their care. There have been interventional studies aimed at educating participants on
      stress management, however these attempts have had only limited success.

      Circadian rhythms are biological rhythms that contribute to most of our bodies' physiological
      processes. It has been determined that light is the major environmental cue that influences
      the setting of our circadian rhythm. Under ideal circumstances exposure to natural sunlight
      is sufficient to maintain a consistent and synchronized circadian rhythm. Often times this is
      not the case. Reduced exposure to natural light and increased exposure to artificial light
      are just two influencing factors.

      Artificial light therapy has been successfully applied to the treatment of disorders of
      circadian rhythms as well as the treatment of some affective disorders. Most notably, light
      therapy has been shown to be effective in treating symptoms of depression and sleep
      disruption, specifically in patients with seasonal affective disorder, non-seasonal major
      depression, delayed sleep phase syndrome, advanced sleep phase syndrome, and sub-syndromal
      levels of each of these.

      The theoretical mechanism of action is reviewed by Terman et al and asserts that morning
      bright light therapy advances and stabilizes the circadian rhythm of individuals who have
      delayed or drifting rhythms. There is subsequent synchronization and entrainment of the
      individual's endogenous rhythm with the environmental rhythm of daily life as reviewed in.

      The timing, duration, and type of light delivered are of paramount concern, as improper
      delivery of therapy has been shown to have no advantage over placebo. One method of light
      delivery is simulated dawn light therapy. Simulated dawn light therapy works by gradually
      increasing light exposure over a specified period of time at the end of the sleep period.
      This gradually increasing light exposure during the sleep period is in contrast to
      traditional light therapy, which is delivered at full intensity after wake time. Simulated
      dawn has shown great promise as being just as effective as traditional light therapy but with
      the additional advantages of being more time efficient, easier to use, and more easily
      tolerated. All of these factors are important considerations in the application of this
      intervention to medical students, as being short on time and under significant stress are
      both hallmarks of medical education. The following proposal is a novel approach, using light
      therapy, to improve the mental well-being of first year medical students.
    
  