
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the feasibility of administration of the geriatric assessment in elderly
           patients with cancer.

        -  Determine the percentage of patients able to complete the self-administered portion of
           the geriatric assessment without assistance.

        -  Determine the length of time necessary to complete the geriatric assessment.

        -  Determine the variance and number of missing items.

        -  Assess patient satisfaction with the questionnaire by identifying items that are
           distressing or difficult to comprehend.

        -  Assess the percentage of geriatric assessments that contain all three of the following
           items: Timed Up and Go Assessment, Blessed Orientation-Memory-Concentration Test, and
           healthcare professional-rated Karnofsky performance status.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the proportion of patients who are able to complete the self-report portion of
           the questionnaire without assistance and the length of time needed to complete the
           geriatric assessment within patients of various sociodemographic factors and educational
           status.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age (65 to 69
      years vs 70 years and over).

      Patients undergo assessments of cognition using the Blessed Orientation-Memory-Concentration
      Test; functional status using the Timed Up and Go Assessment (measures physical mobility);
      and performance status using the healthcare professional-rated Karnofsky performance scale.
      These assessments are performed by healthcare personnel. Body mass index and the percentage
      of unintentional weight loss and the number of falls in the past 6 months are also assessed.

      Patients also complete the following self-administered questionnaires: Instrumental
      Activities of Daily Living (measures level of functioning and need for services); Activities
      of Daily Living (measures higher levels of physical functioning); Karnofsky Self-Reported
      Performance Rating Scale (related to survival and clinically significant illness); Physical
      Health Section of the Older American Resources and Services Questionnaire (measures
      comorbidity and the impact on daily activities); Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale;
      Medical Outcomes Study (MOS) Social Activity Limitations Measure (measures the impact of
      cancer on patients' social functioning); and MOS Social Support Survey Emotional/Information
      and Tangible Subscales (measures perceived availability of social support).

      Patients then begin planned treatment.
    
  