
    
      The proposed study population is affected with adenosine deaminase-deficient severe combined
      immune deficiency (ADA-SCID), an autosomal recessive congenital immune deficiency. The basis
      of the proposed study (and product) is retroviral-mediated transduction of autologous, bone
      marrow derived CD34+ hematopoietic progenitor cells with the MND-ADA retroviral vector in a 5
      day cell processing period. Transduction is followed by infusion of the washed cells into
      subjects not receiving enzyme replacement therapy with Polyethylene-conjugated ADA (PEG-ADA,
      ADAGEN7) who have had their PEG-ADA injections discontinued, and have undergone bone marrow
      cytoreductive therapy with a single non-ablative treatment course of Busulfan. The dose of
      cells infused will be determined by the patient-to-patient variation of the number of
      progenitors available from individual patients. Statistical analyses post-infusion will help
      determine the dose-response of the number of cells infused to the level of engraftment and
      resulting level of immune reconstitution. Following cellular infusion, a primary clinical
      end-point will be the absolute numbers of T and B lymphocytes containing the transduced ADA
      gene by quantitative, real-time PCR analyses. Measurement of blood mononuclear cell ADA
      enzyme levels will be analyzed. Based on the degree of marking of lymphocytes and of
      granulocytes, the selective advantage of lymphocytes may be gauged. Subjects will be
      monitored for the development of clonal proliferation, under the 15 year plan required by the
      FDA. One major aim of the study will be to see if subjects can remain off PEG-ADA and
      maintain protective immunity from the population of transduced lymphocytes arising from
      transduced progenitors. If sufficient gene-modified cells result, and PEG-ADA enzyme
      replacement therapy can be permanently discontinued, the advantage of this therapeutic
      approach may change the standard of care for these patients.
    
  