
    
      Malalignment prevents proper transmission of forces across the knee leading to advance or
      even start the progression of osteoarthritis.Preoperative planning is necessary to identify
      the level and magnitude of the deformity. Corrections can be performed acutely or gradually.
      Acute correction can be achieved by opening wedge, closing wedge or dome osteotomies followed
      by internal fixation. On the other hand, gradual correction can be achieved by osteotomy with
      external fixation.

      Although osteotomy with internal fixation is more convenient to the patient than external
      fixator, it has many drawbacks. These include the need for large surgical exposure, soft
      tissue stripping and difficulty executing precise deformity correction. Meticulous
      preoperative planning is important when internal fixation is planed. It also needs to be
      executed precisely till fixation is completed. Under-correction or over-correction is
      possible while executing the procedure. Furthermore, iatrogenic deformity in other planes may
      also develop. If such a deformity is significant, it may adversely affect the function or may
      lead to excessive loading on adjacent joints. In some cases, revision of surgery for further
      correction may be required to correct this residual or iatrogenic deformity.

      External fixation can be used for gradual correction of genu varum. In spite of the
      disadvantages of external fixation like being uncomfortable for the patient, tethering soft
      tissue, associated pin site infection and irritation , it is re-adjustable postoperatively.
      This allows controlled accurate correction of the mechanical axis of the lower limb.

      Our study is implicated on correction of high degree genu varum which is more than 20 degrees
      .To correct such deformity, it is difficult to calculate the amount of wedge opening
      intraoperative. The described trigonometric calculation of the size of the base is described
      for deformity less than 20 degrees .In this study we are going to use a hybrid technique of
      both external and internal fixation, so we can make use of the benefits of both internal and
      external fixation techniques External fixation by limb reconstruction system (LRS) or Taylor
      Spatial frame(TSF) is used to control and stabilize fragments while performing the desired
      correction. A locked T plate is then applied to stabilize the fully corrected osteotomy. This
      allows intraoperative removal of the external fixator without loss of correction. Then we
      compare the planned correction with the achieved correction.
    
  