
    
      Pain is a major cause of morbidity, impaired quality of life, and healthcare utilization in
      SCD. Yoga is beneficial in patients with non-SCD chronic pain conditions. Yoga was shown to
      be acceptable, feasible and helpful in one study in acute SCD pain, but there are currently
      no data on yoga for chronic pain in SCD.

      This study has the following aims:

      In Aim 1, the study will assess the acceptability of yoga for chronic pain in SCD. The study
      will also assess the feasibility and safety of a yoga program for adolescents with SCD and
      chronic pain.

      In Aim 2, the study will study the feasibility of collection of psychological and
      patient-reported outcomes in a study of yoga for chronic pain in SCD.

      In Aim 3, the study will explore patient acceptability of yoga and conduct a needs assessment
      for the development of a smartphone app for yoga through qualitative interviews.

      This study will be conducted in 2 parts, Part A and Part B:

      Part A will assess attitudes and practices related to yoga and potential acceptability of a
      yoga program in adolescents with SCD and chronic pain (Group 1), and their parents/guardians
      (Group 2). Up to 40 adolescents who meet inclusion criteria, and do not meet exclusion
      criteria, and their parent/guardian will be enrolled on Part A until 20 adolescents are
      enrolled on Part B. Only one parent/guardian per adolescent participant will be enrolled.

      Part B will assess the feasibility and safety of a yoga program for SCD and chronic pain.
      This program will comprise of 8 instructor-led group yoga sessions. The study will measure
      psychological factors implicated in chronic pain, and pain-related patient-reported outcomes,
      and assess the feasibility of collection of these outcomes. The study will also explore
      patient acceptability of yoga through qualitative interviews and conduct a needs assessment
      for the development of a smartphone app for yoga. Up to 20 adolescents who meet inclusion
      criteria, and do not meet exclusion criteria will be enrolled in Part B.
    
  