
    
      Advances in systemic treatment led to improved overall survival in patients with metastatic
      breast cancer. Various studies suggest that by obtaining loco-regional control, overall
      survival in advanced disease can further be improved.

      Pre-operative chemotherapy can be used in metastatic breast cancer to make radical removal of
      the primary tumor feasible, while simultaneously maintaining control of already present
      metastatic sites. The doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide regimen (AC) is well-known both in
      (neo-)adjuvant setting as in treatment of metastatic breast cancer. At present, optimal local
      control in advanced breast cancer using adequate dosing of doxorubicin is hampered by its
      toxic systemic effects. Therefore the investigators aim to increase doxorubicin deposition in
      the primary tumor without interfering with systemic efficacy and toxicity, by combining
      lyso-thermosensitive liposomal doxorubicin (LTLD, ThermoDox) with local mild hyperthermia,
      induced by Magnetic Resonance guided High Intensity Focused Ultrasound (MR-HIFU). When heated
      to 40-43 ºC, ThermoDox releases a very high concentration of doxorubicin locally within
      seconds. In the absence of hyperthermia, ThermoDox leads to a similar biodistribution and
      antitumor efficacy to free doxorubicin. MR-HIFU allows for controlled heating of deep-seated
      tumors.

      This is a single-arm phase I feasibility study in 12 patients with de novo stage IV (distant
      metastasis at the time of diagnosis) her2-negative breast cancer, who have not received
      previous chemotherapy. The study treatment consists of up to 6 cycles at 21-day intervals of
      ThermoDox (50mg/m2) administered during MR-HIFU induced hyperthermia (60 minutes at 40-42 ᵒC)
      and cyclophosphamide (600 mg/m2) administered afterwards. A dedicated MR-HIFU breast system
      integrated with a clinical 1.5 Tesla Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scanner will be used
      for safe and controlled heating of the tumour. Primary endpoints are safety, tolerability and
      feasibility. Secondary endpoint is efficacy, assessed by radiological response of the local
      tumor and the distant metastases.

      In the Biobank side study, extra blood samples will be collected. These samples will be used
      for further research on not yet determined topics related to breast cancer.
    
  