
    
      This will be an open label multicenter study of the safety and efficacy of an active
      implantable vagal nerve stimulation (VNS) device in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.

      Patients who complete study SPM-005 will be enrolled in this study at the time of the last
      visit of the preceding study. The assessments at the last visit of the preceding study will
      also be used as baseline measures for the current study. If the patient has previously
      discontinued SPM-005 and greater than 30 days have elapsed since the final visit in SPM-005,
      baseline measures for the current study will be repeated, and an interim medical history will
      be taken to assess whether any new medical conditions were diagnosed in the time between
      studies.

      Follow-up visits will occur at 3, 6, 12, 18, 24, 36 and 48 months. A final follow-up visit
      will occur for all remaining patients at study closure when the final enrolled subject has
      completed 48 months on study.

      The study will continue until the last patient entered has completed 48 months in this study.

      An Interim Visit or a phone contact must be performed a maximum of 2 months after any change
      in device settings. Interim visits may also be performed at any time at the investigator's
      discretion; either between scheduled visits, or after the patient has completed the Month 48
      Visit, if the study is still ongoing.

      The primary efficacy objective is to determine the long term efficacy of vagal nerve
      stimulation as assessed by the DAS28 score.

      The secondary efficacy objectives are to determine the long term efficacy of vagal nerve
      stimulation as assessed by:

        -  the ACR 20, 50 and 70 response rate,

        -  the EULAR response rate, and

        -  changes in the Euro-QoL score.

      The safety objectives are to determine the long term safely of vagal nerve stimulation as
      assessed by the subject incidence rates of:

        -  Adverse events

        -  Serious adverse events

        -  Device deficiencies
    
  