
    
      Trial Design

      The study will be a randomized comparison between two methods of abdominal paracentesis with
      a cross-over design and each participant will also serve as a control (standard
      paracentesis).

      Participants

      The study will be done on the patients who will visit Outpatient departments or admitted as
      an inpatient in the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh.

      Screening population: All patients with ascites

      Assessment of study population:

      Patients fulfilling inclusion and exclusion criteria as per screening will be subjected to
      baseline investigation in the form of hemogram, biochemistries, coagulogram, ascitic fluid
      evaluation as per predesigned proforma. All patients in the study group will be subjected to
      imaging and an attempt will be made to establish the primary site of malignancy based on
      histopathology.

      Patients fulfilling inclusion and exclusion criteria will undergo randomization into two
      groups. One group will be the standard paracentesis group (SPG) and the other will be the
      rollover group (ROG). Randomization will be done using an opaque sealed envelope.

      Patients fulfilling inclusion and exclusion criteria will undergo abdominal paracentesis
      twice in one of the following ways.

      Standard paracentesis group (SPG):

      The patients will be asked to lie supine for 10 minutes and no changes in posture will be
      allowed for this period. Abdominal paracentesis will be done either by blind technique (in
      case the ascites is clinically detectable) or ultrasonography-guided (in cases the ascites is
      not clinically detectable).

      Rollover group (ROG):

      Patients with ascites will be rolled over thrice in bed laterally up to 90 degrees on either
      side and the ascitic fluid sample is drawn within 1 minute of the last rollover. There will
      be four steps to this i.e roll over to one side at 90 degrees and then 180 degrees to the
      other side and so on to complete three complete turns. This will be done after the
      disinfection and cleaning of the anterior abdominal wall have been done and the personnel
      involved in the procedure are ready for the paracentesis. The ascitic paracentesis will be
      initiated within one minute of the completion of the turn. One assistant will maintain a
      stopwatch during this period to ensure compliance with this.

      Details of ascitic paracentesis

      The patient will undergo abdominal paracentesis twice in the order as allocated randomly. The
      patients will be asked to empty his bladder prior to the procedure. The anterior abdominal
      wall will be cleaned with a Povidone-iodine solution followed by isopropyl alcohol/
      chlorhexidine. The site of the paracentesis will be the peritoneal space in the left lower
      quadrant between the umbilicus and the anterior superior iliac spine or the patient's flank,
      depending on the location of the fluid as determined by percussion of the fluid wave.
      Alternatively, in midline 3 to 4 cm below the umbilicus, halfway between the symphysis pubis
      and the umbilicus. On both occasions, 20 ml of the ascitic sample will be collected in clean
      dry containers with appropriate labeling of name and hospital registration number. 20 ml of
      the sample obtained on each of these occasions will be sent for cytological analysis. To
      ensure that both the groups are treated similarly the paracentesis will be done using a 20 ml
      syringe using 21 Gauge 1 1/2" hypodermic needle. It will be ensured to avoid old surgical
      scars since the bowel may be adherent to the abdominal wall. The site of the paracentesis
      will be closed with tincture benzoin. The ascitic fluid sample for malignant cytology will be
      transported to the laboratory within one hour of paracentesis.
    
  