
    
      This is a randomized controlled trial. Pregnant smokers who are substances users who meet
      inclusion criteria will be offered participation in the study at their first obstetrical
      appointment. Patients who consent to participate will be randomized.

      At the enrollment/randomization visit, women will be randomized to either the intervention
      (knowledge of and interpretation carbon monoxide levels and associated percent fetal
      carboxyhemoglobin) or control group (no information on carbon monoxide and associated percent
      fetal carboxyhemoglobin). Allocation will be computer generated. This will be done after the
      patient meets all inclusion criteria. If randomization to the intervention arm, the patient
      will be notified of carbon monoxide and associated fetal carboxyhemoglobin levels at each
      obstetrical visit and counseled on how it affects maternal and fetal health.

      If randomized to the control arm, the patient will have expired carbon monoxide and
      associated fetal carboxyhemoglobin levels measured at each obstetrical visit but blinded to
      these results. These patients will not be notified of the levels, nor counseled on what
      levels mean for maternal or fetal health.

      See below for intervention and control protocols.

      Maternal demographic (age, race, socioeconomic status), medical history (other medical
      problems, medications, height, weight) and obstetric history (parity, gestational age) data
      will be abstracted from the patient's chart and supplemented with a patient questionnaire at
      the enrollment/randomization visit. The primary outcome is the expired maternal carbon
      monoxide level at the last obstetric visit or at delivery. This will be determined by the
      Smokerlyzer device used to measure this. Secondary aims of the study will be to evaluate how
      maternal carbon monoxide levels correlate with fetal growth, cigarette use per day, patient
      satisfaction and neonatal birth weight.

      All patients will have the following performed at the enrollment/randomization visit and
      subsequent prenatal visits:

      a. The order of events for all patients will be as follows: i. Blood pressure evaluation ii.
      Weight iii. Fundal height iv. Patient will be asked the number of cigarettes used per day v.
      Patient will exhale into Smokerlyzer device to obtain expired carbon monoxide and associated
      percent fetal carboxyhemoglobin vi. Patients will be provided smoking cessation resources and
      counseling on smoking cessation in pregnancy

      Intervention Protocol

        1. Intervention group will undergo Smokerlyzer ® exhaled carbon monoxide measurements at
           enrollment, each prenatal visit, and at their last (>36 week) prenatal visit or at
           delivery if not captured in clinic.

        2. Women will be informed of their exhaled carbon monoxide measurement at each visit as
           well as the correlation to fetal carboxyhemoglobin.

        3. At each visit, the intervention group will receive counseling on fetal impact of smoking
           based on fetal carboxyhemoglobin level and institutional and state information on
           smoking cessation will be provided.

        4. The patient will then proceed to the remainder of the obstetrical visit.

      Control Protocol

        1. Women in the control group will undergo Smokerlyzer ® exhaled carbon monoxide
           measurements at enrollment, each prenatal visit and at their final (>36 week) prenatal
           visit or at delivery if not captured in clinic.

        2. Both levels (maternal carbon monoxide and fetal carboxyhemoglobin) will be recorded by
           the co-investigatory, but NOT disclosed to the patient

        3. At each visit, control group will be provided institutional and state information on
           smoking cessation if they report continued smoking.

        4. The patient will then proceed to remainder of the obstetrical visit.

      For both groups:

      At the time of delivery, maternal and neonatal outcome data will be recorded from the chart,
      including gestational age at delivery, mode of delivery, indications for delivery, birth
      weight, Apgar score, cord blood gas, length of stay, and neonatal complications, if any. A
      survey will be completed for both intervention and standard care groups after delivery.
    
  