
    
      Critically ill patients share a common hypermetabolic response to injury, deterioration in
      lean body mass, and a high rate of septic complications. Route of nutrition administration
      influences the response to injury. A well-fed intestine absorbs nutrients while maintaining
      an effective barrier against pathogens, added by adequate peristalsis, mucin production, and
      immunoglobulin A secretion. In critical care patients, enteral nutritional therapy (EN)
      feeding has been shown to restores normal gut architecture and microflora, improve the immune
      system response, and aid the mucosa in withstanding insult to the system. Studies have shown
      that those on EN feeding have reduced morbidity and mortality rates as well as fewer
      infections and have less line-associated sepsis when compared to parenteral nutritional
      therapy (PN) feeding.

      There are multiple EN feeding methods. Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) was first
      introduced in 1980, and due to PEG being low cost, minimally invasive, and having no need for
      Bernal anesthetic in most cases, it is considered a better choice for the introduction of
      feeding than other methods. PEG tubes are usually entered for periods of tube feeding lasting
      more than 30 days, as well as when a nasogastric tube cannot but used for nutritional
      support. However, compared to naso-enteric tubes, PEG tubes are associated with fewer
      complications, greater patient comfort, better aesthetic appearance, and improved patient
      quality of life. For this reason, PEG is currently the method of choice for medium- and long-
      term enteral feeding. Previous studies have found complication rates within 30 days of PEG
      tube placement to be 10-15%.

      Traditionally, post-PEG insertion, feeding was delayed until the next day for fear of
      peritoneal leakage risk after feeding. However, multiple studies have shown that feeding
      after PEG can be started early, within hours without a significant increase in the
      procedure-related morbidity or mortality and thereby reducing the healthier costs. There is
      currently no standard of practice for the timing of enteral feeding following PEG placement.
      Each group has different practice guidelines, and no national consensus has been established.

      Studies have indicated that the initiation of tube feeding three to four hours after an
      uncomplicated PEG was safe, well-tolerated, and helped to reduce the hospital stay. A
      systematic analysis of five studies found that there were no significant differences between
      enteral feeds beginning at 3 hours versus feeds beginning at later times.

      The investigator's current institution does not have a standard of practice for time to begin
      feeding after PEG tube placement; that decision is currently provider dependent. A survey of
      providers at the investigator's institutions indicated that the most common time to begin
      feeds is 6 hours, however, providers at the institution use varied times to beginning feeds
      between 0 and 24 hours after placement. The current literature supports a reduction in
      complications at feeds beginning under four hours. In fact, all studies investigating shorter
      time to feeds have found no associated increase in complications. No study to date has
      investigated immediately beginning tube feeds. There is no national consensus regarding
      feeding time after placement. Given the shown benefits of early enteral nutrition on reducing
      mortality and complications across a variety of conditions, the investigators believe early
      feeding has the strong potential to improve patient morbidity and mortality following PEG
      tube placement. This study aims to investigate whether beginning feeds immediately is a safe
      and effective management option for patients.
    
  