
    
      Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the skin is exceedingly common. For the most part, cutaneous
      SCC grows slowly and has a very high cure rate with excision for deep tumors or
      mechanical/chemical destruction for superficial tumors. While metastases are uncommon in the
      short-term, tumors can be very locally destructive; thus, their timely treatment is
      indicated. SCC develops through a stepwise progression from precancerous lesions known as
      actinic keratosis (AK)(less than full thickness epidermal involvement), then in-situ SCC
      (SCCIS) (full thickness epidermal involvement) and finally invasive SCC (full thickness
      epidermal involvement plus invasion/downward growth into the dermis).

      For SCCIS, topical treatment with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) cream (a topical antineoplastic
      agent) is an established, off-label treatment offering cure rates that are competitive but
      slightly inferior to surgical destruction or excision. The existing regimen requires patients
      to apply the medication twice daily for six weeks. The benefits of treatment with topical
      5-FU is that the patient can treat a large-diameter lesion with minimal post-treatment
      scarring and an excellent cosmetic outcome. Alternatives to topical 5-FU include
      electrodessication and curettage (ED&C), an office-based procedure performed under local
      anesthetic in 10-15 minutes that includes 3 alternating cycles of curettage and desiccation
      with a hyfrecator device; this area is allowed to heal by secondary intention and usually
      heals with a broad, circular, hyperpigmented/red scar. The other alternative is wide local
      excision (WLE). Both invasive procedures carry some risk of complications, including
      infection, bleeding/hematoma formation (only with WLE), and wound dehiscence (only with WLE).
      The downside to topical 5-FU treatment is that it causes a temporary cutaneous reaction
      characterized by erythema, some burning and tenderness, and even some vesicle formation. This
      reaction is expected and reflective of the medication (and ensuing inflammatory reaction)
      taking effect, and it is explained to patients prior to starting the medication. This
      reaction is tolerable by most patients when used for the 2-3 weeks required to treat AKs, but
      it can in some cases become intolerable when patients are required to use the medication for
      the full 6 weeks to treat superficial skin cancers. However, the benefit to using the topical
      chemotherapeutic agent is that, after healing, the end result is excellent in terms of
      cosmesis (no or very little scarring).

      While less often used for superficial SCC/SCCIS, topical 5-FU is routinely and ubiquitously
      employed in dermatology for treatment of actinic keratosis, which, as previously noted, are
      pre-cancerous lesions that ultimately progress to SCCIS. Histologically, AKs appear as
      partial thickness cellular atypia of the epidermis. Normally, patients need to treat a given
      area twice per day for 2-3 weeks in order to sufficiently treat an area with many AKs. A
      study published in 2017 discovered that combining topical calcipotriene 0.005% ointment
      (vitamin D analogue) with topical 5-FU 5% cream and using that combination twice per day for
      only 4 days was dramatically superior to using topical 5-FU alone (combined with petrolatum
      placebo).1 In the case of this study, the calcipotriene served to induce a molecule called
      "thymic stromal lymphopoietin" (TSLP), an epithelium-derived cytokine that serves as a potent
      inducer of antitumor immunity. Effectively, when used together, calcipotriene and 5-FU act
      synergistically to induce tumor apoptosis and generate an immune/inflammatory response to
      destroy the tumor cells.

      The study would take the next logical step and expand/explore this combination of topical
      therapies to SCCIS and superficially invasive SCC (but not deeply invasive or high-risk
      cutaneous SCC), and do so without putting the patient at any increased risk for tumor
      recurrence. The study would be limited to tumors involving the trunk and upper extremities
      (excluding the hand). Following treatment with the topical chemotherapeutic medication,
      tumors would be completely excised according to standard of care, and specimens would be sent
      to pathology to determine if there was residual tumor/margin clearance. The potential benefit
      of this intervention would be the establishment of a non-invasive treatment that leads to
      minimal to no scarring or complications (akin to topical 5-FU alone) but would require a much
      shorter and more tolerable treatment duration (1-2 weeks) compared to available alternatives.
    
  