
    
      BACKGROUND:

      In 1987, there was growing evidence that androgens, particularly when elevated, had an
      unfavorable effect on lipo/apo levels, tending to lower HDL cholesterol (HDLC) and raise LDL
      cholesterol (LDLC). Previous studies confirmed that although pre-pubertal boys and girls had
      similar lipo/apo levels, post-pubertal boys had a higher ratio of LDLC/HDLC than girls, in
      part because of their androgen levels. Such lipo/apo levels had been associated with an
      increased risk of coronary heart disease. There was also evidence that obese girls tended to
      be hyperandrogenic and thus had unfavorable lipo/apo levels and a higher risk of coronary
      heart disease. This study sought to elucidate whether high androgen levels preceded or were a
      consequence of obesity.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The longitudinal study was ancillary to the National Growth and Health Study (NGHS), a
      multicenter study which investigated the occurrence of obesity in Black and white adolescent
      girls, predictors of the transition to the obese state, the correlates of the transition, and
      the relationship of the transition to other coronary heart disease risk factors. As part of
      the NGHS, participants from the Cincinnati, Ohio and Washington, D.C. public and parochial
      schools received physical examinations with attention to pubertal staging and anthropometric
      measurements including weight, height, and skinfold thickness. Along with NGHS blood samples,
      additional blood was obtained in years 1, 3, and 5 for measurements of lipids, lipoprotein
      cholesterols, apolipoproteins A1, A2, and B, and sex steroid hormones including plasma total
      and free testosterone, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, estradiol, and testosterone estrogen
      binding globulin.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  