
    
      OBJECTIVE(S):

        1. Identify patient, provider, and system factors predicting adoption of recommended AEDs
           for treatment of newly diagnosed older veterans (FY00-04).

        2. Identify barriers to use of recommended AED in initial therapy for newly diagnosed older
           veterans with epilepsy.

        3. Assess and compare effectiveness of long-term use of various AED.

      METHODS:

      Using existing national VA outpatient, inpatient, and pharmacy databases in conjunction with
      Medicare inpatient and outpatient standard analytic files, the 1999 National Health Survey of
      VA Enrollees, American Hospital Association data, and primary data collection, we will
      identify the extent to which treatment for older veterans newly diagnosed with epilepsy
      changed between FY00-FY04, and identify predictors of change at the patient, provider, and
      system levels. We will begin to identify barriers to use of recommended AED using structured
      interviews with primary care and general neurology providers in sites with high and low use
      of suboptimal AEDs in incident cases. Finally, we will compare hospitalizations, emergency
      room visits, and fall-related injuries (including fractures) for patients on different AED
      regimens.

      RESULTS:

      We have identified 72,638 patients who are at least 66 years of age, have a diagnosis of
      epilepsy in VA or Medicare files, and who also received AEDs from the VA; 9,682 of of these
      are incident cases, 41,867 are chronic cases, and 21,089 have been defined as having unknown
      onset. We found wide variations in prescribing, an high rates of use of suboptimal AEDs
      (70%). We identified sites with high and low use of suboptimal and new AEDs. We have
      finalized provider interview protocols, and are in the process of gaining approval at
      individual sites.

      IMPACT:

      The proposed study will enhance understanding of factors associated with adoption of clinical
      recommendations for newly diagnosed older patients with epilepsy, begin to identify barriers
      to their adoption, and assess outcomes of epilepsy patients on chronic AED therapy. This
      study will provide the foundation on which to develop interventions to improve care and will
      improve the quality of care for older veterans diagnosed with epilepsy.
    
  