
    
      Approximately 180 children (age 6 months to 10 years) whose clinical symptoms could be
      explained by giardiasis and whose fecal samples will test positive for the presence of
      G.lamblia in Uusimaa laboratory (HUSLAB) will be recruited.

      The study will be performed as an open-label trial. Patients will be randomized during
      primary visits alternately into two groups by random allocation to receive either of the two
      study drugs.

      Patients from group 1 will be treated with a standard regimen of oral tinidazole (Fasigyn) at
      a single dose of 50 mg/kg, maximum 2 g/dose. Patients from group 2 will be given rectal
      metronidazole (Flagyl) 500 mg/dose for children weighing 10-14,9 kg, 1000 mg/dose for those
      weighing 15-29,9 kg and 1500 mg/dose for those weighing 30-44,9 kg. Suppositories will not be
      halved. Patients will be given 1 dose/day for 3 days. The first dose of metronidazole will be
      administered during the primary clinical visit and 2 additional doses will be provided to the
      parents for home administration.

      Fecal samples will be collected from the study patients on day 7-10 post-treatment and will
      be analyzed in HUSLAB for the presence of G.lamblia antigen by enzyme immunoassay (EIA).
      Early collection of samples on day 7-10 will help to avoid the risk of tests being positive
      due to reinfection.

      If any of the patients will not clear the infection by day 10, he/she will be invited to a
      second visit and re-treated. Patients from group 1 will be re-treated by rectal metronidazole
      and patients from group 2 by oral tinidazole, thus performing a cross-over. Follow-up stool
      samples will be collected.

      Criteria for clinical cure will be resolution of symptoms by day 10 and microbiological cure
      will be defined as negative G.lamblia antigen test from fecal samples collected on day 7-10
      post-treatment.
    
  