
    
      Primary Hypotheses:

      Patients who maintain their initial fracture reduction and subsequent position over time with
      minimal femoral neck shortening and varus will demonstrate significantly improved functional
      abilities, including gait and abductor function.

      Secondary Objective:

        -  Whether radiographic differences in femoral neck shortening and varus collapse translate
           into a worse functional outcome to the patient.

        -  Whether there are differences in mortality between treatments

        -  Whether there is a time frame follow up after which there is no difference in outcomes.

        -  Evaluate the device used for fracture stabilization as a potentially contributing factor
           for maintenance of normal or near-normal abductor function and gait.

      Primary Outcome:

      The primary outcome will be functional abilities at 3, 6 and 12 months after injury. The
      following measures of functional ability will be utilized:

      Methods:

      This is a prospective, randomized non-blinded study. Patients will be identified as they
      present to the orthopaedic trauma service of Tampa General Hospital with a qualifying injury
      to determine their interest in participating in the study. Written informed consent will be
      obtained prior to initiation of any study procedures.

      Group A will undergo cephalomedullary nail-based single screw intertrochanteric hip fracture
      fixation device (Gamma 3 nail). Group B will receive the integrated dual screw
      intertrochanteric hip fracture fixation device (Intertan nail). Patient outcomes will be
      analyzed using intention to treat principles. Following randomization assignment, surgeons
      will all follow the identical described surgical technique, with the only variable being the
      implant used. Post-operative immobilization and time to weight bearing and rehabilitation
      protocols will be again identical for all patients regardless of fixation technique.
    
  