
    
      Trastuzumab (T)-containing neoadjuvant chemotherapy has been reported to increase the
      probability of pathological complete response (pCR) in HER2 positive disease up to 67 %.
      Large trials revealed pCR rates (no remaining invasive and in situ components) of about 30-40
      %, if anthracyclines/taxane based polychemotherapy was applied or about 40-45 % if no
      invasive tumor in the breast and lymph nodes was used as a pCR definition.

      Nevertheless, resistance to trastuzumab remains one of the most important challenges in
      adjuvant and metastatic breast cancer therapy causing poor prognosis with an increased
      incidence of cerebral metastasis and limited therapeutic options after disease progression6.
      An improvement shows the combination of trastuzumab and lapatinib, which has been reported to
      have increased efficacy in in-vitro and in metastatic setting in patients who were mostly
      resistant to both therapies in the previous course of disease. Recent data from the
      neoadjuvant setting (neoALTTO) - on a paclitaxel backbone - showed a significantly higher pCR
      rate after L + T than with either compound separately (47 % vs. 20 % and 27.6 %
      respectively). Several trials are planned to evaluate the combination of both therapies in
      the adjuvant and neoadjuvant setting.

      Clinical response measured by sequential evaluation of different proliferation markers (such
      as Ki-67) following a course of neoadjuvant chemotherapy has been demonstrated to correlate
      significantly with an increased risk of relapse in patients not achieving pathological
      complete response. It is therefore clinically relevant to evaluate such proliferation tools
      for early prediction of combination therapy efficacy (chemotherapy and HER2 targeted
      therapy). So far, it remains unclear which method of proliferation measurement is the optimal
      marker for response evaluation regarding a combined chemo-immunotherapy. However, measurement
      of proliferation and apoptosis genes as well as assessment of changes in Phosphatidylinositol
      3-kinases (PI3K), Protein Kinase B (AKT), Insulin-like Growth Factor (IGF) and stem cell
      signalling after a short course of therapy could provide a unique signature for a dynamic
      response evaluation.

      The planned trial will validate predictive markers and a dynamic model based on the
      sequential evaluation of different proliferation and apoptosis markers. Furthermore it will
      assess the pCR-rate after 12 weeks of therapy. The aim of the study is to define a predictive
      marker for the response evaluation of a combined chemo-immunotherapy.
    
  