
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a leading cause of death among American Indians. Significant
      risk factors for CVD within the American Indian population include type 2 diabetes, tobacco
      use, poor dietary and physical activity habits, and poor medication and treatment adherence.
      Despite the fact that these risk factors can be reduced through behavior change, there have
      been few behaviorally based interventions aimed at American Indians to lessen their CVD risk.
      Research has shown that medical care is moving away from sporadic, standard doctors' office
      visits to a more continuous and interactive relationship with health care providers. A
      Web-based program that allows people to interact with remotely located doctors who can answer
      questions and provide advice may be beneficial at increasing treatment adherence and lowering
      CVD risk. This study will evaluate the use of a Web-based program at lowering CVD risk among
      American Indians with type 2 diabetes. Researchers will also analyze the cost-effectiveness
      of the Web-based program and the possible healthcare cost savings.

      This 3-year study will enroll American Indian adults at high risk for CVD. Participants will
      be randomly assigned either to usual care at their local health facility or usual care plus
      the Web-based program. Participants using the Web-based program will have access to a Web
      site that will allow them to interact with two remotely based doctors. Participants will be
      able to send e-mail and instant messages to ask questions and receive information, advice, or
      motivational messages from the doctors. Participants will periodically enter their blood
      glucose test results and complete questionnaires online. Study visits, occurring twice a year
      for 3 years, will include blood pressure and body mass index (BMI) measurements, blood
      collection, and smoking status assessments.
    
  