
    
      Day 1 of recruitment A blood sample (up to 20ml) and urine sample (up to 20ml) will be
      collected from an indwelling arterial/venous catheter and indwelling foley catheter
      respectively at the initiation of the study. The blood sample will be centrifuged in order to
      isolate the serum. The serum will either (1) be frozen at -80˚C if there is no laboratory
      technician able to run the ELISA assay for resistin or (2) processed per manufacturer's
      instructions to measure serum resistin levels via ELISA assay.

      Urine samples will also be centrifuged to remove sediment, and either (1) be frozen at -80˚C
      if there is no laboratory technician able to run the ELISA assay for resistin or (2)
      processed per manufacturer's instructions to measure serum resistin levels via ELISA assay.

      The investigators will record current medications and routine lab values which are available
      in the EMR at the time of collection of blood samples. This will enable the study team to
      determine the severity of septic shock and kidney injury (if present) at the time of
      collection of blood samples.

      When a laboratory technician is available to process serum samples, the following tests will
      be performed:

      Transwell Migration Assays with neutrophils NB4 cells will be used in this study. NB4 cells
      are a cultured human cell line for acute promyelolytic leukemia. They will be differentiated
      into neutrophils and then incubated in human control serum or patients samples prior to
      transwell migration assay. Migration without the neutrophil chemotactic factor
      N-formylmethionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine (fMLP) or toward fMLP will be allowed for 2 hours. The
      migrated cells in the bottom well will be counted vial flow cytometry. All samples will be
      run in triplicates.

      Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS) Generation and Quantification ROS generation will be measured
      using a commercially available probe. Samples will be fixed in 4% formaldehyde in PBS and
      analyzed by flow cytometry.

      Day 5 The study team will exactly repeat the process described above ("Day 1 of recruitment")
      4 days later to compare the levels of resistin during the course of disease (septic shock +/-
      AKI)
    
  