
    
      Mucopolysaccharidosis IV, also known as MPS IV or Morquio disease, is a rare autosomal
      recessive genetic lysosomal storage disorder. Research thus far regarding lysosomal storage
      diseases (LSDs) in general, including Morquio, has primarily focused on exploring the causes
      of and finding a treatment for the physical aspects of the various diseases. Less attention
      has been paid to the psychological or emotional toll of these diseases, whether they are
      direct symptoms of the diseases themselves or reactions to living with a chronic progressive
      disease.

      It is well established in the health psychology literature, however, that the interaction
      between our physical health and our psychological health is bidirectional; that is, just as
      our physical health affects us emotionally (e.g. chronic pain can contribute to depression),
      so can our psychological health affect us physically (e.g. anxiety can contribute to feelings
      of chest pain). It is thus critically important to pay attention to the emotional and
      psychological symptoms associated with all lysosomal storage diseases, including Morquio, and
      expand our treatment standard of care to include mental health treatment, if necessary.

      The first step in understanding and treating psychological conditions in Morquio disease is
      determining the natural occurrence of psychological symptoms in this population in comparison
      with non-medical populations. As little has been done in this regard, a pilot study
      documenting the occurrence rate of psychological issues and overall quality of life in
      patients with Morquio is the first item in order and will be the focus of this study.

      Approximately 20 patients with Morquio disease will be invited to participate, recruited
      through Emory's Lysosomal Storage Disease Center, as well as through attendance at Morquio
      support groups and relevant regional, national and/or international meetings. Once consented,
      patients will be asked to complete three different self-report questionnaires, including the
      Achenbach System of Empirically Based Assessment (ASEBA) Adult Self-Report (ASR) or Older
      Adult Self-Report (OASR) questionnaire, the Short Form 36-item Health Questionnaire (SF-36),
      and the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI). Group aggregate data only will be reported; individual
      questionnaire content and results will be held confidential, except as in accordance with
      Georgia law relating to reporting of child or elder abuse, suicidal and/or homicidal intent.
      Completion of these questionnaires will complete subjects' participation in this pilot study.
    
  