
    
      This is a monocenter cohort study, which will span at least 1 year from inclusion to
      follow-up.

      A sample of 300 patients known with PsC (cutaneous psoriasis) at the Department of
      Dermatology of the RadboudUMC, Nijmegen will be included. Inclusion of patients and
      collection of samples will be performed adjacent to their regular outpatient visits.

      During screening, patients will be assessed for signs and symptoms of PsA (psoriatic
      arthritis). This will include a 68 tender joint count (TJC) and 66 swollen joint count (SJC),
      a dactylitis count, the Leeds enthesis index (LEI) and a questionnaire screening for
      inflammatory back pain (IBP).

      At baseline visit, different parameters will be noted which can later be used to construct
      the prediction model. These will include sociodemographic data, relevant comorbidity, family
      history, characteristics of the PsC, intoxications, and constitutional and specific
      rheumatological signs and symptoms. During physical examination, the investigators will
      gather information about body measurements, skin and nail parameters, and rheumatological
      parameters.

      Also, a screening questionnaires already in use (PEST) will be used, as well as a quality of
      life scores (PsAID12, DLQI, Short-Form 12 Health Survey/SF-12).

      Blood will be drawn at baseline to check for different laboratory parameters which are
      associated with presence of PsA. Both inflammatory markers (e.g. cytokines, chemokines) as
      markers associated with bone metabolism are of interest. Also, DNA will be gathered via
      saliva and stored. At a later moment, this will be used to investigate the predictive value
      of different associated genetic polymorphisms and HLA-associations.

      If there is a clinical suspicion of PsA in the clinical exam, the patient will be referred to
      the Department of Rheumatology of the Sint Maartenskliniek, Nijmegen (SMK). From there on,
      they will be included in PsA regular care. After 1 year, patient files of the referred
      patients will be checked to confirm the diagnosis. Also, treatment changes and their effect
      will be noted. This will include both clinical parameters of the PsA and QoL.

      Patients already treated for PsA at a different clinic will not be referred to the SMK. They
      will be asked for permission to retrieve treatment-related data from their treating
      physician.

      Patients without musculoskeletal involvement will be re-evaluated after 1 year. Again,
      treatment changes and quality of life will be monitored.
    
  