
    
      Over 30 million people have chronic kidney disease (CKD) and nearly 100,000 people are
      awaiting renal transplant for end stage renal disease (ESRD). Renal transplant, when compared
      to dialysis, improves quality of life, is more cost-effective, and reduces the risk of
      cardiovascular disease. However, many patients who are eligible for transplant become
      deconditioned while waiting for organ transplantation, and may be taken off the transplant
      waitlist for concerns the patient will not be able to tolerate surgery. Moreover, poor
      physical functioning prior to transplant was associated with a 2.5-fold increased risk for
      delayed graft function and 2.30 fold higher risk of patient death after renal transplant. Our
      team has also shown that functional limitations, such as slower gait speed and poorer grip
      strength, were associated with not being waitlisted for transplant and decreased survival in
      all transplant candidates undergoing evaluation. Functional limitation may reduce the
      individuals' overall level of physical activity, which can increase further disability. While
      physical activity (PA) interventions have been shown to be effective in reducing morbidity
      and mortality in other chronic diseases, no study has tested the efficacy of a PA
      intervention in patients awaiting renal transplant. Family caregivers are integral in the
      care of renal transplant candidates. Decades of research has shown that family caregivers are
      at increased risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD) and mortality when compared to
      non-caregivers. Investigators propose to include the family caregivers in the PA intervention
      to improve patient adherence to the intervention while reducing the caregivers' risk for CVD.
      The proposed study addresses several of the recommendations from consensus meeting on
      exercise in solid organ transplant which included testing a PA intervention in a large-scale
      trial with both standard and surrogate markers, using a novel technology-assisted delivery of
      the intervention, and focusing on mechanisms linking PA with health outcomes.
    
  