
    
      This is a cross-sectional study to determine the usability of ScreenFlow deployed as a kiosk.
      As such, everyone who uses ScreenFlow will be asked to complete a brief questionnaire on its
      features including visual appeal and ease of use. Additionally, a subset of 36 subjects whose
      estimated ScreenFlow risk of moderate-to-severe COPD is high will be asked to participate in
      a follow up phone questionnaire to ascertain, a) whether screening results were discussed
      with the subjects' health provider, b) impact of the ScreenFlow results on health behavior,
      c) whether the individual shared the ScreenFlow result with his/her health provider (or
      intention to share the result), and d) any action that may have been taken by the medical
      provider after the provider received the report.

      The ScreenFlow platform will be available in a common area of Boston Medical Center over the
      course of six weeks, under the supervision of a study staff member. The platform will be
      available to the public during regular business hours from Monday to Friday. Subjects will
      complete a ScreenFlow screening by answering some questions, watching a video and performing
      peak flow measurement as instructed in the video. They will be given a report of the
      ScreenFlow result indicating whether there is a high probability of having moderate to severe
      COPD. Over six weeks, approximately 3600 patients should come in contact with the kiosk.
      Conservatively, we estimate that if 10% of them use it, we will have 360 users, of which 10%
      may have a high risk score on screening. This will give the desired sample size of 36
      patients for the phone based follow-up interview.

      Thirty-six subjects will give their feedback through a phone based follow-up interview with a
      study staff member to assess how ScreenFlow may have influenced their subsequent medical
      care. We will consent 36 subjects for these follow-up calls, with the expectation that some
      may be difficult to reach or may decline to participate in the follow-up call.

      In the interview we will ask whether the participants discussed COPD with their primary care
      providers, and the extent to which their care may have been influenced by this screening
      result. For those who have not had the opportunity to share results with their provider by
      the time of the follow-up call, we will ask about the effect of the positive screening result
      on their perception of COPD risk, intention to notify their provider, and health behavior.
    
  