
    
      According to data from the last INE health survey carried out in 2006, 31.4% of males and
      22.3 % of females smoked, in other words more than 26% of the population were smokers. In the
      Region of Murcia, according to the same Health Survey, the data are even higher than those of
      Spain, with figures for male smokers at 36.25% and 23.31% for women, with an overall
      prevalence rate of nearly 30%.

      In light of these data, it is necessary to carry out intervention to help tobacco cessation
      and in this regard,the 98% of smokers trying to quit on their own without any specific
      support do not achieve their goal.

      Interventions at Primary Care Consultations we have two useful tools at our disposal: One of
      these is brief advice It should be firm, understandable, individualized, verbal and direct.
      It should last between 3 and 5 minutes and be eminently positive, highlighting the advantages
      of becoming an ex-smoker. This intervention vs non intervention have an OR=1.69 (IC
      95%1.45-1.98). The other intervention we have in an intensive. This includes providing
      systematic anti-tobacco advice accompanied by written documentation and psychological support
      as well as the follow-up of patients in their dishabituation process, with a periodicity
      which varies according to different studies, although to do this more time will have to be
      dedicated in the consultation.

      As more intense intervention on these patients as efficacy obtained is higher, increasing
      abstinence rates significantly.

      Appropriate interventions based on stage of change are based on the transtheoretical model of
      Prochaska and DiClemente. Smokers are at one stage or another in terms of lesser or greater
      degree of motivation to quit being closely related to the phases of abandonment of tobacco.

      In addition to these tools, two other interventions have been studied which could be useful
      for increasing cessation rates. In this regard, a Cochrane review determined the efficiency
      of the evaluation of biomedical risks and different levels of assessment used as a cessation
      tool for quitting the tobacco habit. The information from eleven trials was analyzed and in
      three of them spirometry and co-oximetry were used as motivational elements for tobacco
      cessation. However, the results were inconclusive due to the heterogeneity of the studies,
      but concludes that it is possible to further improve the methodological quality of studies
      aimed at evaluating the effectiveness of biomedical risk assessment, including spirometry, as
      an aid to quit smoking. Other studies also seen as a considerable number of smokers get
      smoking quit after learning their spirometric results.

      For all of these reasons, it is necessary to carry out interventions which help to encourage
      tobacco habit cessation and in this regard this study has been designed, in which it is
      intended to assess spirometry , as a motivational element in the phase of tobacco cessation.
    
  