
    
      1. Introduction:

           Respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) or Neonatal respiratory distress syndrome (NRDS) is
           characterized by pulmonary insufficiency, in preterm neonates and is the major cause of
           death in preterm. The major cause of RDS is surfactant deficiency. Main features of
           respiratory distress syndrome are retraction, grunting and tachypnoea and sometimes
           cyanosis is also present as an associated sign.There are various types of Physiotherapy
           Interventions given for respiratory disorders in neonates, namely they are chest
           percussion, vibration and shaking, postural drainage (gravity assisted),
           Neurophysiological Facilitation of Respiration (NFR). NFR technique produce reflex
           respiratory movement response, as it involves application of external proprioceptive and
           tactile stimuli that is known to alter the rate and depth of breathing.

           1.1Problem statement: Role of pulmonary NFR has shown to be effective in adult patients
           with COPD and in geriatric population. This study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of
           NFR in neonates with respiratory conditions.

           1.2 Objective of the study: To demonstrate the benefit of NFR in hospitalised neonates
           with Respiratory Distress Syndrome (RDS).

        2. Procedure:

      Participants will be selected by simple random sampling method according to the selection
      criteria.Procedure will be explained to the patient and written consent will be taken from
      them.

      Outcome measures will be taken on the first day prior to the intervention and on the 5th day
      after the intervention. Outcome measure used will be Respiratory Rate, Heart Rate, Saturation
      of Peripheral Oxygen (SPO2) and chest expansion to see the improvement in the patient.

      Interventions - In experimental group - PNF respiration will be given to the neonate in
      supine position.

      In control group - No intervention will be given in control group. Outcome measure will be
      measured at baseline after 5 days.
    
  