
    
      A new clinical entity termed Embolic Stroke of Undetermined Source (ESUS) was recently
      introduced by the Cryptogenic Stroke/ESUS International Working Group, which describes stroke
      patients for whom the source of embolism remains undetected despite thorough investigation;
      potential embolic sources include diseases of the mitral and aortic valves, the left cardiac
      chambers, the proximal cerebral arteries of the aortic arch and the venous system via
      paradoxical embolism. ESUS has been proposed as a potential therapeutic entity with a
      possible indication for anticoagulation, a hypothesis which is currently tested in two
      randomized controlled trials.

      ESUS is defined as a visualized non-lacunar brain infarct in the absence of a) extracranial
      or intracranial atherosclerosis causing ≥50% luminal stenosis in arteries supplying the area
      of ischaemia, b) major-risk cardioembolic source, and c) any other specific cause of stroke
      (e.g. arteritis, dissection, migraine/vasospasm, drug misuse). Major risk sources of
      cardioembolism include permanent or paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, sustained atrial flutter,
      intracardiac thrombus, prosthetic cardiac valve, atrial myxoma or other cardiac tumours,
      mitral stenosis, recent (<4 weeks) myocardial infarction, left ventricular ejection fraction
      less than 30%, valvular vegetations, or infective endocarditis.

      Recently, our group presented a descriptive analysis of an ESUS population derived from the
      Athens Stroke Registry. Among the overall ischemic stroke population, 10% of patients were
      classified as ESUS. These strokes were of mild-moderate severity and covert AF was identified
      as the underlying etiopathogenetic mechanism in approximately 40% of ESUS patients. The
      mortality risk in ESUS patients is lower compared to patients with cardioembolic stroke
      despite similar rates of stroke recurrence.

      Also, the risk of stroke recurrence is higher in ESUS patients than in patients with
      non-cardioembolic strokes which could be a sign that the current antithrombotic strategy of
      treating ESUS patients with antiplatelets is suboptimal. Indeed, currently, it is not clear
      whether antiplatelets or anticoagulants are the ideal antithrombotic strategy in ESUS.
      Recently, two international, phase III, double-blind, randomized, controlled clinical trial
      were launched aiming to investigate whether anticoagulant treatment is superior to
      antiplatelet treatment for the secondary prevention in ESUS patient : the Randomized
      Evaluation in Secondary stroke Prevention Comparing the Thrombin inhibitor dabigatran
      etexilate versus aspirin in Embolic Stroke of Undetermined Source (RE-SPECT ESUS) trial and
      the NAVIGATE trial will compare dabigatran etexilate and rivaroxaban respectively to aspirin
      in ESUS patients.

      It would be clinically useful to identify the predictors of covert AF in the ESUS population
      as this could possibly influence the choice of antithrombotic treatment, e.g. anticoagulants
      in ESUS patients at high risk of covert AF, and antiplatelets for ESUS patients with low risk
      of covert AF.
    
  