
    
      Renal transplant recipients have to integrate preventive behaviours into their everyday
      lives. From the literature it is known that patients can only partially adhere to the
      recommended behaviours. An evidence-based self-management program to support patients in
      behaviour change was developed with a main focus on prevention of weight gain and increasing
      physical activity and medication adherence.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the effectiveness of the program in patients in the
      first year after renal transplantation.

      The specific aims of this study are:

        1. Compare differences in weight gain between subjects in the IG (intervention group) and
           in the CG (control group).

        2. Compare differences in the amount of physical exercise between subjects in the IG group
           and the CG.

        3. Compare differences in self-reported medication adherence between the subjects of the IG
           group and the CG.

      Secondarily, differences in self-reported quality of life, anxiety and depression, and
      differences in patients' perception of health care provision regarding chronic illness
      between the subjects of the IG group and the CG will be compared.

      Design: Randomised controlled trial, not blinded

      Setting and time: The study will take place at the Nephrology Clinic, University Hospital
      Zürich, from 1 May 2012 through 31 April 2015.

      Variables and Measurement: Physical, behavioural, and clinical outcomes will be measured at
      baseline, before randomization and then 8 and 12 months later. Medication adherence, physical
      activity, symptoms of depression and anxiety, quality of life and patients' perception of
      health care provided will be measured with validated questionnaires. Body weight, height,
      waist to hip ratio and body composition (BCM Fresenius) will be measured at the Nephrology
      Clinic. Physical activity will be measured with the pedometer StepWatchTM.

      Intervention
    
  