
    
      Schizophrenia is associated with long-lasting health, social and financial burden for
      patients, families, caregivers and society. According to the World Health Organization, this
      burdensome illness is one of the top 10 causes of disability in developed countries. The
      costs associated with hospitalization, lifelong treatment and loss of productivity lead to a
      great economic burden. In Canada, the total annual costs associated with schizophrenia are
      over $10 billion. The main reason for this heavy burden is that 25-30% of schizophrenia
      patients respond very poorly to antipsychotic medication. Moreover, psychotherapeutic
      treatment alternatives are very limited for this suffering population. This unmet clinical
      need requires innovation and action. Psychotherapeutic treatment alternatives such as
      Cognitive Behavior Therapy (CBT) provide at best moderate results. Using immersive virtual
      reality, our team recently tested a novel psychotherapeutic intervention, Avatar Therapy
      (AT), where the therapist engages in a dialogue with the patient through a virtual
      representation of the patient's distressing voice. This approach, being both relational and
      experiential, provides a unique opportunity to aid patients gain control over their voice.
      The results of our pilot study on AT were clinically promising for the severity and distress
      related to hallucinations, positive symptomatology and emotion regulation. The preliminary
      results of our small pilot randomized-controlled trial showed a large effect of AT on
      auditory verbal hallucination, while a moderate effect was found for our adapted short CBT
      for hallucinations. To further research in this field, the primary goal of this
      single-blinded randomized-controlled, single-site parallel study is to show that AT is
      superior to CBT for the treatment of persistent auditory hallucinations in schizophrenia. The
      secondary goal is to examine the effects of these interventions on emotion regulation, mood
      symptoms (anxiety and depression), self-esteem, level of functioning and quality of life. To
      do so, each treatment group will include 68 participants over 18 years of age hearing
      persecutory voices and suffering from treatment resistant schizophrenia or schizoaffective
      disorder. AT comprises of 9 weekly sessions: 1 avatar creation session and 8 therapeutic
      sessions, where the patients are confronted to their reproduced hallucinatory experience and
      are encouraged to enter in a dialogue with their virtual persecutor. CBT includes 9 weekly
      sessions consisting of learning modules and task assignments. Subjects will be evaluated at
      pre- and post-treatment. Follow-ups will be ensured at 3, 6 and 12 months to assess primary
      (auditory hallucination) and secondary outcomes. Mixed model analyses will be performed to
      measure and compare the effects of both interventions. As evidence-based therapeutic options
      are limited for this burdensome illness and provide only modest symptomatic relief, the
      current trial will contribute to the validation of a novel approach answering a fundamental
      clinical need. Ultimately, the demonstration of the superior efficacy of AT would be a great
      breakthrough and will open new avenues to clinical treatment.
    
  