
    
      Objectives

        1. Changes of blood Phe level from baseline at the 7th, 14th, and 28th day

        2. Percentage of the study patients whose blood Phe level decreases for >= 30%

        3. Percentage of the study patients whose Phe tolerance increase from baseline for >=50%

        4. Correlation between PAH gene mutation and blood Phe level reduction

      Study Design and Methodology The PAH deficiency PKU patients who failed to achieve 30% blood
      Phe reduction within 24-hour BH4 loading test will be enrolled to this study. Baseline
      protein intake will be calculated and baseline blood phenylalanine levels will be established
      prior to starting the trial. During the entire testing period, patients will have no dietary
      restrictions. Blood Phe will be measured on day 1, 7, 14 and 28 days after oral
      administration of 20 mg/kg KUVAN in 40 patients whose initial plasma Phe results were ≥360
      umol/L. In this study, the efficacy of BH4 will be evaluated on 7, 14 and 28 days to
      determine whether a patient is BH4-responsive. The total duration of patient participation in
      the study will be up to 3 months (1 month of BH4 efficacy evaluation and up to 8 weeks of
      screening).

        -  Health status assessments：A complete physical examination will be performed at all study
           visits. The physical examination will include appearance, eyes, ears, nose, head,
           throat, neck, chest, lungs, heart, abdomen, extremities, skin and musculoskeletal
           system. Weight will be measured at first visit, without shoes and having removed all
           outwear such as jackets, sweaters or sweatshirts and heavy pocket items. Clinically
           significant findings at screening will be reported as medical history and as adverse
           event after the screening visit.

        -  Vital sign：Vital signs measurement will be recorded at all study visits and will include
           body temperature, respiration, blood pressure and heart rate after the patients has sat
           quietly for at least 5 minutes.

        -  Nutrition assessment：Baseline protein intake will be calculated from 3-day photographic
           food records, and baseline blood Phe level will be established after a 3-5 hour fasting
           prior to starting BH4 loading. During the entire testing period, patients will have no
           dietary restrictions, but will be asked to keep a stable diet throughout the study.
           Patients will be required to keep a diary and photographic food records for three days
           of each week containing a record of all foods and beverages ingested including synthetic
           and low protein containing foods. Dietary records will be reviewed by a single qualified
           metabolic dietician and monitored for calorie intake, natural protein intake, synthetic
           protein intake, and total Phe intake.

        -  Laboratory assessments：All routine clinical laboratory assessments will be performed by
           central laboratory. The laboratory evaluations will include :

             -  Serum nutritional biomarkers : total protein, albumin, total cholesterol, total
                triglyceride, LDL (low-density lipoprotein cholesterol), HDL (high-density
                lipoprotein cholesterol), Iron, Ferritin

             -  Blood phenylalanine and tyrosine : Blood phenylalanine and tyrosine levels will be
                measured prior to BH4 loading test, and on day 1, 7, 14 and 28 days following kuvan
                20 mg/kg/day.

             -  PAH gene evaluation in all patients

             -  Urine pTerin and DHPR enzyme activity analysis - Patients with defect in the
                synthesis and recycling of BH4 will be excluded by analysis of urinary pterins and
                dihydropteridine reductase activity in erythrocytes. pTerins (neopterin and
                biopterin) metabolism will be analyzed in each visit.

        -  Dispense study drug - Subjects will receive 20 mg/kg Kuvan administered orally once
           daily for 28 days.
    
  