
    
      The prevalence of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) worldwide is increasing, with
      accelerated rates of obesity in women of child-bearing age, increasing maternal age and
      improved survival of very low and high birth weight (BW) female offspring in modern times.
      GDM prevalence rates are known to be higher in some Asian populations compared with Western
      populations. The incidence rate amongst South Indians in India, and Malaysians in an urban
      tertiary centre in Kuala Lumpur are 14 and 11.4% respectively while in Western populations
      GDM only accounts for 2-9% of all pregnancies.

      It is now well-established that exposure to an intrauterine diabetic milieu, in both pregnant
      women with type 2 diabetes (T2DM) and those with GDM, imparts increased future risk of
      diabetes, obesity, metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular disease in offspring. Besides
      maternal hyperglycemia, a strong link between maternal pregravid weight/maternal triglyceride
      (Tg) levels and fetal growth/childhood obesity/metabolic syndrome in offspring has been
      demonstrated in largely Caucasian populations.

      The mechanisms of the developmental origins of adult disease however are poorly understood.
      The in utero environment via changes to the epigenome that do not involve alterations in DNA
      sequence can exert stimulatory or inhibitory effects on fetal growth and adiposity6. It has
      been proposed that a pathological metabolic milieu in utero results in fetal epigenetic
      changes such as DNA methylation and histone modification, thus modulating biological
      processes related to intrauterine development, such as gene expression, chromatin
      accessibility, DNA replication, imprinting and human disease patterns.

      Lipotoxicity in adults is well-established to result in the development of insulin resistance
      and pancreatic beta-cell dysfunction. Much emphasis has already been given to management of
      maternal hyperglycemia during pregnancy. It is possible however that maternal
      hypertriglyceridemia on the other hand will soon become a therapeutic target in the fight
      against childhood diabetes and obesity. Normal pregnancy is associated with a physiological
      increase in Tg from 10 weeks gestation onwards; with a 2-3 fold increase in serum Tg levels
      by the 3rd trimester. These elevations can be attributed to enhanced hepatic production of
      VLDL, increased intestinal absorption of dietary lipids, reduced clearance of Tg due to
      decreased extra-hepatic lipoprotein lipase activity and reduced insulin sensitivity during
      pregnancy. Even so, Tg levels during pregnancy are known to be higher in women with T2DM and
      GDM when compared with healthy pregnant controls. Maternal hypertriglyceridemia independent
      of maternal glucose has been linked with increased BW and fetal adiposity in offspring of
      Caucasian women. This association has been shown to hold true in women with GDM as well as
      those with Normal Glucose Tolerance (NGT) but risk factors for GDM. Maternal
      hypertriglyceridemia has even been linked with pre-eclampsia. Indeed, the fact that Langer et
      al, has demonstrated that insulin therapy results in lower macrosomia rates in obese GDM
      women than diet therapy despite equivalent glycemic control seems to indicate that some other
      metabolic target besides glucose which is modulated by insulin therapy is in play. It is
      highly likely that this 'invisible' metabolic variable is maternal triglyceride.

      Determining early predictors of development of metabolic syndrome (MS) in offspring will
      enable targeted childhood intervention programs. In Western populations it has been
      established that pregravid maternal BMI is a strong independent predictor of childhood
      obesity/MS whereas birth weight and GDM alone are poor correlates of offspring obesity and
      risk of metabolic syndrome. In Boney et al's cohort of Caucasian offspring who were evaluated
      from age 6, for example, combination of large for gestational age (LGA) status and maternal
      GDM was associated with OR of 10.4 of insulin resistance in offspring at age 11yrs and
      increased prevalence of MS at any age. However the prevalence of MS in offspring was not
      significantly different between offspring of mothers with NGT whether LGA/average for
      gestational age (AGA), and AGA offspring of GDM mothers. Neither were maternal GDM alone and
      LGA at birth independently associated with insulin resistance. Maternal obesity alone however
      independently conferred an approximate increase in hazard of MS of 2-fold by 11 years of age
      whereas GDM status alone did not. The risk of developing MS in GDM offspring diverged between
      those with LGA and AGA status at age 7, so that by the time these children were 11 years old
      the risk was 3.6 fold greater in LGA compared with AGA offspring of GDM mothers. Alarmingly
      50% of GDM offspring who had LGA status at birth had at least 2 out of 4 criteria of MS at
      any age-point between the ages of 6-11 years. These associations and relationships however
      are less well-delineated in Asian populations. In addition, much of these data, including
      those of Boney et al's are based on diagnostic definitions of GDM that have altered since the
      evidence obtained from the HAPO study. It is possible that Malaysian GDM offspring may
      develop a higher risk of metabolic syndrome at an age younger than 7 years and therefore
      require intervention programs before the age of school attendance. Hence the need for studies
      evaluating metabolic health in GDM offspring in the local Malaysian setting based on current
      diagnostic criteria of GDM that will enable more effective intervention programs tailored to
      the local setting and based on local data. There is also evidence in Caucasian and Hong Kong
      Chinese offspring that in utero hyperinsulinemia is an independent predictor of abnormal
      glucose tolerance in childhood. In Hong Kong Chinese offspring, cord blood insulin was very
      predictive of abnormal glucose tolerance in children aged 8 years (OR 6.12) whereas BW > 4kg
      was not, indicating perhaps that in Asians as well, BW is a poor early predictor of risk of
      metabolic dysfunction. Evidence indicates that dyslipidemia precedes development of
      dysglycemia in offspring of GDM mothers but that there are subtle differences between
      Caucasians and Asians with regards to which component of the lipid profile is impaired.
      Studies have shown that hypertriglyceridemia is more prevalent than dysglycemia in Caucasian
      GDM offspring aged 7-11 years , whereas low HDL is more common in Hong Kong Chinese GDM
      offspring aged 8.

      Leptin is an established candidate gene for the pathogenesis of obesity and diabetes. It is
      secreted by adipocytes and placental tissue and is involved in energy metabolism and insulin
      sensitivity control. Leptin levels are increased in obesity, diabetes and pregnancy. 2hr
      post-OGTT glucose levels have been shown to correlate with placental leptin gene methylation
      levels in pregnant women with impaired glucose tolerance and increased placental leptin gene
      methylation is associated with decreased fetal leptin gene expression. 2 hour plasma glucose
      however only explains between 19-28% of DNA methylation variability at the leptin gene locus.
      The relationship between maternal hypertriglyceridemia and placental leptin gene
      methylation/leptin gene expression however has not been as well studied. It is possible that
      maternal triglyceride levels are also associated with alterations in placental leptin gene
      methylation thus leading to increased fetal adiposity. These changes in leptin gene DNA
      methylation adaptations are potentially important as they may be part of the mechanism
      whereby the in utero diabetic milieu results in fetal programming i.e. the induction of
      permanent changes in cellular structure or function in offspring that result in adult
      metabolic dysfunction/obesity. Plasma leptin is known to play an important neurotrophic role
      in hypothalamic development. It has been hypothesized that alterations to leptin homeostasis
      in utero may disrupt neuronal connections between nuclei that control energy balance and
      appetite in the hypothalamus perhaps leading to obesity.

      Insulin resistance is a key feature of T2DM and has been implicated in the early pathogenesis
      of the disease. Micro-RNA 29 has been implicated in the development of insulin resistance in
      type 2 diabetes in vitro. Micro-RNAs are small untranslated/non-coding RNAs that negatively
      regulate mRNA translation. MiRNAs are involved in biological functions such as cell growth
      and proliferation, development, differentiation, organogenesis and metabolism and therefore
      have been linked to the pathogenesis of diabetes. In vitro studies with adipocyte cell lines
      have shown that genetic upregulation and overexpression of the miRNA 29 (a,b,c) family occurs
      in in the presence of hyperglycemia and that this blocks insulin-stimulated glucose uptake by
      the adipocyte by inhibiting insulin signalling via the Akt pathway (and hence expression of
      GLUT4 on the surface of the cell membrane). MiRNA 29 is also upregulated in skeletal muscle
      in a rat model of insulin resistance. There is also evidence that miRNA 29 is elevated in the
      presence of high NEFA levels and that this leads to skeletal muscle insulin resistance
      (unpublished data, personal communication, Zierath IDF 2013). Skeletal muscle is the primary
      site of glucose uptake postprandially, accounting for 75% of insulin-mediated glucose removal
      from plasma. Elevated miR29 is also associated with reduced insulin secretion. Human in vivo
      evidence linking miRNA 29 to insulin resistance and elevated NEFA is however lacking.
      Pregnancy is a meta-inflammatory state that is associated with markedly elevated levels of
      triglyceride, cytokines and NEFA in obese and dysglycemic women. It is possible that fetal
      exposure to high NEFA levels in women with gestational diabetes will result in elevated fetal
      miRNA 29 at birth which would be positively correlated with measures of insulin resistance
      such as HOMA2-%S. Removal from this glucolipotoxic milieu with parturition could result in a
      reduction in miRNA 29 with time and reduced insulin resistance.

      There is however a dearth of prospective large studies examining the relationship between
      pregravid BMI/maternal hypertriglyceridemia in Asian mothers with GDM, and the metabolic
      health of offspring at birth and during childhood. Limited data on Korean women with GDM and
      Japanese pregnant women with NGT but positive diabetic screens is available but little
      research has been carried out in Southeast Asia. In addition these Asian studies only
      examined the link between maternal triglyceride and BW but not offspring body composition.
      Maternal hypertriglyceridemia has been associated with increased BW and adiposity at birth,
      but very few studies have looked at the association between maternal hypertriglyceridemia and
      body weight/ adiposity during childhood in either Asian or Caucasian populations. There is no
      consensus, even in western populations, on normal ranges of maternal triglyceride levels at
      different stages of pregnancy. Given the well-established fact that adult adiposity is
      greater in Asians compared with Caucasians of the same BMI, one could hypothesize that the
      association between maternal hyperlipidemia and offspring adiposity and metabolic health will
      be stronger in Asians. Asian mothers are known to be twice as likely to have GDM at a lower
      BMI. Indeed there is already some evidence that the correlation between maternal triglyceride
      levels and birth weight is stronger in Asian-born GDM women compared with Australian and
      European-born mothers. It is also possible Malaysian mothers with BMI considered to be in the
      non-obese range for Caucasian mothers i.e. 23-30 kg/m2 might have offspring with metabolic
      dysfunction. These associations have not been studied in Malaysian GDM offspring of Malay,
      Chinese and Indian descent. In recent times the trans-generational impact of maternal
      nutrition, via fetal epigenetic changes, on the metabolic health of offspring has been
      recognized. Given the differences, both current and historical, in socioeconomic development
      that impact on population health/wealth between Western Europe/North America and countries
      such as India, China and Malaysia it would be reasonable to postulate that maternal
      hypertriglyceridemia may have a larger impact on the health of offspring in developing
      nations with the sudden transition from poverty to relative wealth. It is worth evaluating
      the relationship between maternal metabolic characteristics during pregnancy, and offspring
      metabolic health, growth and development in Chinese and Indian Malaysians as these
      relationships may differ from those derived from studies done in Korea, Japan, Hong Kong,
      China and India given the markedly different historical trajectories of socio-economic
      development amongst even Asian countries. Very little work has also been done amongst mothers
      with GDM of Malay descent as this ethnic group is mainly only found in South-east Asia i.e.
      Malaysia and Indonesia.

      With this in mind, we designed a prospective observational longitudinal cohort study to
      examine the associations of pregravid BMI and maternal hypertriglyceridemia in Asian GDM
      mothers with placental epigenetic changes to the placental leptin gene and offspring
      adiposity/metabolic function at birth/during childhood. We also aimed to evaluate cord blood
      miRNA29 at birth and 6 months of age. This study will also evaluate 2nd and 3 rd trimester
      serum triglyceride ranges in lean and obese Asian pregnant women with Normal Glucose
      Tolerance. The study will require participation of researchers from 5 disciplines:
      obstetrics, genetics, neonatology, paediatric endocrinology and adult endocrinology.
    
  