
    
      Occupational exposure to pesticides is associated with higher incidence of non-Hodgkin
      lymphoma (NHL), including diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) The relative risk for NHL
      after occupational exposure to pesticide is 1.5 to 3, with little variation according to NHL
      subtypes. DLBCL is one of the most frequent subtypes of NHL and characterized by aggressive
      presentation. DLBCL is treated by chemotherapy based on anthracyclines combined with an
      anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody allowing complete response and long term remission in 65-70% of
      patients. The response rate to treatment and clinical outcome is depending of the DLBCL
      subtype. There are 3 of them depending of the cell of origin (germinal centre B cell or
      activated B cell), and the anatomical location (primary mediastinal) identified by molecular
      gene expression profile. The activated B cell subtype have a worse outcome.

      Lymphomagenesis is partially known, and some risk factor are identified like those inducing
      immune deficiencies: chronic exposure to HIV, immune suppressor therapies or commun variable
      immunodeficiency. Parts of the mechanisms leading to NHL development after pesticide exposure
      are the disruption of immune surveillance against cancer cell. Pro-oncogenic action of
      metabolites is the most important mechanisms of action for pesticides. Thus, pesticides are
      metabolized in pro-oxidant compounds disturbing the redox homeostasis in the haematopoietic
      and immune cells precursors, promoting proliferation and survival, and inducing DNA breaks.
      Some of them induce direct DNA breaks and non-conform reparation, leading to activation of
      oncogenes; and other induces transcription factors for oncogenic signalling pathways. DNA
      reparation and adaptation to a higher ROS level are associated with resistance against
      cytotoxic chemotherapy treatment with induction of detoxification mechanism by tumour cells.

      That DNA repair pathways, which are targeted by chemotherapy could also explain a part of
      chemo-resistance. It was therefore suggested that DLBCL dependence to specific DNA repair
      pathways could be targeted to hamper repair of intrinsic DNA damage occurring during
      B-lymphoma cells proliferation or to increase DNA damage induced by chemotherapy.

      The investigators hypothesize that actions of pesticides on DNA and redox homeostasis are
      critical events during lymphomagenesis. We supposed that specific mechanisms of DNA repair
      and antioxidant defences induced by pesticides exposure are implicated in the
      chemo-resistance in DLBCL patients.

      There might be a negative impact of professional exposure to pesticide on treatment response.

      In this search, the investigators will explore a comprehensive view of both lymphomagenesis
      and adverse prognosis of pesticide-exposed DLBCL. The investigators plan to analyse the
      molecular profile of B-lymphoma cells from pesticide-exposed patients, to better understand
      biological mechanisms underlying lymphomagenesis as well as chemotherapy resistance
    
  