
    
      The main objective is to evaluate the effect of the combination of metformin / inulin on
      clinical, urodynamic parameters as well as metabolic and inflammatory profile in patients
      with benign prostate hypertrophy and metabolic syndrome.

      The investigators conducted a double-blind trial, randomized, on 4 groups, each group with 15
      male and female patients of 40 to 80 years of age with METS diagnosed by IDF criteria and
      clinical diagnose of HBP. Randomization will determine who will receive the intervention
      during 12 week trial, each group will be like:

      Group (A) intervention with combination metformin/ inulin: 15 individuals recieved
      combination of metformin/ agave inulin in a dosis of 500 mg / 10 grs per 24hrs during 12
      weeks.

      Group (B) Metformin plus Placebo of agave inulin: 15 individuals recieved Metformin in a
      dosis of 500mg per day (with the first bite of the second meal) plus homologue placebo of
      agave inulin (calcinated magnesia) in a dosis of 10grs each 24 hrs during 12 weeks.

      Group (C) agave inulin plus placebo of Metformin: 15 indivuduals recieved agave inulin in a
      dosis of 10grs per 24hrs plus homologate placebo of metformin (calcinated magnesia) in a
      dosis of 500 mg per day (with the first bite of the second meal) during 12 weeks.

      Group (D) Placebo of agave inulin plus Placebo of Metformin: homologate placebo of agave
      inulin (calcinated magnesia) in a dosis of 10 grs each 24 hrs plus homologate placebo of
      metformin (calcinated magnesia capsules) in a dosis of 500 mg per day (with the first bite of
      the second meal) during 12 weeks.

      The clinical findings and laboratory test include a metabolic profile and biosafety, will be
      baseline and at 12 weeks.

      Clinical components of Mets like antropometrics parameters, fasting glucose, fasting insulin,
      blood lipids, clinical finding of HBP and inflammation parameters and adipocitocins, IGF-1,
      insulin, prostatic specific antigen. Adverse events and adherence to treatment will be
      documented. Statistical analysis: Mann-Whitney U Test and Wilcoxon exact test. It is
      considered with significance at p<0.05.
    
  