
    
      Bipolar disorder (BD) is a serious, complex, family-grafting mental illness. Studies have
      shown that genetic factors may be the dominant factor in the pathogenesis of bipolar
      disorder, thus, it is worth looking forward to getting started and clarifying the etiology of
      bipolar disorder from a genetic perspective. However, earlier genetic studies such as linkage
      analysis, genetic mutation detection (preferred candidate genes), and recent genetic studies
      (no need to presuppose candidate genes) such as Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS), whole genome
      GWAS and Whole-exome sequencing (WES) failed to identify any biogenic disorder gene or
      chromosomal region that plays a major role in, which may be related to the synergy of
      population heterogeneity, insufficient sample size or coordination effect caused by common
      mutations.

      As a familial, highly heritable psychiatric disease, the literature suggests that the
      pathogenic genes of bipolar disorder may be directly derived from the intergenerational
      transmission of rare mutations in family members, and these rare variants are more likely to
      be predicated from the family. It has been found that the family has a higher frequency and
      is more susceptible to detecting susceptibility genes for bipolar disorder. Therefore, the
      family research design combined with WGS, GWAS and other advanced genetic research methods
      can reduce the unnecessary sample size, eliminate the confounding factors of the population,
      and more easily capture the potential genes of bipolar disorder.

      However, at present, there are few reports of foreign bipolar disorder family and the results
      are not consistent. There is no research report on the large sample family of Chinese Han
      population in China. Therefore, it is necessary to expand the family sample size and combine
      with new genetic research methods in the Han population. explore. Therefore, this study
      intends to find out the pathogenic genes of bipolar disorder by collecting the two-phase
      family of Chinese Han population with the large sample using a family cohort study design,
      combined with the new generation of high-throughput sequencing technology and GWAS,
      Proteomics, bioinformatics analysis, etc., which is expected to be clarified at the genetic
      level. The pathogenesis of bipolar disorder. At the same time, the investigators will conduct
      a five-year follow-up of cognitive function, brain function imaging and other major clinical
      symptoms in patients with bipolar disorder in the core family, and to explore familial
      bipolar disorder and sporadic biphasic. Differences in the clinical features of the disorder,
      in order to explore sensitive and specific biomarkers from a multidimensional perspective
      (cognitive function, brain imaging, genetic features, clinical features, etc.), which may
      contribute to bipolar disorder in the future. Accurate diagnosis and early identification and
      prevention have important scientific significance and clinical diagnosis and treatment
      significance.
    
  