
    
      Six sites (Boston, Birmingham, Memphis, Miami, Palo Alto, and Philadelphia) developed and
      evaluated a variety of multi-component interventions for family caregivers of persons with
      Alzheimer's Disease (AD) at the mild or moderate level of impairment. The multi-component
      interventions implemented across the six sites included: 1) Individual Information and
      Support strategies, 2) Group Support and Family Systems therapy, 3) Psychoeducational and
      Skill-based Training approaches, 4) Home-based Environmental interventions,, and 5) Enhanced
      Technology Support Systems. Although the interventions were derived from diverse theoretical
      models, they are all consistent with basic health-stress models in which the goal is to
      change the nature of specific stressors (e.g. problem behavior of the care recipient), their
      appraisal, and/or the caregivers response to the stressors. All of the REACH interventions
      were guided by detailed treatment manuals and certification procedures that assured that the
      interventions were delivered consistently over time at each site. Careful attention was also
      paid to the issue of treatment integrity. Different strategies were used at each site to
      induce and assess all three fundamental aspects of treatment integrity: delivery, receipt,
      and enactment (Burgio, et al., 2001). In addition, because the caregiving experience in race
      and ethnic minority families is particularly neglected in the field, there was a strong
      emphasis placed on the inclusion of African American and Hispanic caregivers. Thus,
      assessments as well as interventions were tailored at each site to meet the needs of
      culturally diverse racial/ethnic majority and minority populations.

      All of the REACH sites shared several common goals, including: 1) designing theory-driven
      caregiving interventions to test hypotheses about intervention processes and their effect on
      family caregivers, 2) specifying intervention components that help us understand the pathways
      through which interventions produce desired outcomes, 3) developing a standardized outcome
      protocol to assess the impact of different strategies on caregivers and their care recipients
      within each site and across sites, and 4) creating a common database that would facilitate
      pooling data across sites. In addition, standard selection criteria were adopted by REACH.

      Although REACH has some of the features of a traditional multi-site randomized controlled
      clinical trial (e.g., random assignment of participants to treatment and control conditions,
      common database and outcome measures, and identical measurement intervals across sites), it
      differs on one key dimension-the interventions varied across sites. REACH was designed to
      examine the feasibility and outcomes of multiple different intervention approaches, rather
      than to provide definitive information on the efficacy of one specific intervention strategy
      for enhancing caregiver outcomes. The strength of this approach is that it efficiently yields
      information about the effectiveness of different approaches to AD caregiving as well as the
      combined effects of active treatment versus controls, as reported in the planned
      meta-analysis.

      REACH successfully randomized 1222 caregiver/care recipient dyads representing both majority
      and minority populations to 15 different conditions.
    
  