
    
      The treatment of patients with unresectable cuSCC is challenging, and represents an area of
      high unmet need. Treatment options within this patient population are limited; hence most
      patients undergo monotherapy with radiation leading to suboptimal outcomes. Inadequately
      treated disease may cause high morbidity, negatively impacting quality of life and leading to
      increased costs for supportive care. To address the unmet needs of these patients, we propose
      an exploratory trial combining Avelumab with radiation therapy, with an investigational plan
      to study clinical and health services outcomes. Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma also
      represents a unique opportunity for correlative studies, given the accessibility of disease.
      The schedule of patient biopsies has been designed to allow analyses following treatment with
      Avelumab monotherapy as well as concurrent Avelumab/RT. We therefore propose additional
      biomarker outcomes, which may improve the care of patients with cuSCC as well as those with a
      host of solid tumors already sensitive to immunotherapy.

        -  Patients with cuSCC deemed unresectable (TxNxM0 - stage I-IV, M0);

        -  Prior to screening, patients will be reviewed at a bi-monthly multi-disciplinary
           cutaneous tumor board to determine unresectability; representatives from dermatology,
           pathology, medical oncology, radiation oncology, general surgery, and if deemed
           necessary, plastic surgery will be included;

        -  Patients must possess an Eastern Co-operative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status ≤
           2 This study has been designed as an open-label, non-randomized, single-arm phase II
           study to investigate the feasibility and efficacy of Avelumab in combination with
           radiation therapy in patients with unresectable cuSCC.

      All evaluable patients will be evaluated using identical instruments, and analysis will be by
      intent-to-treat. Toxicity will be assessed using standardized criteria (CTCAE version 4.03)
      by trained trial staff. Quality of life instruments will be administered to patients prior to
      their medical assessments. Every effort will be made to limit lost or missing data and
      incomplete follow-up.

      Based on the primary objective of the study sample size of 20 patients is proposed.

      This sample size calculation is based on the historical response rate associated with
      radiation therapy of 50%. The investigators predict an improvement in response using Avelumab
      and radiation therapy of 30%, in other words a net overall response rate of 80%. Utilizing a
      one-sided, binomial hypothesis test with a target p value of 0.05, the total sample size
      would be 18 to achieve a power of 80% for the study. The null hypothesis will be rejected if
      13 out of 18 patients demonstrate an objective tumor response following treatment, indicating
      further study is warranted. Assuming a dropout rate of 10% (patient dropout defined as
      voluntary withdrawal from active therapy prior to completion of treatment), an additional 2
      patients would have to be enrolled, bringing the total target enrollment to 20 patients.

      The total duration of accrual is anticipated to last 26 months. With a maximum follow-up of
      24 months following treatment of the eighteenth patient enrolled to study, the maximum study
      duration is not anticipated to exceed 50 months.

      The provision of a tumor biopsy is optional, but strongly encouraged. For those patients who
      consent to tumor biopsy, samples (either punch, needle-core or shave-biopsy) will be obtained
      in advance of treatment, 2 weeks post first cycle of Avelumab (but before the initiation of
      radiation therapy) and in conjunction with the 30-day safety analysis.

      An electronic data capture system will be used in this trial. A case report form (CRF) will
      have to be completed for each consented patient. The site maintains a separate source of
      data. This data will be entered by the site into the electronic data capture system This
      study is proposed as a phase II study with objective response rate as the primary endpoint.
      Refer to section 3.3.1 for the estimated calculation of study sample size.

      If the study conduct (e.g. recruitment rate, drop-out rate, data quality, protocol
      compliance) does not suggest a proper completion of the study within a reasonable time frame
      the trial will be terminated. This will be done in consultation with the CCI DSMB.

      The trial activities performed at the CCI will be monitored by the Cross Cancer Institute,
      Investigator Initiated Trials Data Safety Monitoring Board. The DSMB is independent of the
      investigator and is composed of representatives from both medical and radiation oncology.
      Further details about its charter can be found by contacting the Project Manager,
      Investigator Initiated Clinical Trials at the Cross Cancer institute.
    
  