
    
      Prevention the incidence of postoperative ileus (POI) is quite important because of the
      negative clinical outcomes it causes. In the past two decades, many treatments and care
      approaches, such as fluid restriction, early enteral nutrition, and nonsteroidal
      anti-inflammatory drug are used for the management of POI. In theory of traditional Chinese
      medicine, oral simo decoction (SMD) or acupuncture at the tsusanli acupoint can boost
      gastrointestinal hypomotility. The efficacy of accelerating the return of gastrointestinal
      function by such single method or combination of them has been validated in randomized
      controlled trials and systematic review following several types of surgery. In recent years,
      chewing gum, a new and simple modality, has become a commonly applied method in order to
      prevent and reduce the POI. Systematic reviews and meta-analyses revealed that chewing gum
      provided significant benefits for the improvement of postoperative bowel function. More
      importantly, many official guidelines recommend chewing gum for an evidence-based approach in
      the prevention of POI. Despite these positive evidence, three newest randomized controlled
      trials are unable to demonstrate an effect of chewing gum on the recovery of bowel function
      after colorectal resection.

      It is important to note that almost all previous randomized controlled trials are based on
      small sample size. This raises the question whether postoperative SMD, acupuncture at the
      tsusanli acupoint, or chewing gum can reduce risk of POI following colorectal resection among
      patients with large sample size. To examine this question, we conducted this randomized
      controlled trial to compare incidence of POI and length of hospital stay in colorectal cancer
      patients who received SMD and acupuncture, chewing gum or no intervention following
      resection.
    
  