
    
      Patching and atropine have been traditionally used for the improvement of visual acuity in
      children with amblyopia. Previous studies have shown that these methods of treatment are
      effective in young children with functional amblyopia. More recently ATS3, a randomized
      clinical trial of 507 children ages 7-<18, found that part-time patching combined with
      atropine and near activities improved visual acuity by two or more lines in 53% of the 7 to
      12 year olds compared to 25% for optical correction alone. For the 13 to 17 year olds,
      part-time patching and near activities improved visual acuity by 2 or more lines in 25%,
      compared to 23% for optical correction alone. While it appears that patching and/or atropine,
      combined with near activities, can improve visual acuity in some patients ages 7-<18, most
      patients in the study were left with residual visual acuity deficits. To further improve
      visual acuity and binocularity in children with amblyopia some eye care providers augment
      these traditional therapies with vision therapy. Vision therapy is prescribed initially if
      there is moderate amblyopia with stereopsis. Vision therapy can be added to the treatment
      regimen once the patient has reached moderate levels of vision loss with stereopsis and if
      the patient is still not responding to the current treatment and still has moderate
      amblyopia. It is thought that the best candidates for this type of therapy are those children
      with a minimum level of stereopsis (at least 800") and without constant strabismus. Those
      children with no stereopsis would not be able to perform the activities in the later stages
      of therapy utilizing binocular vision.

      Vision therapy is a sequence of prescribed activities typically performed on a daily basis at
      home and weekly in-office, and is directed toward an individual patient's deficient skills.
      Visual skills are practiced under conditions that provide the patient with feedback. The
      feedback, along with a gradual increase in the demand of the activities as improvement
      occurs, enables the patient to improve visual functions such as visual acuity, fixation,
      accommodation, and vergence skills.

      There have been case reports and small sample studies that have shown that vision therapy in
      combination with spectacles and occlusion is effective in improving the visual acuity of
      patients with amblyopia. Wick et al looked at nineteen patients who were diagnosed with
      anisometropic amblyopia between the ages of 6 to 49. Seventeen of the patients had moderate
      amblyopia and two had severe amblyopia, based on the definition of amblyopia used in the
      Amblyopia Treatment Studies. The patients were treated with a sequence that included
      spectacle correction, occlusion therapy and both monocular and binocular vision therapy.
      Thirteen of the seventeen patients with moderate amblyopia had a final visual acuity of 20/25
      or better and all of the patients with moderate amblyopia had 20/30 or better final visual
      acuity.

      More recent reports on "perceptual learning," an active form of therapy in which amblyopic
      subjects practice a position-discrimination task, have shown a mean acuity improvement of
      approximately 30% (two lines) in amblyopic children and adults who had completed occlusion
      therapy. These studies provide support for the notion that the practice of particular visual
      skills under conditions that provide the patient with feedback (e.g., vision therapy) may be
      beneficial in improving the visual performance of amblyopic eyes.

      The second reason to prescribe active therapy is to enhance or facilitate the effects of
      occlusion by directly treating the aforementioned deficits found to be associated with
      amblyopia. Most therapy procedures are designed to remediate specific deficiencies in four
      main areas: fixation, spatial perception, accommodative efficiency, binocular function and
      oculomotor control.

      Lastly, some investigators have suggested that the use of vision therapy may reduce the
      likelihood of recurrence of the amblyopia. This may be particularly true with anisometropic
      amblyopia in which vision therapy can be used to improve binocular function.
    
  