
    
      Tobacco Treatment Research Program (TTRP).The TTRP led by Dr. Darla Kendzor and located at
      the University of Oklahoma Health Science Center (OUHSC), offers free tobacco cessation
      treatment to adults from campus or the community who would like to quit using tobacco. The
      proposed study would take place within the context of the TTRP. Individuals are linked with
      the TTRP via the electronic medical record and 1-click referrals from clinical departments at
      the OUHSC or SCC; or from the community by phone [(405) 271-QUIT (7848)], email
      (ttrp@ouhsc.edu), or fax referrals. Treatment includes counseling with a Tobacco Treatment
      Specialist either in-person or over the telephone and pharmacological treatment.

      Baseline (1-Week Pre-quit; Visit 1):

      Informed Consent/Screening. Informed consent will be obtained from all participants in a
      private room in the TTRP. Individuals will be included in the study if they: 1) are ≥ 18
      years of age, 2) demonstrate > 6th grade English literacy level, 3) agree to install the
      study smartphone application onto their personal phone (or agree to carry a study-provided
      phone with the app), 4) agree to complete phone-based or in-person surveys through 26 weeks
      post-quit date, 5) have an expired CO level > 7 ppm at the baseline screening visit
      suggestive of current smoking, 6) currently smoke ≥ 5 cigarettes per day, 7) are willing to
      initiate a quit attempt 7 days after the baseline visit (enrollment). Individuals will be
      excluded from the study if they 1) have a history of seizures or allergic reaction to
      varenicline, 2) report current suicidality, 3) are taking anti-depressant or anti-psychotic
      medications, or 4) are pregnant, planning to become pregnant, or currently breastfeeding.
      Please note that the smartphone application used in this pilot study is only available in
      English.

      Smartphones. Participants will be guided through the process of downloading the InsightTM
      smartphone application onto their personal smartphone and they will be asked to complete
      daily EMAs during the 12 week period when they are taking their study medication(s). Those
      who do not possess a phone that meets the minimum requirements to download the Insight™ app,
      will be provided with a study phone. The smartphone app home screen will include: 1) a "Call
      Staff" function/button that automatically calls study staff when participants have problems
      with the app, and 2) a "Payment" function/button that enables participants to track their
      current level of compliance with phone-based surveys and level of compensation. At the
      baseline visit, all participants will receive training about how to use the smartphone app to
      complete EMA and how to use the "Call Staff" and "Payment" button/options. Participants will
      be instructed to quit smoking at bedtime or 10:00 pm (whichever occurs first), 6 days
      following their Baseline session. The app will remind participants about their approaching
      quit date during each day of the pre-cessation period.

      Questionnaires and Other Measures. Participants will complete self-report questionnaires on a
      tablet computer; and expired CO, weight, and height will be measured in a private room to
      ensure confidentiality.

      Varenicline. All participants will be evaluated by the study physician, and prescribed
      varenicline (if eligible). Individuals with a history of seizures, allergic reaction to
      varenicline, and/or those who are pregnant, planning to become pregnant, or breastfeeding
      will be excluded from the proposed study. As a precaution, individuals who report current
      cardiovascular disease will require clearance from the study physician or their personal
      physician to use varenicline. Notably, recent research has indicated that neither varenicline
      nor NRT increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events. In December 2016, the FDA lifted
      the boxed warning for varenicline after findings were published from a large clinical trial
      showing that the risk of neuropsychiatric adverse events associated with varenicline did not
      differ from the nicotine patch or placebo, and that varenicline was more effective for
      smoking cessation than the nicotine patch, bupropion, and placebo (the nicotine patch and
      bupropion were more effective than placebo). Participants will be excluded for current
      suicidality and current use of anti-depressant and anti-psychotic medications, which are
      suggestive of severe and/or unstable mental illness. As a precaution, female participants
      will be advised to avoid pregnancy while taking varenicline and to discontinue the medication
      should they become pregnant. However, the findings of observational research suggests that
      taking varenicline does not appear to be harmful during pregnancy. During the first
      (pre-quit) week of the study, participants will continue smoking and begin taking
      varenicline. Doses are titrated during the first week of medication (days 1-3: 0.5 mg once
      daily; days 4-7: 0.5 mg twice daily).

      Oral NRT. Participants randomized to VAR+N will be provided with a supply of 4 mg nicotine
      lozenges or 4 mg gum (depending on participant preference) and instructed to use a piece
      every 1-2 hours (12-24 per day) after they quit smoking, and especially when they have the
      urge to smoke.

      Developing a Quit Plan. Eligible participants will meet with a tobacco cessation counselor
      who will provide an overview of the tobacco cessation program, and help participants to set
      and prepare for their quit date. Participants will be asked to quit smoking the evening prior
      to their next weekly appointment.

      Randomization. At the conclusion of the first visit, participants will be randomized to one
      of the four cells within the 2x2 factorial design: pharmacological treatment (VAR+N vs. VAR)
      and medication reminders (reminders vs. no reminders) at the baseline visit. Adaptive
      randomization will be used to assign participants to groups based upon race, sex, cigarettes
      smoked per day, and education.

      Quit Day (Visit 2; 1-Week Post-Enrollment):

      Questionnaires and Other Measures. Participants will complete self-report questionnaires on a
      tablet computer; and expired CO and weight will be measured in a private room to ensure
      confidentiality.

      Oral NRT. Participants randomized to VAR+N will be instructed to use a piece of gum or
      lozenge at least every 1-2 hours (12-24 per day), and especially when they have the urge to
      smoke. Participants assigned to VAR+N with medication reminders will receive smartphone
      prompts (through the Insight™ app) every 2 hours (during waking hours) reminding them to use
      a piece of gum or a lozenge when they have cravings and at least every 1-2 hours.

      Counseling. Participants will complete an in-person counseling session with a Tobacco
      Treatment Specialist. Since participants were scheduled to quit smoking the evening prior,
      the counselor will check in with participants about the difficulties and successes they have
      experienced, and plan for any challenging situations that are anticipated. Advice and support
      will be provided as needed.

      Weekly Telephone Counseling Sessions (1, 2, and, 3 weeks post-quit) Following the quit day, 3
      additional weekly telephone counseling sessions will be scheduled. Topics will include 1) the
      impact of tobacco on health/benefits of quitting, 2) stress management strategies, 3) making
      positive lifestyle changes, 4) developing coping skills, and 5) relapse prevention. The
      counselor will check in with participants each week about the difficulties and successes they
      have experienced, and plan for any challenging situations that are anticipated. Advice and
      support will be provided as needed. Participants will be reminded to take their varenicline
      dose twice daily (VAR+N and VAR), and to use a piece of gum or a lozenge at least every 1-2
      hours (VAR+N only) and especially when they have the urge to smoke.

      4-Weeks Post-Quit Day (Visit 3):

      Questionnaires and Other Measures. Participants will complete self-report questionnaires on a
      tablet computer; and expired CO and weight will be measured in a private room to ensure
      confidentiality.

      Oral NRT. Participants randomized to VAR+N will be instructed to continue using a piece of
      gum or lozenge every 1-2 hours (12-24 per day), and to begin reducing to at least every 2-4
      hours (6-12 per day). Additional supply of gum or lozenges will be provided at this visit.
      VAR+N participants will receive a smartphone reminder prompt to use a piece of gum or lozenge
      every 2 hours during waking hours through 6 weeks post-quit, and every 4 hours during
      post-quit weeks 7-12.

      Counseling. Participants will complete an in-person counseling session with a Tobacco
      Treatment Specialist. The counselor will check in with participants each week about the
      difficulties and successes they have experienced, and plan for any challenging situations
      that are anticipated. Advice and support will be provided as needed.

      8-Weeks Post-Quit Day (Visit 4):

      Questionnaires and Other Measures. Participants will complete self-report questionnaires on a
      tablet computer; and expired CO and weight will be measured in a private room to ensure
      confidentiality.

      Oral NRT. Participants randomized to VAR+N will be instructed to continue using a piece of
      gum or lozenge every 2-4 hours (6-12 per day), and to begin reducing to at least every 4-8
      hours (3-6 per day). Additional supply of gum or lozenges will be provided at this visit.
      VAR+N participants will receive a smartphone prompt every 4 hours (during waking hours)
      through 12 weeks post-quit reminding them to use a piece of gum or a lozenge as directed.

      12-Weeks Post-Quit Day (Visit 5):

      Questionnaires and Other Measures. Participants will complete self-report questionnaires on a
      tablet computer; and expired CO and weight will be measured in a private room to ensure
      confidentiality. Participants will be asked to return their study-provided smartphones after
      they have completed their 12 week course of varenicline.

      Oral NRT. Participants randomized to VAR+N will be asked to discontinue using oral NRT.

      26-Weeks Post-Quit Day (Visit 6):

      Questionnaires and Other Measures. Participants will complete self-report questionnaires on a
      tablet computer; and expired CO and weight will be measured in a private room to ensure
      confidentiality.
    
  