
    
      Study setting This ongoing study is conducted in Fuwai Hospital, one of the world's biggest
      cardiovascular center specializing in all kinds of cardiovascular diseases, particularly
      those complex, difficult, and severe cardiovascular diseases. More than 10000 angiographic
      procedures is performed each year in Fuwai Hospital.

      Recruitment

      From 2017 January 1st, all patients admitted to Fuwai Hospital receiving elective coronary
      angiography were screened for eligibility. Detailed inclusion and exclusion creteria are
      shown as follows:

      Inclusion Criteria:

        1. Receiving elective coronary angiography.

        2. One or more lesions located in main coronary arteries with intermediate stenosis
           (defined as diameter stenosis of 50%-70%).

        3. No lesions with significant stenosis (greater than 70%)

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. Unable to sign consent

        2. Receiving percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or coronary artery bypass graft
           (CABG)

        3. Planned PCI or CABG

        4. Left ventricle ejection fraction % (LVEF%)<35% or cardiogenic shock

        5. Other severe comorbidities with life expectancy <1 year

      Data quality assurance Data are collected, submitted and stored online to the Informatics
      Center of Fuwai Hospital. Data are stored and protected managed according to national
      information security protection law. The following measures are adopted for data quality
      control. (1) Research staff will only be given access to a password-protected data-entry
      system after formal training. (2) A real-time, automated algorithm is used to check the
      logic, range, validity, consistency, completeness of data entered in the system. (3)
      Approximately 10% of online records are selected randomly and checked against the source
      documentation. (4) Data management team will check data quality regularly, and ask research
      staff to review and revise the missing, invalid and illogical data.

      Missing data Several measures will be adopted to manage missing data: (1) "Required" fields
      are used for key variables during data entry. (2) We conducted pilot testing to identify
      variables with high rate of missing data, explore possible reasons and improve data
      collection. (3) Data management team will monitor data quality periodically and send queries
      to researchers to enter the missing data and check invalid data. (4) During statistical
      analysis phase, based on the type, pattern and amount of missing data, appropriated methods
      will be used to handle missing data.

      Data collection Data are collected by trained experienced cardiologists and by using
      standardized definition in accordance with ACC/AHA Task Force on clinical Data Standards and
      NCDR-CathPCI registry Data Coder's Dictionary, including patient demographics, clinical
      presentation, medical history, risk factors, physical examination, laboratory results,
      clinical events, angiographic characteristics and procedural characteristics.

      Quantitative flow ratio (QFR) QFR was calculated based on coronary angiography [9] and
      detailed algorithms for calculation have been described. In the first step, two angiographic
      images at the same cardiac phase, at least 25° apart, were selected and transferred to QFR
      system. A common anatomic landmark on two image frames was defined for system offset
      correction. The start and end point of the interrogated vessel was then defined, and lumen
      counters of the interrogated vessel were automatically delineated. In case of suboptimal
      image quality, manual correction was performed. In the next step, contrast-entry and
      contrast-exit frames for interrogated vessel were defined, followed by generation of QFR
      report.

      Serum Biomarker Fasting blood samples were taken from cubital veins on the first day of
      admission, before and after coronary angiography procedure for biomarker and analysis. Serum
      and plasma are separated and stored in batches for analysis. Peripheral blood mononuclear
      cells are separated by centrifugation techniques and stored at -80°C. Full blood count, blood
      chemistry test including high sensitivity C-Reactive protein (hs-CRP), lipoprotein,
      creatinine, creatine kinase (CK), creatine kinase-MB (CK-MB), blood lipid, Na+, K+, glucose,
      N-terminal pro b-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP), high-sensitive Troponin I (hsTnI) ,
      troponin I (TnI), microalbumin urine test are performed as routine practice in Fuwai
      Hospital.

      Follow-up All participants in this project are followed-up at 2 year by telephone call or
      e-mail. Vital status, adverse event, medication adherence, control of risk factors including
      smoking, BMI, blood pressure, blood lipid, blood glucose and physical activity are collected
      by trained staff using standardized form. If any adverse event is reported, medical records
      are reviewed carefully and adjudicated by independent clinicians.

      Primary outcome measures The primary outcome was defined as major adverse cardiovascular
      events (MACE), which was defined as a composite of death, non-fatal myocardial infarction
      (MI) and unplanned repeat revascularization.
    
  