
    
      Radiobiological rationale Overexpression of EGFR has been found to be involved into two
      different mechanisms of response to ionizing radiations: the former is related to the
      increased cell proliferation rate, the latter leading to lower radiosensitivity.

        1. Increasing of cell proliferation rate From an analysis of the already reported
           evidences, we quantified the effect of a higher cell proliferation rate due to
           overexpression of EGFR. These findings were reported in patients affected with squamous
           carcinoma of head and neck district and evaluated for EGFR status. In those patients,
           local recurrence was compared in patients with different length of treatment but at the
           same fractionation. Consequently, the real doubling time in the subgroups with high and
           low EGFR expression was extrapolated . From these extrapolated values, equivalent doses
           of each day of non-delivered treatment have been calculated for patients who received
           accelerated schedule. Furthermore, doses were reported in relation to the different
           primary sites (oropharynx, larynx, oral cavity, hypopharynx).

           Modification of doubling time (TD) of neoplastic cell population in patients with Low
           and High EGFR expression.

        2. Reduction of radiosensitivity Unfortunately, how radiosensitizing drugs can modify
           radiosensitivity cannot be evaluated retrospectively. Actually, the efficacy is
           evaluated on the basis of an overall effect of the treatment but radiosensitivity
           changes day by day in radiation and pharmacological concurrent treatment. However, these
           changing in radiosensitivity can be analysed in pre-clinical setting. In many reports, a
           progressively higher radiosensitivity has been shown in cellular survival curves by
           increasing EGFR inhibitor concentration. Nevertheless, the concentrations of EGFR
           inhibitor do not correspond to in vivo concentration during radiotherapy delivery.
           Fortunately, this data is obtainable from Cetuximab pharmacokinetic curve. Therefore,
           cell survival curves corresponding to drug concentration were obtained by performing a
           graphic interpolation. From these curves, daily radiosensitivity parameters were found.

      Subsequently, daily doses with respect to daily radiosensitivity were identified by
      radiobiological calculation model. This fractionation, designed on Cetuximab
      pharmacokinetics, have been calculated to be equivalent to curative treatment (70Gy given
      with conventional schedule).

      At the same time, lower cutaneous toxicity is expected with this "modulated" schedule due to
      the possibly increased cellular repair. Pharmacokinetics data of Cetuximab we found on the
      population: Vmax 4.38mg/h (15.4%), Km 74g/ml, central compartment volume Vl 2.83 l (18.6%),
      peripheral compartment volume 2.43 l (56.4%) and intercompartmental clearance 0.103 l/h
      (97.2%). Those parameters remain unmodified also during prolonged therapies. Administrated
      doses have been found to be adequate to cell wall receptors saturation.

      A definition of overexpression of EGFR is still lacking. Different cut-offs have been
      proposed to distinguish patients with "high expression" from patients with "low expression"
      of EGFR. In a recent study the adoption of accelerated fractionation showed an advantage for
      those patients with an expression of EGFR>50%. Thus, we adopted this cut-off in our study.
    
  