
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare the overall survival, objective response rate, time to treatment
      failure, and time to progression in patients with recurrent or refractory adenocarcinoma of
      the pancreas treated with oral nitrocamptothecin vs most appropriate chemotherapy. II.
      Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to Karnofsky performance status (50-70% vs greater than 70%). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms: Arm I: Patients receive oral nitrocamptothecin on days
      1-5. Treatment repeats every week for 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients with stable or responding disease after week 8 may receive
      additional courses. Arm II: Patients are stratified according to most appropriate therapy
      possible (mitomycin or investigator's choice (including best supportive care) vs gemcitabine
      vs fluorouracil). Patients who previously received fluorouracil and gemcitabine with or
      without radiotherapy receive mitomycin or the investigator's choice of any proven or
      experimental chemotherapy regimen previously submitted to the sponsor. Patients who
      previously received fluorouracil only, other chemotherapy only, or fluorouracil with other
      chemotherapy receive a proven or experimental regimen comprising gemcitabine. Patients who
      previously received gemcitabine with other chemotherapy receive a proven or experimental
      regimen comprising fluorouracil. Patients with stable or responding disease after week 8 may
      receive additional courses if medically indicated. Patients for whom these drugs are not
      indicated may receive best supportive care. At the time of disease progression, patients may
      receive treatment with nitrocamptothecin. Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year or
      until death.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 400 patients (200 per arm) will be accrued for this study
      within 15 months.
    
  