
    
      Persistent engagement in maladaptive patterns of thinking is a hallmark of depression. In
      those who suffer from a chronic course of the disorders, tendencies towards engagement in
      such patterns of thinking are likely to have become habitual and automatic in nature. Recent
      research has begun to elucidate potential cognitive and neurophysiological bases of such
      persistence. There is evidence that depressed patients show significant deficits in
      performance monitoring (Weinberg, Dieterich, & Riesel, 2015). Research on error-related
      negativity (ERN), a signal that occurs briefly after commission of an error, has reported
      significant aberrations in depressed suggesting deficits at the early stages of processing
      discrepancies. Deficits in ERN have been suggested to serve as an endophenotype for
      depression and psychopathology more generally (Manoach & Agam, 2013). Preliminary findings
      suggest that deficits remain even when symptoms are reduced following established treatments.
      Similarly, there is evidence for increased tendencies to elaborate negative information as
      evidenced by stronger late positive potentials (LPP; Auerbach, Stanton, Proudfit, &
      Pizzagalli, 2015) and an increased rigidity of spontaneous activity of the brain during rest
      as indicated by increased long-range temporal correlations of spontaneous brain oscillations
      (LRTC; Bornas et al., 2013).

      Interventions using mental training may be particularly suited to address these aberrations.
      Indeed even brief training in mindfulness has been found to have significant neuroplastic
      effects (Tang et al., 2010) The aim of the current study was therefore to investigate the
      effects of a brief intervention using training in mindfulness meditation on the above listed
      parameters. Chronically depressed patients were randomly allocated to receive either a
      two-week mindfulness training or a resting control training. EEG was measured before and
      after the intervention along with self-reports of current symptoms and
      resilience/vulnerability factors. We expected the mindfulness training to have significantly
      stronger effects on ERN, LPP, and LRTC than the resting control training.
    
  