
    
      The study aims at constructing a Chinese language probabilistic map by awake intraoperative
      direct electrical stimulation (DES) language mapping.

      The "maximal safe resection" of brain tumor adjacent to language cortex requires precise
      real-time localization of the intraoperative language cortex.

      Awake craniotomy combined with DES to localize language cortex has been carried out for
      several decades. However, there is yet no unified standard on the specification of its
      technical parameters. Besides, language probabilistic maps based on DES have been reported by
      several teams around the world. However these studies were based on the Indo-European
      language speakers alone. There was one paper published in 2015 by the investigators' group
      using DES for the Chinese probabilistic map, but it is also a single center study, and the
      sample size is relatively small.

      Awake craniotomy and intraoperative DES for language cortex localization will be used to
      construct a Chinese probabilistic map in this study. Several common tasks for language
      mapping (i.e., number counting, picture naming, word reading) will be applied in Chinese
      speakers. The positive language sites including speech arrest, anomia, alexia, anarthria,
      dysarthria, semantic paraphasia and phonological paraphasia, spatial negativity and other
      higher order cognitive function will be identified in individual patients and normalized to
      the standard brain atlas. The corresponding probabilistic maps will be integrated and
      generated.

      At the same time, the standardization and optimization of awake intraoperative DES parameters
      will be explored, factors affecting postoperative function morbidity and survival will also
      be analyzed.

      Through this study, the investigators will further popularize individualized awake surgery of
      glioma in language cortex, improve the extent of tumor resection, protect postoperative
      language function and improve postoperative quality of life. By constructing this
      standardized Chinese probabilistic map, the investigators will provide more direct evidence
      for brain language research.
    
  