
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the feasibility and efficacy of sequential high-dose
      cyclophosphamide, melphalan, and thiotepa plus autologous peripheral blood stem cell rescue
      in patients with metastatic breast cancer with ongoing objective response to prior induction
      chemotherapy.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive sequential therapy beginning with regimen A. Regimen A: Patients
      receive cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour every 6 hours or more for 4 doses within 36 hours.
      Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) daily beginning 2 days after
      completion of cyclophosphamide and continuing until autologous peripheral blood stem cells
      (PBSC) are harvested. Regimen B: Beginning at least 3 weeks after initiation of regimen A,
      patients receive melphalan IV on days 1 and 2. Beginning on day 4, a portion of the PBSC are
      reinfused. Patients receive G-CSF SC daily beginning on day 4 and continuing until at least
      day 10. Regimen C: Beginning at least 3 weeks after initiation of regimen B, patients receive
      thiotepa IV over 2 hours on days 1 and 2. Beginning on day 5, the remaining PBSC are
      reinfused. Patients receive G-CSF SC daily beginning on day 5 and continuing until blood
      counts recover. During regimens A, B, and C, G-CSF must be discontinued at least 2 days
      before administration of any chemotherapy. Regimen D: After recovery from chemotherapy,
      patients with hormone receptor-positive tumors and no prior refractoriness to hormonal
      therapies receive oral tamoxifen daily, while patients with prior failure on tamoxifen
      receive oral megestrol 4 times daily. Patients undergo irradiation to sites of prior
      cutaneous, nodal, bone, or soft tissue bulk disease and resection of residual lesions.
      Patients are followed weekly for 1 month, biweekly for 2 months, monthly for 5 months, and
      then bimonthly for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A minimum of 30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  