
    
      In general, when oedema is present, increasing the osmotic pressure in the retinal
      capillaries by an osmotic drug induces transcapillary fluid transport from the retinal tissue
      to the vascular lumen, according to the Starling equation. Theoretically, in diabetic macular
      oedema the event would lead to reduction of the retinal thickness, which could then be
      visualised by Optical Coherence Tomography. The main purpose of this trial is therefore to
      evaluate and quantify the changes in retinal thickness of the oedema after increasing the
      intracapillary osmotic pressure with glycerol ingestion. A reduction of the retinal thickness
      will confirm the application of the Starling osmotic forces on diabetic macular oedema.
      Secondly, we want to describe any regional differences in the retinal response and analyse
      for dose dependent variations.

      Principles of material and methods: A prospective, randomized, clinical trial on 15 patients
      with diabetic significant macular oedema. At baseline the patients undergo a thorough
      ophthalmologic examination including ETDRS visual acuity, slit lamp biomicroscopy, Optical
      Coherence Tomography (Stratus-OCT), 7-field fundus photography followed by fluorescein
      angiography. In addition the systemic blood pressure is measured and blood samples are taken
      to rule out severe renal insufficiency and to estimate glycosylated haemoglobin.

      The patients are all randomised to drink either 1.5 or 3 mL glycerol/kg body weight (max. 250
      mL pr day) on the first of two visit dates. The last dose is given at the second visit. In
      the following three hours the retinal thickness is then monitored closely by Stratus-OCT
      after the glycerol ingestion.

      The plasma osmolality and plasma triglyceride (an indirect indicator of glycerol) are
      confirmed by venous blood samples, also at predetermined times after the last swallow of
      glycerol. In addition the systemic blood pressure and the capillary blood glucose are
      monitored closely during the visit.
    
  