
    
      This is a randomized exercise intervention study in healthy subjects (adult women-inactive).
      Participants will be randomly allocated in two groups: the LLHR group and the Pilates group.
      All assessments will be blinded to the intervention group of the participants. Both exercise
      programs will be performed in groups lasting for three months and performed 3 times per week.
      The study conformed to the principles enumerated in the Helsinki Declaration and ethical
      approval has been obtained by the national ethical committee.

      Participants in the LLHR training will participate in a three-month, group based
      pre-choreographed exercise programme, consisting of three LLHR training sessions per week (in
      non-consecutive days). All participants will be familiar with the exercises that will be used
      in this intervention. Each LLHR fitness program, includes a variety of multifunction
      exercises (i.e. squats, lunges, chest press and chest extension, rowing, triceps extension
      and bicep curls) addressing all muscle groups; using barbells, dumbbells or body weight. Each
      session will last for 60 min (including 5 min warm up and 5 min cooldown). Exercise intensity
      will increase progressively once a month by adding weights to the barbells and dumbbells.

      Participants in the Pilates program will be trained with the same exercise schedule for the
      3-month period. Their 60 min session, will be consisted of warm-up and cool down (5 minutes
      each), along with static-isometric exercises addressing major muscle groups. Pilates
      exercises focus on breathing, concentration, control and precision. Exercise intensity
      progression in the Pilates program will be performed every one month by increasing the level
      of demanding of the exercises.

      All training sessions of both the LLHR and Pilates programs will be supervised by a qualified
      sports scientist (one sport scientist responsible for each program) for securing training
      standardization. Participants in both programs will be advised to avoid taking part in any
      other exercise session during the intervention period.
    
  