
    
      Parenteral nutrition (PN) is a crucial part of the clinical care of preterm infants.
      Traditionally different components of PN are prescribed individually considering requirements
      of an individual infant (P-PN). Recently, standardized PN formulations (S-PN) for preterm
      infants have been assessed and may have advantages including a better provision of nutrients,
      less prescription and administration errors, decreased risk of infection, and cost savings.
      The recent introduction of triple-chamber bags that provides total nutrient admixture for
      infants may have the additional advantage of decreased risk of contamination and ease of
      administration.

      The proposed intervention and hypothesis: The investigators propose a multi-centered Phase IV
      RCT to compare S-PN versus P-PN, that is the usual care for preterm infants with a birth
      weight >1250 grams requiring PN in the intensive care units involved in the study. The
      investigators hypothesize that weight gain during PN of preterm infants with a BW greater
      than 1250 grams who received S-PN is not statically inferior (< 2g/kg/d) to that of infants
      who received P-PN (Non-inferiority study).

      Study design: Preterm infants (gestational age between 189 and 258 days) with a BW greater
      than 1250 grams will be enrolled during hospitalization after the informed consent is drawn
      from parents or legal guardians. All infants will undergo a physical examination and the need
      of PN will be judged by the caring physician according to predefined criteria. Infants
      requiring PN will be divided into 3 clinical groups:

        -  Group A or EARLY HIGH-RISK INFANTS: these infants present in rather severe conditions at
           birth or soon after birth which make enteral nutrition (EN) impossible or non-desirable.
           In this group of infants, the investigators will include patients with Perinatal
           asphyxia, Perinatal shock (Cardiovascular or Septic), GI malformations, Severe
           Intra-uterine growth retardation (IUGR) with markedly abnormal prenatal doppler, and
           Miscellanea. These infants will have a central venous access soon after birth.

        -  Group B or INSUFFICIENT EN INTAKE: these Infants are in rather stable conditions after
           birth, however these infants may exhibit gastrointestinal (GI) intolerance of any
           origin. These patients will be randomized after 72 hours of life if the mean EN volume
           of the first 72-hrs of life will be less than 30 ml/kg/d or if EN intake on the third
           day will be less than 45 ml/kg/d. In this category, the investigators will include also
           those infants who will have their EN intake reduced below 30 ml/kg for 3 consecutive
           days (usually from day 3 through day 6) because of PDA treatment. These infants will
           have a central venous access inserted on the 3rd or 4th day of life if not already in
           place.

        -  Group C or LATE SICKNESS: these are the infants that experience a major sickness after a
           variable period of good gastrointestinal tolerance. In this group, the investigators
           will have infants with Necrotizing Enterocolitis (NEC), Severe Sepsis with abdominal
           distension and poor peristalsis, Septic Shock, or other severe unexpected conditions
           such as volvulus etc. These infants will also have a central venous access.

      Study infants within each clinical group will be divided into 2 blocks on the basis of their
      BW: 1250-1750 g (Block A) e >1750 g (Block B). Infants of each study group will be then
      randomly assigned to P-PN or S-PN (Intervention-arm). The study PN bags will be used until
      the study infants will not be able to tolerate 135 ml/kg/d enterally (range: 120-160 ml/kg/d
      according to the local practice) or until day 28 of PN (after the 28th day of PN, patients
      will receive PN according to the normal clinical practice).
    
  