
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the efficacy of adjuvant cyclophosphamide, epirubicin, and fluorouracil vs
           observation, in terms of disease-free 5-year survival, in women who have undergone
           resection for relapsed nonmetastatic breast cancer after initial conservative surgery.

        -  Compare the overall survival of women treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the tolerance of these women to the chemotherapy regimen.

        -  Correlate prognostic factors of survival with efficacy of the chemotherapy regimen in
           these women.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      menopausal status and participating center. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.
      Study begins within 42 days after resection of recurrent disease.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive fluorouracil IV over 1 hour, epirubicin IV over 1 hour, and
           cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 3 courses
           in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive
           docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 3 courses in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients are examined on days 1 and 63.

      Patients who are hormone receptor positive also receive one of the following hormonal therapy
      regimens, depending on menopausal status:

        -  Oral tamoxifen daily for 5 years

        -  Oral tamoxifen daily for 5 years and oral luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH)
           agonist therapy (e.g., goserelin) for 3 years

        -  Oral LHRH agonist therapy (e.g., goserelin) for 3 years

        -  Oral antiaromatase therapy (e.g., anastrozole) for 5 years Patients also undergo
           radiotherapy and may also undergo second complete resection.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 5 years and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 370 patients (185 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 3 years.
    
  