
    
      In current nephrology and vascular surgery guidelines, end-cephalic to side-radial
      arteriovenous fistula is the gold standard for primary vascular access creation. However,
      these wrist AVFs are recognized to have the worst patency of any autogenous vascular
      accesses. Outcome improvement is therefore urgent in the field of vascular access, which
      concerns a growing incident population of patients with end-stage renal disease requiring
      hemodialysis.

      Primary AVF failure, including failure to mature, occurs in ~35-40% in just the first year,
      generally due to juxta-anastomotic stenosis. Many AVF subsequently require additional
      interventions to mature successfully. The primary patency for these AVFs is poor with 55% at
      12 months.

      Juxta-anastomotic neointimal hyperplasia typically occurs in the swing segment, e.g. the
      proximal vein mobilized to form the end-to-side anastomosis. This surgically-mobilized
      segment coincides both with turbulent flow as well as with devascularization of the vasa
      vasorum. These processes have been associated with endothelial cell activation and a
      dysfunctional phenotype. Therefore investigators hypothesized that surgical techniques which
      minimize venous dissection may improve fistula maturation and access patency.

      Accordingly, investigators developed the "Radial Artery Deviation And Reimplantation (RADAR)
      technique." Instead of using a traditional end-vein to side-artery anastomosis, RADAR uses an
      end-artery to side-vein anastomosis, additionally coupled with minimal vessel dissection.
      Investigators extend conventional "no touch" techniques and advocate avoidance of any venous
      dissection or manipulation. Investigators minimize arterial dissection as well, by dissecting
      the radial artery pedicle, not the artery itself.

      The aim of this study is to compare the safety and efficacy of this novel technique with the
      traditional radial-cephalic fistula in the setting of a multicenter randomized controlled
      trial. Besides traditional endpoints such as patency and reintervention rates, hand blood
      perfusion will be assessed with objective measurements.
    
  