
    
      The objective of this study is to determine whether the use of atypical antipsychotics is
      associated with an increased risk of hospitalization for hyperglycemic emergencies
      (hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, and hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state).

      A common-protocol approach will be used to conduct retrospective cohort studies using
      administrative health care data from eight jurisdictions (the Canadian provinces of British
      Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, Ontario, Quebec, and Nova Scotia, as well as the
      United Kingdom (UK) General Practice Research Database [GPRD]). Briefly, the Canadian
      databases include population-level data on physician billing, diagnoses and procedures from
      hospital discharge abstracts, and dispensations for prescription drugs. The data in Nova
      Scotia, Ontario, and Alberta will be restricted to patients aged 65 years and older, as
      prescription data are not available for younger patients. The GPRD is a clinical database
      that is representative of the UK population and contains the records for patients seen at
      over 680 general practitioner practices in the UK.

      In each jurisdiction, the investigators will assemble a study cohort that includes all
      patients newly prescribed an antipsychotic medication (WHO Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical
      (ATC) code N05A) from April 1, 1998 (or the earliest date of data availability at each site)
      to March 31, 2010 (or the last date of data availability at each site if earlier). The date
      of study cohort entry will be defined by the date of the prescription (for GPRD) or
      dispensation (for all other sites) of the newly-prescribed antipsychotic. Patients in the
      study cohort will be followed from the date of study cohort entry until an event (defined
      below), censoring due to death or departure from the database, 365 days after cohort entry,
      or the end of the study period (March 31, 2011), whichever occurs first.

      The exposure categories will be separated by the type of antipsychotic medication prescribed
      upon cohort entry as: 1) olanzapine users; 2) other atypical antipsychotic users; 3) typical
      antipsychotic users; and 4) risperidone users. Exposure to olanzapine will be defined as a
      prescription for olanzapine on the date of cohort entry. Exposure to other atypical
      antipsychotics will be defined as a prescription for an atypical antipsychotic other than
      olanzapine on the date of cohort entry. Exposure to typical antipsychotics will be defined as
      a prescription for a typical antipsychotic on the date of cohort entry. Exposure to
      risperidone will be defined as a prescription for risperidone on the date of cohort entry.
      The investigators will use an analysis analogous to an intention-to-treat approach. The
      primary outcome will be defined as a first hospitalization for a hyperglycemic emergency
      within 365 days of the initiation of the cohort defining antipsychotic medication.

      The reference group throughout all analyses will be risperidone users. The primary comparator
      will be olanzapine users; other atypical antipsychotic users and typical antipsychotic users
      will both serve as secondary comparators.

      Inverse probability treatment weighting (IPTW) using propensity scores to estimate marginal
      treatment effects will be used. These propensity scores will be estimated using logistic
      regression models where treatment with the comparator antipsychotic will be regressed on a
      number of pre-identified covariates that influence the risk of a hyperglycemic emergency. The
      absolute difference in the probability of a hyperglycemic emergency will be estimated. The
      cause-specific hazard for the comparator vs. risperidone will be estimated using
      Cox-proportional hazards regression models, incorporating the IPT weights and using a robust
      variance estimator. Meta-analyses of the site-specific results will then be performed using
      fixed-effects models with inverse variance weighting, with the amount of between site
      heterogeneity estimated using the I-squared statistic.

      Secondary analyses will be performed by means of nested case-control analyses of the cohorts.
      Cases will be defined as subjects having a hyperglycemic event and will be matched to
      controls that did not experience a hyperglycemic event. The event date of the cases will
      serve as the index date for both controls and their matched cases. Exposure will be defined
      as the most recent antipsychotic medication prescribed prior to the index date. Conditional
      logistic regression will be used to estimate the odds ratio of a hyperglycemic event for the
      comparator vs. risperidone.
    
  