
    
      Method/Design:

      The trial is conducted as a randomized clinical trial, with recruitment of 40 medical
      geriatric patients (definition: ≥65 years of age with at least two diagnoses, e.g.
      hypertension, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
      rheumatic diseases or apoplexy). At discharge the test subjects are randomized to receive
      either individual dietary counseling or standard treatment with follow-up 30 and 60 days
      after discharge. All data are collected prior to randomization. The intervention consists of
      three individual dietary counsellings with the aim to ensure sufficient coverage of energy
      and protein needs of the subjects (the first at the hospital by discharge, then in week 1 and
      week 3 at the subject's home/the respite care after discharge) and, if necessary, telephone
      follow-up in weeks 2 and 4 after discharge. The intervention group, if possible, are asked to
      take photos of all they eat and drink for two days before individual dietary counselling and
      send the photos electronically to the responsible investigators before the meeting.

      Recruitment:

      Only admitted patients are included in the trial. Attending physician finds the patients
      through the Health Platform at Sydsjællands University Hospital. The care staff or the
      attending physician asks whether the patient is willing to talk with the responsible
      investigators. The responsible investigators then make personal contact with the geriatric
      patients while they are hospitalized. Patients will be informed orally and in writing about
      the trial of the responsible investigators. Patients also receive pamphlets about test
      subjects rights in a health science research project published by the National Science Ethics
      Committee with the purpose of giving patients an informed basis to make a decision.

      Patients are informed that they can take a family member or friend to the next conversation.
      Patients receive at least 24 hours of deliberation time, after which they are contacted by
      the responsible investigators. Patients who wish to participate in the trial are asked to
      sign a consent statement. This statement is also signed by the responsible investigator who
      has given the patient oral information about the trial. The subjects are offered a copy of
      the consent statement. To ensure uninterrupted conversation, conversation will take place in
      a room without other people or alternatively in the patient's room and a partition will be
      put of if the patient is not in a room by them self.

      Patients who meet the inclusion criteria, wishes to participate in the trial and have signed
      the consent statement will be contacted again on the date of discharge or the day before,
      where the trial starts. Test subject may at any time, orally, in writing or by other clear
      indication, withdraw their consent for participation and withdraw from the trial.

      Sample size:

      Based on the primary output "readmission/hospitalization of geriatric patients within a
      month", the sample size is estimated to be at least 20 subjects in the intervention and
      control groups, respectively. A total of at least 40 subjects.

      Statistical analysis:

      Hypothesis testing will take place using nonparametric statistical tests, as the data can not
      be assumed to be normal distribution (Mann-Whitney U and Wilcoxon). Fisher's exact test [M1]
      is used for analysis of categorical data. Correlations are analyzed using Spermann analysis
    
  