
    
      Aim The primary aim of this study was to investigate whether short-term treatment with
      inhaled corticosteroids in COPD results in greater improvements in airway pathology, thereby
      leading to larger clinical benefits, than continuous long-term treatment. To that end, the
      outcome variables included features of airways inflammation and remodelling as well as
      clinical symptoms, exacerbations, quality of life, decline in FEV1, bronchial responsiveness,
      and pharmaco-economics. The secondary aim of the study was to examine the histopathological
      and clinical benefits of the combined treatment with an inhaled steroid and a long-acting
      ß2-agonist in COPD.

      Methods Patients. Patients with COPD (45-75 yr, >10 pckyr) not using inhaled steroids for the
      past 3 months were recruited.

      Design. In a prospective, longitudinal, double blind, 4-arm study, the patients were followed
      during 2.5 years (Figure 1). They were treated with high dose inhaled corticosteroids (500 g
      fluticasone bid), combined inhaled steroids+long-acting ß2-agonist (500 µg fluticasone+50 µg
      salmeterol) or placebo for 6 months. Half of the patients in the steroid group continued
      their treatment with steroids for another 2 years, whereas the other half received placebo.
      The combination therapy and placebo groups remained unaltered treatment up to 2.5 years.

      Measurements. Symptoms, exacerbations, QOL questionnaires and spirometry were monitored every
      3 months. Peripheral blood eosinophils, IgE, exhaled NO, bodyplethysmography, CO-diffusion
      capacity, PC20 methacholine, sputum induction and bronchoscopy were performed at 0, 6, and 30
      months. In BAL and induced sputum we are measuring cell differentials and their state of
      activation. Immunohistochemistry is being performed in bronchial biopsy specimens, staining
      for markers on infiltrative and resident cells, and morphometric analysis will allow airway
      remodelling to be quantified, by using a computerized image analysis system. The effects of
      treatment will be analyzed by relating the observed changes in clinical and
      pathophysiological outcome, to those in cellular and histological outcome by using linear
      mixed statistical models.
    
  