
    
      A phase II proof of concept, multi-centre, safety and efficacy study with a biomarker
      component to investigate if a treatment strategy where stereotactic body radiation therapy
      (SBRT) is given with pembrolizumab is sufficiently active to warrant further investigation in
      randomized phase II or III studies. The study will run for approximately 3 years, including 2
      year of recruitment and 1 year of follow up. There will be two study arms. Enrollment of 15
      patients into arm A will occur before the start of enrollment of the next 20 patients on arm
      B.

      In arm A, pembrolizumab will be started and SBRT will be given to the 1-3 most clinically
      significant lesions only at the time of progression on pembrolizumab. Pembrolizumab will be
      continued after progression to detect if the addition of SBRT leads to stability or response
      in progressing lesions. After SBRT, untreated measurable disease must remain to assess the
      activity of continued pembrolizumab. Pembrolizumab and SBRT will continue until progression
      as per immune related response criteria (irRC). This cohort of patients will allow us to more
      clearly understand if SBRT does play a part in improving progression free survival when given
      in combination with pembrolizumab.

      In arm B, pembrolizumab will be started and SBRT given before the 2nd course of pembrolizumab
      to the 1-3 most clinically significant lesions. After SBRT, untreated measurable disease must
      remain to assess the activity of pembrolizumab. The value of a treatment strategy that
      combines pembrolizumab and SBRT up-front is evaluated in this arm. Giving SBRT early to the
      most clinically significant cancer lesions may give pembrolizumab more time to work and may
      improve response by generating neo-antigens.

      Patients will remain on study until progression as per irRC, withdrawal of consent or if they
      meet any of the premature withdrawal/discontinuation criteria.
    
  