
    
      Rationale: HIV infected persons have greater levels of inflammation and immune activation
      compared to the general population and are at greater risk of developing coronary heart
      disease (CHD) and other inflammation-associated co-morbidities. Intervention with BRM4
      (Arabinoxylan Rice Bran Supplementation) in this population with impaired immune
      reconstitution may improve inflammation by a variety of mechanisms.

      Intervention: Arabinoxylan Rice Bran Supplementation with BRM4, is a nutritional supplement
      marketed in the US. It is composed of dietary fiber obtained from a denatured hemicellulose
      that is obtained by reacting rice bran hemicellulose with multiple carbohydrate hydrolyzing
      enzymes from Shiitake mushrooms.

      Objectives: The primary objective is to evaluate if 12 weeks of supplementation with
      arabinoxylan rice bran can safely reduce markers of inflammation during ART-suppressed HIV
      infection and thus potentially reduce the potential to develop end-organ disease in this
      group of at-risk patients.

      Study population: HIV-infected participants (≥18 years of age) who have been on stable ART
      for at least 24 weeks prior to study entry, and have impaired immune reconstitution defined
      as a CD4+ T-cell count 100-350 cells/mm3 prior to study entry, with plasma HIV-1 RNA <50
      copies/mL. In order to assure 24 evaluable subjects, the investigators will enroll 28
      subjects total (assuming 15% lost to follow-up rate).

      Study methodology: Randomized, double blind, placebo controlled clinical trial

      Description of study arms: At entry participants will be randomized to one of the following
      arms:

      Arm 1: BRM4 two 500mg capsules thrice daily p.o. for 12 weeks

      Arm 2: Placebo for Biobran two capsules thrice daily p.o. for 12 weeks

      Study endpoints: Primary - changes in sCD14 levels after 12 weeks of intervention. Secondary
      - week 12 changes in other inflammatory markers, microbial translocation, T-cell counts, and
      metabolic variables.

      Follow-up: Participants will not be followed after study completion, unless follow-up is
      necessary for an adverse event.

      Statistics: A total sample of 24 evaluable subjects (12 per arm) is needed to detect a
      clinically relevant difference of 0.07 log10 in sCD14 levels between treatment vs. placebo
      arms with 90% power and a 0.05 two-sided type I error rate.

      Plans for analysis: For the primary analysis, changes in sCD14 (and other biomarkers) from
      baseline to week 12 will be compared between the treatment arm and the placebo arm by a
      two-sided, two-sample t-test.
    
  