
    
      Phase 1 will determine the maximally tolerated or recommended dose of PX-866 to be given
      orally on Days 1-21 in combination with cetuximab 250 mg/m2 administered IV weekly on Days 1,
      8, and 15 of a 21-day cycle. All patients will receive an initial loading dose of 400 mg/m2
      cetuximab rather than 250 mg/m2 on Cycle 1 Day 1. Patients may receive premedication with an
      H1 antagonist per the cetuximab package insert. Up to 3 dose levels of PX-866 will be
      evaluated to determine the MTD/RD in cohorts of up to 6 patients using a standard 3+3
      dose-escalation design. At least 6 patients will be treated at the MTD/RD. All patients in
      Phase 1 will be required to undergo PK assessments during Cycle 1 Week 3 to measure cetuximab
      levels. Exploratory PD assessments will include evaluation of changes in levels of fasting
      C-peptide as well as changes in EGFR and PI-3K signaling pathways in peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells (PBMC) and platelets. Additional optional evaluations will include changes
      in EGFR and PI-3K signaling in paired tumor biopsies provided before and after one cycle of
      treatment. All patients will be asked, but not required, to provide an archived tumor biopsy
      sample for evaluation for potential biomarkers of response to PX-866 and cetuximab.

      Phase 2 is an open-label, randomized evaluation of the antitumor activity and safety of
      PX-866 administered orally or via PEG tube (if applicable) at the MTD/RD in combination with
      cetuximab, versus cetuximab alone in cetuximab-naïve patients with incurable metastatic CRC
      who have a history of progression or recurrence following prior irinotecan and oxaliplatin
      containing regimens or are intolerant of irinotecan (Group 1) or patients with incurable
      progressive, recurrent or metastatic SCCHN (Group 2). Seventy two evaluable patients (36
      patients per arm) will be evaluated per indication. Patients will be randomized 1:1 to
      receive PX-866 + cetuximab or cetuximab alone.
    
  