
    
      The study has three main objectives, each with a set of more specific aims:

      Objective 1: Present a broader view of treatment success

      In order to achieve this objective, the study aims to:

        -  Investigate how access to antiretroviral treatment and to nutritional supplementation
           impacts labour productivity and time allocation of patients and other household members

        -  Investigate how access to antiretroviral treatment and to nutritional supplementation
           impacts household welfare

        -  Investigate how access to antiretroviral treatment and to nutritional supplementation
           impacts educational and health outcomes for children in households with patients on
           antiretroviral treatment

      Objective 2: Develop a model of the determinants of treatment success

      In order to achieve this objective, the study aims to:

        -  Determine how various individual, household and facility-level characteristics impact
           adherence to antiretroviral treatment, including access to a disability grant

        -  Determine how access to a peer adherence supporter and nutritional supplementation
           impacts adherence to antiretroviral treatment

        -  Estimate the cost-effectiveness of these interventions in enhancement in adherence, from
           both a fiscal and a social perspective

      Objective 3: Understand the links between treatment and prevention

      In order to achieve this objective, the study aims to:

        -  Determine how access to antiretroviral treatment impacts on the uptake of voluntary
           counselling and testing among members of households including patients on ARV treatment
           and among members of households in the general community

        -  Determine how access to antiretroviral treatment, to a peer adherence supporter and to
           nutritional supplementation impacts on the sexual behaviour of patients on
           antiretroviral treatment, their household members, and members of households in the
           general community

      The study aims to investigate effective AIDS treatment and support in settings where free ARV
      treatment has been introduced already, with issues of scale-up and sustainability as a result
      representing an important issue. The study therefore is being conducted in twelve phase I ARV
      assessment sites in the Free State province, i.e. sites where ARV treatment first became
      available when the ARV treatment programme was launched in the Free State province in
      2004/05.

        1. Type of study The study is a prospective, cohort study with a patient, household,
           facility and provider survey component. The study has a social scientific focus, with a
           clinical component, and comprises two behavioural interventions.

        2. Description of experimental design The study is a combination of a group time-series
           quasi-experimental design and a a variation of a double randomised consent design. The
           study comprises four groups of households, three of which include patients on ARV
           treatment (Figure 1). The provision of ARV treatment represents a quasi- or field
           experiment, while the peer adherence support and nutritional interventions represent a
           randomised-control experiment executed in accordance with a Zelen-type double randomised
           consent design. This study design is deemed appropriate given the fact that: blinding is
           not practicable or possible; the use of classical randomisation and informed consent
           procedures significantly threatens internal validity; the interventions are highly
           attractive; the control group receives standard care; the study focuses on a clinically
           relevant objective(s) and offers important new insights (Kaptchuk, 2001; MacLehose et
           al, 2001; Rains & Penzien, 2005).

           Figure 1: Experimental study design

           Group A: Households including ARV patients who receive the ARV treatment and associated
           support provided as part of government's ARV treatment programme Sample size: n~216]

           Group B: Households including ARV patients who receive the ARV treatment and associated
           support provided as part of government's ARV treatment programme PLUS Adherence support
           provided by a trained peer adherence supporter during twice weekly visits to the patient
           [Sample size: n~216]

           Group C: Households including ARV patients who receive the ARV treatment and associated
           support provided as part of government's ARV treatment programme PLUS Adherence support
           provided by a trained peer adherence supporter during twice weekly visits to the patient
           PLUS Nutritional supplementation: weekly delivery of two 400g cans of meatballs and
           spaghetti in tomato sauce by peer adherence supporter [Sample size: n~216]

           Group D: Randomly selected households from the general community served by the selected
           health facility, excluding households where someone is known to receive ARV treatment
           [Sample size: n~180]

           Sample size estimation:

           The sample size calculation for the arms of the study is based on the method proposed by
           Freedman (1982). The sample size estimation is based on the following assumptions:

             -  The proportion of people showing an improvement in a specific outcome, are compared
                across two arms of the study at a time.

             -  Attrition in the control group of comparison households is assumed to be minimal or
                none (since there is no ARV patient in the household), while attrition in the
                intervention arms (where ARV treatment is considered an intervention) is assumed to
                be much higher, given a reported mortality of 10% among ARV patients in the first
                months of treatment (Free State Department of Health, 2006).

             -  The required sample sizes for a 4-equal-arms-at-end-of-study design were calculated
                taking into account the attrition rate of 17% in the three intervention groups and
                a ratio of 1 for the treatment: control arms at the end of the study is expected.

             -  Assuming a two-tailed test with Type I error of 5%, Type II error of 10%, and at
                least 17% improvement in any outcome.

           The affordable sample size was 801 households with 177 for the control arm and 208 for
           each of the intervention arms. This sample is expected to yield statistically
           significant results for the analysis of all measures contemplated. Although the
           statistical power of the study design with this sample size can be considered good the
           sample size was rounded up to ~828 households, with ~180 households in the control arm
           and ~216 households in each of the intervention arms. This was done to represent
           multiples of 12 since the study will be conducted in 12 facilities.

        3. Method of randomisation From among the ~648 ARV patients recruited into the study
           [~54/study site], individual patients will be assigned randomly to the control group
           [Group A; n~216] and to the two experimental arms of the study [Group B & C; n~216
           each], using the relevant random sampling selection commands in version 10 of the Stata
           software programme.
    
  