
    
      Cushing's disease refers to a condition of glucocorticoid excess caused by an
      adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) producing pituitary tumor, which account for 10-15% of all
      pituitary tumors. The majority of corticotroph tumors are microadenomas at the time of
      diagnosis, and accurate surgical and histologic identification of these tumors can be
      challenging. ACTH is produced in corticotroph cells within the anterior pituitary via the
      precursor pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC). In both physiologic and pathologic conditions the
      promoter for POMC is regulated by multiple transcription factors which include AP-1 and
      Nurr77. Retinoic acid has been shown to inhibit activation of the POMC promoter in
      corticotroph tumor cell culture via disruption of Nurr77 transcriptional activity. The
      expression of the orphan nuclear receptor termed chicken ovalbumin upstream
      promoter-transcription factor I (COUP-TFI) antagonizes retinoic acid signaling, and has been
      reported to be present in normal corticotroph cells, but lacking in adenomatous corticotroph
      cells in tissue culture studies. Through the retrospective analysis of 34 human corticotroph
      tumors we have demonstrated a consistent lack of COUP-TFI in 100% of the microadenomas that
      were not visible, or measured less than 5 millimeters by preoperative MRI. In total, 85% of
      all tumors studied showed absence of COUP-TFI. Based on in vitro data from rat and human
      corticotroph tumors, cells lacking COUP-TFI are vulnerable to retinoid-induced cell death via
      Nurr77-mediated apoptosis, an effect that is reversed by COUP-TFI gene transfection. In 2006,
      Castillo et al. published the results of a six-month trial which randomized 44 dogs with
      Cushing's disease to an RXR agonist (9-cis retinoic acid), or to ketoconazole. RXR agonist
      therapy outperformed ketoconazole for all endpoints, resulting in normalization of ACTH and
      cortisol levels in 100% of subjects that completed the study, and improved morbidity and
      mortality. All of the dogs treated with the RXR agonist remained in remission for the
      duration of the 6 to 12 month post-treatment followup.

      This pilot study will involve inpatient admission to our General Clinical Research Center for
      5 days prior to scheduled transsphenoidal surgery. During the five days of the study each
      individual will receive the RXR-agonist bexarotene at the FDA approved dose of 300 mg/m2/day.
      Clinical signs and symptoms of acute adrenal insufficiency will be monitored routinely
      throughout each 24-hour period. Baseline and twice-daily biochemical analysis for ACTH and
      cortisol will be performed. 24-hour urine collection for cortisol will be obtained
      pre-treatment and in the last 24-hours of treatment. Laboratory safety analysis will include
      serial comprehensive metabolic panels to monitor liver and kidney function, complete blood
      count to monitor for neutropenia, as well as thyroid function studies to monitor for central
      hypothyroidism which can develop with therapy.
    
  