
    
      Background: Obesity is prevalent and is a root cause of many common medical conditions
      affecting U.S. adults. A range of treatment options have demonstrated efficacy in producing
      weight loss and reducing health risks in randomized controlled trials. However, very little
      obesity treatment is currently delivered in most primary care settings. Inadequate
      reimbursement for treatment modalities and a lack of systematic training of primary care
      providers (PCPs) are two of the major barriers to more widespread treatment.

      Hypothesis: If PCPs are given training and support for weight management, and if treatment
      options with proven efficacy are offered to obese adults with weight related co-morbidities
      with the majority of the treatment cost reimbursed, then clinically meaningful weight loss
      will be produced in a significant number of these individuals at a reasonable cost.

      Design: This application proposes a 12 month intervention trial among obese adults cared for
      at 4 primary care clinics affiliated with Denver Health (DH), an integrated health care
      system serving an ethnically diverse medically underserved population. From among a large
      population of patients (~8,000) with obesity and at least one co-morbid condition, 350
      individuals will be randomly selected to be offered a "toolbox" of treatment options. The
      remainder will be assigned to a control condition. The "toolbox" will include: 1) meal
      replacements; 2) group weight loss counseling; 3) membership at recreation centers; 4)
      pharmacotherapy with phentermine; and 5) other options. Patients in the intervention arm will
      undergo an initial evaluation using an "expert systems" computer program. They will then be
      required to self-monitor diet and physical activity before gaining access to the higher cost
      weight management services in the toolbox. Primary care providers will help patients choose
      treatment approaches, encourage adherence, and monitor success. Patient Navigators will
      assist patients in accessing prescribed treatments. The primary outcome will be the fraction
      of patients in each group who achieve a 5% weight loss after 12 months of intervention.
      Secondary outcomes will include uptake and utilization of treatment options, changes in
      cardiovascular disease risk factors, and other health care utilization, in particular
      outpatient medications for diabetes, hypertension, and lipids. While the treatment modalities
      to be used in this trial are not new, an intervention delivering a toolbox of weight
      management services in a safety net clinical setting and examining the effect on health care
      utilization is innovative. The submitted letters of support attest to the need for more data
      so that health care providers and payers can make evidence-based decisions regarding the
      provision of obesity treatment to large patient populations.

      Impact: A positive result would encourage the broader adoption of a toolbox approach to
      weight management in primary care settings. A negative result would strongly suggest that
      even with a "best case scenario" of training and support for obesity treatment, the primary
      care clinic is not an effective route of delivery for weight management. Either result would
      be important in shaping future policy decisions about obesity treatment.
    
  