
    
      17α-ethinylestradiol (EE2) treatment of extreme tall stature has become increasingly debated
      and controversial. In Sweden, percutaneous epiphysiodesis operation is suggested as an
      alternative to EE2 treatment. An alternative clinical practise was introduced 20 years ago,
      when early treatment with oral administration of natural estrogens (17β-estradiol (E2)) was
      introduced in order to initiate or ensure rapid progression of puberty (and epiphyseal
      closure) in tall statured girls.

      A retrospective 20-year single center experience included evaluation of 304 tall statured
      girls and the possible clinical effects of oral administration of E2.

      Subjects and methods

      Patients

      The patient population consisted of girls who were referred with tall stature or overgrowth
      syndromes (ICD10 34.4, and ICD10 DE874, DQ970, DQ873A, DQ873B) to the Department of Growth
      and Reproduction at Rigshospitalet in Copenhagen, Denmark, during a 20-years period (between
      1993 and 2013). A total of 304 patients were identified, and the diagnoses were re-evaluated
      as part of the present study.

      Clinical data and medical history

      Medical history was obtained using a structured review of patient record files. Clinical data
      on pubertal development were obtained from each patient visit. Puberty was evaluated by
      inspection and palpation of the breasts and s pubic hair according to Marshall and Tanner. A
      wall-mounted stadiometer (Holtain Ltd., Crymych, United Kingdom) was used to measure standing
      height to the nearest 0.1 cm. The girls were weighed on a digital electronic scale (Seca
      delta, model 707; Seca, Hamburg, Germany) with a precision of 0.1 kg while wearing light
      clothing and no shoes. BMI was calculated as weight (kg) divided by height (m2). The Danish
      growth references published by Tinggaard et al. was used in this study. Boneage (BA) was
      calculated according to the methods of Greulich and Pyle (GP) using manual readings between
      1993-2008 (n=368), and automated BA estimation from 2008-2013 (n=378) . Target height was
      calculated as the sum of the mother's and father's heights (cm) minus 13 cm, divided by 2.
      Predicted Adult Height (PAH) was calculated using BoneXpert .

      17β-Estradiol treatment

      The decision to initiate treatment with E2 was determined individually, and made by the
      physician together with the patient and her parents, depending on height SDS, age, PAH and
      target height. Oral E2 was administered in increasing doses depending on age and pubertal
      stage. The starting doses ranged between 0.2 mg E2 to 4 mg E2. The speed of dose increment
      depended on the individual girl (age, bone BA, maturity, pubertal stage and PAH). The
      treatment consisted of 17β-estradiol supplemented with norethisteronacetat after 1-2 years of
      E2, or after the first menstrual bleeding. Oral E2 treatment was administered in the form of
      Trisekvens® (Novo Nordisk Scandinavia AB, Copenhagen, Denmark), Trisekvens Forte® (Novo
      Nordisk Scandinavia AB, Copenhagen, Denmark) and/or Femanest® (Sandoz A/S, Copenhagen,
      Denmark). Clinical and biochemical values were recorded at baseline and at each year
      thereafter. The treatment was generally terminated when the X-ray showed closed epiphyseal
      lines at final or near-final (<2 cm/year) height.

      Laboratory analysis

      Blood samples were drawn from the antecubital vein between 8 AM and 1 PM in the non-fasting
      state. Blood samples were clotted and centrifuged, and serum was stored at -20° Celsius until
      hormone analyses were performed. Serum follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinising
      hormone (LH) were measured by time-resolved immunofluorometric assays (Delfia, Wallac, Turku,
      Finland). The detection limits (dL) for FSH and LH were 0.06 and 0.05 IU/l, respectively.
      Intra- and interassay coefficients of variation (CV) were < 5% in both gonadotropin assays.
      Testosterone was measured by radioimmunoassay (RIA) (Coat-a-count, Diagnostic Products
      Corporation, Los Angeles, CA) with a dL of 0.23 nmol/L and intra- and interassay CV both <
      10%. Serum sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) was measured by time-resolved
      immunofluorometric assays (Delfia, Wallac, Turku, Finland) with a dL of 0.20 nmol/l, and
      intra- and interassay CVs of 5.8% and 6.4%, respectively. Serum insulin-like growth factor I
      (IGF-I) was measured using a highly sensitive in-house RIA as previously described by Juul et
      al. The intra- and interassay CV were 3.9% and 8.7%, respectively. From 2008 IGF-I levels
      were determined by conventional immunoassays (IMMULITE 2000 IGF-1; Siemens Healthcare
      Diagnostics, Los Angeles, CA, USA) on automated IMMULITE 2000 (Siemens). The CV were less
      than 4% and 9%, respectively. Serum insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 3 (IGFBP-3)
      was measured by RIA, as previously described by Blum et al. The intraassay CV was 2.4% and
      the interassay CV was 10.7%. Between 1993 and 2013, serum inhibin B was measured using one of
      two double antibody enzyme immunometric assays (Inhibin B DSL or Oxford Bio-Innovation
      Inhibin B), both with a dL of 20 pg/ml and intra- and interassay CV < 16%. Estradiol was
      measured by RIA (Pantex, Santa Monica, CA; before 1998 distributed by Immuno Diagnostic
      Systems, Bolton, UK) with a dL of 18 pmol/L, and intra- and interassay CVs < 8% and <13%,
      respectively. Only assays for IGF-I changed during the 20-year study period, and we compared
      the two assays rigorously and ensured that they yielded similar results before changing the
      assay.

      Statistical analysis

      Data are displayed as the median with interquartile range (25th;75th percentiles) and/or the
      range (min - max). Results of treatment effect and IGF-I (SD) are displayed as the mean ± SD.
      Hormone values below the dL of the assay were assigned a value corresponding to the dL/2. The
      Mann-Whitney U test and student's test was used to determine significance when comparing
      clinical, auxological, and laboratory data between groups, and student's t-test was used when
      comparing the effect of treatment within the group of girls treated with oral E2. All
      statistical analyses were performed using SPSS software (IBM Corporation, Armonk, NY, version
      22).
    
  