
    
      Both strength training and endurance exercise training are commonly prescribed to improve
      strength and function in patients with physical limitations caused by chronic disease or
      disability including chronic kidney disease (CKD). Individuals with CKD often have low
      physical function due to progressive declines in the performance of their kidneys. The low
      physical function leads to physical inactivity, which exacerbates these functional declines
      and promotes cardiovascular disease and bone disorders. In addition, severe functional
      limitations in some patients prevent them from exercising at a great enough intensity to
      provide significant benefits. As a result, alternative strategies are needed to maximize the
      benefits of exercise while decreasing injury risk.

      A new form of exercise, functional electrical stimulation (FES)-enhanced cycling has been
      shown to increase muscle size and strength in patients with severe disabilities, particularly
      spinal cord injury (SCI). It is based on the application of electrical stimulation to the
      nerves that innervate the paralyzed weak muscles in order to generate muscle contraction. FES
      has been used to stimulate leg muscles to pedal a cycle or to enable partial weight-supported
      walking as an activity based rehabilitation therapy. FES cycling involves exercising using a
      motor-assisted cycle coupled with electrical stimulation to up to five muscles in the leg.
      There are well-documented benefits of FES-induced exercise in SCI patients including
      clinically significant increases in muscle mass, blood flow, bone density, and bowel and
      bladder function. A few pilot studies have also demonstrated that FES therapy has the
      potential to improve function in other disabled populations, including chronic heart failure
      and stroke patients. However, its effects in other populations with significant physical
      impairments, including CKD patients, have yet to be established.

      The objective of the proposed research is to evaluate the effects of FES-cycling training on
      measures related to physical function, quality of life (QOL), heart disease, and bone health
      in patients with renal failure receiving dialysis therapy.
    
  