
    
      Surgery:

      Participant will sign a separate consent form for surgery that describes the procedure and
      its risks. Participant will receive anesthesia through a catheter (sterile flexible tube) in
      one of participant's veins. During the procedure, participant's vital signs (heart rate,
      blood pressure, oxygen levels) will be monitored.

      Study Groups:

      If participant agrees to take part in this study, demographic information (such as
      participant's age, sex, and race) will be collected.

      Participant will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups. This
      is done because no one knows if one study group is better, the same, or worse than the other
      group. Participant will have an equal (50/50) chance of being assigned to either group. One
      group will use the Ambu Auragain, and the other will use the Teleflex LMA Protector.

      Study Procedures:

      After general anesthesia is given and participant falls asleep, the anesthesiologist will
      place the SGAD. The study staff will measure how easy it is to place the SGAD and how long
      each different step of the placement takes. Correct placement of the SGAD will be checked
      using a device with a small camera to help the doctor see participant's airway on a screen. A
      gastric tube will be placed to measure the volume of air and content of the stomach.
      Additionally the study doctor may place a breathing tube using the SGAD to make sure air is
      moving in and out of participant's lungs.

      Participant will then be positioned and prepared for the surgery. The study staff will be
      collecting information from the time participant enters the operating room until the time
      participant leaves.

      Additionally, participant will be interviewed after participant's surgery in the recovery
      room once participant is awake. Participant will be asked about any pain or soreness
      participant has, as well as any difficulty breathing, swallowing, or talking. This interview
      may take up to 5 minutes. Participation in the study will be over after the interview.
    
  