
    
      Aim 1 - To evaluate the effectiveness of a CPR visual feedback device to improve compliance
      with current Heart and Stork Foundation of Canada (HSFC) CPR and resuscitation guidelines
      during simulated pediatric cardiac arrest for a team of healthcare providers.

      Aim 2 - To evaluate the effectiveness of a "Just in Time" CPR Training Video to improve
      compliance with current HSFC CPR and resuscitation guidelines during simulated pediatric
      cardiac arrest for a team of healthcare providers.

      Aim 3 - To determine if there is a synergistic effect when adding Just in Time CPR Training
      Video with the use of the CPR visual feedback device to improve compliance with current HSFC
      CPR and resuscitation guidelines during a simulated pediatric cardiac arrest scenario.

      Aim 4 - To determine the degree to which provider's perception of CPR quality matches actual
      quality of CPR

      Aim 5 - To describe the task load of healthcare providers in sepsis and cardiac arrest
      scenarios

      Participants will be recruited from ten pediatric tertiary care centers in Canada, the United
      States, and the United Kingdom using the methodology already piloted and studied in our
      existing EXPRESS investigators collaborative. Participants recruited to participate in the
      study will be asked to perform as members of a pediatric resuscitation team. Each team of
      healthcare providers will be randomized into one of four study arms. In study arm 1,
      resuscitation teams will participate in a simulated pediatric cardiac arrest scenario, and
      provide standard CPR without prior JIT training and blinded to any feedback from the CPR card
      during the scenario. Instead, the CPR card will be placed on the chest during compressions to
      collect real-time data, but the feedback lights on the card will be covered by black tape and
      thus, not visible to the members of the resuscitation team. In study arm 2, resuscitation
      teams will participate in the same scenario without prior JIT training, but provide chest
      compressions with the CPR card placed on the chest (and providing visual feedback) during
      compressions. In study arm 3, participants will be given a CPR card and asked to view the JIT
      training video. Following practice, they will be asked to participate in the simulated
      cardiac arrest scenario, and provide standard CPR without feedback from the CPR card. As in
      study arm 1, the CPR card will still be placed on the chest, but the feedback lights will be
      covered and not visible to the resuscitation team members. Finally, participants in study arm
      4 will received JIT training prior to the simulated scenario, and have the CPR card in place
      during chest compressions to provide immediate visual feedback.
    
  