
    
      The overall goal of this research program is to provide effective culturally relevant care to
      Latin families, and address the National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities
      (NIMHD) mission of reducing disparities in underserved and minority populations.
      Evidence-based and culturally centered treatments for Latinx teens (Latinx = gender inclusive
      term) with suicidal ideation and attempts (SIA) and their families are quite limited.
      Emerging evidence indicate that Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a promising treatment
      approach in reducing suicidal ideation and attempts in Non-Latinx White adolescents. However,
      culturally adapted treatments have been shown to benefit Latin families more that
      non-culturally adapted treatments. This study is innovative in its use of a culturally
      centered CBT treatment protocol (Socio-Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Suicidal
      Behavior-SCBT-SB) to address the specific needs of Latinx teens and their families. The
      SCBT-SB, is a modified version of two CBT protocols, which addresses central issues in
      adolescent identity formation (e.g. ethnicity, sexual orientation), family interactions and
      communication, and parenting skills. The SCBT-SB was developed with Latinx youth with SIA in
      Puerto Rico and further modified for Latin families in the US. Feasibility of this modified
      version of the SCBT-SB was tested in the US by conducting a pilot randomized clinical trial
      (RCT) (n=46) of SCBT vs treatment-as-usual (TAU) with positive results. It was found that
      SCBT-SB was feasible to implement in a community mental health center with frontline
      therapists, acceptable to families, and showed reductions in suicidal ideation and depressive
      symptoms. The scientific premise of the proposed study is that immigration and acculturation
      (the process of assimilation to the host culture) and enculturation (maintaining cultural
      values and costumes) experiences have an impact on SIA in Latinx teens; and that
      personalization of an evidence-based treatment, according to cultural and immigration
      experiences, will result in better treatment outcomes than TAU. This application proposes a
      hybrid efficacy/effectiveness trial with 160 suicidal Latinx teens randomly assigned,
      following baseline assessment, to 2 treatment conditions, TAU and SCBT-SB. Follow-up
      assessment will take place at 3, 6 and 12 months after baseline. All treatment will take
      place at a community mental health clinic. The specific aims are: 1) To test the effect of
      the SCBT-SB versus TAU on suicidal ideation in a clinical sample of adolescents under
      conditions of strong external validity, and 2) To test the effect of the SCBT-SB versus TAU
      on depressive symptoms, given its high correlation with SIA. Exploratory aims are: 3) To
      examine the effect of SCBT-SB versus TAU on suicide attempts, and 4) To examine potential
      mediators (family environment) of treatment outcome. Successful completion of this study will
      positively impact treatment of Latinx immigrant adolescents at high risk of SIA in the US.
    
  