
    
      Appropriate postoperative analgesia is crucial in fast-track surgery, which is a multimodal
      therapeutic strategy that aims toward enhanced postoperative recovery and shortened hospital
      stay. Although VATS is considered a minimally invasive procedure, patients have reported
      moderate to severe pain of variable duration following surgery. The ideal postoperative
      analgesia regimen for VATS has not been elucidated. Systemic opioids given through
      patient-controlled devices (PCA) are routinely used after these procedures but their
      analgesic effect can be limited and undesirable side-effects may occur. Intercostal nerve
      blockade is also widely used to alleviate pain following VATS and can be used as an adjunct
      to systemic opioids. Paravertebral nerve blockade is an interesting alternative for analgesia
      following VATS. The duration of pain relief associated with paravertebral nerve blockade may
      vary from 4 to 48 hours. However, the duration of the analgesic effect can be prolonged using
      a continuous infusion of local anesthetics.

      This study will compare the efficacy of continuous ambulatory paravertebral analgesia to
      intercostal analgesia. All patients will have a PCA device as their primary analgesic
      modality.

      Methods:

      Seventy patients will be randomized to receive either continuous paravertebral analgesia or
      intercostal analgesia. Anesthetic technique and monitoring will be standardized.

      On arrival in the recovery room, each patient will have a PCA device installed. PCA doses
      will be standardized. All patients will also receive acetaminophen and non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) as co-analgesia. PCA will be removed 24 hours after surgery
      and oral opioids will then be administered as needed.

      From their arrival in the recovery room, patients in the paravertebral analgesia group will
      be administered a bupivacaine 0.0625% infusion through a conventional infusion pump at a rate
      of 10 mL/h. Before discharge from the hospital on the day following surgery or at the latest
      on the morning of the second day, the bupivacaine infusion will be transferred to a portable
      elastomeric pump. The infusion will continue for the next 30 hours at a rate of 10 mL/h.

      During the first 72 hours following surgery, the following information will be recorded:
      intensity of pain, opioid intake, side-effects attributable to analgesia and patient's level
      of satisfaction towards pain management. The occurence of pulmonary complications will be
      noted. Lung function will be measured using a peak flow meter. Length of stay in the recovery
      room, in the intermediate intensive care unit and in the hospital will be recorded. Time to
      reach post-anesthesia discharge criteria will be recorded.

      Patients will be contacted by telephone 2 times a day if hospital discharge occurs before 72
      hours after surgery to assess their level of pain and analgesic intake, the presence of
      side-effects or complications and their satisfaction level towards pain management.

      This trial will also include a sub-study to be performed on ten human cadavers. The goal of
      the sub-study will be to assess the impact of the orientation of the bevel of the
      paravertebral block needle on the ease of insertion and positioning of the paravertebral
      catheter using ultrasound imaging.
    
  