
    
      Before treatment starts, patients will have their bone marrow checked and will have lung,
      heart, and kidney tests.

      Patients in this study will receive the drugs fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and
      antithymocyte globulin by vein through a previously inserted plastic catheter that extends
      into the large chest vein. Fludarabine will be given daily for four days, cyclophosphamide
      will given daily for four days, and antithymocyte globulin will be given daily for four days
      (three days for related donor transplants).

      Two days after the last dose of cyclophosphamide, donor marrow or stem cells will be infused
      through a catheter (thin plastic tube). Drugs will be given to lower the chance of an
      allergic reaction to the stem cells. Patients will also get shots of filgrastim (a drug that
      helps white blood cell growth) and antibiotics by mouth. The blood cell counts will fall to
      low levels during the first 2 weeks when patients may need transfusions of red blood cells
      and platelets. The chemotherapy will be given in the hospital. After the infusion of stem
      cells, patients will be monitored in the hospital. They will later be closely followed as
      outpatients and will be required to remain in the Houston area for about three months after
      the transplant.

      Drugs (cyclosporine and methotrexate) to lower the chance of graft-versus-host disease will
      be given. Cyclosporine will be given as a continuous infusion starting 2 days before
      transplantation. Methotrexate will be given through the catheter on Days 1, 3, 6 and 11 after
      transplantation. Cyclosporine will be given as pills when the patient is able to swallow.
      Cyclosporine will be continued for no less than 6 months after transplantation after which it
      will be gradually stopped. The drug tacrolimus may be used instead of cyclosporine.

      Blood, urine, bone marrow, and x-ray exams will be done as needed to monitor the results of
      bone marrow transplantation. Patients may require blood and platelet transfusions. Blood
      tests will be done daily while hospitalized and several times a week until the blood counts
      recover. Bone marrow aspiration and biopsies will be performed before the transplant, when
      the donated cells show signs of engraftment, and at other times during the next 1 to 3 years.
      They will be done to evaluate the growth of the transplant marrow, possible recurrence of
      malignancy, and recovery of immunity. If this treatment proves unsuccessful in more than
      three of the first ten patients, the study will be stopped.

      This is an investigational study. The FDA has approved all of the drugs in this study for
      other indications. Up to 30 patients will be treated on this study. All will be enrolled at
      M.D. Anderson.
    
  