
    
      The expected length of taking part in this study will depend on whether or not subjects are
      chosen for a group to look at the reproducibility of the data collected from the Wii remote.
      If subjects agree to take part in the study, basic data including age, gender, ethnicity, and
      medications will be collected. If subjects have been diagnosed with a movement disorder, that
      diagnosis will also be recorded. This data will be secured in a HIPAA compliant computer
      system and recorded data will be given a unique random code. During the Wii remote portion of
      the study, subjects will be asked to hold the Wii remote controller in several different
      positions and perform various movements with the controller.

      These include:

        1. Holding the controller still with the elbow straight and then the elbow bent.

        2. Tapping the control button as fast as you can.

        3. Rotation of your wrist as fast as you can.

        4. Bending at the wrist and at the elbow as fast as you can.

        5. Walking 30 feet.

        6. Attaching the controller to your arm with a Velcro strap and repeating the motions
           performed while holding the controller.

      These maneuvers will be done first with the right and then the left hand. We expect that this
      series will take about 5 minutes.

      If subjects have Parkinson's disease they will also be asked to undergo Part III (Motor
      Sub-Scale) of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale. This scale measures various
      aspects such as finger tapping, hand opening and closing and walking on a scale of 0 - 4. We
      expect that this portion of the examination will take about 5 minutes.

      If subjects carry the diagnosis of Essential Tremor, they will be asked to undergo Standard
      Measure of EssentialTremor that includes drawing of spirals and pouring of water from one
      glass to another. Again, we estimate that this scale will take about 5 minutes.

      If subjects carry the diagnosis of Parkinson's disease or Essential Tremor and have deep
      brain stimulation surgery, results of using the Wii™ Remote game controller (handheld or
      attached using a Velcro strap) will be done during a clinical programming appointment. The
      information obtained will not be used for any clinical use and will not interfere with the
      normal standard of care.

      A sub-set of patients will be asked to repeat these measures at various times to see if there
      is either a learning curve, or if the measures are repeatable over time. Subjects may decline
      this at any point in time.
    
  