
    
      Neurocysticercosis-a disease in which a young tapeworm infects the brain-is common in much of
      the developing world. It affects approximately 1 out of every 10 people in the United States
      and is said to be the primary cause of adult-onset epilepsy. The infection creates cysts in
      the brain, causing seizures and headaches among other symptoms. To date no successful
      preventive treatment for neurocysticercosis exists.

      At present, medicines that kill the adult tapeworm in the stomach and intestines are also
      used to treat neurocysticercosis caused by the young tapeworm. However, in cases of
      neurocysticercosis, the methods of administration, doses, and duration of treatment with
      these medicines still have not been determined. Although these medicines may kill the worm in
      the brain more rapidly than the natural mechanisms of the body, the long-term benefit of
      using the medicines to eliminate the worms after the first 1 or 2 months is not clear. In
      addition, the drugs that kill the worm may be associated with in increased seizures and
      headache during treatment, and may cause inflammation of the meninges-the covering of the
      brain-leading to symptoms that may require surgery.

      The goal of this trial is to determine if treatment with the antiparasitic agent albendazole
      improves the outcome of neurocysticercosis infection. This trial will also determine if
      albendazole leads to the disappearance of cysts sooner when compared with symptomatic
      treatment.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either the study medication, albendazol, or
      a placebo, an inactive substance, for an 8-day inpatient or outpatient therapy period.
      Additionally, all participants will receive prednisolone, a corticosteroid, as well as other
      medications. Participants will remain under the care of a doctor for 2 years and will have
      regularly scheduled visits and testing.

      Information learned in this study may lead to improved treatment of neurocysticercosis.
    
  