
    
      Successful embryo implantations for in vitro fertilization require both healthy embryos and a
      receptive endometrium. The window of implantation (WOI), during which endometrium reaches
      receptive state, varies among individuals. Displacements of WOI have been reported to be a
      major cause of repeated implantation failures. However, a reliable diagnostic metric to
      evaluate endometrial receptive status is lacking. The propose of this study is to use
      single-cell RNA seq and bioinformatics tools to develop a high-resolution platform to
      characterize endometrium activities and to measure endometrial receptive state in a
      non-invasive manner.

      First objective is to develop an experimental pipeline to generate high quality single-cell
      RNA-seq data from endometrial biopsies and endometrial fluid from healthy patients throughout
      the menstrual cycle at each of these stages: early proliferative (EP; days 0-8), late
      proliferative (LP; days 9-14), early secretory (ES; days 15-18), mid-secretory or receptive
      (MS; days 19-23), and late secretory (LS; days 24-30). These tissues will be dissociated
      mechanically and enzymatically and subjected to microfluidic sorting, single cell
      transcriptome amplification and analysis. These data will provide the first
      transcriptome-wide single cell data various cell types of the human endometrium.

      Secondly, this study look at establish algorithmic models to distinguish epithelial and
      stroma populations informatically, without the need to first purify populations of interest.
      This will enable transcriptome analysis from mixed populations of cells.

      Finally evaluate the use of endometrial fluid as an alternative source for receptivity
      diagnosis analyzing the transcriptome profile of single cells from Endometrial fluid
      collected from human patients at different menstrual stages. These signatures will also be
      compared and correlated with signatures obtained from biopsies, which will help us better
      understand the biological events that lead to the occurrence of these cells in the
      endometrial fluid and evaluate the potential of extending their use for diagnosis of other
      endometrium conditions.
    
  