
    
      Schizophrenia is a life-long brain disorder affecting approximately 1 percent of Americans
      each year. Schizophrenia can be extremely disabling, causing people to hear voices,
      experience paranoia or hallucinations, believe that others are controlling their thoughts,
      and even fail at maintaining a job or caring for themselves. Current medications help to
      relieve most of these negative symptoms, but not all. Many people with schizophrenia still
      suffer from low energy levels, an inability to concentrate, and memory loss. Galantamine is a
      medication that is used to improve memory and energy levels in people with Alzheimer's
      disease, and CDP-choline is a nutritional supplement. The purpose of this study is to
      evaluate the effectiveness of adding galantamine and CDP-choline to a stable anti-psychotic
      medication regimen of risperidone as a way of improving symptoms in adults with
      schizophrenia.

      Participants in this double-blind study will attend an initial screening during which they
      will undergo a physical exam, an electrocardiogram, and blood and urine collection.
      Participants will then be randomly assigned to receive galantamine and CDP-choline or a
      placebo treatment for 16 weeks. Participants assigned to the treatment group will take 500 mg
      of CDP-choline daily for the first 3 days, 1,000 mg daily for the next 4 days, and 2,000 mg
      daily for the following 15 weeks. Participants assigned to the treatment group will also take
      8 mg of galantamine daily for the first week, 16 mg daily for the next week, and 24 mg daily
      for the following 14 weeks. Participants assigned to the control group will take two types of
      placebo pills every day for 16 weeks. All participants will continue to take their regular
      regimen of risperidone, olanzapine, quetiapine, ziprasidone, and/or aripiprazole throughout
      the trial in addition to their assigned treatment. Staff members will meet with participants
      during the first week of the study and every 4 weeks afterward until study completion. During
      these meetings, participants will identify any side effects, report nicotine intake, breathe
      into a machine that measures the amount of nicotine in the body, and complete written and
      computerized tasks on concentration and memory. Each meeting may last up to 3 hours. On the
      last week of the study, blood and urine samples will be collected and an electrocardiogram
      will be administered. Results from this study will be used to evaluate whether CDP-choline
      and galantamine improve schizophrenia symptoms.

      CDP-choline and matching placebos were purchased from LifeLink Corporation. Galantamine and
      matching placebos were prepared and donated by Ortho McNeil Janssen Scientific Affairs LLC.
    
  