
    
      It is hypothesised that:

        1. High intensity training (strength-power) prescribed properly in an individualised form
           and supervised could influence significantly on the phenotypic response in the DM type
           2: decreasing the level of clinical severity, disability and frailty, improving quality
           of life and glycaemic control, functional capacity and body composition (especially the
           muscle mass) of the diabetic patients (type 2) older than 65 years old.

        2. Part of the training adaptations in diabetic patients (type 2) older than 65 years old
           could due to physiological conditions as the systemic level of biomarkers as PDEF in
           these patients.

        3. Part of the training adaptations in diabetic patients (type 2) could be influenced by
           the characterisation of associated genes to the different types of DM type 2 recently
           characterised.

      The principal aims are:

        1. To evaluate the effectiveness of a novel intervention based on strength-power exercise
           in individuals older than 65 years old with DM type 2 and frailty in term of: level of
           clinical severity, disability, glycaemic control, quality of life, functional capacity,
           state of frailty and body composition.

        2. To establish whether PDEF serves as diagnostic and prediction biomarker to training
           response, providing an objective and accessible method that would stratify the response
           to the intervention helping with the patients screening.

        3. To determine the role of characterised genetic variants in the different subgroups of DM
           type 2 in the level of response to the training stimuli.

      Study design Longitudinal intervention stratified study, controlled and single-blinded, with
      a group of intervention and control group.

      Based on data from a previous study recently published by the collaborators of this project.
      The sample size was calculated to get statistically significant differences in the physical
      functionality using ANCOVA and performing a bilateral contrast with alpha=0.05 of the effect
      of the group (with any of the independent variables), and it is needed 30 subjects by group
      (total n=60) to get a statistical power of 80%, with a partial eta ≥ 0.101 (value that
      corresponds with the size of the moderate effect).

      Exercise program The intervention period will have a duration of 12 weeks, in which the
      training group will perform 2 sessions per week (24 sessions in total), while the control
      group will not perform any type of intervention, following their normal lifes and the
      habitual medical cares. The experimental group will perform a program focused on the muscle
      power training, in which there will be included exercise of upper limbs (chest press) and
      lower limbs (leg press). The exercises will be performed in muscle-building machines
      available in the reference institutions of the collaborators. It is important to point out
      that the intensity in the exercises will be individualised for any patient through a test of
      determination of muscle power validated previously by the consortium of researchers and the
      subjects will perform the exercises at this intensity at which the subjects will develop
      their maximal muscle performance, with the performance of 3-4 bouts of 8 repetitions in each
      exercise. After the third week of intervention, it will be put the attention to the speed of
      execution. The duration of each session has been estimated in 20-30 minutes.

      Finally, the subjects in the control group will serve to compare the interventions with
      exercise and the clinical conventional treatment, as well as to determine whether the
      training program is able to restore the functional capacity in a similar way in diabetic
      patients without frailty.
    
  