
    
      20 Parkinsonian patients will be enrolled. After implantation of a bilateral strip electrode
      (Resume, Medtronic) over the motor cortex, after setting of optimal stimulation parameters,
      and after implantation of a neurostimulator, Medtronic, the patient will be randomly assigned
      to group A (Motor cortex stimulation on) or to group B ( sham stimulation) for 6 months.
      Randomization will be based on the output of a program based on a random number generation
      function that will output a 0 or 1 with a 50% chance of having a 1.

      At the 6 months visit, a cross-over is scheduled: group A will receive sham stimulation and
      group B will receive stimulation of the motor cortex for the next 6 months. In group A, the
      stimulation of the motor cortex will be resumed before the end of the 6 month sham
      stimulation, when the clinical status of the patient will come back to the status quo ante
      (UPDRS score equal to baseline pre-implant score).

      Both the patients and the evaluating neurologists and neuropsychologists will be blind; only
      the neurosurgeon will know the state of the stimulator (on or off) and the position and
      parameters of MCS.

      At 12 months, all the patients will be programmed as stimulation on and followed up for
      further 18 months. At 30 months visit, the clinical evaluation will be performed in on
      stim-on med, on stim-off med conditions; then the stimulator will be switched off for 1 month
      and the clinical evaluation will be repeated in off stim-off med and off stim-on med
      conditions.

      The primary endpoint will be the UPDRS III at 12 months (end of the cross over), and
      subsequently at 18 and 30 months. We will compare the clinical results with the precise site
      of the stimulating electrodes and we will try to correlate the clinical results with the
      amount of inhibition induced by motor cortex stimulation.
    
  