
    
      This is an 8-week (56 days ± 3 days), multi-center, open label clinical trial conducted on
      subjects with chronic postoperative pain.

      Eligible subjects will include those between 22 and 80 years of age with chronic
      postoperative pain at least 60 days following surgery.

      At the Screening Visit, eligible subjects will have an average weekly pain score, over the
      last 7 days of ≥4 and <9 based on the 11-point NPRS (0-10) and will verbally confirm they
      have chronic postoperative pain from surgery ≥ 60 days prior . After signing Informed Consent
      and verifying subject eligibility for the trial (including a pain score assessment using the
      NPRS), subjects will have demographic information, medical/surgical history and medication
      use reviewed and recorded. An abbreviated physical examination, including height and weight,
      will be performed. A urine pregnancy test will be performed on women of childbearing
      potential.

      Screening and Baseline (Day 0) / Enrollment may occur on the same day. During the Enrollment
      visit, subjects will receive study device training and be dispensed a study device with
      instructions to self-treat twice daily (morning and evening; 8am ± 2 hours and 8pm ± 2 hours)
      for 8 weeks (56 days ± 3 days).

      If Screening and Enrollment are not on the same day, subjects returning to the clinic for
      Baseline (Day 0) will have an additional review of eligibility, medical history, adverse
      events and concomitant medications prior to device training and dispensation.

      Subjects will receive a telephone call at Week 2 / Day 14 (±3 days). During the phone call
      subjects will have adverse events, and concomitant medications reviewed. Average weekly pain
      score (using the NPRS), Patient Global Impression (PGI), Treatment Satisfaction and Device
      Use questions will be captured.

      Subjects will receive a telephone call at Week 4 / Day 28 (±3 days). During the phone, call
      subjects will have adverse events, and concomitant medications reviewed. Average weekly pain
      score (using the NPRS), Patient Global Impression (PGI), Treatment Satisfaction and Device
      Use questions will be captured.

      Subjects will receive a telephone call at Week 6 / Day 42 (±3 days). During the phone, call
      subjects will have adverse events, and concomitant medications reviewed. Average weekly pain
      score (using the NPRS), Patient Global Impression (PGI), Treatment Satisfaction and Device
      Use questions will be captured.

      At the Week 8 / Day 56 (±3 days) End of Study Visit, subjects will have adverse events and
      concomitant medications reviewed. Average weekly pain score (using the NPRS), Patient Global
      Impression (PGI), Treatment Satisfaction and Device Use and Feedback questions will be
      captured and the study device will be returned.
    
  