
    
      Orthodontic clinicians distinguish between direct and indirect brackets placement. Using the
      direct procedure, brackets are placed on the patients tooth without a transfer appliance.
      While the indirect method takes advantage of placing the brackets on a dental model under
      laboratory surrounding.

      The conventional method of indirect bracket positioning uses plaster models from the treated
      dental arches. Following the positioned brackets are transferred from the model to the
      patient mouth using a so called indirect bonding trays (IDB). IDB's represent a transfer aid
      for the bracket placement. Advantages of this procedure can be an improvement of the tooth
      axis (facial axis) assessment especially since the model is freely movable in space further
      an optimized visibility with laboratory lighting. The placement on the digital model offers a
      variety of options with regards to measurement, magnification, contrast adjustment and exact
      referencing on the neighboring tooth.

      Digital Workflow:

      Under the broad term of rapid prototyping developments of applications allow a fully digital
      workflow while planning and manufacturing IDB's. The construction of bonding trays is based
      on a digital 3D model and is further manufactured using stereolithographic 3D printers.
      Similar to conventional IDB's there is the question of the optimal material with regards to
      transfer accuracy, dimensional stability and clinical applicability with 3D printed IDB's.
      Besides the question of transfer accuracy, the planned study will document the percentual
      number of brackets which failed to bond with the corresponding tooth (Lost Rate) using two
      different materials.

      Objective:

      The aim of the study is a scientific examination of the accuracy of digital printed bonding
      trays using two materials to support the decision process of the potential user and their
      dental laboratories. The study allows an insight into the technical manufacturing process and
      its workflow.
    
  