
    
      The standard treatment in inoperable locally or regionally recurrent head and neck cancer has
      long been palliative systemic therapy using the so-called EXTREME-scheme: a combination of
      cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil and cetuximab. This therapy remains without realistic chances of
      cure. More recently, immunotherapy using nivolumab has demonstrated to result in long-term
      disease control of 1-2 year in cisplatin-refractory recurrent or metastatic head and neck
      cancer, however only in a small portion of patients (13%).

      Fractionated high-dose local or regional re-irradiation is mostly given in a 6-7 weeks
      scheme. Using stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT), high radiotherapy doses can be given in
      a short time span. Severe late adverse events have been reported using SBRT but seem less
      frequent than in patients re-treated with conventional schedules. A possible solution to be
      able to administer higher doses is combining SBRT with dose painting, thus giving these high
      doses on small subvolumes only.

      Addition of concomitant therapy to reirradiation may further improve outcomes due to
      radiosensitization and direct cytotoxicity. Therefore the investigator aims to combine high
      doses with concomitant therapy in the proposed study.

      The immunomodulatory effect caused by radiation has been demonstrated both in animal models
      and clinical trials and leads to an enhanced local control as well as to eradication of
      distant metastasis. This so-called abscopal effect is reached through a systemic immune
      response evoked by the release of damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) by the dying
      tumor-cells, also called immunogenic cell death (ICD).

      The investigator hypothesizes that an abscopal effect could be present for patients
      presenting locoregional recurrent disease with asymptomatic distant metastases, thereby
      offering at least symptom control at the primary site while palliative systemic treatment
      could be postponed.

      The proposed protocol focuses on patients with bad prognosis, as determined by a short
      timespan between primary therapy and recurrence (defined as 6-24 months after the end of the
      primary radiotherapy). It would bring the practical advantage of only 2-3 patient visits for
      the radiotherapy instead of ± 30-35 visits over 6-7 weeks. This shorter treatment schedule is
      expected to result in a direct gain in quality-of-life due to locoregional symptom control.
      It can also be expected that rescue systemic therapy will be postponed to a later stage of
      disease development, thereby prolonging overall survival.

      The combination with systemic agents that are involved in immunogenic cell death bear the
      potential to result in a higher number of patients with longer periods of disease control and
      survival. The current standard of care, i.e. the combined systemic treatment with cisplatin -
      5-fluorouracil - cetuximab, or nivolumab in case of former cisplatin use, can be used as a
      rescue regimen in case of therapy failure. In that sense, better overall survival from time
      of diagnosis of the index locoregional recurrent disease is expected.
    
  