
    
      Delirium is a common problem in critically ill patients with a reported prevalence in the ICU
      ranging from 11% to 83%. Delirium has been associated with worse clinical outcomes including
      increased days on mechanical ventilation, length of hospital stay, cost of care, self-removal
      of important devices (endotracheal tubes, central venous catheters), use of physical
      restraint, long-term cognitive impairment, readmission, and mortality. The etiology of
      delirium is multifactorial, and risk factors include advanced age, substance abuse, metabolic
      derangements, and sleep disturbances.

      Unfortunately, evidence-based strategies for treatment of ICU delirium do not exist. Even
      with the lack of strong evidence, both non-pharmacologic and pharmacologic therapies are used
      as standard care in clinical practice. Non-pharmacologic strategies considered as standard
      care include removal of causative factors, sleep maintenance, reorientation during the day,
      early mobilization activities, timely removal of catheters and physical restraints, and use
      of a scheduled pain management protocol. In combination with these non-pharmacologic
      strategies, ICU patients are treated with pharmacologic agents to render the patient safe and
      manageable and to promote sleep and normal circadian cycle. Despite lack of an FDA approved
      drug for treating delirium and clear-cut efficacy of any drug, various pharmacologic agents
      standardly used to treat delirium in the ICU include dopamine antagonists,
      acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, melatonin, antipsychotics, alpha-2 agonists, and glutamate
      antagonists. Antipsychotics, such as haloperidol, have been most commonly used. However, the
      effectiveness of routinely using antipsychotics in managing delirium has been questioned
      given the potential for adverse effects, medication interactions, and unproven benefit.
      Haloperidol can cause serious side effects including Q-T prolongation, sedation, and
      extrapyramidal symptoms. For this reason the use of haloperidol is less than ideal in the
      elderly patient population. Recent studies have looked at the perioperative use of
      dexmedetomidine in mechanically ventilated patients experiencing hyperactive delirium.
      Dexmedetomidine is a centrally-acting alpha 2 adrenergic receptor (α2-AR) agonist that
      generally quiets noradrenergic activity, producing sedative, analgesic and antihypertensive
      effects. When compared to haloperidol, patients receiving dexmedetomidine have fewer
      ventilation days, shorter ICU length of stay, less need for tracheostomy, and quicker
      resolution of delirium symptoms. Unfortunately, dexmedetomidine is expensive and delivered as
      an intravenous infusion.

      Guanfacine, an alpha-2A antihypertensive agent with a safe pharmacodynamic profile, has also
      been reported as treatment of ICU delirium. It has found use as an adjunct therapy in the
      management of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). Compared to dexmedetomidine,
      guanfacine is a pure alpha-2A agonist with higher selectivity for the dorsolateral PFC
      structures leading to improved neuronal function by enhancing short-term memory. Noting a
      similarity between the inattention and hyperactivity of emergence and ADHD itself, clinicians
      have started using guanfacine to manage young, healthy males who were commonly at risk for
      emergence delirium after anesthesia. In this context, the drug has gained popularity for its
      off label use perioperatively in a wide variety of patients with anxiety issues, known or
      predicted to have potential for combative or difficult emergence.

      Compared to dexmedetomidine, guanfacine may have a more unique and specific mechanism of
      behavior modification that could be beneficial as a treatment in delirium. Furthermore, oral
      guanfacine is cheaper and easier to use, with the ability to continue it outside the ICU.
      From a pharmacokinetic standpoint, guanfacine is absorbed with peak onset over 1-4 hour and
      has a half-life of 16 hours. The long half-life allows once-daily dosing before sleep.
      Maximal drug levels at night promote sleep, with some drug remaining during the day to
      provide a lesser degree of sedation. Outpatient studies have detected a ceiling effect on the
      antihypertensive effect of guanfacine, wherein doses of 1 mg, 2 mg, or 3 mg all have the same
      effect on blood pressure. This implies that up-titrating the guanfacine dose beyond 1 mg
      daily might increase sedative/hypnotic effects, without increasing hemodynamic instability.
      Maldonado et al at Stanford has utilized guanfacine for delirious/withdrawing patients (0.5-3
      mg total daily dose). A recent case report by Dr. Habib Srour and colleagues described
      successful use of guanfacine (1 mg q12hr) to control refractory agitation in an ICU patient
      with a history of opioid misuse.

      The investigators propose to perform a pilot trial to evaluate protocol adherence, estimate
      recruitment rates, and evaluate the safety and efficacy of guanfacine with standard care,
      compared to standard care alone, on delirium in ICU patients. Before testing other drugs
      compared with guanfacine, evidence needs to be collected to investigate if guanfacine is more
      effective than placebo in treating delirium in ICU patients. The control intervention is
      therefore chosen to be placebo along with standard or usual care. Given the literature and
      our own experience with the drug for ICU delirium, the investigators plan to use a dose of 2
      mg nightly for efficacy and minimization of side effects. The investigators will withhold
      guanfacine or placebo if a patient does not have delirium for four consecutive assessments or
      for safety reasons. The investigators will permanently discontinue guanfacine or placebo for
      any life-threatening, serious adverse event that was related to the intervention. The trial
      drug or placebo will be discontinued after the 14-day intervention period or at ICU
      discharge, whichever occurs first.
    
  