
    
      Study findings may be used to support implementation of a standardized ED clinical pathway
      and related ED provider education program throughout Ontario.

      Specific Objectives:

        -  To evaluate the impact of the pathway on patients.

        -  To evaluate the impact of the pathway on health care providers.

        -  To evaluate the ease of implementation of the pathway.

      Study Design:

        -  Observational, pre- post-intervention study design.

        -  Comparison between intervention and control sites.

        -  Patient and provider surveys and provider focus group post intervention

      Key Components:

        1. Pre- and post- intervention chart abstraction of key elements of the process of asthma
           care in ED setting

        2. Post-intervention telephone survey of patients

        3. Post-intervention self-administered survey of health care providers

        4. Post-intervention focus group

      Methodology:

      Background The Ontario Respiratory Outcomes Research Network (ORORN) is completing a Canadian
      Institutes of Health Research (CIHR)-funded study on "Determinants of Regional Variation in
      Emergency Department Utilization and Hospitalizations for Asthma in Ontario". This study
      included detailed chart abstractions on the process of care in the ED as well as detailed
      telephone questionnaires of adults and children who presented to EDs for treatment of acute
      asthma in a stratified sample of 14 hospitals across Ontario between March 2001 and Feb 2002.
      Data are available on over 5,000 ED visits. It is proposed that a number of these sites be
      approached to participate in ED ACP. A sub-set of data from these sites will provide baseline
      (pre-intervention) data, and some or all of the intervention and control sites for the ED ACP
      could be selected from the ORORN study sites. This would minimize (or potentially eliminate)
      costs of primary baseline data collection, and expedite collection of post-intervention data
      given the familiarity of sites and research personnel with the previous study instruments and
      protocol.

      Selection of Intervention and Control Sites

      Five intervention (Kingston General Hospital, Belleville General Hospital, Sudbury Regional
      Hospital, Renfrew Victoria Hospital, and Lake of the Woods District Hospital [Kenora]) and 5
      control sites ( Prince Edward County Memorial Hospital, Lakeridge Hospital [Oshawa], St.
      Joseph's Hospital [Hamilton], Chatham District Hospital, and Owen Sound District Hospital)
      were selected. To ensure the sites are representative of Ontario, sites will be selected
      based upon a sampling frame which takes into consideration:

        -  Hospital/community size and location (urban/rural; geographic setting)

        -  Level of care (community/academic -tertiary/quaternary setting)

        -  Hospitalization rates for asthma in adults and children

        -  Presence of local specialized asthma services

        -  Access to quality baseline (pre-intervention) data from the ORORN ED study database

        -  Willingness of site to participate

        -  Location of other Asthma Plan of Action initiatives which might confound or be
           confounded by this intervention

      Case identification within each ED will be performed by the method used by ORORN in a
      previous asthma ED study. This involves reviewing ED log books of presenting complaints
      potentially indicative of asthma OR electronically available data on disposition diagnoses of
      asthma. Potentially eligible patients will be approached as outlined below to obtain informed
      consent.

      ED records (log books) from participating hospitals will be reviewed by a local research
      assistant for the preceding 24 to 72 hrs on a daily basis (Monday through Friday). Patient
      records with a chief complaint potentially indicative of an acute asthma exacerbation will be
      reviewed to capture all patients with a discharge diagnosis of an acute exacerbation of
      asthma. ED records with the following complaints in the logbook will be reviewed: asthma,
      shortness of breath, wheeze, cough, chest tightness, difficulty breathing. To be eligible the
      disposition diagnosis on the ED sheet must be asthma. Patients with a history of asthma
      presenting for reasons other than an acute exacerbation of asthma (such as prescription
      renewal or unrelated complaint) will be excluded.

      Eligible patients will be mailed:

        1. An introductory letter (Appendix A) outlining the purpose of the study, and informing
           them that they will be contacted by a research assistant within one week of their
           presentation to the hospital and invited to participate in the study and

        2. A consent form (Appendix B). The Research assistant will contact patients by telephone
           to obtain informed consent. A telephone contact sheet (Appendix C) outlines the script
           to be used by the research assistant when speaking to potential participants. Once
           consent has been obtained the participant will answer a questionnaire (by telephone or
           in person). The questionnaire will be entered into a computerized version of a paper
           copy (Appendix D). The patient chart will then be abstracted also using a computerized
           version of the paper copy (Appendix E).

      If the patient re-presents to the ED within 14 days of first visit the research assistant
      will contact the participant to obtain consent again. Any visit within the 14day period will
      be considered the same episode and repeat consent will not be required.

      Pre-Intervention Chart Abstraction

      Pre-intervention chart abstraction data will be obtained from either:

        1. the ORORN ED study database, for sites that participated in the previous ORORN study,
           which contains data on adult and pediatric ED visits between March 2001 and February
           2002, OR

        2. retrospective primary data collection of ED visits for asthma between March 2001 and
           February 2002 for sites selected that did not participate in the previous ORORN ED
           study, utilizing the ORORN chart abstraction tool (or an abbreviated audit using
           specific components of that tool). (NOTE: If this is necessary, the research team and
           advisory committee will need to determine an appropriate abbreviated time-period to
           audit (eg. 3 months rather than a full 12 months) to remain within budget and meet
           target time-lines.)

      Post-Intervention Chart Abstraction Post-intervention chart abstraction data will be obtained
      by primary data collection, using the ORORN chart abstraction tool (or an abbreviation
      thereof).

      Post-Intervention Collection of Administrative Outcomes Hospitalization rates, readmission
      rates, and ED repeat visit rates for asthma and asthma-related conditions (as defined by the
      OHA Report Cards) will be obtained for each site directly or from national administrative
      databases (CIHI, NACRS). Referral rates to local specialized services will be collected where
      relevant and possible in small communities directly from the community resource involved.

      Post-intervention Survey of Patients Patients eligible to participate will be mailed an
      introductory letter outlining the purpose of the study and a consent form. Subsequently,
      potential participants will be contacted by telephone by a research associate. After
      obtaining informed consent, a brief (5-10 minute maximum) telephone interview will be
      performed. A questionnaire for this purpose will be developed, including data elements from
      the ORORN regional variation study questionnaire to enable comparisons. It will also included
      whether the patient received education or referrals during their ED visit, whether they
      complied with referrals, and questions regarding the impact of the patient's visit on their
      asthma self-management skills and confidence.

      Post-intervention Self-administered Survey of Health Care Providers A sample of ED health
      care providers involved in the delivery of aspects of the clinical pathway will be contacted
      at each site, and invited to complete a self-administered survey. A questionnaire for this
      purpose will be developed, to include perceived change in practice, perceived change in
      knowledge of recommended asthma management, perceived utility of the pathway, barriers to
      pathway implementation, and recommendations for improvement.

      Post-intervention Site Representatives Focus Group

      A post-intervention focus group including representatives from each participating site will
      be convened to gain additional insight into the site specific and aggregate outcomes and
      barriers that would be unlikely to emerge without the interaction found in a group. Aggregate
      data will be distributed to all sites, and site specific data to individual sites. The focus
      group will be invited to:

        -  assist with interpretation of quantitative findings;

        -  obtain perceptions of project outcomes and impacts;

        -  identify project strengths, weaknesses, and recommendations;

        -  identify solutions related to project implementation; and

        -  generate new ideas.

      Ethical Considerations This study has been approved by the Queen's University Health Sciences
      and Affiliated Teaching Hospital's Research Ethics Board (REB) (Appendix F). Ethics is also
      being sought at all participating sites. The Queen's submission will be shared with sites and
      study coordinator will assist sites, where necessary, to facilitate the process.

      Access to medical records will be sought from each institution. As this study involves
      questionnaire data collected by interview, stress may occur as a result of perceived pressure
      to answer specific questions. Participants will be informed during consent process that
      participation is voluntary, they may chose to not answer specific questions, and may withdraw
      from the study at any time without affecting their future medical care. Patient
      confidentiality will be ensured at all times. Confidential individual identification numbers
      will be randomly generated and sequentially by the web based data entry system, and used to
      link the abstracted data and questionnaire data.

      Privacy officers have been contacted at each of the participating sites to ensure that the
      protocol meets the sites privacy protocol.

      Potential Outcome Measures:

      A. Impact of pathway on patients:

        1. Hospitalization rate and length of stay

        2. Length of stay in ED

        3. Relapse rate to the ED for asthma, within 24 and 72 hours of ED visit

        4. Self-reported adherence with referral to specialized asthma services made during index
           ED visit

        5. Self-reported asthma control, and use of self-management strategies (including use of
           action plan)

      B. Impact of the pathway on providers:

      a. Use of Asthma Management Strategies Promoted by the ED ACP i. use of objective measure of
      airflow rates (PEFR or spirometry), and gas exchange (oxygen saturation, arterial blood
      gases) ii. types of asthma medications prescribed (bronchodilators, corticosteroids) in ED
      and upon discharge iii. route of medications prescribed (IV vs oral vs. inhaled steroids;
      metered-dose inhaler (MDI) vs nebulized bronchodilators) iv. documentation of assessment and
      teaching of device technique v. documentation of asthma action plan provision or revision vi.
      type of asthma education provided (e.g. environmental trigger avoidance, warning signs,
      medication use) vii. follow-up care recommendations or referrals (AEC, Asthma Clinic,
      Respirology Clinic, family physician) b. Utilization of Specialized Asthma Services i.
      referral rates (#/year) to local AECs and Asthma Clinics ii. types of providers involved in
      emergency asthma care

      C. Ease of implementation of the pathway/ Barriers to implementation:

        1. Proportion of patients enrolled on the ED ACP (Overall, by patient age category and by
           physician specialty)

        2. Differences in patient demographics, physician demographics, day of week, time of day
           between patients enrolled vs. not enrolled

        3. Perceived utility of pathway (overall, by site, and by profession)
    
  