
    
      This is a randomized multicenter prospective clinical trial involving patients over 18 years
      of age who were hospitalized due to decompensation of chronic heart failure (CHF).

      The aim of the study is to evaluate the effect of SGLT2i on renal function in the treatment
      of decompensation of chronic heart failure compared to standard therapy.

      The study is planned to include 100 patients with decompensated chronic heart failure. The
      study will be conducted in Сity clinical hospital number 7, University clinical hospital
      number 1.

      Patients will be screened in the first 24-48 hours from the moment of hospitalization,
      inclusion and exclusion criteria will be applied. The diagnosis of decompensation of chronic
      heart failure will be made based on the collection of anamnesis, assessment of cardiovascular
      symptoms and potential risk factors, as well as assessment of symptoms of stagnation or
      hypoperfusion by physical examination, and confirmed by appropriate additional studies, such
      as electrocardiogram (ECG) (twelve-channel electrocardiograph MAC 600, №72244-18), chest
      X-ray in straight and side projections with radiation load 0,1 mSv (СombiDiagnost R90,
      №2017/6644), laboratory tests (specific biomarkers -N-terminal brain natriuretic propeptide
      (NT-proBNP) and transthoracic echocardiography (Ge Logic F6; №9451\61287) on the first day
      after admission.

      Intravenous administration of 40 mg of furosemide (lasix; 10 mg / ml; N014865/02) is allowed
      no later than in the first 24 hours from the moment of admission (provided that the patient
      has not previously received regular loop diuretics). If prior to this hospitalization,
      regular therapy with loop diuretics was carried out, the daily dose should be increased by
      more than 2 times with the transition to intravenous administration.

      During the first visit, patients who meet the inclusion criteria will be randomized by the
      random number table method. Participants will be divided into two groups, the main group will
      include patients receiving dapagliflozin (Forxiga; MP-002596) at a dose of 10 mg / day per os
      in addition to the current therapy. The comparison group will be patients receiving standard
      therapy (loop diuretics, vasodilators, digoxin, inotropic agents, vasopressors).

      During the second visit (on 3-4 days of hospitalization), the researcher will assess the
      clinical condition (blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, auscultation, edema
      dynamics), biochemical and general blood analysis, 24-hour diuresis calculation, and patient
      weighing in both groups of patients. Accounting for how the patient excretes fluid will be
      made by the research doctor by weighing in the morning on an empty stomach and calculating
      the volume of diuresis.

      During the third visit (on the day of discharge ), the researcher will assess the clinical
      condition (blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, auscultation, edema dynamics),
      biochemical and general blood analysis, 24-hour diuresis calculation, and patient weighing in
      both groups of patients.

      The criterion for acute renal injury will be an increase in serum creatinine by 0.3 mg / dl
      or more for 48 hours (Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) criteria). The
      criteria for refractoriness to diuretic therapy will be the need to increase the daily dose
      of loop diuretics by more than 2 times compared to the initial one, or the need to add
      another class of diuretic drugs to the therapy. (Muthiah Vaduganathan et al. Unsolved
      challenges in diuretic therapy for acute heart failure: a focus on diuretic response.Expert
      Review of Cardiovascular Therapy/ Volume 13, 2015 -Issue 10. Pages

      1075-1078). The initial dose will be the daily dose of loop diuretics used on the first day
      of hospitalization.

      In order to find out whether there were repeated hospitalizations or deaths of patients
      within 30 days, the study participants will be called on the 30th day after discharge.

      The reliability of the differences in the groups will be determined by the Man-Whitney
      criterion, the differences will be considered statistically significant at p<0.05.
      Statistical processing of the obtained data will be carried out using the Statistical Package
      for the Social Sciences program version 9.0.

      The study can be classified as a study of average accuracy. The significance level of 0.05
      will be used as the limit of the statistical significance of the results, then according to
      the method of K. A. Otdelnova, the sample size of the dissertation research should be 100
      observation units. The research capacity will be 80%.
    
  