
    
      The children were recruited via a number of associations of families with children with ASD
      and special education schools. All participants had been diagnosed with ASD according to the
      criteria of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders - Fifth Edition,
      (DSM-V). Individuals who had been advised against physical activity for medical reasons were
      excluded, as were those who had previously taken judo classes. The participants were invited
      to take part in the study voluntarily, and along with their parents were informed verbally
      and in writing as to the characteristics of the programme. Parents or legal guardians signed
      informed consent forms, and the children signed a consent document that explained the
      objectives and planned activities of the programme. The study was approved by the Research
      Ethics Committee of (blinded for review). All protocols applied in this research (including
      the management of the personal data of the participants) complied with the requirements
      specified in the Declaration of Helsinki of 1975 and its subsequent revisions.

      The adapted judo programme is aimed at children of between 8 and 15 years of age who have
      been diagnosed with ASD and who being introduced to judo. All the project partners will
      contact institutions and organisations involved in the education of people with ASD in their
      respective localities and countries. The partners will explain the project and enlist the
      help of these institutions to recruit participants. All the study participants will be asked
      to sign an informed consent document that will be drafted in keeping with all applicable
      research ethics protocols, including a guarantee of the confidentiality of personal data and
      an assurance that participants can choose to abandon the study at any time.

      The judo programme will be carried out over the course of two academic years (2020-21,
      2021-22). The first school year will allow for pilot testing of the methods and point toward
      any necessary adaptations in the assessment techniques used. The design of this first phase
      will take into account prior experiences, expert input and information gleaned from focus
      groups in order to arrive at an initial proposal, which will then be subject to modification
      in accordance with results. The conclusions drawn from this initial experience will form the
      scientific and pedagogical basis for the definitive version of the programme.

      The judo sessions will be offered in a large and well-ventilated space suitable for athletic
      activity in general and for judo in particular, such that the safety of the participants can
      be guaranteed. The judo equipment required for this project will include a tatami mat with a
      minimum surface area of 90 m2, made using high-density cushions that help prevent injuries
      and ensure that a wide range of activities can be carried out safely. Each participant will
      be outfitted with a judogui (a traditional uniform consisting of a cotton jacket and trousers
      and a belt that indicates the participant's level of technical skill).

      The sessions will be an hour in length and will be held twice a week. Two instructors will
      lead each session, and at least four volunteers will have to be present to lend support. The
      sessions will be divided into three parts in accordance with the physiological principles of
      exercise: warm-up, main exercise and cool-down. The main content of the sessions will
      include:

        -  Judo analytical techniques and judo games

        -  Different types of movements and falling techniques.

        -  Ground control techniques and throws. The instruction methodology will always apply the
           principle of gradual progression, featuring practice to consolidate the concepts learned
           in the initial lessons before moving on to more complex material. Each participant will
           be allowed to progress at his or her own pace. Learning will be largely based on
           imitation and guided modelling of techniques.

      This adapted judo programme for children with ASD will have broader scientific and
      pedagogical applications. Each project partner will be responsible for some data collection
      tasks. All the partners will gather pedagogical data throughout the process using a common
      methodology. Meanwhile, the scientific data will be gathered under stricter conditions by
      only some of the project partners. These data will then be handled and analysed by the
      research teams of the participating universities.

      The judo sessions will be accompanied by the constant management and refining of the
      assessment and monitoring instruments that will be needed to gather the data that will inform
      the final results. Some of these instruments will be used pending a process of adaptation and
      validation for use with individuals with ASD, while others have already been tested and
      validated for use with this population. The following instruments will be administered during
      the programme:

        -  Test of Gross Motor Development (TGMD-2). Evaluates two components: a) Locomotor:
           Measures gross motor skills that require movements made with a fluid coordination
           (running, galloping, jumping with one foot, stride, jump with two feet slide). b) Object
           control: This subtest measures the gross motor skills that require efficiency when
           throwing, hitting and receiving (hitting a static ball, static jump, reception,
           shooting, throwing over the head and throwing below the head).

        -  Gilliam Autism Rating Scale (GARS-3). It consists of three subscales: Stereotypical
           behaviours, communication and social interaction. The instrument consists of 56 clearly
           stated items describing the characteristic behaviours of persons with autism. The items
           are grouped into six subscales: Restrictive/Repetitive Behaviours, Social Interaction,
           Social Communication, Emotional Responses, Cognitive Style, and Maladaptive Speech.

        -  Physical Activity Enjoyment Scale (PACES). It is a short questionnaire that asks about
           the degree of satisfaction when it comes to practicing physical activity.

        -  Battery ALPHA-FITNESS. It consists of the following variables: weight, height, body
           composition (abdominal perimeter, triceps sheet, subscapular fold), hand strength, leg
           strength, agility and aerobic endurance.

        -  Forms to record the participants' technical progress in judo (created for this study)

      The pedagogical data will be collected by all the adapted judo instructors. In the collection
      of the research data, standard (blinded study) research protocols will be followed, and
      researchers will not be provided with information about the participants or the process
      carried out.

      The two kinds of data described above will be handled differently. First, the pedagogical
      information will be subjected to qualitative analysis. These data will include expert
      opinion, the participants' level of satisfaction with the process and their degree of
      technical progress in judo. These qualitative data will be used to inform the drafting of the
      manuals for instructors of adapted judo for children with ASD, texts that will be produced
      within the framework of this project. Second, the scientific data will be subjected to
      quantitative analysis, including the use of more complex statistical methodology and of
      statistical analysis software. This quantitative analysis represents an opportunity validate
      some of the instruments applied in the study (PACES, ALPHA-FITNESS) for use among members of
      the autistic population. Also measured will be the performance of the participants in adapted
      judo competitions, the benefits of judo for individuals with ASD and the prevalence of
      injuries among participants in adapted judo.

      Baseline data are collected at timepoint 1 (T1-Baseline), at the start of the programme and
      eight weeks later, scores are recorded for timepoint 2 (T2-Control), which represents a
      control period. During the control period, part of which includes the winter break from
      classes, the students not participate in any extracurricular physical activities, as their
      organised physical exercise is limited to their regular physical education classes at school.
      Between this second measurement and timepoint 3 (T3-Judo), The choice was made to include the
      control period at the start of the process because we did not have a control group willing to
      submit to all the measurements over the course of the project. In the absence of a control
      group, it was decided to take the second measurement after which the participants only took
      part in the compulsory physical education activities at their schools.

      All descriptive data from the dependent variables are presented as mean ± standard deviation
      (SD). The normal distribution of each variable was checked with a Shapiro-Wilks test. In
      order to test the study hypotheses, comparisons between the four different timepoints.
    
  