
    
      Objective:

      The aim is to determine early PFS after allogeneic HCT in first or second remission of
      17p-/p53-mutated CLL within an epidemiologic study.

      Methods:

      Neither the decision for allogeneic transplantation nor specific treatment recommendations
      for patients with 17p-/p53-mutated CLL are part of the study. Instead, the study protocol
      refers to EBMT guidelines. Indications for allogeneic stem cell transplantation in chronic
      lymphocytic leukemia: the EBMT transplant consensus. Leukemia 21, 2007, 12-17). Minimal
      essential data (MED) A and B, defined by the EBMT, will be collected (www.ebmt.org).

      The rate of progression-free survival (PFS) at 1 year after HSCT was selected as primary
      endpoint. Death, clinical relapse or progression but not immune manipulations (taper of
      immunosuppression, DLI, rituximab) are considered as treatment failure for PFS. Patients
      without information on one-year follow up will be considered as having experienced treatment
      failure. The rate of PFS at 1 year will be calculated by dividing the number of patients
      without treatment failure by the number of patients who met all selection criteria.

      For the calculation of the sample size a fixed sample design was selected. The null
      hypothesis is that the success-rate for PFS is equal or less than 50%. Referring to the
      retrospective EBMT survey, PFS at one year after allogeneic HCT is expected to be 70%.
      According to Fleming-A'Hern (1982) the null hypothesis can be rejected with a power of 80%
      and an alpha error of 5% if a minimum of 24 out of 37 informative patients did not experience
      treatment failure during the first year after allogeneic HCT (Machin et al, Sample Size
      Tables for Clinical Studies, Wiley-Blackwell, 3rd edition, 2009). Taking into account a 10%
      drop-out rate by violation of inclusion criteria the target number of patients to be included
      was set at 41 patients.
    
  