
    
      BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE

      Discovery in the late 1970s that bright light affects neuroendocrine rhythms such as
      melatonin secretion, and can reset the circadian pacemaker in humans, paved the way for the
      discovery that seasonally recurrent fall/winter depressions--christened Seasonal Affective
      Disorder (SAD)--can be treated with bright light exposure (Lewy et al., 1980; Rosenthal et
      al., 1985). It was reasoned that seasonal rhythms of mood in humans, like other seasonal
      physiological cycles in mammals, could be regulated by the biological "clock." A series of
      studies has demonstrated that bright light exposure does produce therapeutic effects in SAD
      patients beyond the level achieved by placebos (Eastman et al., 1998; Lewy et al., 1998;
      Terman et al., 1998) and that retinal exposure is required for efficacious treatment (Wehr et
      al., 1987; Koorengevel, 2001).

      Attempts to construct an action spectrum for suppression of melatonin secretion and for
      resetting the circadian pacemaker suggest that 446-477 nm wavelengths are most potent
      (Brainard et al., 2001; Lockley et al., 2003), which is inconsistent with rod or cone
      mediation of the responses (Brainard, 2004). Discovery that a melanopsin-containing system of
      retinal ganglion cells serves as a primary afferent to the hypothalamic circadian pacemaker
      (Provencio et al., 2000; Gooley et al, 2001; Hattar et al, 2002) suggests a possible basis
      for the potency of violet/blue light on these neuroendocrine circadian endpoints and raises
      the possibility that light of this wavelength also might be uniquely potent for treatment of
      SAD (Brainard, 2004).

      Estimates of SAD prevalence range from 0.4 - 9.7% of the general population in the United
      States, depending on the survey methods and precise criteria used (Rosen et al., 1990; Blazer
      et al., 1998). In addition to those with recurrent episodes of frank Major Depression,
      patients with less severe "sub-syndromal" winter depression and those with annual
      exacerbation of a year-round mood disorder also have been shown to benefit from light
      treatment in fall/winter months (Kasper et al., 1989). Since the 1990s, cool-white
      fluorescent sources capable of yielding 10,000 lux polychromatic white light have been the
      treatment standard (Lewy et al., 1998; Terman et al., 1998; Desan et al., 2001; also see
      e.g., Lam & Levitt, 1999). Although well-tolerated, some transient adverse effects of the
      10,000 lux white light have been reported, such as agitation or feeling "wired," insomnia,
      headache, eye or vision problems, nausea, sedation, and chest tightness (Labbate et al.,
      1994; Kogan et al., 1998; Terman & Terman, 1999). The more common of these
      complaints--headache, eye or vision problems, and insomnia--remit rapidly after
      discontinuation of light exposure (Oren et al., 1991), however, narrower bandwidth light if
      more potent in antidepressant effectiveness might be administered at lower intensities and
      thereby further reduce adverse effects and increase tolerability of the treatment (Brainard,
      2004).

      A between-subjects double-blind comparison of 3-weeks treatment using narrow-band LED panels
      at blue (468 nm at 500 mW/cm2) vs red (700 nm at 15 mW/cm2) wavelengths in 24 SAD patients
      demonstrated both greater reductions in depressive symptoms and also remission rates (54.5%
      vs 30.8%) in favor of the blue light source (Byrne et al., 2004). Comparisons of this narrow
      bandwidth blue LED light with white light would be of even greater clinical interest since
      white fluorescent sources currently are the industry standard.

      Safety

      At the irradiance levels emitted by commonly utilized light therapy devices, dermatologic
      safety concerns are minimal. Similarly, thermal damage to cornea, lens or retina requires
      milliwatt-to-watt exposure, far in excess of that emitted from the therapeutic devices.
      Ocular safety for 10,000 lux white fluorescent sources has been assessed and comprehensive
      ophthalmologic examinations of individuals with healthy eyes who used white-light therapy
      daily during fall/winter months for up to 5 years did not reveal adverse effects (Gallin et
      al., 1995; Gorman et al., 1993). Shorter wavelengths of light are of greater concern due to
      photo-keratitis of the cornea and cataract of the lens from 180-400nm ultraviolet light, and
      photochemical injury to the retina at 310-550 nm with a peak near 440 nm (Sliney, 2004). The
      blue-light LED source to be utilized in the present research (Go-LITE™) was determined to
      have an averaged radiance well below the 10-mW/cm2*sr safety limit for continuous viewing.

      RECRUITMENT PROCEDURES

      We will recruit adults, age 18-64 years, who meet diagnostic criteria for seasonal affective
      disorder by means of public service announcements in the community. The approved announcement
      will be released via the Partners weekly research announcement system, may be disseminated to
      press outlets, and will be used on the voice mail menu of Dr. Anderson's SAD clinical
      services at BWH. An informational webpage linked to the BWH website
      (http://www.brighamandwomens.org/psychiatry/Research/sadresearch.asp) will provide more
      detailed information and a mechanism for prospective subjects to request further information.
      Interested individuals will be directed to a research assistant at the BWH Clinical Trials
      Center who will answer questions regarding the study and will conduct a telephone screening
      to assess eligibility. Those subjects found eligible and interested will be referred by the
      research assistant for a psychological screening interview.

      CONSENT PROCEDURES

      Each subject will be enrolled by his or her written informed consent obtained by members of
      the study staff. Following an initial telephone screening, each prospective subject will
      undergo an in-depth psychological evaluation at BWH by the principal investigator, Janis L.
      Anderson, PhD., or at McLean Hospital by Carol Glod, RN, Ph.D. Prior to the psychological
      screening, Dr. Anderson or Dr. Glod will review the Screening Consent Form with the subject.
      Dr. Anderson is an experienced clinical psychologist and Dr. Glod is an experienced doctor of
      nursing; each is trained to consider both cognitive and emotional factors that affect the
      ability to consent. If written informed consent is obtained on the Screening Consent Form
      then the psychological evaluation will take place. In that evaluation meeting, Dr. Anderson
      or Dr. Glod also will present the subject with a copy of the Study Consent Form to review and
      take home. Subjects will be encouraged to inform their medical providers and therapists about
      their interest in participating in the study. The meetings with Dr. Anderson or Dr. Glod will
      be scheduled in advance; nothing in the circumstances of this protocol would require a hasty
      decision on the part of the potential subject. Subsequent to the psychological screening for
      prospective subjects who meet diagnostic criteria, a medical examination will be performed by
      a doctor of Ophthalmology. If the subject is found to meet all inclusion criteria for the
      study, doctor of Ophthalmology, a licensed physician, will review the Study Consent Form and
      obtain written informed consent for the study procedures themselves. Upon each outpatient
      visit for the study procedures, the subject's mental status will be reassessed. However, due
      to the nature of SAD symptoms and the inclusion/exclusion criteria for the present study, we
      do not anticipate enrolling subjects whose ability to consent would be transitory.

      RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS

      A between-subjects double-blind trial will compare daily outpatient treatment using a narrow
      (468 nm, 27 nm half-peak bandwidth) LED light source (GoLITE™) to a broad 400-700 nm
      wavelength LED-generated light housed in an identical device in 24 seasonally-depressed
      adults. Dependent variables will be severity of depression and extent of adverse effects.

      Research procedures will not begin in the Autumn/Winter until the subject has a depression
      rating of at least 20 on the SIGH-SAD (Structured Interview Guide for the Hamilton Depression
      Rating Scale-Seasonal Affective Disorders Version; Williams et al., 1988). The SIGH-SAD is a
      structured clinical interview for rating not only the traditional Hamilton Depression Rating
      Scale items but also the "atypical" vegetative symptoms characteristic of SAD. The validity
      of and reliability of the SIGH-SAD is well-established, and it is the preferred instrument
      for assessing symptom severity in SAD studies (e.g., see Lam & Levitt, 1999). A companion
      instrument, the Hypomania Interview Guide for Seasonal Affective Disorder (HIGH-SAD) also
      will be administered. A rater, who will be blind to the treatment condition of the subjects,
      will administer the SIGH-SAD and HIGH-SAD prior to and for each week during the 3-wk trial.

      Subjects will begin treatment when post-treatment SIGH-SAD depression score ≥ 20. Dr.
      Anderson or Dr. Glod will meet with each subject to provide the light device and instruction
      for its outpatient use as detailed below. The subject will be asked to sign a written
      agreement for return of the light device. Subjects will use the light device and return
      weekly for symptom ratings; each will be seen by Dr. Anderson or Dr. Glod as well. At the
      conclusion of the 3-wk trial, Dr. Anderson or Dr. Glod will meet with the subject to discuss
      their response to light treatment and the indications for continuing light treatment through
      the end of that winter. Subjects will be offered the opportunity to keep the same device or
      try the other device until the end of the fall/winter season and will be followed monthly if
      they choose to do so. Alternative treatment modalities also will be discussed and referrals
      for follow-up care provided as indicated. All forms of SAD treatment will cease by June 1.

      EQUITABLE SELECTION OF SUBJECTS

      SAD is diagnosed on the basis of history and a definitive diagnosis is difficult to make in
      adolescents. In addition, their symptom profile differs from that seen in adults which would
      make assessment using any single measure difficult and would require a substantially larger
      sample size. Therefore in this preliminary investigation we propose to recruit individuals
      between the ages of 18-64. Because the safety of light treatment in pregnancy has not been
      established, and because mood effects of pregnancy and recent delivery would complicate
      assessment of treatment response in this 3-wk trial, only nonpregnant, non-lactating women
      will be included.

      Recruitment will be by public means and no one will be excluded on the basis of race, gender,
      ethnic background, or other demographic factors. Dr. Anderson is responsible for outpatient
      monitoring of light treatment and is only fluent in English. Therefore, if potential subjects
      do not understand English it will be necessary to have available a bilingual physician in the
      community who would be able to work with Dr. Anderson in providing outpatient care.

      PRIVACY AND CONFIDENTIALITY

      Disclosure of Information Outside Partners:

      Identifying information will be recorded only on screening contact sheets (which will be
      maintained under secure conditions in the Clinical Trials Center and later stored in locking
      file cabinets in a locked research room at 221 Longwood Ave. under the control of Dr.
      Anderson), on the signed consent forms (stored in locking file cabinets in a locked research
      room at 221 Longwood Ave. under the control of Dr. Anderson or at McLean Hospital under the
      control of Dr. Glod), and in emails sent within the Partners system to staff members who
      schedule the appointments, obtain laboratory specimen; or conduct symptom ratings.

      All data will be stored in computer files with code number for the subjects; no identifiers
      other than the code number will be kept in the data files nor will they be used in any
      reports or publications concerning this research. The key for the code will be kept in
      locking file cabinets in a locked research room at 221 Longwood Ave. under the control of Dr.
      Anderson or at McLean Hospital under the control of Dr. Glod.

      Any records that may be of use to other treatment providers for purposes of continuity of
      care, whether at Partners institutions or elsewhere, will be released upon written
      authorization of the subject or their legal representative in accordance with current
      applicable laws and regulations.

      EXPECTED BENEFITS

      Patients with seasonal affective disorder may experience relief from symptoms with light
      therapy during this study. If the treatment is effective, they may continue it with equipment
      from and supervision by Dr. Anderson or Dr. Glod through the end of the winter season. If the
      treatment is not effective, referrals for additional treatment will be made. However, relief
      from depression is in no way guaranteed.

      FORESEEABLE RISKS AND DISCOMFORTS

        1. Blood drawing. There may be some discomfort or bruising on initial insertion into a
           vein. There is a rare possibility of developing a small blood clot, inflammation, or
           local infection. Fainting may rarely occur in individuals very uncomfortable with blood
           drawing procedures.

        2. Light treatment. Safety of equipment. Light therapy with bright fluorescent light has
           been tested in many individuals and serious irreversible adverse effects have not been
           reported. The most common side effect of light therapy is irritability or agitation that
           remits after termination of the light or decrease of the daily duration of exposure.
           Participants will be carefully monitored for such side effects and light therapy
           exposure will be decreased or eliminated if these adverse effects occur. Although light
           treatment has been tested in pregnant women in a small number of studies, the safety of
           light treatment in pregnant women has not been conclusively established. Female subjects
           will be told that participation in this study may be hazardous to an embryo or fetus and
           therefore that it is essential that adequate birth control be used while participating.
           If they should become pregnant while in the study, they should notify the investigators
           immediately.

      MINIMIZATION OF RISKS AND SAFETY MONITORING

      Subjects will be instructed to begin daily 45-min sessions of exposure to the light each
      morning shortly after they awaken (provided it is after 6 a.m.). Written instructions will be
      given, potential adverse effects will be discussed, and subjects will be instructed to
      telephone the supervising clinician (either Dr. Anderson or Dr. Glod) with any questions or
      should any adverse effects occur. A telephone appointment will be scheduled for 2-3 days
      after the first use of the light device. Patients who complain of feelings of jitteriness
      after using the light device will be advised to reduce their duration of daily exposure to 30
      min per day. Patients who complain of headache after using the light device each day for 2-3
      days will be advised to return for a visit to review the procedures they are using. An
      appointment will be scheduled for 7 days after the first use of the light device. Any patient
      who continues to complain of headache after the first week of light exposure will be
      withdrawn from the study. Patients who complain of feelings of jitteriness after using the
      light device 20 min per day will be withdrawn from the study.

      An appointment will be scheduled for 14 days and 21 days after the first use of the light
      device. In general, the criteria for withdrawing patients from the study are based on Axis V
      of the DSM-IV, Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF). No patient with a GAF less than 50
      will be enrolled in this study, and any patient whose GAF decreases to less than 50 during
      the course of the study will be withdrawn. This specifically includes, but is not limited to,
      any patient reporting suicidal ideation, symptoms of psychosis, or symptoms of mania at any
      point during the study will be withdrawn from the study and evaluated immediately by Dr.
      Anderson or Dr. Glod for treatment.

      Any adverse events will be reported promptly to the Human Research Committee.
    
  