
    
      Aims: The primary aim of this study is to estimate the pathological complete response rate
      following neoadjuvant radiotherapy with concurrent capecitabine and oxaliplatin (CAPOX), with
      or without cetuximab based on the KRAS mutation status in rectal cancer.

      Hypothesis: Cetuximab, a monoclonal antibody targeted against the EGF receptor, is active in
      metastatic colorectal cancer and a radio-sensitizer. In colorectal cancer, the presence of
      KRAS mutation has been associated with the absence of response to cetuximab. We hypothesise
      that the addition of cetuximab to CAPOX concurrent with neoadjuvant radiotherapy only
      benefited patients whose tumours do not have the KRAS mutation and therefore, personalizing
      cetuximab therapy based on tumour KRAS mutation status may yield a higher pathological
      response.

      Methods: This study employed a standard 2-stage Phase II design to evaluate the efficacy and
      tolerability of two neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy regimens. The assignment of the neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy will be determined by the KRAS mutation status of the tumor. Subjects with KRAS
      mutation will receive CAPOX. Subjects with no KRAS mutation will be randomized to receive
      CAPOX +/- cetuximab.Definitive surgery is scheduled for 6-8 weeks after the completion of
      chemoradiotherapy. Surgical management will be a sphincter preservation approach whenever
      possible, using the total mesorectal excision technique.After the operation, pathologic
      evaluation of the surgical specimen will be performed.

      Significance:In this proof-of-concept study, we aim to demonstrate that using an enriched
      patient cohort to test our hypothesis that the addition of cetuximab will yield a higher
      pathological response rate in KRAS mutation-negative rectal cancer. This approach can
      potentially identify a subset of patients that may benefit from cetuximab and spare those who
      may not benefit from unnecessary treatment toxicities and costs. Our study will help to
      prioritise novel targeted agents for a smaller, faster, and less expensive confirmatory phase
      III trials.
    
  