
    
      A fast-track program is an evidence-based, multimodal approach for patients undergoing
      surgery to reduce perioperative morbidity, hospital stay and cost and to increase patient
      centered well-being. Particularly in visceral surgery of the colon it is gaining widespread
      acceptance (Schwenk 2009). Optimized pain relief is a core component of any fast-track
      regimen (Kehlet and Wilmore 2008). In this context epidural analgesia has become the standard
      of care for early postoperative pain therapy (Hasenberg 2009), providing superior pain relief
      compared to parenteral opioids (Block 2001).

      However, it is debated whether non-opioid analgesics should be given as adjuncts when
      epidural analgesia is already present. Some studies have found reduced pain using NSAID as
      adjunct (Scott 1994), leading to a positive recommendation in the German guidelines for
      postoperative pain therapy (S3-Leitlinie). However, other studies (Mogensen 1992) have not
      found an effect of non-opioids in addition to epidural analgesia. Further studies are also
      needed to assess whether nonopioid adjuncts can facilitate the change from epidural to
      systemic analgesia (typically on the 2nd or 3rd postoperative day) and reduce opioid
      consumption during the days after catheter removal.

      Fast-track surgery is a multi-model process, and every step in this process needs to be
      fine-tuned to yield best results (Langelotz 2005). Until now studies have compared only
      groups with either epidural or systemic analgesia, but for optimal recovery a sequential
      approach with a combination of both is probably a better choice. A typical multimodal
      analgesia regimen after removal of an epidural at our institution consists of acetaminophen
      and ibuprofen. Opioids are avoided if possible, but are added if needed. An improved
      non-opioid analgesia regimen is a sought-after goal in this fast-track-phase. The study is
      controlled in terms of the type of surgery (laparoscopic colon and rectal surgery) and all
      factors of the multimodal analgesia treatment.
    
  