
    
      Background:

      Cancer pain is a pervasive problem for the person with cancer. Despite advances in knowledge,
      effective cancer management is infrequently achieved. While this problem is multi-factorial,
      the patient may have attitudinal barriers to effective pain management that can be
      ameliorated with novel interventions.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective of this study is to determine the effects of two nursing interventions
      on the improvement of pain management (PM), functional status (FS) and quality of life (QOL)
      in veterans receiving cancer care in VA ambulatory care clinics. The two interventions will
      utilize selected cancer pain management strategies developed as Clinical Practice Guidelines
      by the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research (AHCPR). This study will test the
      hypothesis that those veterans in the intervention arms will have lower pain intensity
      scores, greater pain relief and satisfaction with PM, and will have higher QOL and FS scores
      specifically in the areas of physical and social functioning. A secondary aim is to measure
      the extent that cancer PM is affected by the intervening variables of age, affect,
      attitudinal barriers, veteran culture, type/stage of disease, and type of cancer treatment.

      Methods:

      The design of this randomized trial has one between-subjects factor, GROUP, with three levels
      (usual care, structured education, individualized coaching), and one within-subjects factor,
      TIME, with two measures, pre-test and post-test. Patients with cancer pain (n=320) are
      randomly assigned to one of three groups after stratifications to control for the confounding
      variables of pain intensity and effects of cancer treatment. Those in the structured
      education arm view a video on cancer pain management and receive the AHCPR patient pamphlet
      on cancer pain management. Those subjects in the individualized coaching arm receive the same
      structured education as above, but also partake in four telephone coaching sessions focusing
      on the individual's specific pain management problems. The primary outcome variables measured
      after 12 weeks are: satisfaction with pain management, quality of life and functional status.

      Status:

      The project is in the final phase of data analysis and writing the final report. A total of
      322 subjects were recruited: 289 eligible patients completed the Pre-test and 227 completed
      the Post-Test. Two papers are approximately 75% written. The main study paper is in the
      planning stage, to be completed after the final report is submitted.
    
  