
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the role of v-ets erythroblastosis virus E26 oncogene (ETS) gene fusion as a
      predictive biomarker for response to hormone therapy (abiraterone [abiraterone acetate])
      alone or hormone therapy plus poly adenosine diphosphate-ribose polymerase 1 (PARP-1)
      targeted therapy (ABT-888 [veliparib]) in patients with metastatic castration resistant
      prostate cancer.

      II. To evaluate whether the addition of PARP-1 targeted therapy is superior to hormone
      therapy alone based on ETS gene fusion status.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Rate of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) declines. II. Objective response rate. III.
      Progression-free survival. IV. Evaluate the qualitative and quantitative toxicity of
      abiraterone acetate with and without ABT-888.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the concordance in fusion status among prostate cancer samples from the
      primary site, biopsied metastasis, and circulating tumor cells (CTCs).

      II. To assess if ETS fusion status in the CTCs, at baseline, 12 weeks, and disease
      progression (or when off study) is associated with response to therapy.

      III. To evaluate if the number of CTCs, as well as the expression levels of androgen
      receptor, RAD51 recombinase (RAD51), and gamma-H2A histone family, member X (H2aX) foci in
      the CTCs at baseline, at 12 weeks, and at disease progression in all patients is associated
      with response to therapy.

      IV. To determine the role of phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) loss as a predictive
      biomarker of response to abiraterone, alone or in combination with ABT-888.

      V. To determine the role of PARP1 activity as a predictive biomarker of response to
      abiraterone, alone or in combination with ABT-888.

      VI. To perform next-generation sequencing for discovery of novel gene fusions in prostate
      cancers negative for ETS fusions.

      VII. To perform germline single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis of genes involved in
      hormone synthesis, transport, binding, metabolism, and degradation for discovery of novel
      SNPs predictive of response to abiraterone, alone or in combination with ABT-888.

      VIII. To determine if ETS fusion ribonucleic acid (RNA) levels in blood are predictive of
      response to abiraterone, alone or in combination with ABT-888.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive abiraterone acetate orally (PO) once daily (QD) and prednisone PO
      twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive veliparib PO BID on days 1-28. Patients also receive abiraterone
      acetate PO QD and prednisone PO BID on day 1 (day 8 of course 1). Courses repeat every 28
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 2
      years.
    
  