
    
      Rationale: Each year, approximately 34,500 adults in The Netherlands sustain a fracture of
      the distal radius (wrist fracture). Incidence peaks in the elderly. The currently preferred
      treatment is closed reduction and nonoperative treatment by immobilization in a plaster cast
      for 4-6 weeks. Surgery is only performed if closed reduction fails or redislocation occurs.
      Plaster immobilization is inconvenient and interferes with daily activities. More
      importantly, standard nonoperative treatment often fails; in 40-60% of the fractures,
      redislocation requires surgery. Surgical treatment is about 9 times more expensive than
      nonoperative treatment and not without risks. This project aims to develop an innovative
      nonoperative treatment option. The central idea is to produce a 3D-printed brace for the
      fractured wrist using a mirrored CT-scan of the contralateral, unfractured wrist as a model.
      This innovative approach has the advantage that it does not depend on surgery and provides a
      better and potentially more durable positioning than the currently applied plaster cast. We
      expect that redislocation will occur less frequently, so surgery may be avoided. In contrast
      to a traditional plaster cast, the newly developed brace is water resistant/repellant,
      lighter, and enables movement of the hand. It enables daily activities and improves
      independency in the elderly with a wrist fracture. The treatment has been successfully
      evaluated in an ex vivo model. The clinical implementation will follow a step-wise approach.

      Objective: Part 1 aims to determine the tolerability of the 3D-printed brace when worn by
      healthy volunteers (50 years of order), performing their normal daily activities. In part 2,
      the objective is to determine tolerability of the 3D-printed brace in patients (50 years or
      older) with an extra-articular distal radius fracture with dorsal displacement, performing
      their normal daily activities.
    
  