
    
      Objectives:

      Alcohol use disorder (AUD) is a chronic disease that has a tremendously negative impact on
      individuals and their families and a substantial burden on society. Research on quantitative
      endophenotypes such as alcohol response, and their genetic and environmental determinants, is
      critical to understanding the risk for AUD. There has been a great interest in examining
      variation in target genes that may play a mechanistic role in the expression of these
      endophenotypes, such the missense single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the gene encoding
      the 5 subunit of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (CHRNA5) - rs16969968. Studies have
      shown that CHRNA5 A-allele carriers are at greater risk for nicotine addiction and
      smoking-related consequences. However, little work has been done to examine the effect of
      this SNP on alcohol use, dependence, or alcohol response. Given the high prevalence of
      nicotinic receptors on dopamine (DA) neurons in brain reward regions, and the high co-use and
      abuse of alcohol and nicotine, these receptors may play a critical role in modulating
      incentive salience and reward responses to alcohol. Thus, the goal of this project is to
      examine the influence of CHRNA5 variation and smoking status (smokers and non-smokers) on
      alcohol-related phenotypes, including intravenous alcohol self-administration (IV-ASA)
      behavior and neuroimaging responses to cues signaling alcohol rewards.

      Study Population:

      This study will include 128 male and female, non-dependent drinkers, 21-60 years of age.
      Participants will be stratified into equally-sized groups based on their smoking status
      (smokers and non-smokers) and rs16969968 genotype: 1). A-allele carriers (AA or AG genotype),
      and 2). G-allele homozygotes (GG genotype). The study will be open to all racial and ethnic
      groups, as long as the individual meets the genotype criteria. Participants will be in good
      health as determined by medical history, physical exam, ECG, and lab tests.

      Design:

      Following screening, participants will undergo three study visits. The first visit will
      include an IV alcohol self-administration (IV-ASA) session using the Computer-Assisted
      Infusion System (CAIS), which employs a physiologically-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK)
      model-based algorithm that allows participants free access to standardized alcohol infusions.
      During this session, breath alcohol concentrations (BrAC) and subjective responses will be
      measured as markers of the rewarding effects of alcohol. In another visit, participants will
      undergo a second IV-ASA session where they will have free-access to alcohol infusions along
      with the ability to control the rate of each individual self-administered infusion. This will
      provide an operant measure of sensitivity to rate of change of BrAC as an additional marker
      of the rewarding effect of alcohol. Finally, participants will undergo a magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) session where they will be scanned while performing the Alcohol-Food Incentive
      Delay (AFID) task, which assesses neural processing while responding to cues signaling
      alcohol reward. Additional fMRI task-based scans and a resting-state scan will also be
      obtained.

      Outcome Measures:

      The following measures will be examined as a function of smoking status (smokers and
      non-smokers) and CHRNA5 genotype. The influence of sex, age, and recent drinking history will
      be examined as covariates. Primary outcome measures include: (1a) BrAC exposure (peak BrAC,
      number of infusions, time to binge-level BrAC) during the free-access IV-ASA; (1b) BOLD
      response during the AFID task in neural regions associated with alcohol reward processing,
      including ventral striatum, amygdala, and insula. Secondary outcome measures include: (2a)
      resting state functional connectivity (rsFC) between the regions associated with the salience
      network, including dorsal anterior cingulate cortex, ventral striatum, and extended amygdala;
      (2b) preferred rate of self-infusion during the second IV-ASA session.
    
  