
    
      Next Generation Sequence (NGS) technology rapidly evolves and it is now feasible to use
      circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) as a BioSource for comprehensive analysis of the molecular make
      up of tumors. ctDNA based techniques are able to detect the emergence of drug resistance
      mechanisms with high sensitivity and prior to radiological progression (12-14). This
      technique might identify drug resistant clones before subclonal resistance (resistance of the
      new clone to targeted treatment) develops and allow to eliminate the new clone with
      short-term additional treatment, while continuing treatment of the main oncogenic driver
      (EGFR exon 19 del / exon 21 L858R) with the EGFR TKI. Continuous ctDNA based monitoring will
      reveal the success of the additional treatment and in case the follow-up ctDNA sample shows
      elimination of the EGFR TKI resistant clone, the add-on treatment will be discontinued.
      Continuous ctDNA based monitoring might identify a new resistant clone at a later point in
      time and temporary treatment of this clone can be initiated. The EGFR TKI will remain the
      backbone of therapy and will not be discontinued (see treatment strategy 1 in Figure 3).

      This continuous track and treat strategy could potentially lead to a better outcome. In this
      study the investigators will track all known EGFR TKI resistance mechanisms over time and
      select one (MET amplification) for the track and treat strategy.

      Treatment strategy 1: Track and treat strategy. ctDNA based resistance monitoring. As soon as
      a resistant clone is detected with ctDNA, treatment will be added to the EGFR TKI. ctDNA will
      be continuously screened for resistant clones. Upon disappearance of the resistant clone,
      add-on treatment will be discontinued, while the EGFR TKI will be continued at any time.
      Multiple resistance mechanisms can be treated serially.

      Treatment strategy 2: routine care. Treatment with an EGFR TKI will be continued until
      radiological progression.
    
  