
    
      A single-center, single-masked, parallel-groups, randomized clinical and microbiological
      study, was conducted between July and October 2018 at the Dentistry and Maxillo-facial
      Surgery Clinic, Department of Surgery, Dentistry, Paediatrics and Gynaecology (DIPSCOMI),
      University of Verona, Verona, Italy. The experimental protocol (Protocol HX-GL-ITA13,
      approval date 20/11/2013) was approved by the Ethical Committee of the University of Verona.
      The study was conducted in accordance with the Ethical Principles of the 64th World Medical
      Association Declaration of Helsinki and was consistent with good clinical practices. All
      participants signed a written informed consent.

      The subjects were enrolled among individuals examined through a survey on prevalence of peri-
      implant infections (mucositis and peri-implantitis) in single-crown plateau-design
      locking-taper implants with a 3-year follow-up period. Twenty-three patients, aged between 37
      and 71 years, met the study criteria.

      Patients were randomly assigned (using a predefined computer-generated randomization scheme)
      to the Test-Group, which received the administration of a desiccant liquid with molecular
      hygroscopic properties (HYBENX® Oral Tissue decontaminantTM, HBX) before SRP, or to the
      Control-Group, which received the administration of a disinfectant gel after SRP
      (Chlorhexidine Digluconate CorsodylTM Dental Gel 1%, CHX).

      Chlorhexidine Digluconate CorsodylTM Dental Gel 1% is an antiseptic gel with cationic nature,
      effective against a wide range of Gram positive and negative bacteria, favourable to the
      plaque control and oral inflammation prevention. HYBENX® Oral Tissue decontaminantTM is a
      concentrated aqueous solution of sulfonated aromatics and free sulphates. Once placed onto
      susceptible organic material, the product instantly absorbs free and electrostatically bonded
      water, denaturing the molecular structure of the organic matter. Biofilm is expected to be
      especially sensitive to the disruptive action of HBX solution by virtue of its porous
      structure and high water content. On the Test-Group of this study, HBX was administered
      before the Teflon-curettes debridement and left in contact with supra and sub-gingival plaque
      biofilm for up to 60 seconds, then rinsed with water and evacuated.

      At baseline (T0) subjects were randomly assigned to the Test-Group or to the Control-Group,
      in order to be examined for microbial sampling, peri-implant soft tissues assessment and
      radiographic bone levels. The implants were consequently treated with HBX, before a SRP
      professional session, or CHX, after a SRP professional session. The treatment, performed by
      the same operator, was then repeated on days 7 and 14.
    
  