
    
      BACKGROUND

      Near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is a non-invasive method for the measurement of blood flow
      in tissues, first used for cerebral tissue oxygenation in 1977. 1 NIRS is a spectroscopic
      technique, which uses electromagnetic waves (700-950nm), an emitter and a detector. In the
      last 20 years there was an enormous development in the instrumentation and application of
      NIRS. This technique now allows for measuring the oxygenation of the brain tissue. 2-13 The
      INVOS Brain Oxymeter (IBO) is a reliable trend monitor for changes in regional cerebral
      oxygenation (rSO2) and correlates with the hemoglobin saturation in venous, capillary and
      arterial blood, using an algorithm based upon the Beer-Lambert law. 4,14 The IBO system uses
      light, with wavelengths between 730-810 nm, that penetrates layers of the human body, among
      them the skin, the scull and the brain. It is either scattered within the tissue or absorbed
      by present chromophores. In the rather transparent near infrared region, there are many
      absorbing light chromophores, but only three are important as far as the oxygenation is
      concerned, namely hemoglobin (HbO2), deoxyhemoglobin (Hb) and cytochrome oxidase (CtOx).
      Oxygenated and deoxygenated hemoglobin absorb light at different wavelengths, allowing a
      differentiation of these two forms of hemoglobin.15 The sensors, ("SomaSensors"), are applied
      to the patient's forehead with an integrated medical-grade adhesive.16 The method is applied
      by using two source-detector distances in the sensor: a "near" one (shallow), 3 cm from the
      source and a "far" one (deep), 4 cm from the source. Both samples penetrate the tissue
      beneath the light source equally well, with the difference that the 4cm source-detector
      measures signals deeper in the brain.8,17 The subtraction of the near sample from the far one
      should leave a signal originating predominantly from the brain cortex. 16 The proper
      management of brain oxygenation is an essential component of all anaesthesiologic procedures.
      Nevertheless, the brain remains one of the least monitored organs during the perioperative
      phase and intensive care therapy. Up until now, the anaesthesiological application of NIRS as
      a method for measuring the cerebral oxygenation has only been investigated in patients
      undergoing cardiac surgery or cerebrovascular surgery, elderly patients undergoing major
      abdominal surgery and neonatal infants. 18-21 These studies indicate that the measured
      cerebral oxygenation is affected by the relative proportion of blood in the arterial or
      venous part of the capillary bed, the hemoglobin concentration and the systemic saturation in
      addition to the cardiac output. The precise consequences of alterations in the systemic
      saturation (SaO2) on the cerebral oxygenation (rSO2) remain unknown. It is a current
      assumption that rSO2 is directly associated with Sa02, so that an increase of SaO2 also leads
      to an increase of rSO2. The amount of oxygen in the arterial blood depends on the inspired
      oxygen and the pulmonary gas exchange. These two parameters are primarily affected by the
      individual's respiratory ventilation. Patients with chronic respiratory failure, or just a
      temporary (acute) breathing deficiency (e.g. after general anesthesia), are routinely treated
      with continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) therapy. It is also commonly used in the
      treatment of sleep apnea and in neonates (especially premature infants). In these patients
      CPAP ventilation may prevent the need of tracheal (re-) intubation, or enable earlier
      extubation.

      CPAP therapy was developed by Dr. George Gregory and colleagues in the neonatal ICU at the
      University of California, San Francisco in 1971 22, and then modified by Professor Colin
      Sullivan at Royal Prince Alfred Hospital in Sydney, Australia, in 1981. 23 Initially the CPAP
      therapy was mainly used for the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea at home. Nowadays it is
      commonly applied in ICUs as a form of non-invasive mechanical ventilation. There it is
      usually reserved for subgroups of patients where the oxygen treatment via a facemask is
      insufficient. Patients on CPAP therapy are closely monitored in the ICU setting. The
      treatment supports the patient's spontaneous breathing by building up a positive end
      expiratory pressure (PEEP). The pressure required by most patients ranges between 5 and 12
      cmH2O. The patient can individually determine his or her own respiratory frequency as well as
      the depth of respiration.

      Objectives:

      The primary study goal is the investigation of the effect of CPAP therapy on rSO2 in relation
      to the vital parameters, hemoglobin, SaO2 (analyzed by BGA) and SpO2. These combined
      measurements can be used to further describe the effect of CPAP therapy on rSO2. So far, this
      kind of study has not been performed on patients in the ICU. Therefore, this project aims at
      gaining new insights into the influence of CPAP therapy on the cerebral saturation.
      Additionally, differences in SaO2 and vital parameters will be correlated to the rSO2. Also
      the occurrence of vomiting and nausea, headache and agitation during the CPAP therapy will be
      registered.

      The following parameters will be measured, calculated and noted in the CRF (case report
      form):

        -  Blood pressure (BP)

        -  Heart rate (HR) and rhythm

        -  rSO2 (left and right hemisphere)

        -  BGA: arterial partial pressure of oxygen (PaO2)

        -  BGA: pH, Electrolytes (Na, K, Ca), Glucose, Lactate, SaO2

        -  BGA: Hb, Hk, MetHb, CoHb, SO2, pCO2, BE, SBC

        -  Ventilation: CPAP, MV, RR, TV, pressure support, Pmean

        -  ASA classification: 1-6

        -  Physical disorders under CPAP with yes or no, if yes specified:

      eyes, ears, nose, throat respiratory cardiovascular musculoskeletal genitourinary skin
      endocrine neurological psychiatric Hypothesis

      Null and alternate hypothesis:

      H0: There is NO change of rSO2 during CPAP therapy. H1: There is A change of rSO2 during CPAP
      therapy. Type-I and -II errors and power α = 0.05 Power = 0.9 Interim analysis

        -  Statistical methodology Randomized observational experimental single-center clinical
           trial.

        -  Sample size calculation:

      Paired t-test, mean of difference: 5%, SD of difference: 10%; Effect size of 0.5; an error
      probability two-sided: 0.05; Power: 0.9; total sample size: 50 patients. (5% drop-out rate
      included).

      METHODS This randomized clinical study will include 50 subjects from 18 years onwards
      undergoing treatment on an ICU of the Medical University of Vienna (13C1, 13C2, 13C3, 13B1,
      13I1, 9D, E11 (Neurosurgical ICU), requiring intermittent CPAP therapy. Neither the
      applicant, nor the clinical investigator will be involved in the decision about the
      indication for CPAP therapy.

      The study will be carried out according to the Declaration of Helsinki (1964), and good
      clinical practice (GCP) guidelines, and the Equator network website recommendations including
      current revisions. The study protocol will be submitted to the Ethics Committee of Medical
      University of Vienna for ethical approval. The study will be registered with
      clinicaltrials.gov. The participation in the clinical study will occur independently of the
      medical indication for the patient's stay on the ICU. Before being admitted to the study, the
      subject must have consented to participate, after the nature, scope and possible consequences
      of the procedure have been explained in a form understandable to him or her. The patient must
      give consent orally and in writing. The individual's consent will be confirmed with the
      signature of the investigator. All subject names will be kept secret in the investigators'
      files. Subjects will be identified by documentation and evaluation throughout the number
      allotted to them during the study. The participants will be informed that the entire study
      data will be stored and handled confidentially. A data protocol by means of a case report
      form will be used.

      The duration of the trial is 30min. The study starts 15min before CPAP and ends when the
      patient's rSO2 reaches a steady state (no change in rSO2 ± 2% for 3 min, maximal 15min) under
      CPAP therapy. The participants are not required to participate in any follow up visits.

      This study will be carried out on patients with good access to the forehead. The NIRS
      measurement (IBO) will be performed on the frontal cortex on both sides of the head. Emission
      and detection probes have to be connected after wiping the patients forehead with a soft
      cloth or cotton pad. During the whole investigation the SaO2, the blood pressure
      (continuously invasive or non invasive in 3 minute-intervals) and the ECG will be recorded.
      These vital signs are a part of the routine ICU monitoring. The trial will consist of two
      parts i.e. with or without ventilatory assistance. The order of starting the study with or
      without CPAP therapy will be randomized. During each part the measurements will be performed
      until reaching a steady state (no change in rSO2 ± 2% for 3 min) but with a maximum duration
      of 15min. The examination is safe, non-invasive, pain-free and can be carried out very
      flexibly, quickly and cost efficiently by portable equipment. Data is collected from both the
      right and left hemisphere.

      The device system is to be used only in accordance with the approved investigational plan and
      the CE-Certificate, on subjects who receive CPAP therapy and have signed an informed consent
      form. The use of the device is limited to the approved study investigators. After each
      examination interval a BGA will be performed.

      The reason why this study is conducted on ICU patients is the following. Patients who suffer
      from respiratory deficiencies and are in need of ventilatory assistance are rarely located on
      normal hospital wards due to the fact that the installation of a ventilatory machine with
      additional CPAP mode has to be performed by specialized personnel. In addition, these
      patients require close monitoring, which can be guaranteed in an ICU setting.

      Pregnant women, as well as individuals with severe valvular or neurological diseases will not
      be included in the observation study.

      After the indication for CPAP-therapy is verified and the in- and exclusion criteria are
      checked, the patients will be recruited for the study.

      The study will be divided in two data collection parts, both taken in one session.

        1. 15min before CPAP:

             -  starting to collect data of either continuous arterial blood pressure measurement
                (ABP)

             -  or non invasive (NIBP) until end of study

             -  starting NIRS measurement on both brain hemispheres (INVOS 5100C) until procedure
                is completed

             -  drawing an arterial our venous (according to available access) blood sample for a
                blood gas analysis (BGA)

        2. 15min with CPAP:

             -  measurements performed in point 1. (ABP/NIBP, NIRS) will be continued

             -  taking of another arterial our venous (according to available line) blood sample
                for a BGA

      The order of point 1. and 2. (without or with CPAP) will be randomized into group 1 and group
      2 in the same patient.

      OPERATIONAL OBJECTIVES

        1. st year: Drafting of the study proposal. Aims: - Literature search and review

             -  Drafting of the study proposal

             -  Detailed planning of the realization of the project

           Short description: Current literature on CPAP therapy, NIRS and rSO2 will be reviewed.
           The exact planning of the realization of the study will begin after the positive ethics
           committee vote has been received. A detailed study protocol will be written after the
           literature review and the performance of preliminary measurements.

        2. nd year: Initiation of the project

           Aims: - Performing preliminary measurements and refining study protocol

             -  Execution of the study

             -  Evaluating the results

           Short description: Preliminary measurements with NIRS will be performed, after which the
           study protocol will be refined. According to the adapted protocol, the study will be
           carried out on the ICUs of the MUW.

        3. rd year: Finalizing the project, statistical evaluation; Data interpretation and writing
           of the thesis.

      Aims: - Evaluation of data

        -  Statistical analysis

        -  Interpretation of the results

        -  Drafting a preliminary version of the thesis

        -  Revision of the thesis to the supervisors's comments

        -  Writing a research paper to publish the study results

      Short Description: Following the completion of the study, all collected data will be
      evaluated and subjected to statistical analysis. Future follow up studies based on these
      results will be drafted. The applicant will be granted time to work on his research project
      as part of the research group "lung".

      Cooperation arrangements The project will be performed at the Department of Anesthesia,
      General Intensive Care and Pain Management, MUW.

      Outlook and further projects

      Several projects focusing on effects of rSO2 alterations in other settings are possible:

        -  intensive care unit therapy

        -  general anesthesia

      REFERENCES 1-23
    
  