
    
      The sero-surveillance will start in a cohort of 800 adults (18-50y). In case of an
      established outbreak, this sample will be extended to 800 pre-school children (0-5y), 800
      schoolchildren (6-17y) and elderly (50+y). Human interactions will be quantified for the
      rural context of Kimpese in four age categories, pre-school children (0-5y), schoolchildren
      (6-17y), adults (18-50y) and elderly (50+). A sample of 300 persons in each age group will be
      selected.

      The study site will be the Health Demographic Surveillance System (HDSS) in the health
      district of Kimpese, Kongo-Central province, DRC, managed Centre de Recherche en Santé de
      Kimpese (CRSK). Each village, household and household member is listed in the HDSS database,
      each household has been geo-referenced. The HDSS has enrolled a cohort of 60 000 inhabitants
      in 11 rural health areas of the district. CRSK is the partner involved in the study and from
      the core database the cohort population for the study will be selected using two stage
      sampling. In stage one 20 villages will be randomly selected from the HDSS database using
      population size as sampling weight. In stage two a random sample of 40 eligible individuals
      will be drawn in each of the selected villages.

      In the cohort, a blood sample will be collected for serology (sero-surveillance). When an
      individual presents seroconversion, the household attack rate will be explored. Information
      on symptoms and one serum sample of each household member, irrespective of age, will be
      requested during the next follow-up visit. Any study subject reporting symptoms or presenting
      with a fever, will be referred to the Institut Médical Evangélique (IME) hospital for
      appropriate medical care.

      A social mixing survey will be carried out to assess human contact behaviour, in an extended
      cohort involving four age groups (0-5 years; 6-17 years; 18-50 years; >50 years old), sampled
      from the overall population in rural Kimpese.
    
  