
    
      Rationale:

      The importance of early life epigenetics is now recognized to have direct implications for
      health in later life and a consistent limitation expressed in peer reviewed publications has
      been the small sample size of the studies. Rather than establish a separate cohort to study
      epigenetics in young children in this environment this extension study of TMEC 15-062
      (Molecular signature of Karen and Burmese women on the Thailand--Myanmar border) aims to
      build on the detailed sampling of the mothers to not only identify biomarkers of preterm
      labor but also to understand high rates of stunting and anaemia in this area, and possibly
      develop predictive tools or pave new ways for prevention in the future.

      Moreover, a non-invasive intervention in the form of nutrition and WASH counselling may
      provide information on whether this form of engagement can positively influence child
      development, prevent malnutrition and whether perturbations in the infants molecular
      signature can be observed.

      In addition, the mothers exposed to the sampling procedure at birth in this study will be
      able to make a well-informed decision about whether they wish to enrol the child in such a
      study.

      The rationale for the planned samples in children born to mothers who participated in the
      TMEC 15-062 study are summarized in the following text:

      Child gut microbiome and assessment of nutrition from stool samples (Risk-none) The
      intestinal ecosystem is very dynamic, especially in the first period of life, as it needs to
      evolve from scratch, hence investigators want to follow children and analyse stool samples in
      first 24 month of life. investigators propose to assess what kind of impact the gut
      microbiome has on the child's growth and development. Since exposure to helminths is common
      in the study population, children stool samples will also be used to examine for helminthic
      infestations.

      This point would also include a home visit as part of nutrition evaluation by questionnaire
      and direct observation (food preparation including hygiene, child food content, feeding
      patterns) to relate to microbiome.

      Early childhood Transcriptome from capillary blood (Risk-minimum) This point will enable us
      to understand whether preterm infants have different gene expression than their term
      counterparts and if so, how it evolves in the early period of life. Moreover, specific
      signals for children at risk for or suffering from malnutrition or stunting resulting from
      gastrointestinal inflammation or barrier disruption could be picked up. Total blood 0.85 mL
      in 2 years.

      Early childhood detection of anaemia from capillary blood (Risk-minimum) Anaemia will be
      treated and iron supplement effect on gut microbiome analysed. Total blood 0.85 mL in 2
      years.

      Early childhood detection of soil transmitted helminth infection from stool sample
      (Risk-none) Helminth infection will be treated and the effect on gut microbiome analysed.
      Stool sample each visit.

      Child growth assessment and evaluation of motor and neurocognitive development (Risk-none)
      Premature infants have a higher risk for lifelong health and development problems.
      Investigators propose to follow the children's over the period of 2 years to assess their
      growth and their neurocognitive and motor development. Preterm children's growth and
      development will be compared to term neonates. The recommended schedule of growth assessment
      in healthy children is (1, 2, 4, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24 months). In this study children will be
      followed more frequently: monthly in the first year of life and 3 monthly in the 2nd year of
      life (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 15, 18, 21, 24 months). The reasons for this
      include: the objective of the root study TMEC 15-062 which is on preterm infants who require
      closer follow up, to relate perturbations of biomarkers to stunting, and in this mobile
      population scheduled visits may be missed so a more flexible arrangement for checking
      anthropometry at any monthly visit in the first year of life reduces the chance that poor
      growth is not identified.

      In addition, the growth and development of children born to mothers who had a febrile episode
      during pregnancy will be compared to children whose mothers did not experience fever episodes
      during pregnancy.

      Children with poor growth or malnutrition will be given supplementary nutrition and nutrition
      advice will be given to the mother.
    
  