
    
      Although the incidence of complications in patients undergoing correction of their spinal
      deformity has been reported extensively, the majority of these studies were retrospective.
      There were only five studies, three from a single institution, with prospectively collected
      data that specifically identified complications. The largest series was from Buchowski et al
      who reported on 108 patients with fixed sagittal deformity undergoing Pedicle Subtraction
      Osteotomy (PSO) with a 14% over-all complication rate with motor weakness in 11 patients and
      neurogenic bladder in one patient, of which 3 were permanent. Yang reported on 35 patients
      undergoing PSOs with a 46% over-all complication rate and one transient nerve root motor
      deficit. As in 2002 reported on 83 patients undergoing various osteotomies for sagittal
      imbalance and reported a 34% over-all complication rate with 3 permanent and 3 transient
      nerve root deficits.

      Given this lack of information, there is a need to determine the true incidence of
      complications using a prospective multi-center design. There is a need to identify neurologic
      deficits in a more systematic fashion to include spinal cord, cauda equina and nerve root
      deficits as well as radiculopathies. The risk factors associated with the occurrence of a
      complication, especially a neurologic complication, also needs to be more fully elucidated.
      This is increasingly relevant, as newer surgical techniques allow for more aggressive
      correction of the spinal deformity that may put the spinal cord and nerve roots at increased
      risk. Valid data on the incidence and types of neurologic deficits is also needed in order to
      study newer drugs that are available that may mitigate this risk.

      The primary objectives of this study are: (i) to establish the incidence of neurologic
      deficit in "high risk" adult patients undergoing correction of their spinal deformity of
      adult spinal deformity and (ii) to identify characteristics associated with increased risk of
      neurologic complications. Secondary objectives include (i) to determine the incidence of all
      complications related to surgical correction of "high risk" adult spinal deformity; (ii) to
      determine the short-term clinical outcomes in patients undergoing correction of their spinal
      deformity and (iii).to determine amount of radiographic and clinical correction of deformity
    
  