
    
      The investigators plan to enroll 15 subjects per study arm, for a total of 30 participants.
      Potential subjects for recruitment will be identified from the electronic health records
      system of the West Cancer Center. The West Cancer Center employs four physicians specializing
      in gynecologic oncology who account for nearly 100% of open abdominal hysterectomies among
      ovarian cancer patients in the region. All four physicians have expressed strong support of
      the study and have agreed to actively participate by allowing screening of electronic health
      record data to identify appropriate patients and referral of eligible patients to the Nurse
      Coordinator for possible consent. The Nurse Coordinator will approach eligible patients
      during their surgery planning visit or in the hospital prior to surgery to provide an
      overview of the research study and seek informed consent.

      Patients who provide informed consent will immediately be asked to complete a brief baseline
      survey about their preferences for receiving prompts, either via email or via cell phone
      using a text message. After survey administration, all patients will be registered in the
      mobile health app, which will be used provide discharge care instructions and monitor their
      progress upon discharge. Study participants will then be randomized into one of two arms: 1)
      active prompts to use the study app or 2) use of study app, but no prompts. All participants
      will be followed for a minimum of 30 days and will be asked to complete a follow-up survey
      during a scheduled in-clinic appointment at the end of the study.

      Baseline and follow-up questionnaires will collect data on quality of life (SF-12), physical
      symptoms, activities of daily life, prescription narcotic use, health literacy, demographics
      and use of health care services (e.g. ER visit, hospital admission, clinic appointment). The
      web-based app will be used to remind patients of discharge instructions, ask questions
      related to current prescription pain medication use, new symptoms, or changes in the severity
      of symptoms.

      Data from this study will be derived from the following sources: electronic health data to
      capture treatment changes and disease severity; responses to baseline and follow-up
      questionnaires to measure self-reported behaviors, including quality of life, use of
      prescription pain medication and care utilization; and post-study semi-structured interviews
      with physicians and patients to provide qualitative feedback.
    
  