
    
      Bladder cancer is the 9th most commonly diagnosed cancer in men worldwide, with a
      standardized incidence rate of 9.0 per 100,000 person-years for men and 2.2 per 100,000
      person-years for women. Amongst any caner entity, bladder cancer is the most expensive cancer
      regarding follow-up and life-time treatment costs due to the high probability of recurrence.
      Up to 85% of patients initially present with non muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC).
      Progression to muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) is up to 10-20%. NMIBC is characterized
      by a high risk of recurrence after transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURBT): the 1-yr
      recurrence rate is 15-61% and the 5-yr recurrence rate is 31-78%. These numbers represent the
      heterogeneity of NMIBC.

      Against any existing oncological principle, during TURBT bladder tumors are resected in a
      piecemeal manner. This results in tumor fragmentation and floating cancer cells inside the
      bladder during surgery. These cells may have the ability to re-attach on and re-implant into
      the bladder wall and may be responsible for early disease recurrence which is commonly seen
      after initial surgery. It has been shown that tumor cells may access the circulatory system
      through cut vessels. Circulating tumor cells (CTCs) can be detected in up to 20% in T1 high
      grade disease and are commonly seen in metastasized disease. They have shown to be an
      independent predictor of disease progression and relapse in several studies and reflect
      biological aggressiveness.

      In the current study the investigators want to quantify CTCs for recurrent intermediate risk
      transitional cell carcinoma in purging fluid and blood for two different surgical methods:
      TURBT and Plasma-kinetic vaporisation of bladder tumors (PKVBT). Also correlations for
      recurrence will be investigated for the two different surgical methods.

      In 2 urological centers (LKH Hall, LKH Salzburg) participants with diagnosed intermediate
      risk recurrent transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder will be randomly enrolled for
      either TURBT or PKVBT. Before surgery CTCs will be analyzed in peripheral blood and purging
      fluid. (preoperative CTCs blood and purging fluid, morphological aspect of CTCs in purging
      fluid) After resection for TURBT and vaporization for PKVBT, a tumor ground biopsy will be
      taken for both groups. After coagluation, CTCs will again be drawn in peripheral blood
      (intraoperative CTCs blood). After completion of surgery an indwelling catheter is inserted
      and purging fluid is again analyzed (postoperative CTCs purging fluid, morphological aspect
      of CTCs in purging fluid). Blood is again taken on day 2 after surgery during the morning
      routine to assess CTCs after surgery (postoperative CTCs blood). Patients will be dismissed
      on earliest day 2 after surgery after indwelling catheter removal.

      Recurrence will be assessed during follow-up by cystoscopic controls (From 3 to 36 months
      after surgery). If recurrence is detected the study is terminated. If no recurrence is
      detected up to 36 months after surgery, the study is likewise terminated.
    
  