
    
      1. Rationale: Oxytocin (OT) is a neuropeptide produced in the supraoptic and
           paraventricular nuclei of the hypothalamus. There exists at least three plausible
           mechanisms through which OT may decrease pain sensitivity. In brief, the first mechanism
           involves spinal signaling. A direct hypothalamo-spinal projection originating from the
           paraventricular nucleus transports OT, to the dorsal horn (Lamina-I, II, and IV), an
           area containing OT receptors that influence glutamate and GABA cellular signaling. The
           second mechanism involves an indirect pathway via the endogenous opioids. Evidence
           suggests that OT binds to opioid receptors and may also stimulate endogenous opioid
           release in the brain. Finally, OT may decrease pain by improving mood, decreasing
           anxiety, and mitigating the stress response.

           Thirty-three animal investigations have assessed OT-pain relationships with 29 reporting
           that exogenous administration and higher endogenous levels decreased pain. There is a
           lack of clarity of an OT-pain association in the human literature due to a paucity of
           methodologically rigorous trials. Thus far, OT administration has been reported to lower
           pain sensitivity among patients experiencing chronic back pain, headache, constipation,
           and colon pain. To date, no research has evaluated the association between intranasal OT
           and chronic pelvic pain. The association between OT and pain may be different in women
           with pelvic pain relative to other chronic pain conditions because of a potential
           peripheral OT-pain pathway. There is an abundance of OT receptors in the uterus, and OT
           is a potent uterogenic agent that is clinically used in large doses to stimulate uterine
           contractions and induce labor. While OT does not cross the blood-brain-barrier, the
           central administration of intranasal OT increases central and blood-plasma OT
           concentrations. Thus, intranasal OT administration may be associated with pain through
           central and peripheral pathways; however uterine contractions with 24IU doses of
           intranasal OT occur in only 1 in every 100-1000 people.

        2. Research questions and objectives: This research is a pilot study of the efficacy of
           intranasal OT at improving pain and function among women with chronic pelvic pain of
           primarily musculoskeletal origin

           .

        3. Design: This study will utilize a double-blind, placebo-controlled, within-subjects
           crossover design. Participants will complete 6-weeks of testing consisting of two 2-week
           intranasal administrations separated by a 2-week washout period
    
  