
    
      Even after successful return of spontaneus circulation (ROSC), patients suffering a cardiac
      arrest with subsequent cardipulmonary resuscitation (CPR) are still facing a significant
      morbidity and mortality in the post-resuscitation phase. They are nowadays often subjected to
      extracorporal membrane oxygenation (ECMO), supplementing or even replacing cardiac and/or
      pulmonary function for a certain period in order to reduce the workload for these critical
      organs. However, as well as the initial ischemia/reperfusion damage, subsequent procedures
      create significant stress to the patients organism, causing severe inflammation and
      contributing to post-resuscitation single or multiple organ disfunction and/or failure.

      Continously eliminating relevant mediators of inflammation by adsorption to a polymer-based
      material in extracorporal circulation has been shown to influence the course of this
      inflammatory syndrome in patients with severe infection and sepsis. Any relevant clinical
      studies evaluating the use of such a device in post-resuscitation care are still lacking,
      yet.

      Therefore, in this study the investigators are going to test the hypothesis that such a
      device is capable of significantly altering the cytokine levels during and even shortly after
      a 48h treatment period in addition to the standard ECMO therapy all patients are going to
      receive. As a secondary outlook, the investigators are going to compare the clinical outcome
      of the patients in terms of major organ disfunction and overall 30d mortality.

      At the time extracoporal circulation is established during or after CPR, all participants
      (n=40) are enrolled and randomized into a treatment and a control group. The extracorporal
      circulation over the ECMO device is then outfitted with a certified in line adsorption
      cartridge for the treatment group. Due to technical reasons, this cartridge has to be
      exchanged for another identical module after 24h of continuous treatment. Adsorption therapy
      is terminated after 48h. The control group is subjected to ECMO without any additional
      modules. Both groups are receiving standard intensive care during the course of the study.
      All diagnostic and therapeutic decisions with the exemption of those directly concerning the
      hemoadsorption and sampling protocol are at sole discretion of the clinical staff.

      For both groups, blood samples are taken at time points 0,6,12,24,36,48,72h after
      establishment of ECMO or time of death, respectively. Relevant parameters are then determined
      in different diagnostic and research laboratories with/without sample preprocessing by the
      study personal in accordance with preanalytic requirements. All relevant clinical data is
      extracted from the digital patient data management system (PDMS).
    
  