
    
      Maintaining adequate hydration is essential to optimal health (Perrier, 2017) and athletic
      performance. When individuals exercise (in particular in a warm environment), they can lose
      excessive amounts of fluids through sweating, along with necessary electrolytes (e.g.,
      sodium, potassium, chloride). With dehydration, individuals may feel sluggish and can
      experience impaired physical performance.

      Many attempts have been made to improve and measure the hydration status of active
      individuals. This typically involves the ingestion of fluids leading up to activity
      (typically plain water), as well as the ingestion of fluids during the activity itself
      (water, along with a diluted carbohydrate/electrolyte beverage). This approach seems to work
      well; however, some debate remains over what the best fluid is to consume, in particular
      related to the macronutrient type and the specific electrolyte mix.

      Related to the above, it is well-accepted that electrolyte replenishment is of importance,
      both during and following exercise-to aid in rehydration for subsequent bouts (Evans et al.,
      2017). The use of electrolytes (sodium in particular) has been used for decades to aid
      athlete hydration and has led to the development of various sport drinks-which also include
      small amounts of carbohydrate. However, one problem with carbohydrate ingestion is that some
      individuals experience gastrointestinal (GI) upset following carbohydrate ingestion before
      and during an event, despite very good physical performance outcomes. Due to this GI upset,
      some individuals (in particular recreationally active individuals who are not competing at
      high levels) rely solely on water and seek a method to ingest the lost electrolytes. In
      addition, some individuals prefer to have both plain water and an electrolyte beverage during
      their training/competition sessions and in some activities (e.g., running, cycling), carrying
      multiple bottles of fluid is difficult.

      The solution to the above issues for many athletes is the use of electrolyte tablets. These
      can be dropped into plain water and will dissolve into a flavored electrolyte-rich beverage.
      They are easy to transport and provide the needed electrolytes to replace those that are lost
      through intense and/or long duration exercise.

      Nuun electrolyte tablets provide only 2 grams of carbohydrate and a combination of
      electrolytes, provided at a relatively low percentage of the Daily Value (DV). The DV tells
      us how much a particular nutrient in a serving of a food product contributes to a daily diet,
      based on a standard 2000 calorie diet. Nuun tablets contain: calcium (13mg, 1%DV), sodium
      (300mg, 13%DV), potassium (150mg, 3%DV), magnesium (25mg, 6%DV), and chloride (40mg, 2%DV).
      These tablets contain a small percentage of the needed total electrolytes but adequate
      amounts to replace lost electrolytes as a result of physical activity.

      While Nuun tablets are commercially available and have received positive reviews from end
      users, there have been no studies to date to evaluate the impact of these tablets on
      hydration status. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to determine the impact of Nuun
      electrolyte tablets on hydration status in young and active men and women. We will follow a
      similar approach as used by Maughan and colleagues (2016) to measure the beverage hydration
      index (the relative amount of urine passed after consumption of a drink compared to water).
      It is hypothesized that Nuun electrolyte tablets will result in a greater hydration status as
      compared to water only. Due to the fact that athletes use Nuun tablets at varying dosages, we
      will evaluate Nuun at both a single dosage and a double dosage. We maintain a non-directional
      hypothesis regarding the potential differences between the two different dosages tested.
    
  