
    
      Cancers of the head and neck (H&N) comprise 5% of all cancers, with 40,000 new cases
      diagnosed annually. Surgery followed by irradiation or irradiation alone has been the
      standard of care for locally advanced Stage III and IV patients. With this approach, fewer
      than 30% of patients achieve long-term remission, and most recur locoregionally. Neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy has been administered prior to definitive therapy with response rates ranging
      from 60-90%; with pathologic complete response (CR) rates documented in 30-70% of clinical
      responders. However, large randomized trials have shown no improvement in overall survival.

      Because induction chemotherapy alone does not appear to improve long-term disease free
      survival in advanced head and neck cancers, concomitant chemotherapy and radiation has been
      pursued in patients with locally advanced head and neck cancers. Improved disease-free
      survival has been demonstrated with a variety of agents. The concept of synergy between
      radiation and chemotherapy is well established in vitro. Various schedules of radiation and
      chemotherapy have been utilized including weekly chemotherapy during radiation, chemotherapy
      given every three weeks during hyperfractionated radiation and alternating chemotherapy and
      radiation.

      One exciting new chemotherapeutic agent, Paclitaxel has been shown to radiosensitize cancer
      cell lines in vitro. Recent studies have added Carboplatin to Paclitaxel in tandem or
      concurrently with radiation in hopes of improving response rates. From in-vitro data, it
      appears that the optimum schedule for the combination of Paclitaxel and radiation is to first
      induce G2/M arrest with Paclitaxel and follow this with radiation therapy. In a recent study
      by Chendil, et al, a novel radiation scheme appeared to enhance the response of both p53 wild
      type and p53 mutant cancer cell lines to chemotherapy. In vitro data with Carboplatin also
      indicates an additive effect when given prior to irradiation using various cell lines. What
      has not been evaluated, is whether a neoadjuvant regimen of Paclitaxel and Carboplatin
      followed by 4 small fractions of radiation can be given safely and effect an improved
      response rate in patients with bulky T2, Stage III and IV H&N cancer. We propose the use of
      two cycles of Paclitaxel and Carboplatin followed by four small fractions of radiation, prior
      to definitive treatment (surgery or radiation). It is hoped that using radiation as a
      chemoenhancer will increase the response rate to induction therapy in this population of
      patients.
    
  