
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Despite significant in vitro data that metronidazole is active against Mycobacterium
      tuberculosis (MTB) maintained under anaerobic conditions, the utility of this agent has not
      been evaluated carefully in human disease due to lack of efficacy in murine models of
      tuberculosis (TB). Unlike disease in rodents, however, human disease is characterized by
      discrete types of lesions including both aerobic (cavities) and anaerobic (caseous necrotic
      nodules) areas. Recent experiments in non-human primates have demonstrated that closed
      caseous necrotic lesions are highly anoxic and are, therefore, likely to contain anaerobic
      bacilli highly susceptible to metronidazole. Recent studies in TB-infected rabbits have shown
      that metronidazole therapy is highly effective in an animal model that recapitulates this
      feature of human disease. Both of these studies support the possibility that metronidazole
      may have unique activity against an anaerobic sub-population of bacilli in human disease.
      Such sub-populations may be responsible for the extended duration of chemotherapy typically
      employed in tuberculosis chemotherapy, as anoxic bacteria are highly resistant to the
      sterilizing effects of front-line tuberculosis agents. One small clinical trial of
      metronidazole in an Indian population also suggests that this agent may have a significant
      unappreciated role in the control of human tuberculosis.

      AIMS:

      The major aim of this study is to evaluate the ability of metronidazole to kill an anaerobic
      sub-population of Mycobacterium tuberculosis within multi-drug resistant tuberculosis
      (MDR-TB) patients. In order to address this sub-population in the context of disease, this
      study combines traditional measurements of drug efficacy, including the rate of sputum
      clearance of organisms, with a functional imaging technique, [(18)
      F]-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose -positron emission tomography - high-resolution computed
      tomography (FDG-PET-HRCT) that has not previously been applied to monitoring tuberculosis
      chemotherapy. In addition, this clinical trial will evaluate the tolerability and preliminary
      efficacy of metronidazole (500 mg three times a day (t.i.d.) when given in combination with
      standard second-line antituberculous treatment.

      METHODS:

      Type of study to be conducted:

      Randomized, double-blinded, placebo controlled phase II study.

      Population to be Studied:

      The study population will be drawn from subjects at the National Masan Tuberculosis Hospital
      (NMTH), Changwon, Republic of Korea. Subjects presenting at NMTH who have been previously
      treated with first-line agents and who are multi-drug resistant (MDR), defined as having TB
      isolates that are resistant to at least isoniazid and rifampicin, and are therefore eligible
      for second-line antituberculous drug therapy will be included.

      Treatment Regimen and Treatment Period(s):

      All patients will receive either: (1) an 8-week course of standard second-line agents plus
      placebo t.i.d., or (2) an 8-week course of standard second-line agents plus 500 mg t.i.d.
      metronidazole. In total, sixty subjects will be accrued into two cohorts of 30 patients each.
      After 8 weeks, all subjects will revert to standard of care (SOC) chemotherapy according to
      normal procedures at NMTH. According to hospital standard of care, patients are continued on
      second-line medications for 18-24 months following sputum culture conversion.
    
  