
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary Objectives

        -  To determine the maximum-tolerated dose of panobinostat in combination with letrozole in
           patients with metastatic breast cancer. (Phase I)

        -  To determine the safety of this regimen in these patients. (Phase I)

        -  To assess the confirmed response rate and safety profile of this regimen in patients
           with triple-negative disease. (Phase II)

      Secondary Objectives

        -  To assess the therapeutic effects of this regimen in these patients. (Phase I)

        -  To examine the duration of response, clinical benefit rate, and time to treatment
           failure in patients treated with this regimen. (Phase II)

        -  To examine the time to progression, progression-free survival, and overall survival of
           patients treated with this regimen. (Phase II)

        -  To examine the estrogen, progesterone, and HER2 status of tumor at primary compared to
           metastatic tissue, and possibly after treatment. (exploratory)

        -  To bank paraffin-embedded tissue blocks/slides and blood products for future studies.
           (exploratory)

        -  To determine expression levels of biomarkers of treatment response (i.e., ER, PR,
           aromatase, NFkappaB, Ki67, and Caspase 3) in accessible tumors pre- and post-therapy via
           immunohistochemistry. (exploratory)

        -  To determine whether ELISA for KLK11 in serum can be used as marker of activity of
           letrozole and LBH589. (exploratory) The Phase I portion of this study closed and the
           Phase II portion of the study opened as per NCCTG Addendum 6, effective January 23,
           2012.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I dose-escalation study of panobinostat followed by a
      phase II study. (The Phase I portion of this study closed and the Phase II portion of the
      study opened as per NCCTG Addendum 6, effective January 23, 2012.)

      Patients receive oral panobinostat once daily on days 1, 3, and 5 in weeks 1-4 and oral
      letrozole once daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Tumor tissue and blood samples are collected and banked for future biomarker and other
      analysis. Samples are also analyzed for biomarkers utilizing immunohistochemistry,
      microarray, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and enzyme-linked
      immunosorbent assay (ELISA).

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for up to 5
      years.
    
  