
    
      The Multisite Evaluation of the Honest Opportunity Probation with Enforcement Demonstration
      Field Experiment (the HOPE DFE Evaluation) has four goals: (1) Design and implement a
      randomization process in each of the four DFE sites; (2) Conduct a comprehensive process
      evaluation to assess implementation fidelity and identify lessons learned that will enhance
      future replications; (3) Conduct a rigorous experimental outcome evaluation to determine the
      effect of the HOPE model and its components on individual probation outcomes; and (4) Conduct
      a cost evaluation to assess the cost effectiveness of HOPE. The RCT will involve identifying
      in each of four sites a pool of HOPE-eligible probationers who will be randomly assigned to
      HOPE or to probation as usual (PAU). The evaluation will randomly assign approximately 400
      eligible probationers to HOPE or PAU in each of the four sites for a total sample size of
      1,600 (800 HOPE and 800 PAU). Criteria identifying the HOPE-eligible target population and
      procedures to identify that population in a timely fashion randomly assigning HOPE-eligible
      Probationers to HOPE or PAU have been identified. Random assignment will be accomplished
      using evaluation-provided forms that include study identification numbers and the random
      assignment that is covered by a scratch-off label. The assignment will be revealed only after
      the individual has been provided the opportunity to participate in the evaluation and, with
      consent, completed the baseline interview. The process evaluation/fidelity assessment
      component will document the extent to which each program conforms to the HOPE model; document
      the barriers, challenges, facilitators, and lessons learned during implementation to fill
      gaps in the knowledge base as to what is required to set up a HOPE program; and provide
      evidence as to the generalizability and sustainability of HOPE programs. This component will
      also document the PAU control conditions in each site and will assess implementation fidelity
      of evidence-based drug treatment programs. Implementation and process measures will be
      collected through stakeholder interviews; observation of initial warning hearings and court
      appearances; and review of court, probation, and HOPE project records. The process evaluation
      will also document the PAU practices to identify intervention differences among the control
      groups and to provide an opportunity to measure changes in practices that could signal
      contamination of the control arm. Fidelity assessments of drug treatment programs will be
      conducted using the Correctional Program Checklist. The outcome study will assess whether
      HOPE participation improves appointment compliance, drug test results, rearrest rates,
      revocation rates, jail days served, and prison days sentenced. In addition, the evaluation
      will determine whether HOPE participation changes potential mediators including criminal
      thinking/attitudes, perceptions of control and justice system fairness and legitimacy,
      dynamic recidivism risk factors, and employment and housing stability. For the outcome study,
      administrative data will provide information on appointment compliance, drug test results,
      re-arrests, violations, revocations, and jail and prison days for all HOPE and PAU evaluation
      participants. Interview data will be collected from evaluation participants at evaluation
      enrollment and 6 months post-enrollment on measures that will facilitate understanding of the
      nature of individual change associated with HOPE participation. All HOPE-eligible
      Probationers who consent to study participation will complete an audio computer assisted self
      interview (ACASI) at baseline and 6 months post baseline; a random sample of those completing
      ACASI baseline interviews will be asked to participate in a twice-weekly series of
      mini-interviews (telephone-ACASI or T-ACASI). Non-incarcerated individuals are being offered
      $20 equivalent to complete the ACASI interview. Random drug tests on a subsample of HOPE and
      PAU evaluation participants will be conducted in conjunction with the 6-month post-enrollment
      interviews to provide a common measure of current drug use.
    
  