
    
      The study involves medical imaging of patients undergoing an angioplasty intervention in a
      peripheral artery. It is similar to an observational study, except that additional imaging is
      performed which is above the standard-of-care. Some risks may be associated with the
      additional imaging due to a small increase in radiation exposure and intravenous contrast
      administration. No investigational drug or device will be tested in this study. No control
      group will be used.

      Logistic regression analysis will be performed using NCSS statistical software to identify
      which explanatory variable(s), selected from the simulation results, can be used to predict
      binary restenosis, the categorical dependent variable.

      For each subject, binary restenosis will be determined by comparing the CT-scan images
      obtained 1 hour post-intervention to those obtained at the 6 month follow-up study. The
      CT-scan images will be segmented and a mesh of the target vessel will be reconstructed as
      described in objective 1. The lumen area will be measured in every cross-section of the mesh
      perpendicular to the vessel centerline, with 2 mm steps between cross-sections. The minimum
      lumen diameter will be calculated from the minimum lumen area. If the minimum lumen diameter
      at follow-up is less than 50% of the minimum lumen diameter post-intervention, then the
      binary restenosis is positive. Otherwise it is negative.

      Objective 1: Evaluate the accuracy of computer predictions of artery dilatation and stent
      implantation from CT-scan images. This information is hypothesized to be indicative of the
      accuracy of other quantities predicted by computer simulation of angioplasty, such as those
      used as independent variables in objective 2.

      Objective 2: Establish a regression model with 80% sensitivity and 80% specificity for
      predicting binary restenosis based on one or several injury parameters in patients undergoing
      angioplasty. The candidate injury parameters are:

        -  endothelium denudation (in % of total endothelium area)

        -  descriptors of the magnitude and spatial distribution of stretch ratio in the arterial
           wall

        -  descriptors of the magnitude and spatial distribution of intramural stress in the
           arterial wall All injury parameters are predicted by computer simulation of angioplasty.
    
  