
    
      Tuberculosis (TB) remains one of the important infectious diseases worldwide. Timely
      implementation of optimized anti-tuberculous therapy is still the mainstay to prevent further
      transmission of TB. However, hepatitis during anti-tuberculous treatment (HATT) has been an
      obstacle in managing TB patients, especially in those with viral hepatitis. A previous study
      revealed the risk of HATT is significantly higher in TB patients with high serum hepatitis B
      virus (HBV) DNA level than those with low HBV DNA level (39% vs. 11%), the latter cases have
      a similar risk of HATT as those without viral hepatitis (14%). Based on these findings, we
      thus hypothesize that the risk of HATT in TB patients with high baseline serum HBV DNA level
      can be reduced by concomitant use of anti-HBV agent. In this proposal, we will conduct a
      prospective randomized clinical study to assess the reduction of HATT risk by using entecavir
      in TB patients with high baseline serum HBV DNA level, and to evaluate the risk of other
      treatment-related adverse events in two hospitals. From January 2012 to June 2014, subjects
      with culture-confirmed TB and aged from 18 to 80 with high serum HBV viral load prior to
      anti-tuberculous treatment will be enrolled and randomized into either study or control
      group. High serum HBV viral load is defined as >20,000 and >2,000 IU/mL for HBeAg-positive
      and HBeAg-negative subjects, respectively. In addition to standard anti-tuberculous
      treatment, subjects in the study group will receive entecavir (BARACLUDE®) 0.5 mg per day
      during anti-tuberculous treatment and for 6 months after stopping anti-tuberculous treatment.
      Hemogram, liver function, renal function, and serum HBV viral load will be regularly
      monitored to detect the development of HATT and other adverse events. In this study, HATT is
      defined as fulfilling anyone of the following conditions: (1) increase in serum AST and/or
      ALT level of >3 times upper limit of normal (ULN) with symptoms if baseline liver function is
      normal; (2) increase in serum AST and/or ALT level of >5 times ULN without symptoms if
      baseline liver function is normal; (3) increase in serum AST and/or ALT level of >2 times
      baseline if baseline liver function is abnormal; and (4) increase in serum total bilirubin
      level of > 2.5 mg/dL.
    
  