
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To develop and validate prediction biomarkers for radiation therapy (RT)-induced acute
           and chronic skin reactions and quality of life in five racial/ethnic groups of breast
           cancer patients, Whites*, Black/African Americans, Hispanic/Latinos, Asians/Native
           Hawaiians/Pacific Islanders, and American Indians/Alaskan Natives. NOTE: *This stratum
           is closed as of April 25, 2012.

        -  To develop polygenic models of RT-induced skin reactions with a comprehensive evaluation
           of genome-wide nonsynonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (nsSNPs).

        -  To evaluate the levels of DNA damage (Comet assay) and radiosensitivity (Cell Cycle G2
           Delay assay) in lymphocytes before and after RT.

        -  To test the effect of gene-gene and gene-smoking interactions on RT-induced skin
           reactions.

        -  To assess race-ethnic differences in RT-induced skin reactions, DNA damage, and
           radiosensitivity and to determine if the gene effects are consistent across
           race-ethnicity (gene-race/ethnic interactions).

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to race/ethnicity
      (Whites* vs Black/African Americans vs Hispanic/Latinos vs Asians/Native Hawaiians/Pacific
      Islanders vs American Indians/Alaskan Natives). NOTE: *This stratum is closed as of April 25,
      2012.

      Patients undergo adjuvant radiotherapy after breast-conserving surgery.

      Blood and urine samples are collected at baseline and last day of radiotherapy for
      genotyping, DNA damage, cell cycle assays, urine cotinine, inflammatory immune response
      biomarkers, and tumor-killing activity by BeadArray System, Comet assay, flow cytometry-based
      assay, Cell-Cycle G2 Delay Assay, Oxygen Radical Absorbance Capacity (ORAC) assay, and ELISA.

      Patients are assessed for acute toxicity by research staff using the ONS Criteria for
      Radiation-Induced Acute Skin Toxicity at baseline, week 3, and at 1 and 2 months after
      radiotherapy. Patients are also assessed for chronic toxicity by research staff using the
      Chronic skin toxicity questionnaire (RTOG SOMA Criteria for RT- Induced Breast/Chest Wall
      Late Skin Toxicity) at 6 and 12 months after completion of radiotherapy. Photographs of the
      breast, chest wall, and contralateral breast are also taken at baseline, week 3, last day of
      radiotherapy, and at 1, 2, 6, and 12 months after completion of radiotherapy.

      Patients complete the Breast Cancer Risk Study Questionnaire, the Functional Assessment of
      Cancer Therapy Breast (FACT-B), the Modified Skindex, and the B39 Quality-of-Life (QOL)
      Questionnaire at baseline, last day of radiotherapy, and at 1, 2, 6, and 12 months after
      radiotherapy.
    
  