
    
      Study methods This is a prospective, randomized parallel-group single center study in
      patients undergoing elective major spine surgery. Patients will be randomized to ROTEM-guided
      hemostatic therapy algorithm or standard of care hemostatic therapy: arterial blood gas
      analysis (ABG), normalized index ratio (INR), prothrombin time (PT), thromboplastin time
      (aPTT), hemoglobin (Hb), platelets, and fibrinogen.

      Study Procedures Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to either standard of care
      coagulation tests (SOC) or ROTEM. No changes in surgery or anesthesia technique will be made
      for the purposes of the study.

      Standard of Care Coagulation Tests If patients are randomized to standard of care coagulation
      tests, these will be performed according to Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center
      standard practices and attending's criteria.

      Standard of care tests include but are not limited to: hemoglobin, platelet count, fibrinogen
      concentration, INR, aPTT, and PT. These will be performed at fixed time points
      (preoperatively, every 2 hours intraoperatively, procedure completion, and 24 hours after
      procedure completion). Arterial blood gases will be performed repetitively intraoperative at
      a fixed range every 1-hour or at attending's criteria, as well as any postoperative
      laboratory tests.

      ROTEM If patients are randomized to ROTEM, the anesthesiologist will be blinded to any
      intraoperative conventional coagulation test that might be performed.

      ROTEM will be used according to the manufacturer's instructions, using equipment and test
      reagents provided by Tem International GmbH. All tests will be performed at the bedside by a
      clinical perfusionist trained to perform ROTEM. A specific algorithm has been created and
      should be followed according to clinical criteria

      ROTEM monitoring will be performed in patients with signs of clinically relevant diffuse
      bleeding and in whom blood transfusion is considered (Temp >35 Celsius degrees; pH lower than
      7.2; Cai above 4.6 mg/dL; Hb below 9g/dL, or below 10g/dL with anticipated greater blood
      loss) or at a fixed range every 2 hours or at Anesthesiologist criteria based on patient's
      clinical situation.

      Patient´s clinical situation should be consider as the most important component on the
      transfusion decision-making process. Packed erythrocytes will be transfused to maintain
      hemoglobin concentrations higher 9g/dl and higher 10g/dl in individuals with underlying
      cardiovascular disease or anticipated greater blood loss. Individual based dynamics strongly
      indicating the need for erythrocyte transfusion at anesthesiologist criteria will be also
      part of the transfusion making decision-making process (tachycardia, hypotension, sings of
      ischemia on electrocardiogram, lactic acidosis, and dynamics of bleeding).

      Assessment and reporting of Adverse Events The occurrence of adverse events (AE) and serious
      adverse events (SAE) will be recorded from the time of consent until discharge. For each AE,
      the relationship to the study procedures and monitoring, severity, expectedness, outcome will
      be determined by the PI and recorded in the study source accordingly If the case a subject
      withdraws from the study due to a serious adverse event the local Institutional Review Board
      (IRB) will be notified within 10 days.
    
  