
    
      The Veterans Health Administration (VHA) is the largest U.S. HIV health provider with 64% of
      these Veterans 50+ years of age. HIV infection in the setting of antiretroviral therapy
      represents a chronic disease with an advanced aging phenotype manifested as increased
      cardiovascular disease, sarcopenia, and frailty, primarily driven by systemic inflammation.
      The investigators found a 42% reduction in VO2peak in older HIV+ adults that significantly
      improved with high-intensity aerobic (AEX) and resistance training (RT). Yet, durable
      strategies for high-intensity exercise in older adults remain a challenge and limited data
      are available in older HIV+ adults. There is an urgent need to address these knowledge gaps
      in order to prevent widespread disability in HIV+ Veterans. The objective is to provide a
      high-intensity exercise program for older Veterans that can be widely disseminated and
      attenuates processes underlying aging. Epigenetic changes with increased age encapsulate the
      putative effects of biological aging and lifestyle factors. DNA methylation (DNAm) patterns
      are frequently modified in genes encoding pro-inflammatory cytokines, but can be reversed
      with exercise training. DNA methylation age (DNAm Age) is an epigenetic biomarker that is
      expressed in years and provides a concrete benchmark of advanced aging. The investigators
      found that HIV+ adults have DNAm Age 11 years greater than age-matched adults without HIV.
      Further, in adults without HIV, increased DNAm Age is associated with physical inactivity,
      weakness and frailty. Preliminary data in the Veterans Aging Cohort Study (VACS) show that
      DNAm Age correlates with the VACS Index, a measure of frailty in HIV+ adults. However, the
      impact of exercise training on DNAm Age has yet to be determined in any patient population.
      The investigators propose to adapt center-based high-intensity AEX+RT intervention in older
      HIV+ Veterans into a video telehealth (VTEL) delivered functional (no stationary equipment)
      exercise program that leverages epigenetic outcomes to demonstrate anti-aging effects of
      exercise. The overarching hypothesis is that VTEL high-intensity functional circuit exercise
      in older HIV+ Veterans will improve the advanced aging phenotype and attenuate DNAm
      epigenetic processes underlying aging. Experimental approach includes a 12-week VTEL exercise
      intervention in 80 older HIV+ Veterans who are randomized to exercise or standard of care
      sedentary control groups. AIM 1 will determine the effect of VTEL exercise on VO2peak,
      sarcopenia, and frailty as phenotypic outcomes of advanced aging in HIV. AIM 2 will
      investigate the effect of VTEL exercise on DNAm Age as a biomarker of advanced aging. AIM 3
      will determine the effect of VTEL exercise on DNA methylation of specific genes encoding
      specific pro-inflammatory cytokines in leukocytes. This approach will advance an
      understanding of effective and feasible exercise strategies to prevent and minimize
      disability in patient populations with advanced aging. Findings will provide an innovative
      approach to functional exercise in all older adults. DNAm Age could be used as a personalized
      benchmark for an individual's benefit from exercise to promote sustainable behavior change.
      Findings will also provide epigenetic risk profiles that can be used to generate a
      personalized exercise prescription, an important next step in the next decade of precision
      medicine. The proposal leverages exercise training experience in HIV and VTEL, availability
      of 3,000 HIV+ Veterans at Atlanta and Baltimore VAMCs, and the VHA VTEL infrastructure. The
      capacity to disseminate VTEL exercise with minimal cost using existing infrastructure will
      facilitate large-scale dissemination and national impact. Deliverables include improved
      clinical outcomes and substantial cost savings from reduced hospitalization and
      institutionalization rates.
    
  