
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the response rate (overall and complete) to lenalidomide + rituximab in
      follicular non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) patients who have received no prior systemic therapy.

      II. To determine the time to progression after lenalidomide + rituximab in previously
      untreated patients with cluster of differentiation (CD)20+ follicular NHL.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the toxicity profile of lenalidomide + rituximab therapy in previously
      untreated patients with CD20+ follicular NHL.

      II. To establish whether the therapeutic effects of lenalidomide + rituximab combination are
      sufficiently promising to warrant evaluation in a subsequent randomized trial (in comparison
      to rituximab alone).

      III. To correlate fragment crystallizable gamma (Fcg) receptor polymorphism profiling with
      response to lenalidomide + rituximab in previously untreated patients with follicular NHL.

      IV. To determine the impact of lenalidomide on immune parameters in patients with previously
      untreated follicular lymphoma.

      V. To determine the impact of lenalidomide on angiogenic parameters in patients with
      previously untreated follicular lymphoma.

      VI. To correlate lymphoma-associated macrophages (LAM) and forkhead box P3 (FOXP3), granzyme
      B (GzB), CD10, multiple myeloma oncogene 1 (MUM1), and B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL2) expression
      with response to rituximab + lenalidomide in previously untreated patients with follicular
      lymphoma.

      VII. Determine whether immune gene signatures previously identified as prognostic factors in
      follicular lymphoma (FL) can be applied to paraffin-embedded tissues in rituximab treated
      patients; evaluate micro ribonucleic acid (RNA) signatures associated with these gene
      signatures and outcome; to validate immunohistochemical markers associated with outcome in FL
      (CD68 LAMs, FOXP3, CD10, BCL6, FOXP1, MUM1); and investigate whether markers of angiogenesis
      may be of value in prognosis of FL.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment with
      lenalidomide repeats every 28 days for 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive rituximab intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, 15,
      and 22 and on weeks 13, 21, 29, and 37 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for up to 8 years.
    
  