
    
      This is a two-group randomized controlled trial designed to determine whether
      videoconferencing-delivered, hypnosis enhanced cognitive therapy (HYPNOCT) is an effective
      treatment for chronic SCI-related pain compared to usual care (UC). Those who consent to
      participate in the study will be randomized to HYPNOCT or UC. Following enrollment, but prior
      to starting treatment, participants will be assessed via three short (1 minute) interviews
      and one long (30-40 minutes) interview within a period of seven days. The assessments will
      also be administered immediately following the end of treatment (Post-treatment, after weekly
      session #6) and 6 weeks following the end of treatment (12 week follow-up) for a total of
      three assessment time points. The post-treatment assessments will also include additional
      questions related to treatment. The study has two aims.

      Primary Objective: This trial is designed to assess whether videoconferencing-delivered,
      hypnosis enhanced cognitive therapy (HYPNOCT) is an effective treatment for chronic
      SCI-related pain compared to usual care (UC). Efficacy will be determined by comparing
      average pain intensity between the two groups at the end of the 6-week treatment phase, after
      controlling for baseline pain intensity and any confounders.

      Hypothesis 1a: There will be a significantly greater reduction in average daily pain
      intensity from baseline to the end of treatment (6 weeks) in the HYPNOCT group compared to
      the UC group.

      Secondary analyses will examine whether HYPNOCT and UC differ on pain interference,
      depression, sleep quality, subjective disability, health-related quality of life, and
      community participation at the end of treatment as well as at 12-week follow-up. Pain
      medications will be assessed at all time points and may be included as a covariate in outcome
      analyses.

      Hypothesis 1b: Compared to the UC condition, the HYPNOCT condition will demonstrate
      significantly greater improvement on secondary outcomes (pain interference, depression, sleep
      quality, subjective disability, health-related quality of life, community participation, pain
      catastrophizing, pain acceptance, and global improvement) at 6 weeks and on the primary and
      secondary outcomes at 12 weeks.

      Hypothesis 2: This is an exploratory hypothesis. The investigators will examine whether sex,
      race/ethnicity, and pain type (neuropathic vs. non-neuropathic) are effect modifiers.

      Design and Outcomes A single center, randomized, single blind 160 subject efficacy study
      comparing videconferencing-delivered hypnosis-enhanced cognitive therapy (HCT) and usual care
      (UC) for the treatment of chronic SCI pain.

      Interventions and Duration Participants will undergo a baseline assessment and then be
      randomized 1:1 to 6 weekly sessions of HYPNOCT vs. UC. Those in the HYPNOCT condition will
      have a weekly video-conference session with the study therapist over the course of 6 weeks.
      Each session will last between 45 and 60 minutes. Those in the UC condition will continue
      their usual care and receive no additional training from the study. The primary outcome
      assessment will be conducted at 6 weeks post-randomization. A follow-up assessment will be
      conducted in a similar manner at 12 weeks post-randomization. The primary outcome will be
      average pain intensity rated on a 1-10 numerical analog scale assessed four times within a
      one-week period.

      For participants, the duration of the study will be approximately 3 to 4 months.

      Sample Size and Population Researchers plan to enroll 160 participants with moderate to
      severe SCI-related chronic pain. Enrolled patients who complete the baseline assessments will
      be randomized into the HYPNOCT or UC conditions.
    
  