
    
      Seven ml blood sample were taken from arterial line after stabilization of anesthesia (T1),
      30 minutes after total CPB (T2), one hour after weaning from CPB (T3) and 24 hours after
      weaning from CPB (T4). One ml blood sample was immediately wrapped in aluminum foil and kept
      in ice to immediate measurements of MetHb, COHb and CL (ROS). CL assay was carried out within
      2 hours of sampling. Six ml samples remained was placed into tubes containing ethylenediamine
      tetraacetic acid. Serum were separated ( at 2000rpm for 10 minutes) immediately after
      sampling and stored at -80℃ for TAS assay, cytokine measurements, malondialdehyde (MDA)
      determination, complements and leukocyte elastase measurements. Those assay and measurements
      were carried out within 4 weeks of surgery.

      Measurements of hemoglobin (Hb), COHb and MetHb: Hb, COHb and MetHb were measured immediately
      with ABL520, Radiometer, Copenhagen, Denmark).

      Measurement of Redox balance: 0.2ml of fresh drawn blood was used to measure ROS production
      by lucigenin Chemiluminescence (CL) (detecting superoxide mainly) and luminal CL (detecting
      H2O2 and HOCl mainly) as previous study.The total antioxidant status in 20 uL of plasma was
      measured with a total antioxidant status (TAS) kit ( TAS CAL, Randox). Hemodilution effects
      with CPB, TAS levels at T2 were corrected with the hematocrits. Lipid peroxidation was
      determined by the thiobarbiturate reaction measuring the formation of MDA in plasma by TBARS
      assay kit (Cayman chemical co. USA) Cytokines analysis: Inflammatory cytokines were analysis
      with RayBio human inflammation antibody array 3 according to the manufacturer's instruction.
      (Cat# AAH-INF-3, RayBiotech Inc. Norcross, GA, USA).29 Measurements of complement activation
      and leukocytes activation: Complement Component 3a (C3a), C5a, and Human Terminal Complement
      Complex C5b-9 (C5b-9) were measured with human C3a EIA kit, human C5a EIA kit, Human Terminal
      Complement Complex C5b-9 kit, Life Science Inc.). Leukocyte elastase were measured by Elisa
      kit for Human Elastase 2,Neutrophil(NE, Life Science Inc.)
    
  