
    
      Aims To characterize and determine the prevalence of sleep disorders and sleep wake pattern
      in a large community-based sample of adult subjects with DS and AD dementia and to correlate
      the results with clinical, cognitive and behavioral features.

      OBJECTIVES:

      The general objective is to evaluate the impact of AD dementia on sleep in adults with DS.

        1. By evaluating the frequency of sleep problems in demented adults with DS through:

             1. Nocturnal sleep by polysomnography (PSG)

             2. Subjective sleep quality (Pittsburg) and daytime Somnolence (Epworth)

             3. Sleep-wake pattern by actimetry

        2. By analyzing the association between sleep problems and both age and body mass index
           (BMI)

        3. By analyzing the impact of sleep problems on:

             1. Daytime Somnolence (Epworth, actigraphy)

             2. Diurnal Behavioural disturbances

             3. Neurophysiological performance

           The secondary objective is to compare the sleep data of the DS patients with AD dementia
           with our sleep data of DS patients without dementia.

           The project is the continuation of our sleep research work in adults with DS. We have
           performed a community-based cross-sectional study in 54 adults with DS by means of
           objective and subjective measures, and we found a high prevalence of sleep disorders
           (Giménez, 2018). In this study, 6 DS patients had AD dementia. Although the sample was
           very small, our results show that the symptomatic AD-DS group presented a higher apnea
           hypopnea index (AHI), higher oxygen desaturations (ODI-3%), and higher respiratory
           arousal index compared to the non demented DS group. The DS group with dementia had also
           worse sleep efficiency and higher sleep fragmentation.

           METHODS:

           Muliticenter sleep study. Cross-sectional analytical study. The study duration is 24
           months. Participants: 90 subjects with DS and AD. Only subjects with mild and moderate
           mental retardation will be included.

           Variables and method of collection:

             1. Neurological evaluation: Standard visit in which medical and neurological past
                medical history will be reviewed to apply the inclusion and exclusion criteria.

             2. Neuropsychological evaluation: The neuropsychological battery will be administered
                by neuropsychologists with experience in the evaluation of DS subjects. The study
                includes neuropsychological tests that have proven to be sensitive to detect
                cognitive impairment and is based, in part, from the recommendations of the
                "Working Group for the Establishment of Criteria for the Diagnosis of Dementia in
                Individuals with Intellectual Disability." The complete battery has an approximate
                length of 90 min and consists in:

                - Functional, daily living activities and neuropsychiatric scales.

                - Estimated Intelligence Quotient (IQ): Kaufman Brief Intelligence Test (K-BIT).

                - Global cognition battery adapted to Intellectual Disabilities: CAMDEX-DS,
                including the structured interview CAMDEX-DS and the cognitive battery CAMCOG-DS.

                - Memory: The Cued Recall Test (CRT) adapted version (Deveny, 2002).

                  -  Executive function: Cats and dogs test (adaptation of Day-Night Stroop), to
                     measure inhibition capacity and backward digits.

                  -  Attention: cancellation test.

                  -  Language: semantic fluency test (animals), 30 items from the Boston Naming
                     Test (BNT).

             3. Sleep evaluation:

           All participants will undergo a full sleep evaluation. This includes a sleep interview
           with a sleep specialist, and a subjective and objective evaluation of nocturnal sleep
           and the circadian sleep-wake pattern. Nocturnal sleep will be objectively studied by
           full video PSG and Sleep/wake pattern will be collected via sleep diaries and
           actigraphy.

           c.1. Objective sleep measures: Polysomnography (PSG). Sleep recordings will be performed
           in individual, sound-attenuated, temperature-regulated rooms in sleep units in all
           groups. Participants will be continuously supervised by qualified technical staff and
           recorded on video/audio with the use of an infrared camera. PSGs will start at their
           median bedtime as defined by the prospective diary collection, with a recording time of
           8 hours. The morning after the PSG nights, all subjects will complete a subjective
           questionnaire about their sleep quality in the laboratory. We will compare this
           questionnaire with their usual reported sleep quality at home.

           All-night video PSG-recordings include: 1) 19 EEG- channels referenced to averaged
           mastoid electrodes (A1-A2) according to the international 10-20 system; 2) 2
           electroculographic channels; and 3) 4 surface electromyographic channels: 2 from the
           mentalis, one from the right anterior tibialis and one from the left anterior tibialis
           in lower limbs; and 4) 6 channels to monitor respiratory function: one for oximetry, 2
           for oro-nasal airflow using a thermistor and nasal-cannula, 2 to record
           thoraco-abdominal movements by inductance plethysmography, and a microphone at the
           suprasternal notch to detect snoring.

           Sleep stages will be visually scored for 30-s epochs according to the guidelines of the
           American Academy of Sleep Medicine (AASM). Scoring will be performed by an experienced
           sleep technologist and later reviewed by an accredited sleep specialist.

           Arousals will be defined using AASM criteria. Respiratory variables will include the
           apnea/hypopnea index (AHI), defined as the sum of all apneas (> 90% reduction in airflow
           for >10 seconds) and all hypopneas (airflow reduction greater than 30% for at 11 least
           10 seconds with an oxygen saturation decrease of approximately 3% or a cortical
           awakening) per hour of sleep, and mean oxygen saturation during the night (Sp02).
           Periodic leg movements and abnormal REM sleep behavior disorder will be defined
           according to the International Criteria of Sleep Disorders.

           c.2. Actigraphy:

           During the week before the PSG, participants will wear an actigraph in the non-dominant
           arm, a method of monitoring human rest/activity cycles. Variables obtained by actimetry
           will be analysed in two groups:

           - Activity analysis: variables describing level of activity and light during 24 hours
           and during all period. Includes average of daily activity during all period, maximum
           activity times and variance.

           - Sleep analysis: to asses sleep variables derived from actigraphy, bedtime and awake
           time would be need to know from each subject. These information will be collected
           through event marker system of the actimeter and from sleep diaries recording.

           c.3. Subjective Sleep Measures (assessed by caregiver): All participants will have a
           notebook that includes subjective sleep questionnaires and sleep diaries to be completed
           by the caregivers.

           Sleep questionnaires will include the following scales: the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality
           Index (PSQI) to assess patients' self-reports of sleep quality; the Epworth Sleepiness
           Scale (ESS) to evaluate somnolence (with a modification of the last question about the
           DS person as a passenger in a car while stopped for a few minutes in traffic); and the
           Berlin Questionnaire (BQ) to identify subjects at risk for the sleep apnea syndrome

           Sleep diary is a daily report of sleep and waking activities over 24-hour periods. The
           sleep diary reports: bedtime, wake time, how much time taken to fall asleep, how much
           time spent awake after sleep onset.

           STATISTICAL ANALYSIS:

           Statistical analyses will be performed using SPSS v23 software. Demographics and sleep
           scores will be compared between groups by means of t tests.

           The statistical threshold is set at 0.05. To assess the differences between the various
           sleep techniques performed in DS participants, general lineal models (GLM) with one
           within-subject factor (techniques, 3 levels) will be applied separately to each sleep
           variable.

           For all variables, results will be pair-compared by means of the t-test.
           Greenhouse-Geisser correction will be used. The Pearson correlation will be applied to
           evaluate the relationship between sleep variables.

           STUDY LIMITATIONS The main foreseen limitation for this study it the heterogeneity of
           the DS population. To try to overcome this difficulty and to facilitate the feasibility
           of the study, only subjects with mild or mild-moderate mental retardation will be
           selected.

           ETHICAL ISSUES The study will be carried out in strict accordance with international
           ethical guidelines for medical research in humans. Researchers are responsible for
           ensuring that the study is conducted in accordance with standards contained in the
           Declaration of Helsinki and local regulation. All participants will be included after
           obtaining a written informed consent (the family member's consent will also be
           obtained). Before including any subject in the study, the investigator will inform the
           participant of the objectives, methods and potential risks of the study or any
           inconvenience this may cause. The studies that will be performed in this project are not
           part of the routine evaluation of subjects with DS and they have an interest only from a
           research point of view. To preserve the confidentiality of information, data pertaining
           to this study will not be included in the conventional medical history, but in a
           separate file in a protected location.
    
  