
    
      The protocol objectives are to enable prospective IRB review of research using human MRI
      scans and data collected under other branch protocols or extramural sources. By combining
      data from multiple sources, the investigators will be able to conduct analyses that require
      large numbers of observations that exceed the numbers collected in any single study. They
      will also be able to stratify and subgroup the combined samples in different ways to permit
      analyses that would otherwise not be possible. The study population consists of normal
      individuals and clinical groups of all ages. Clinical groups will be added by amendment,
      including patients suffering from schizophrenia, ADHD, autism, Klinefelter's disease, and
      Alzheimer's disease. The study design consists of 1) automated segmentation of MRI brain
      scans to obtain regional measurements of cortical thickness and volumetric measurements of
      brain structures including basal ganglia, 2) manual segmentation of brain structures and
      brain anomalies not amenable to automated segmentation such as Virchow-Robbins spaces, 3)
      correlation analyses between MRI brain measurements and available demographic (e.g. gender)
      and physiological (e.g. BMI) data, statistical analysis of group differences where the groups
      are defined by diagnosis, age, gender or by other potentially useful classification. Since
      all data were collected under other protocols there are no additional risks or benefits
      associated with this protocol. This protocol combines MRI data from disparate sources and can
      provide important information regarding factors that may affect the comparability of MRI
      scans obtained from different sites using various types of MRI scanners and pulse sequences
      to generate MRI images. It will also enable the analysis of specific subgroups with
      sufficient numbers of observations for meaningful statistics.
    
  