
    
      On July 14, 2016, in Nice, children and their families were attacked by the organization
      "EI". This is the second time in our country that children are victims of this organization
      after the attack on the school Ozar Hotarah in March 2012 in Toulouse where four children
      were killed "touching end".

      In Nice, 86 deaths, including 10 children, the youngest at 4, were recorded. A number of
      children, still difficult to assess exactly but over 100, was bereaved.

      After a traumatic event, multiple clinical consequences may appear in children. Among these
      consequences, the most common is Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). This pathology
      includes 4 main symptoms: the reviviscences of the event, avoidance behaviors, alterations of
      cognition and mood and neurovegetative overactivation. In addition, PTSD contributes to the
      development of many other mental disorders. It is estimated that 75% of adolescents or
      children having a comorbid disorder with PTSD. In the literature, the main comorbidities
      identified in pediatric populations are: anxiety disorders, Attention Deficit Hyperactivity
      Disorder (ADHD) and depression. There is no recommendation as to the therapeutics to be used
      in psychotraumatism in pediatric population. Epidemiological studies conducted on the
      consequences of trauma reveal a high variability in the development of psychopathologies. 6
      to 20% of exposed children would develop PTSD after a potentially traumatic situation.
      Several factors can explain the heterogeneity of the results, including the age, the type of
      trauma experienced, the violence suffered during this trauma. In Nice, to date, more than
      2200 children have consulted: 700 children between July 14 and July 28, 2016, 1100 children
      were seen between August and December, and about 400 since the creation of the Post Traumatic
      Pediatric Intersectoral Assessment Center (CE2P), in January 2017. The aim of the study is to
      characterize the psycho-social factors of risk and / or protection interfering in the
      children's future, following the mass trauma of 14 July 2016 in Nice on a sample of pediatric
      population exposed in comparison of children controls.

      Non-psychotic hallucinations represent a significant symptomatology in child psychiatry (1)
      and remain clinical question. The results of our previous study "the physalis child" showed a
      significant correlation between the persistence of non-psychotic acousto-verbal
      hallucinations (AVH) and the presence of negative emotions, linked to post traumatic stress
      disorder (PTSD). It seems important to understand the link between trauma and the presence of
      non-psychotic AVH in children as the literature shows the risk of progression to psychosis
      when these AVH persist.The interest of the ancllary study of "the physalis child" would be to
      prospectively observe the presence or not of non-psychotic AVH in the population with PTSD
      from the "Program 14-7". The question would then be: "Why in two subjects diagnosed with
      PTSD, one has non-psychotic HAV and the other does not?" The main objective of this ancillary
      study will be to identify factors of social and emotional cognition linked to the presence of
      non-psychotic HAV within the cohort of children exposed to the mass trauma of July 14, 2016
      in Nice but also to any type of individual trauma.
    
  