
    
      Acute diarrhea and acute colitis of infectious origin are common reasons for consultation at
      the emergency department. The current etiological diagnostic approach is limited to the
      determination of markers of inflammation, such as CRP and blood leukocytes, which lack
      specificity and sensitivity for bacterial infection. The stool culture can detect bacterial
      pathogens in the stool with a result at least 48 hours later and a positivity rate <50%.

      This study will describe the procalcitonin (PCT) concentrations (a biomarker of bacterial
      infection) in this population to evaluate its usefulness depending on the viral or bacterial
      etiology identified by stool multiplex gastro-intestinal PCR panel (GI panel) and stool
      culture.

      The investigators hypothesize that PCT levels will be higher if the GI panel or the stool
      culture identifies a bacteria or a parasite, as it is the case in respiratory tract
      infections. If there is a detection of a virus by the GI panel or both the stool culture and
      the GI panel are negative, the investigators expect that PCT values will be lower or
      negative.

      The investigators will include the patients admitted to the ED with a suspicion of infectious
      diarrhea or acute colitis in order to have a large representative panel of infectious
      diarrhea etiologies.

      Only the patients having a blood sample prescribed as the routine care will be included. The
      blood sample is useful for dosing CRP and whole blood cell count (WBC), which are part of
      current biologic analyses performed in this context. After getting the patient's consent, the
      investigator will add the PCT dosage in blood sampling and will ask the patient to provide a
      stool sample, in order to have a stool culture and to perform an extended investigation for
      the pathogens through multiplex PCR technology (Filmarray ®GI panel).

      The physician will be asked if all these results (the ones ordered currently together with
      the dosage of PCT and the GI panel) will change his/her decision to start an antibiotic.

      Patients will receive a phone call at day 15 after their initial admission in the emergency
      department and will be asked if he/she has consulted a new physician or if a new treatment by
      antibiotics was started.

      Data collection procedures: Data from the medical file will be collected by the investigators
      and the emergency department clinical research assistant. All the data will be pseudonymized.
      The collection will be done at the day of admission in the emergency department and after the
      phone interview at Day15.

      Statistical justification for sample size: This will be a pilot study to describe the results
      of PCT concentration and multiplex GI panel. As to our knowledge, there is no published study
      reporting PCT concentrations in this population. This preclude a sample, size calculation.
      The investigators will include as much patients as possible during one year in order to cover
      the epidemiological seasonal variations and to obtain a convenient sample of at least 100
      patients.

      Statistical methods description: Clinical and biological data will be reported as median and
      interquartile range or mean +/- SD. PCT values will be reported as median and IQR,
      respectively if a there is a viral infection, a documented infection (bacterium or parasite)
      or no pathogen identified by GI panel and/or stool culture (bacteria). Patient's
      characteristics and PCT results will be compared in all groups, using as a reference, the
      group where no pathogen is observed. A sub-group analysis will be performed on colitis and
      acute diarrhea respectively, to find out if there is any difference with the variables
      analyzed as both pathologies are not managed in the same way.
    
  