
    
      Clinical Study Protocol

      Failed Retrieval of Inferior Vena Cava (IVC) filters: long-term outcomes

      Study Objective To evaluate the long term outcomes for failed IVC retrieval.

      Background Long-term placement of IVC filters is not without complication. Descosous et al.
      demonstrated that those patients with IVC filter placement had greater than three times the
      incidence of recurrent DVT at two years. Pulmonary Emboli (PE) have been reported. These can
      occur when there is no evidence of PE prior to insertion of the IVC filter. This was shown by
      Rogers et al where 2.3% of trauma patients receiving prophylactic filters developed a PE.
      They can also occur as a recurrence (i.e. where a PE has already been demonstrated prior IVC
      filter insertion) in 2.5 to 7.7 % of patients1, 2.

      Caval thrombosis resulting in occlusion have been reported to occur in between 1-24% of cases
      depending on the type of filter3, 4. Guidewire and catheter entrapment during central venous
      and pulmonary artery catheter placement have also been reported as long term IVC filters
      become more prevalent. Filter penetration and filter fragmentation have all been described.

      With the advent of retrievable filters there is renewed popularity for temporary caval
      interruption. To our knowledge, no one has yet to follow the population of intended temporary
      caval interruption, who undergo failed retrieval, and consequently end up with a permanent
      IVC filter. This study will look at the incidence and degree of caval occlusion, caval
      stenosis and incidence of DVT in patients at The Alfred who have had a failed retrieval of an
      implanted IVC filter. Patient will be recruited for up to four years, the incidence of failed
      retrieval at The Alfred is 10 per year, and follow up will be ongoing.

      Patient Population Alfred patients undergoing temporary IVC filter placement and subsequently
      have had failed IVC filter retrieval.

      Study Design This is a prospective, single-arm study.

        -  Patients identified with failed filter retrieval will be asked to participate in the
           study. They will have a CT cavagram and lower limb duplex doppler ultrasound annually
           which is part of standard patient management practice.

        -  Clinical evaluation, history-taking and examination for filter complications and venous
           hypertension will be conducted annually, again as part of standard patient management.

        -  Data will be collected as per data collection forms and analysed.

      Enrolment Size 40 patients will be enrolled.

      Primary End-Points CT cavagram will be used to evaluate/measure:

        -  Caval occlusion.

        -  Caval stenosis.

      Chronic or acute DVT will be evaluated with:

       Duplex sonography.

      Secondary End-points Adverse events related to IVC filter as established through:

        -  Physical examination.

        -  Patient interview.

      Research Plan

      Specific Aim:

      To evaluate the long term outcomes for failed IVC retrieval.

      Objectives:

        -  To determine the risk of IVC stenosis due to failed filter retrieval.

        -  To determine the risk of IVC occlusion due to failed filter retrieval.

        -  To identify the risk of DVT due to failed filter retrieval.

        -  To analyse the clinical outcomes (symptoms), their prevalence and their distribution,
           produced as a result of failed filter retrieval.

      Research Design and Methods:

      This is a prospective, single-arm clinical study. An will be made to the HREC to obtain
      ethics approval for this study. Participants will be enrolled consecutively.

      Patients will receive routine care and their data will be analysed annually as collected. The
      follow-up period is indefinite and will be at the discretion of the treating doctor.

      The data from the CT cavagram and duplex Doppler will be collected by the research assistant
      from the patient's histories and reported onto the 'Investigations' data sheet (see Appendix
      I.)

      The data from the clinical interview and examination will be collected from the patient's
      histories and reported onto the 'Examination' data sheet (see Appendix II.)

      Analysis Plan and Statistical Methods:

      This study will look at the incidence and degree of caval occlusion, caval stenosis and
      incidence of DVT in patients at The Alfred who have had a failed retrieval of an implanted
      IVC filter.

      Data management, quality control Non-identifiable information will be collected and securely
      stored in the Radiology Department research office. Data will be entered into an excel
      spreadsheet and the incidence of the primary and secondary endpoints summarised.

      Complications and Reporting of Adverse Events:

      There are no direct medical complications that might arise due to participation in this trial
      as patients will have routine care. This study involves data collection and no change to
      routine management. Any adverse event in reporting identifiable data will be reported to the
      HREC committee within 24 hours from the identification of the event.

      Complications resulting from the CT cavagram include:

        -  Contrast Allergy

        -  Anaphylaxis

        -  Infection

      Adverse events therefore relate principally to confidentiality. See 'Data Management' below
      for procedures related to adverse event reporting for breach of confidentiality.

      Data Management:

        -  Data will be collated, stored and analysed by the research coordinator, Dr. Helen
           Kavnoudias.

        -  All data forms will be de-identified prior to reporting and/or publication of results.

        -  Patient medical records will be appropriately labelled as participants of research study
           and kept indefinitely.

        -  All departmental procedures relating to research, ethics and privacy regulations will be
           adhered to.

        -  Adverse events involving data management will be reported to the ethics committee with
           24-hours by the research team.

      Time-frame:

      This research will be ongoing. There are approximately 10 failed retrievals each year.

      References:

        1. Wolf F, Thurnher S, Lammer J (Simon nitinol vena cava filters: Effectiveness and
           complications) Rofo Fortschr Geb Rontgenstr Neuen Bildgeb Verfahr 2001; 173: 924-30.

        2. Harries SR, Wells IP, Roobottom VA. Long term follow up of the antheor interior vena
           cava filter. Clin Radiol 1998; 53: 350-2

        3. Millward SF, Peterson RA, Moher D, et al. LGM (Vena Tech) vena caval filter: Experience
           at a single institution. J Vase Interv Radiol 1994; 5:351-6.

        4. Greenfield LJ, Proctor MC, Cho KJ, et al. Extended evaluations of the titanium
           Greenfield vena caval filter. J Vasc Surg 1996; 20: 458-65

      Appendix I

      Investigations

      Date Follow-Up

      Name

      Sex

      Age

      UR

      CT Cavagram Is there occlusion of the IVC? Yes No Is there >50% stenosis of the IVC? Yes No

      Is there >20% stenosis of the IVC? Yes No

      Duplex Doppler Is there presence of thrombus? Yes No

      If yes, where?

      Is the thrombus: Acute? Chronic?

      Appendix II

      Examination

      Date Follow-Up

      Name

      Sex

      Age

      UR

      Does the patient suffer from any of the following:

      (please tick) ٱLower limb venous incompetence ٱ Chronic limb pain ٱ Oedema ٱ Discolouration ٱ
      Ulceration ٱ Historical episodes of DVT ٱ PE ٱ Filter-fragmentation embolisation

      CEAP Score:
    
  