
    
      Only a fraction of persons with Type 1 diabetes (less than 40%) develop diabetic kidney
      disease (nephropathy). When the urinary albumin (a protein normally excreted in small
      amounts) is within the normal range, the prevalence of high blood pressure (hypertension)
      based on office blood pressure readings is very low. Many of these persons, however, develop
      nocturnal hypertension (high nighttime blood pressure) before the development of abnormally
      high urinary albumin excretion (a condition referred to as microalbuminuria). Currently,
      early treatment with medications called ACE inhibitors is only recommended after there is an
      indication of kidney damage, as reflected by the presence of microalbuminuria. Beginning ACE
      inhibitor therapy is currently not recommended prior to the development of microalbuminuria,
      unless patients have high blood pressure, because it would result in over-treatment of many
      people. By the time that microalbuminuria develops, however, kidney damage may be present and
      many patients will develop kidney disease. It would therefore be beneficial to identify those
      subjects who will develop microalbuminuria, so that treatment could be started early for
      those individuals. Persons who may go on to develop protein in their urine and eventual
      kidney disease perhaps could be identified on the basis of an abnormal fall (too little) in
      blood pressure at night. This pattern should not be confused with high blood pressure, but
      instead seen as an early indication present before the development of high blood pressure and
      microalbuminuria.

      The purpose of the current study is therefore aimed at demonstrating that it is possible to
      prevent kidney disease in patients with type 1 diabetes and normal office blood pressure and
      urine protein excretion by selecting them on the basis of an abnormal fall in blood pressure
      at night. Moreover, this clinical trial will reveal the impact of long-term administration of
      an ACE inhibitor on nighttime blood pressure and also assess changes in the relative
      stiffness of blood vessels(endothelial dysfunction) in persons with type 1 diabetes over
      time.
    
  