
    
      Background: High-dose dobutamine stress cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (DS-MRI) is
      incorporated in daily clinical practice for the detection of coronary artery disease (CAD).
      Purpose: To determine the value of wall motion and perfusion assessment during DS-MRI for the
      prediction of cardiac events in a large patient cohort.

      Methods:

      Cardiovascular MR-Examination. Patients are examined in a clinical 1.5-T whole-body
      MR-scanner Achieva system (Philips Medical Systems, Best, The Netherlands) using a 5-element
      cardiac phased-array receiver coil. Cardiovascular MR-images were acquired at rest and during
      a standardized high-dose dobutamine/atropine protocol involving short breath holds, and using
      a vector electrocardiogram for R-wave triggering11. Electrocardiographic rhythm and symptoms
      were monitored continuously, and blood pressure was measured every 3 minutes.

      Follow-up Data. Personnel unaware of the stress testing results contacts each subject or an
      immediate family member and the date of this contact was used for calculating the follow-up
      time duration. Outcome data iscollected from a standardized questionnaire and determined from
      patient interviews at the outpatient clinic or by telephone interviews. Reported clinical
      events are confirmed by review of the corresponding medical records in our electronic
      Hospital Information System (HIS), contact with the general practitioner, referring
      cardiologist or the treating hospital. Cardiac death and nonfatal myocardial infarction are
      registered as major cardiac events. Cardiac death is defined as death from any cardiac cause
      (lethal arrhythmia, myocardial infarction, or congestive heart failure) or sudden unexpected
      death occurring without another explanation. Myocardial infarction is defined by angina of
      >30 minutes duration and either ST segment elevation of ≥2mm in 2 consecutive ECG leads or a
      rise in troponin T of ≥0.03µg/l.

      Other events include clinically indicated coronary arterial revascularization by percutaneous
      coronary angioplasty (PCI) or coronary artery bypass graft (CABG).

      In case of 2 simultaneous cardiac events, the worst event was selected (cardiac
      death>non-fatal myocardial infarction>revascularization).
    
  