
    
      Parents of a childhood cancer survivor face ongoing social, and psychological challenges that
      may result in enduring illness and caregiving related distress and vulnerabilities. It has
      been described namely: post posttraumatic stress symptoms [PTSS], lingering worries, anxiety
      and depression. While strategies and interventions to minimize the child's distress have
      become part of comprehensive medical care in paediatrics, it also becomes urgent to develop
      research into parents of a childhood cancer survivor in order to: [1] train the medical staff
      to identify the serious issue of parental distress ; [2] detect other markers of
      vulnerabilities (e.g. pessimism, anxiety trait) and [3] provide them with a personalized
      psychological intervention. This would allow vigilance of the medical staff in detecting
      parents' distress and could defuse their descent into a vicious circle of psychosocial
      difficulties.

      Up to now, empirical findings suggest the importance to develop a screening tool for parents
      of a CCS in order to detect any parent who presents several difficulties and to propose
      personal intervention. To the investigator's knowledge, there is no tool to detect and
      prevent psychological distress among parents of a childhood cancer survivor.

      The TICOP mobile app consists of seven axis of evaluation and detection for parents of a
      childhood cancer survivor:

      Parent moves the cursor by analogy on their mobile phone (as a visual anagogic scale) four
      times per year (baseline; month 4; month 8 and month 12).

      Axis 1: sociodemographic (e.g. gender, marital status) (14 items) Axis 2: psychosomatic
      symptoms (insomnia, migraine) (16 items) Axis 3: psychological symptoms (e.g. depression,
      anxiety) (13 items) Axis 4: parental needs (e.g. social support, information) (9 items) Axis
      5: parental resources (e.g. emotional support) (8 items) Axis 6: parental risk factors (e.g.
      anxiety, intolerant of uncertainty) (5 items) Axis 7: parental protective factors (e.g.
      optimistic,extraverted) (6 items)

      All information will be automatically sent in real time into the E-platform. This digital
      tool allows to obtain a parental state follow-up for the health professional (e.g.
      oncologist, psycho-oncologist).
    
  