
    
      Increases in life expectancy in almost all childhood-onset chronic conditions (COCC) has
      brought unique challenges for adolescents and young adults (AYA) who struggle to deal with
      the associated disease burden, manage therapies, and thrive as they develop independent
      self-management skills, and become active and engaged patients. The challenges that influence
      the lives of AYAs are largely adaptive, such as making lifestyle modifications, adhering to
      complex medication regimens, and learning to navigate the adult health system. Adding to this
      complexity is the need for AYAs to progressively take over greater self-management
      responsibilities from parents. Promoting activated self-management is critically important
      given that this shift in health care management from parents and health care providers to the
      AYA is identified as key to successful adult outcomes. Peer support interventions are
      well-suited to address challenges theorized as critical to AYAs given the importance of peer
      relationships during this time. The investigators propose a mixed-methods, five-year
      randomized controlled trial, that will include 225 AYAs (16-22 years) with COCCs, to test the
      Peer i-Coaching for Activated Self-Management Optimization (PICASO) versus an attention
      control group. This novel, mobile health intervention utilizes an established telephone/text
      based secure interface to allow AYAs access knowledge, experience, and instrumental/emotional
      support from a trained peer coach (18-26 years), who has already developed independence and
      is an active self-manager. The investigators will determine the efficacy of PICASO on
      self-management, patient activation, transition readiness, health-related quality, and
      emotional health of life across 12 months. The investigators will explore whether age, sex,
      race/ethnicity, chronic condition, and/or disease severity moderate the trajectory of PICASO
      effects on self-management, patient activation, coping, emotional health and health-related
      quality of life. Lastly, the investigators will explore mechanisms of the PICASO impact by
      describing AYA experiences with the intervention.
    
  