
    
      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a significant cause of morbidity and
      mortality in Europe and a major consumer of resources in both primary and secondary
      healthcare (1,2). Both clinical features of disease severity and quality of COPD patient care
      may have substantial influence on disease outcomes. Traditionally, COPD has been categorized
      using the FEV1 (forced expiratory volume at one second ) - based GOLD (The Global Initiative
      for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease) classification . Other factors independently associated
      with survival include age, dyspnoea, health status, hyperinflation, gas exchange
      abnormalities, exacerbation frequency, exercise capacity, pulmonary hemodynamic, and
      nutritional status (3). Together these factors explain some of the existent heterogeneity
      within each GOLD stage in terms of symptoms, exacerbations, quality of life and exercise
      capacity (4).

      Recently, interest has emerged for the identification of clinical COPD phenotypes, as defined
      by ''a single or combination of disease attributes that describe difference between
      individuals with COPD as they relate to clinically meaningful outcomes'' (5). Many previous
      studies have attempted to identify and quantify the prevalence of different phenotypes of
      COPD using populations of various sources, severities, and particularities. Yet there is no
      consensus on the number and definition of different phenotypes. However, there must be a
      compromise between the oversimplification of the term COPD as a definition that encompasses
      the entire spectrum of patients with incompletely reversible airflow obstruction caused
      largely by smoking and the complexity of considering each patient individually as an orphan
      disease.

      The most frequently reported phenotypes are emphysema and chronic bronchitis, along with a
      subset of asthma sufferers. Recently, an extended list of proposed phenotypes have been
      proposed (6) including: (A) infrequent exacerbators with either chronic bronchitis or
      emphysema; (B) overlap COPD-asthma; (C) frequent exacerbators with emphysema predominant; and
      (D) frequent exacerbators with chronic bronchitis predominant. While there is consensus of
      substantial, but not complete, overlap among these phenotypes, the distribution of these
      phenotypes may differ widely between different countries and healthcare systems.

      Thus, the objectives of this study are to better understand the patient characteristics and
      treatment patterns of those diagnosed with COPD between different CEE countries. Knowledge of
      this information may provide insight into the variability of phenotypes between different
      healthcare systems and may subsequently contribute to a better understanding of the factors
      associated with patient outcomes and have the potential to improve the care of COPD patients.
    
  