
    
      The overreaching goal of this study is to examine the influence of short CBT of irony
      comprehension on hemispheric involvement of adults with Schizophrenia. To obtain this goal a
      three phase study have been designed.

      In the first phase all participants will be asked to fill out questionnaires screening for,
      cognitive abilities (TONI-3 third edition), vocabulary (Hebrew adaptation of Wechsler Adult
      Intelligence Scale-Third Edition, WAIS 3 HEB, Wechsler 1997), executive function capabilities
      and figurative language understanding (irony and metaphor) .Theory of Mind comprehension will
      also be assessed by using The Hinting Test (Corcoran et al.1995).

      Hemispheric processing will be examined by two behavioral hemispheric experiments using split
      visual field paradigm. The subject sits in front of a computer screen, reads a prime
      sentence, and reacts to a lateralized target word.

      In the first experiment- Idioms experiment, the target word in each trail would be related to
      the meaning of a preceding prime idiom or associated to its literal meaning .The participant
      is instructed to indicate as rapidly and accurately as possible whether the target word
      stimulus is a meaningful word or non- word. In the second experiment- irony experiment, the
      target word in each trail would be a literal, ironic or unrelated ending to the preceding
      prime sentence .Subjects would be asked to relate to the target word and to indicate as
      rapidly and accurately as possible whether the target word stimulus formed a meaningful
      expression with the preceding prime. Stimulus presentation and response would be controlled
      and recorded by Super-Lab 4.5 software.

      The first phase will be carried out in 1-2 sessions.

      In the second phase subjects will participate in a social intervention program for
      comprehension of verbal irony. Over the course of intervention participants will analyze and
      discuss short film scenario's that end with an ironic statement, and will experience
      completing short scenario's that contain irony. Intervention will include 5 sessions, 3-5
      subjects will participate in each group.

      In the third phase participants will undergo the Irony behavioral hemispheric experiment to
      examine changes in hemispheric processing when exposed to irony after treatment, the irony
      and metaphor questioners and the Hinting test. This phase will be carried out in one session.

      35 subjects will participate in the study, 20 in the study group and 15 in the control group.

      Subjects in the control group will watch the short film scenario's that end with an ironic
      statement and rank each video for its comprehensibility and their level of enjoyment.
    
  