
    
      1. Background & Rationale Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the sixth most prevalent cancer
           worldwide, and is the third cause of cancer-related mortality.

           Surgical resection remains the best curative treatment option for patients with clinical
           Barcelona-Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) stage A disease and it has shown benefits even in
           the more advanced stage B with multifocal disease or limited vascular invasion.

           Despite curative treatments offering a 5-year survival rate of 50-70%, recurrence rates
           at 5 years after surgery are as high as 70%. Therefore, more efforts are needed in order
           to identify prognostic factors for recurrence and survival.

           MicroRNAs are a class of small non-coding RNAs molecules, which act as key regulators of
           cell proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis and embryonic development, finely tuning
           gene expression at post-transcriptional level. They act as oncogenes or tumor
           suppressors depending on the target genes. In HCC, it has been reported the upregulation
           or downregulation of a few cluster of microRNAs, with a subsequent activation of
           molecular networks such as b-catenin, Ras, TGF-b, JAK/STAT and creation of a highly
           controlled feedback mechanism.

           Their involvement in carcinogenesis represents an important area of investigation for
           the development of their clinical applications: diagnostics, monitoring and
           therapeutics. MicroRNA profiles can distinguish between normal and cancerous tissue,
           identify tissue of origin and also discriminate different subtypes or specific oncogenic
           abnormalities. Indeed, microRNA mis-expression patterns are more accurate in identifying
           the origin of tumours that are otherwise difficult to be determined, suggesting that
           tumours more clearly maintain a unique tissue microRNA expression profile.

           MicroRNAs could also be useful as early diagnosis biomarkers for patient follow-up.

           In liver tumorigenesis, the role of miR-221 and miR-222 has not been completely
           elucidated. Previous studies showed that miR-221 was upregulated in 83% of HCC tumoral
           samples when compared with matched cirrhotic tissue.

           Increased expression of serum miR-221 was found in HCC patients compared to healthy
           normal controls, which was associated with the presence of other poor prognostic factors
           and with poorer outcomes after liver resection.

           The extraction of microRNAs from liver samples is limited by the ability to resecting
           the tumour or the possibility to perform a liver biopsy in each patient. On the
           contrary, a blood sample is easy to be collected and stored for analysis. At present, it
           has not been clearly established a correlation between the expression of miR-221 and
           miR-222 in the liver tissue (tumoral and non tumoral) and the circulating miR-221 and
           miR-222 levels.

           The confirmation of this correlation, would allow identifying a cutoff of circulating
           levels which could be used as a surrogate marker in order to include HCC patients in
           phase 3 trials without the need for a liver biopsy, which is often contraindicated for
           clinical reasons and according to guidelines.

           This is a pilot study to evaluate the correlation between the overexpression of miR-221
           and miR-222 in paired tumoral/non tumoral liver tissue and blood samples in patients
           with HCC and to identify a cutoff for the circulating levels to use as a surrogate
           marker in clinical trials.

           This study therefore aims to evaluate if miR-221 and miR-222 expression in the blood
           correlates with tissue expression and if the circulating levels could be used as a
           surrogate of overexpression in the tumoral liver tissue.

           Should this evaluation show a strong correlation and reliability of circulating miRNAs,
           in the diagnosis and follow up of HCC, future clinical trials targeting these miRNAs and
           their related pathways might benefit from this being adopted as conventional practice
           instead of the need of assessing tissue levels from liver biopsies.

           The trial will be conducted in compliance with the principles of the Declaration of
           Helsinki, the principles of GCP and all (if any) applicable regulatory requirements are
           essential.

           NHS Grampian Biorepository will provide the anonymised samples to be used for this
           study. NHS Grampian Biorepository already has ethical approval in place for these types
           of studies. Research and Development approval will be sought.

        2. Methods Blood samples from patients with HCC and from age-matched healthy controls,
           stored in the National bio-repository Scotland, will be tested for circulating miR-221
           and miR-222 expression by the means of Real Time Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain
           Reaction (RT-qPCR). Similarly, levels of miR-221 and miR-222 will be assessed in paired
           cancer and healthy liver tissue form patients with HCC.

           Sample analysis will take place in the Institute for Health and Wellbeing Research
           laboratory at Robert Gordon University (RGU) - Aberdeen.

           Results from the analysis of samples and quantification of microRNAs via RT-qPCR will be
           carried out by the chief investigator along with the research team in the laboratory
           facilities.

           Samples will be analysed to assess miR-221 and miR-222 overexpression between tumoral
           and non tumoral liver tissue and to assess the correlation between this and circulating
           miR-221 and miR-222. Circulating levels will be compared to results from age-matched
           healthy controls.

           The custodian of the data generated by the study will be the Chief Investigator.

           Samples will be stored in the laboratory facilities at RGU and only the chief
           investigator and the research team will have access to.

           Data generated by the study will be collected in a spreadsheet which will be bespoke and
           held on the intranet with access restricted only to the CI and the research team.

           Anonymised data on computer files will be stored on password-protected databases
           accessible only to the study investigators.

           All written files will be stored in locked filling cabinets within a secure store at
           Robert Gordon University with the exception of consents which are stored by NHS Grampian
           Biorepository.

           The University of Aberdeen and NHS Grampian monitoring procedures will be followed.

           At the end of the research the samples will be stored by research team pending ethical
           approval for use in another project, whereas the data generated by the study will be
           stored on password-protected databases accessible only to the study investigators.

        3. Consent Process NHS Grampian Biorepository seek informed consent by patients for
           collection of tissue samples and blood through a dedicated research nurse and the use of
           a patient information sheet and a consent form which are part of the NHS Grampian
           Biorepository documentation.

           A consent will be obtained for all the samples used in this study according to the
           Biorepository consent process.

        4. Trial Flowchart

             -  Five frozen paired hepatic tumoral and non tumoral tissue and five frozen plasma
                samples obtained from patients with HCC and stored in the National Bio-Repository
                Scotland (HCC Group, HCC). Five voluntary age-matched healthy controls will be
                recruited to relate the expression of circulating miRNAs (Plasma Control Group,
                PCG).

             -  Paired frozen HCC tissue specimens and their adjacent non-cancerous normal liver
                will be collected in RNA Stabilisation tubes and stored at -80C until further
                analysis and miRNAs extraction as per protocol. The average size of the specimen
                will be 2 by 10 mm in diameter.

             -  Blood samples collected from both HCC Group and PCG (8-10ml, into BD Vacutainer
                K3-EDTA blood collection tubes) will be collected. All samples will be sent to
                Bio-Repository for further processing and then analysis and miRNAs extraction as
                per protocol.

             -  The results of miRNAs extraction from paired HCC/non-cancerous tissues will be
                compared and from HCC Group plasma will be compared to the matched plasma of
                controls (PCG Group).
    
  