
    
      OBJECTIVE/HYPOTHESIS: The investigators propose to develop an educational handout on mild
      traumatic brain injury (mTBI) and to evaluate whether this brief, educational intervention
      improves knowledge and understanding of TBI and the screening results. The long-term goal is
      to promote expectations for a positive recovery in Veterans with mTBI. The specific aim is to
      evaluate the effect of the intervention on Veterans' knowledge and illness perceptions
      regarding TBI. Hypotheses are as follows:

        1. Veterans who receive the educational intervention will have improved knowledge and
           understanding of TBI and the meaning of a positive TBI screen compared to Veterans who
           undergo screening as usual.

        2. Veterans who screen positive for TBI and receive the educational intervention will have
           less negative illness perceptions regarding TBI compared to Veterans who screen positive
           in the control group.

      Secondary analyses are to identify clinic-level barriers and facilitators to incorporation of
      the educational handout into the clinical encounter.

      RESEARCH PLAN: The investigators will compare 2 groups of Veterans (N = 1500), half of whom
      are screened as usual and half of whom receive the educational intervention. Participants
      will be Veterans from 4 VA post-deployment clinics in Bay Pines, FL; Hampton, VA; Providence,
      RI; and Tampa, FL. The recruitment portion of the study will last 24 weeks at each site. The
      first 12 weeks of the study, all OEF/OIF Veterans that are screened for TBI will be enrolled
      into the screening as usual control group. The following 12 weeks all OEF/OIF Veterans
      screened for TBI will be enrolled into the intervention group. The investigators anticipate
      enrolling 750 Veterans in each group.

      METHODOLOGY: All OEF/OIF Veterans screened for TBI in the 4 identified post-deployment
      clinics during the study period will be eligible for inclusion in the study. The primary
      outcome is knowledge gained about mTBI and illness perception. All participants will be given
      an instrument with questions on demographics and TBI knowledge and perceptions. Participants
      who receive the educational handout will be asked for additional feedback. The investigators
      will examine the effect of the intervention on the number of correct responses to the
      knowledge items as well as the rates of correct answers to each individual knowledge item.
      Further, the investigators will examine the effect of the intervention on each of the illness
      perception scores.
    
  