
    
      Comparison of true 3D atrial volume changes to TEE and TTE findings as well as atrial
      pressure curves during left heart catheterization. Changing from atrial fibrillation to sinus
      rhythm causes changes in atrial volume and might be associated with quantitative systolic and
      diastolic function of the left ventricle measured with the Transesophageal Echocardiography

      Measurement of true left atrial ejection fraction and comparison to 2D echocardiographic
      parameters such as transesophageal measured flow velocity of the mitral inflow tract,
      pulmonary vein flow, the left atrial appendage flow

      Inclusion:

      Patients undergoing electrophysiological study with the AcQmap System Age ≥18 years and
      signed informed consent German speaking

      Exclusion:

      Mechanical mitral valve Contraindication for left atrial ablation procedure such as:
      Intra-cardiac clot, Pregnancy

      Data collection of ultrasound dimensions of left atrium, left atrial pressure and TEE is
      performed simultaneously under the following conditions:

        1. Fixed heart rate by atrial pacing

        2. Apnea initiated at the end of expiration (apnea endexp)

        3. With and without complete atrioventricular bloc Under these conditions pressure volume
           loops are monitored. Simultaneously mitral annulus velocity (septal and lateral),
           pulmonary vein flow, left atrial appendage flow (max. A and V velocity) and LAA volume
           (average of 4 planes) are measured

      The AcQMap Catheter consists of 6 splines with 48 electrodes and ultrasound crystals, which
      form a true 3D array of about 2 cm diameter. The catheter can be collapsed for introduction
      over a sheet into the right or left atrium and is used to record electrical bio potentials of
      the atrium. Besides each electrode is an ultrasound crystal, which measures the distance to
      the atrial wall at a sample rate 100000/min a ultrasound based anatomy of the atrium is
      constructed. The procedure of introduction the AcQMap catheter is in the right or left atrium
      is the same as it is performed with the standard devices for mapping and treating the atrial
      fibrillation in humans.

      Analysis of changes in the collected data before and after ablation procedure is performed
      using unpaired t-test and non-parametric interrogation (Wilcoxon and Mann-Whithey U test)
      where otherwise appropriate (spss v 16, SPSS Chicago, IL, USA). Normal distributed date will
      be presented as mean ±SD and 95% confidence interval (CI95) and not normal distributed data
      will be presented as median and interquartile range (ICR). For repeated measures ANOVA will
      be used to estimate between-subject's variation and within-subject variation.
    
  