
    
      The primary objective of the study is to assess the correlation of serial high-speed MRSI of
      [tCho] with pCR following NAC in women with HNBC. The endpoint is the pCR.

      Hypothesis 1: Changes in [tCho] early during NAC (from 24 hours after the start of the first
      cycle until the start of the 2nd cycle of NAC) are predictive of pathologic response (using
      quantitative metrics of Residual Cancer Burden (RCB)1 and/or CPS+EG score 2 and radiologic
      response (change in lesion size on DCE-MRI).

      Hypothesis 2: Decreases in [tCho] within the tumor precede decreases in tumor volume on
      DCE-MRI, thus enabling earlier discrimination between responders from non-responders. The
      primary objective of the study is to assess the correlation of serial high-speed magnetic
      resonance spectroscopic imaging (MRSI) of [tCho] with pCR following NAC for HNBC. The
      secondary objective is to compare the time course of [tCho] on serial high-speed MRSI and
      tumor volume on serial DCE-MRI for predicting early NAC treatment response in HNBC.

      Subjects' participation will start approximately 2 weeks before initiation of neoadjuvant
      therapy and end after surgery.

      Patients will undergo up to 5 MRI scans in total as 2 are clinical MRIs and 3 are research
      scans. The clinical pretreatment MRI scan and a post treatment MRI scan are standard and will
      be ordered at the discretion of the treating provider.The post treatment MRI is done after
      clinical response and before surgery. This helps guide the surgeon about what amount of
      tissue should be removed at surgery. The minimum time between clinical and research MRI scans
      is 24 hours.

      The 3 research MRIs will be performed on a 3T Siemens scanner equipped with 16 channel
      Hologic breast coil. Breast anatomy will be imaged using a bilateral localizer, an axial T
      2-weighted turbo-spin-echo scan, and a fat-suppressed T1-weighted sagittal gradient echo
      scan. Dynamic non-fat-suppressed T1-weighted axial 3D GRE scans are collected before and with
      20s delay at four time points after Gd-HP-DO3A administration (total scan time: 7.5 min).
      Subtraction images are created using the pre-contrast image as the mask. A diffusion weighted
      multi-slice EPI scan will be performed to compute apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) maps
      online (total scan time: 3:14 min). An axial low-resolution multi-slice multi-echo gradient
      echo scan will be performed to compute field maps for slice and laterality specific
      auto-shimming. Spectroscopic imaging will be performed using 3D PEPSI.

      The MR measurement protocol will be performed at 3 time points: (1) prior to treatment
      typically several days before NAC (ideally 24h before NAC) (MRSI, DW-MRI, DCE-MRI), (2) 20-52
      hours after the beginning of the first cycle of NAC (MRSI, DW-MRI), and (3) between the first
      and second cycle of NAC (MRSI, DW-MRI, DCE-MRI).

      Surgery will be performed within 3 to 12 weeks of last chemotherapy. RCB will be obtained
      from the final pathologic findings.
    
  