
    
      • Background & Rationale: Several studies have documented that neuromuscular block often
      persists in the PACU, even with the administration of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors.
      Postoperative residual curarisation ranges between 4 and 50% depending on the diagnostic
      criteria, the type of non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking drug (NMBD), the administration
      of a reversal agent, and the use of neuromuscular monitoring. Residual paralysis is
      associated with postoperative complications such as hypoxia, weakness, and respiratory
      failure. However, these complications may have many other causes so that the role of
      neuromuscular block is often unrecognized. Thus, it is important to manage neuromuscular
      block and have a strategy to prevent, diagnose, and treat residual paralysis, with
      neuromuscular monitoring and reversal of neuromuscular block in routine anesthetic practice.
      The data in the current literature on residual paralysis in the PACU were almost exclusively
      obtained with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors as they were the only reversal agents available
      prior to the introduction in clinical practice of sugammadex (Bridion®) in the European Union
      and in some other countries, except for the USA. Reassessment of practice in this regard is
      relevant, now that sugammadex (Bridion®) has become available in our country since 2009.

      Five years ago a similar exploratory, non-interventional, non-randomized study took place in
      Belgium. This previous study will help to assess the two different periods (2005-2011) in
      terms of management of neuromuscular block in the operating room of a large regional
      community hospital.

      • Study Design: This is an observational/non-interventional, non-randomized study involving
      adult patients undergoing different types of elective surgical procedures requiring general
      anesthesia with NMBDs. This study will reflect real life clinical practice. The anesthetic
      technique in terms of drugs and type of monitoring used will be the entire responsibility of
      the anesthesiologist.

      All study activities will be consistent with EU directive 2001/20/EC for non-interventional
      studies (also known as observational/non-interventional studies).

      Administration of NMBDs and reversal agents (as well as all drugs which will be used during
      anesthesia) will be performed in accordance with routine anesthetic practice; will follow
      good clinical practice and labeling of drugs. No other interventional means, methods or
      procedures are scheduled than those for routine care of the patient. Furthermore, there will
      be no additional visits to the hospital or a mandatory visit schedule, deviating from normal
      clinical practice.

      • Study Flowchart: On arrival to the PACU, 3 l/min oxygen will be applied to all subjects by
      a nasal cannula. Baseline oxygen saturation values are recorded 1 min after application of
      the oxygen. Immediately after the patients' arrival in the PACU, a study nurse will record
      their tympanic temperatures and the acceleromyographic responses of their adductor pollicis
      muscle as percent of the train-of-four (TOF%) on stimulation of the ulnar nerve (TOF-Watch®,
      Organon Ireland Ltd., a division of MSD, Swords, Co., Dublin, Ireland). The stimulus current
      will be set in the range 25-35 mA for tolerance purpose without compromising the results. Two
      consecutive TOF measurements (separated by 15 s) will be obtained, and the average of the 2
      values will be recorded. If measurements differ by >10%, additional TOF measurements will be
      obtained (up to 4 TOF values), and the closest 2 ratios averaged. A TOF of 90% will be used
      as cut-off value to exclude residual paralysis. Pulse oximetry will be measured continuously
      throughout the PACU admission, and SpO2 values will be recorded at 1-min intervals for the
      first 30 min. PACU nurses caring for the patient will document the occurrence of any of the
      following events during the first 30 min of PACU admission: the number of episodes of
      hypoxemia (SpO2<90%), the lowest SpO2 observed by nursing staff, the requirement for either
      tactile or verbal stimulation to maintain SpO2 greater than 90%, and any clinical evidence of
      airway obstruction. Patient demographic data, type of surgical procedure, duration of
      anesthesia, as well as data collected relating to neuromuscular management, will be recorded
      and stored on a PC.
    
  