
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the potential overall survival benefit of adjuvant chemotherapy in patients
           with early stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) randomized to chemotherapy compared
           to those randomized to the present standard of care (observation).

        -  To collect and process high-quality fresh frozen lung cancer tumor tissue for gene
           expression array generation from multiple institutions.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate selected genomic-based lung cancer prognostic models using data from the
           patients randomized to observation after resection.

        -  To characterize the rate of chemotherapy toxicity for the different chemotherapy
           treatment regimens.

        -  To assess quality of life (QOL) in early stage patients periodically after resection for
           NSCLC.

        -  To examine the impact of chemotherapy on QOL for patients receiving chemotherapy, as
           compared to patients in the observation arm.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to pathologic stage
      (I vs II) and ECOG performance status (0 vs 1). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms within 12 weeks after surgery.

      All patients undergo complete resection of disease (i.e., lobectomy, sleeve lobectomy,
      bi-lobectomy, or pneumonectomy, but not segmentectomy or wedge resection).

        -  Arm I: Patients receive 1 of 3 chemotherapy regimens. Treatment repeats every 21 days
           for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Regimen 1: Patients receive vinorelbine ditartrate IV over 10 minutes on days 1 and
                8 and cisplatin IV over 60 minutes on day 1.

             -  Regimen 2: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 60 minutes and cisplatin IV over 60
                minutes on day 1.

             -  Regimen 3: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1
                and 8 and cisplatin IV over 60 minutes on day 1.

             -  Regimen 4: Patients receive pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes and cisplatin IV
                over 60 minutes on day 1.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive standard care (observation). Tissue obtained at surgery is
           examined by RNA microarray analysis. A Lung Metagene Score (LMS) is determined for each
           patient and correlated with survival and response.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 5 years and
      then once a year for 7 years.
    
  