
    
      Significance: Importance of the Problem: Multiple studies have shown a high prevalence of
      asthma in WTC rescue and recovery workers, local residents, and passersby. Using data from
      the National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), the study team found that WTC workers have twice
      the risk of asthma compared to the general United States (US) population. Data from the WTCHP
      shows a 28% cumulative incidence of asthma 9 years after September 11, 2001 among WTC
      workers. These studies show that asthma is the most prevalent respiratory condition among WTC
      rescue and recovery workers.

      WTC workers with asthma include individuals with prior history of the disease and new cases
      of irritant-induced asthma. Many workers with preexistent asthma developed worsening symptoms
      after WTC-related exposures (WTC-exacerbated asthma). Other workers developed new asthma
      symptoms without latency during or after WTC exposure and were diagnosed with
      irritant-induced asthma. Multiple cases of new onset asthma among WTC workers have been
      reported in the years following exposure to the WTC site; characterization of these cases has
      been more difficult. Despite this potential heterogeneity, these conditions are frequently
      grouped in clinical practice as WTC-related asthma and managed similarly.

      Studies found substantial burden of asthma morbidity in WTC workers and exposed community
      members, with reports of poorly-controlled in 34% and very poorly-controlled symptoms in 35%
      of exposed individuals. Increased risk of emergency department (ED) visits and
      hospitalizations as well as poor quality of life in WTC workers with asthma have been
      reported, showing a major impact on health.

      Scientific Premise of Project: PTSD is Associated with Increased Asthma Morbidity in WTC
      Workers: Prevalence of psychological symptoms in WTC-exposed populations is high; with PTSD
      reported as the most common (~30%) mental health condition. Studies have also found high
      rates (25-35%) of PTSD comorbidity in WTC workers with asthma. Mental health conditions and
      PTSD in particular, have been associated with increased asthma morbidity. The study team
      found that WTC workers with PTSD had worse asthma control, increased healthcare use, and
      poorer quality of life.

      . Similarly, a study of WTC workers indicated that severity of PTSD symptoms predicted new
      onset and worsening of asthma. Data from studies in the general population have also shown
      that PTSD is associated with higher asthma morbidity. In summary, studies have documented a
      high level of overlap between asthma and PTSD in WTC workers and other exposed populations
      and have documented that PTSD is a major contributor to increased asthma morbidity. However,
      the underlying mechanisms explaining this relationship remain unknown.

      PTSD May Negatively Impact Asthma SMB: Asthma self-management encompasses several complex
      behaviors such as adherence to controller medications, adequate inhaler technique, use of
      action plans, allergen avoidance, and avoiding tobacco exposure that are critical for
      adequate disease control. Adherence to controller medications in particular, is a factor that
      heavily influences the outcomes of asthmatics. Studies conducted in the general population
      and the preliminary data from WTC workers shown that only ~50% of patients with asthma adhere
      to controller therapy or other SMB.

      Mental health conditions are associated with low adherence to chronic disease SMB. PTSD, in
      particular, has been strongly associated with low treatment adherence in multiple chronic
      diseases. With smoking being an important part of asthma self-management, it is of special
      concern that higher rates of smoking have been reported among WTC workers with PTSD. Thus,
      low adherence to SMB may mediate, in part, the association between PTSD and increased asthma
      morbidity. However, there is limited data regarding the relationship between PTSD and asthma
      SMB in the general population or among WTC workers, in particular.

      Despite the strong link between asthma and PTSD in WTC workers, there are no interventions
      aimed at managing both conditions. During the observational component of the study, the
      researchers found evidence that PTSD was linked to worse asthma morbidity and WTC workers
      with PTSD did not have increased perception of symptoms. As part of this study, the
      researchers will test an integrated strategy using Cognitive Processing Therapy (CPT) and
      asthma self-management support to improve the outcomes of WTC workers with PTSD and asthma.
      CPT is based on a social cognitive theory of PTSD that focuses on how the traumatic event is
      construed and coped with by a person who is trying to regain a sense of mastery and control
      in his or her life. The self-management support component will be based on material the
      researchers developed as part of the SAMBA trial for elderly patients with asthma.
    
  