
    
      The treatment of obesity can present a challenge because of the difficulty in maintaining
      body weight loss beyond one year. The aim of the study will be comparing the effectiveness of
      two energy-unrestricted diets containing different amount of macronutrients: 1) moderate in
      fat with high amounts of MUFAs - the MED diet and 2) low in fat with high dietary fiber
      contents - the DASH diet, on maintenance of weight loss and metabolic outcomes following a
      recent weight loss in centrally obese postmenopausal women. Since the outcomes of dietary
      interventions may depend greatly on adherence to the diet, we will measure the plasma AR
      concentrations and fatty acids profile in red blood cells (RBC). Plasma AR concentrations is
      a valid marker of intake of whole-grain wheat/rye in the DASH diet and fatty acids
      concentration in RBC is a valid marker of fatty acids intake (especially MUFAs) in the MED
      diet. A total of 150 non-smoking, centrally obese, with at least one other criterion of
      metabolic syndrome postmenopausal women up to 65 old years will be qualified. This study will
      be divided into 3 phases:

        -  Phase I lasting eight weeks (weeks 1-8). All participants will be introduced to a weight
           loss intervention with a daily energy deficit of 700 kcal per day. During this phase,
           changes in body weight and body composition (DEXA) and waist circumference will be
           measured every four weeks. Moreover, at each control visit, compliance with the
           prescribed diets will be measured by three-day food records. Moreover, the physical
           activity level will be done. Before and after weight loss phase changes in lipid and
           non-lipid parameters as well as eating behavior will be measured.

        -  Participants who will loss ≥10% initial body weight will be randomly assigned to phase
           II of the study (weight loss maintenance intervention). This phase will be lasting 24
           weeks (weeks 9-32). Participants will receive the MED (n = 50) or DASH diet (n = 50).
           The control group (n = 50) will receive oral dietary recommendations based on the
           Harvard model "Healthy Eating Plate". During this phase, changes in body weight, body
           composition, and waist circumference will be measured every four weeks. Moreover, at
           each control visit, compliance with the prescribed diets will be measured by three-day
           food records. Moreover, the physical activity level will be done. Before and after
           weight loss phase changes in lipid and non-lipid parameters as well as valid markers of
           whole-grain wheat/rye and faty acids intake and eating behavior will be measured.

        -  After this 32 weeks period will be finished, the participants will be discharged to the
           community with no contact from study personnel for 20 weeks, until follow-up at 52 weeks
           study (Phase III - weeks 33 - 52). After this time changes in body weight, body
           composition and waist circumference will be measured. Moreover, the physical activity
           level will be done again and changes in lipid and non-lipid parameters, as well as valid
           markers of intake and eating behavior, will be measured.
    
  