
    
      Familial Hypercholesterolaemia is an inherited genetic disorder which causes elevated levels
      of low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol in the blood. High LDL is a risk factor for with
      arterial disease and people with FH develop coronary artery disease (CAD) early in life.
      People with only one inherited copy of the defective gene usually develop CAD before the age
      of 60, whereas individuals who have inherited two copies usually die before the age of 30
      from myocardial infarction ("heart attack") or sudden cardiac death. Coronary artery disease
      is a major cause of death and disability in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), and the medical
      costs associated with treating this condition are significant. Early identification and
      treatment of affected individuals can substantially postpone the onset of arterial disease
      and reduce the risk of mortality. In clinical practice, FH cases are usually identified by
      screening the relatives of people known to be affected.

      Current study will focus on identifying individuals with high risk score for FH, based on the
      available medical records and laboratory information system (LIS). Furthermore, patients with
      history of premature ischaemic vascular disease and/or high readings for LDL-C will be
      approached and asked to participate.

      The scientific aims of the study are:

        -  Identifying individuals with likelihood of FH diagnosis and confirming FH by genetic
           testing (applying Next Generation Sequencing NGS technology to analyse the genes already
           known and/or suspected to cause FH).

        -  Identifying novel FH genes and mutations in the Emirati population by performing whole
           exome and whole genome sequencing

        -  Validating positive genetic test results by performing mutational analysis on parental
           samples (if available)

        -  Introducing cascade screening on a clinical basis in order to identify affected
           relatives of those index individuals with a clinical diagnosis of FH

        -  Determining the prevalence of FH in the UAE

        -  Determining the short and the long-term clinical outcomes of FH in the UAE

      It is expected that the cascade screening will provide additional clinical benefit to study
      participants and their families in terms of early identification and treatment where
      diagnosis could otherwise be missed. Early recognition and treatment in individuals with FH
      has been shown to reduce morbidity and mortality of affected individuals. The information
      gathered during this project will help introduce a cost-effective method for identifying
      people with dyslipidaemias and provide early intervention and management.
    
  