
    
      SRG Protocol: shoulder rehabilitation protocol The protocol will be performed on a group with
      a maximum of 5 participants. Exercises intensity and difficulty will progress after
      completing 1 month of assistance, by increasing range of motion and loads (dumbbells) or
      resistance (elastic bands) in the exercises that are convenient. Each session will consist of
      6 stages: 1) Pendulum exercise (10 repetitions - maintenance for 20 seconds); 2) Slide in
      flexion of the arms on the table (2 sets of 10 repetitions, maintenance in maximum range for
      20 seconds); 3) Abduction and adduction (2 sets of 10 repetitions, maintenance for 20
      seconds); 4) Wall slide - sliding of the arms on the wall (2 series of 10 repetitions,
      maintenance of 20 seconds); 5) Internal and external rotation (2 sets of 10 repetitions,
      maintenance for 20 seconds); 6) Elongation of the posterior capsule (cross-body) and
      pectoralis minor (3 repetitions of 30 seconds each). Pain will be evaluated during the
      protocol using the visual analog scale (VAS). The exercises proposed in this protocol are
      those that have already demonstrated in the literature an improvement in the function,
      strength, range of motion, and pain of the shoulder complex of the general population (27,
      58).

      The intensity and duration of the resistance exercises will be monitored by the physical
      therapist using heart rate monitors and adjusted to follow the same heart rate progression as
      outlined below for the aerobic group (ARG). In this manner, the average energy expenditure
      for both exercise groups will be similar. The protocol duration will be between 30-35
      minutes. All sessions will be supervised by a physiotherapist with experience in physical
      exercise.

      ARG group: Shoulder rehabilitation protocol combined to aerobic exercise program The ARG
      group will perform the shoulder rehabilitation protocol presented above combined with the
      aerobic exercise program. The aerobic program will last 20 minutes per session at 40% of the
      reserve heart rate (HRC), progressing up to 40 minutes with a maximum of 60% of the HRC in
      the last two weeks, according to the recommendations for patients with type 2 DM proposed in
      the American College of Sports Medicine Guidelines (59). The program will be carried out in
      groups of 4 participants and each session will consist of 3 stages: 1) Warm-up (5 min):
      patients will perform stretches of the main muscle groups; 2) Aerobic exercise in the
      treadmill with continuous heart rate monitors (Polar Electro Oy, Kempele, Finland), which
      will be used to adjust workload to achieve the target heart rate (15-40 min); 3) Cooldown (5
      min): Stretching of the main muscle groups worked during the sessions and relaxation. In this
      way, the rehabilitation protocol of ARG group will last a total of approximately 90 minutes
      maximum. Before and after each session, blood pressure, heart rate and subjective perception
      of effort will be measured. During sessions, heart rate will be monitored by a heart rate
      monitor (Polar Vantage, Finland), and perceived exertion will be measured using the Borg CR20
      scale, which should remain approximately between 11-13 (59). All sessions will be supervised
      by a physiotherapist with experience in physical exercise.
    
  