
    
      Patients are extensively monitored intraoperatively. Even though there are monitors for the
      measurement of nociception, it has not gained wide acceptance partly because of limited and
      scarce evidence on the efficacy and optimal use. Especially elderly patients undergoing major
      operation might benefit from optimization of opioid administration. Surgical Pleth Index
      (SPI) is an intraoperative monitoring aimed for detection of nociceptive stimulus.

      The aim of this research is to study whether SPI could be used to guide opioid administration
      in gastroenterological surgery. The study will consist of a total 80 patients which are
      randomized into two groups. The study sample is based on power calculation for the reduction
      of remifentanil consumption.

      In the study group the opioid administration will be guided using a SPI based protocol. In
      the control group the opioid administration will be based on standard monitoring and clinical
      decision alone. The aim of the study will be to study whether opioid administration optimized
      using SPI can lover need for anticholinergic drugs, reduce need for opioids or diminish the
      amount of unwanted side effects postoperatively. The patients will be treated using target
      controlled infusions of remifentanil and propofol.

      The data will be collected intraoperatively using electronic software and using a study data
      collection form by study personel. All study procedures will take place during operative
      period.

      The study power was calculated using a study comparing depth of anesthesia and depth of
      nociception balance-controlled group into a group without these monitors. In the group with
      monitoring the consumption of remifentanil was 9,5±3.8 mg/kg/h while in the unmonitored group
      the consumption was 12.3 mg/kg/h(Chen, 2010). While taking into notice α= 0,005 and β=90% a
      number of 39 patients in each group is needed. Based on these we chose 80 patients to be
      included in the study.

      All collected data will be used into statistical analysis ass applicable. Statistical
      analysis plan describing the analytical principles and statistical techniques to be employed
      in order to address the primary and secondary objectives, as specified in the study protocol
      or plan.
    
  