
    
      Fluid therapy is one of the cornerstones of the treatment of organ failure. The investigators
      assume that a fluid bolus will increase the delivery of oxygen to the cells and resolve the
      shock. The evaluation of this treatment is done by clinical signs of organ perfusion en
      (little used) invasive hemodynamic monitoring. Previous research suggests that in-vivo
      microscopy of the microcirculation can be of importance to determine the type of shock and
      the reaction on treatment on tissue level.

      Evaluation of the microcirculation was done by measuring red blood cell velocity on three
      different sites in the sublingual region. This was necessary in order to take heterogeneity
      into account, it was very hard to fix the camera on one spot during the observation period.

      The purpose of this study is to asses kinetics of the sublingual microcirculation in one
      place during a fluid bolus. The great advantage is that the recordings before and after fluid
      therapy can be compared with each other as paired data, wherein the subject is its own
      control. By choosing a time interval that is long enough for the observation of the changes,
      but short enough for manual fixing of the camera, it seems possible to serve both purposes
      (15-30 minutes). This seems crucial now because both red blood cell flow as capillary density
      will be measured. It is expected that fluid therapy after normalization of the red blood cell
      flow velocity in the microcirculation will result in a decrease in capillary density through
      the formation of edema in the tissues. This can be considered to be the tipping of
      potentially beneficial to deleterious effects of fluid therapy.

      After cardiac surgery patient will be transferred to the ICU for further stabilisation.
      Within specific indications the patient will receive a fluid bolus, these indications are
      hypotension, hyperlactataemia, tachycardia or decreased urine production. The fluid bolus
      will be 250 ml crystalloids in 15 minutes. The investigators will observe the sublingual
      microcirculation during this fluid bolus. To asses the red blood cell velocity and capillary
      vessel density on one spot during this fluid bolus.
    
  