
    
      Patients with cancer, across a wide range of diagnoses and stages, have a high incidence of
      symptoms that may greatly impact quality of life. The consequences of inadequate symptom
      assessment and management are profound, complex, and can be overwhelming to patients and
      their caregivers. However, clinicians are faced too often with shrinking resources, removing
      opportunities for comprehensive, interpersonal interactions with patients. The patient's
      experience, particularly symptoms and quality of life (QOL) concerns, reported in a reliable
      and systematic way, is an essential component of the information on which a complete clinical
      assessment, diagnosis and treatment plan is based. Computer technology has been developed for
      patient self-reporting of symptom and QOL data using validated survey instruments delivered
      on notebook computers, personal digital assistants, and over the Web. Not only do these
      devices eliminate the usual steps of abstracting patient interview data and/or keying in
      marked responses, but the interfaces also permit customized, confidential and private
      assistance with answering queries more completely. While the reports are few, the results are
      positive: data integrity is enhanced by the computerized assessment, and patients prefer, and
      are easily able to complete the computerized versions. Furthermore, computerized screening
      procedures have demonstrably enhanced communication between clinicians and patients and
      successfully identified psychologically distressed patients with cancer.

        -  Clinicians and researchers developed and pilot-tested the ESRA-C prototype in 2000/2001
           at the University of Washington Medical Center Cancer Center. The successful
           implementation was published in 2004 in the Oncology Nursing Forum. [8]

        -  The purpose of this new randomized trial is to evaluate the clinical use of our
           web-based ESRA-C throughout the Seattle Cancer Care Alliance.

        -  Two patients per month per team (Transplant) or per provider (Radiation Oncology,
           Medical Oncology) will be enrolled in this study.

        -  Patients will use the system to self-assess their symptoms and QOL at 2 time points,
           before (T1) and after treatment (T2)

        -  At the second, on-treatment assessment, the intervention group patients will have a
           color-graphic summary of their answers from both T1 and T2 delivered to the clinical
           team before the clinic visit with the patient.

        -  Both intervention and control participants will have the T2 clinic visit audio-recorded.
           Clinician data will be anonymously entered and audio-files destroyed.

        -  Using chart reviews we will abstract any notations, therapies ordered, prescriptions
           written and referrals made, relevant to symptoms and quality of life issues. This will
           be documented without clinician identifiers.
    
  