
    
      After a reconstructive procedure of the urethra, a transurethral catheter is usually left in
      place to allow adequate healing of the tissues without exposure to urine. After 7-21 days,
      depending on several variables (e.g. type of reconstruction, stricture etiology, …), removal
      of the transurethral catheter is foreseen. However, in order to do so, the clinician first
      wants to objectify whether the urethra has indeed healed sufficiently and therefore he/she
      can rely on early postoperative imaging.

      Up until today, there is no clear standard about when and how to do early postoperative
      imaging and current practices are mainly based on expert opinion and habit. Basically, two
      strategies can be found amongst different urethroplasty centers: peri-catheter retrograde
      urethrography (pcRUG) and voiding cysto-urethrography (VCUG). A pcRUG is performed by placing
      a small caliber tube (e.g. feeding tube 5 Fr) in the meatus urethrae of the patient, next to
      the transurethral catheter (which remains in place), and injecting contrast alongside the
      catheter. With a VCUG, contrast is injected through the transurethral catheter, up to the
      bladder. Thereafter, the catheter is removed and the patient is asked to urinate and thus to
      pass contrast through the urethra.

      In both of the aforementioned imaging modalities, patients are installed similarly on the
      X-ray table and an antero-posterior X-ray image is made1. In patients with no or
      insignificant, wisp-like extravasation of contrast, the transurethral catheter can safely be
      removed. In case of significant contrast extravasation, as defined by Grossgold et al., the
      catheter is maintained or replaced for another week and one week later, imaging is repeated2.

      Both pcRUG and VCUG are not perfect and involve a number of flaws. The main issue with pcRUG
      is represented by the potential impact of several variables on the image: different levels of
      pressure in the urethra by different strength of injection, different calibers of tubes
      through which the contrast is injected, etc. As regards VCUG, an important amount of patients
      does not achieve to void while being on the X-ray table, which can lead to a long duration of
      the procedure or even no imaging at all. Another important problem is the fact that if the
      patient has a significant extravasation of contrast, the catheter needs to be replaced
      through the freshly reconstructed, and apparently still leaking, urethra. This may be
      difficult and is often bothersome for the patient.

      Given the drawbacks mentioned above, a combination of both techniques can be administered to
      overcome the flaws of each separate imaging modality and could as such be considered the
      standard of care in early postoperative imaging after urethroplasty. However, the combination
      of both techniques includes a higher exposure to radiation than one separate technique and
      one could wonder what the added value of VCUG after pcRUG is and whether or not this is worth
      the extra exposure to radiation. To date, there is no such data and a wide variability of
      strategies is used in the different urethroplasty practices worldwide.

      Against this background, the primary end-point of this study is to compare 'the rightful
      decision to maintain the catheter at the time of imaging' between pcRUG only and pcRUG
      followed by VCUG in a within-patient fashion.
    
  