
    
      Successfully implementing a SFSO-MPI protocol requires a validated pre-screening tool and a
      proven imaging protocol that aids the physician in reporting the study with confidence. The
      investigator's previous study, entitled "The feasibility of Stress-First/Stress-Only
      Myocardial Perfusion Imaging to reduce patient radiation exposure in a selected subset of
      patients undergoing testing in a tertiary care facility (SFSO-MPI)", was designed to validate
      a pre-screening tool developed by Duvall et al. In the investigator's population the tool
      demonstrated sensitivity and specificity (95% CI) of 0.79 (0.74-0.83) and 0.55 (0.48-0.62)
      (unpublished data). The sensitivity was lower than previous published. However the
      investigators noted that a greater proportion of participants were classified as abnormal
      (55% vs 31 and 36% in the two cohorts described by Duvall et al) and a high number of
      patients (15%) were reported as having equivocal stress images. These factors may have
      affected the sensitivity of the pre-screening tool. A greater proportion of the
      investigator's participants would then have required a rest study for proper interpretation
      of the test. Additional imaging increases the patients' radiation exposure and time
      requirement for the study and affects the proper allocation of department resources.

      The department routinely images patients in only the supine position. The implementation of
      routine combined supine/prone imaging is expected to decrease image artifacts which may
      reduce the number of studies reported as equivocal. If combined supine/prone imaging is
      successful in changing the interpretation of a significant proportion of equivocal stress
      studies to normal, then the need for rest imaging will be obviated in a larger group of
      patients, resulting in reduced radiation dose to patients and medical staff, better
      laboratory efficiency due to faster throughput, reduced time commitment for patients and
      lower radiopharmaceutical cost. This change to practice will also further aid meeting the
      American Society of Nuclear Cardiology (ASNC) goal of no more than 9mSv patient exposure in
      50% of studies.
    
  