
    
      Flow disruption with Woven EndoBridge (WEB) is an innovative treatment that has been
      evaluated in several prospective and retrospective studies1-3. The efficacy and safety of
      this strategy has been largely proved, and nowadays, indications for WEBs are progressively
      enlarged. Appropriate sizing of the device is the key factor for treatment with a WEB.
      Undersized devices may lead to insufficient coverage of the aneurysm neck and inadequate
      filling of the volume of the sac, lowering the angiographic success. On the other hand, an
      excessively oversized WEB may cause an unwarranted protrusion into the parent vessel,
      increasing the risk of ischemic events. The conventional approach for WEB sizing is based on
      two-dimensional digital subtraction angiography (2D-DSA), adding 1mm to the average width (to
      assure good wall apposition), and subtracting 1mm to the average height of the aneurysm (to
      adjust for the longitudinal increase caused by the horizontal compression)4. However, the
      operator has to anticipate the behavior of the device, predicting tridimensional
      modifications of the WEB in relation to the volume and shape of the aneurysm dome and neck.
      Accordingly, appropriate WEB sizing could be difficult and may require experience. Data about
      software-based simulation to predict changes after device implantation have been reported for
      flow diversion and braided stents5-7. The Sim&Size software (Sim&Cure, Grabels, France) is
      able to perform virtual sizing before WEB deployment using pre or per-operative
      three-dimensional rotational angiography (3D-RA) acquisition. The virtual simulation helps to
      select the most appropriate size of the device, predicting the behavior of the WEB inside the
      aneurysm dome, and the surface of the WEB apposition, anticipating protrusion over the neck
      or inappropriate coverage of the ostium. This multicenter study aimed to explore if the use
      of the Sim&Size software during endovascular embolization of intracranial aneurysms with WEB
      devices was associated with measurables procedural advantages compared with conventional
      sizing methods.

      The primary investigated outcomes were 1) the median duration of the intervention; 2) the
      median radiation dose; 3) the need of corrective interventions; and 4) the number of WEBs
      opened but finally not deployed because of the inappropriate size of the device.

      The secondary investigated endpoints were 1) the overall rate of complications
      (peri-procedural and long-term adverse events); 2) the morbidity rate (complications
      associated with permanent change of the clinical and neurological status of the patient); and
      3) short-term (6 months) and long-term (12 months or more) aneurysm occlusion and WEB-shape
      change ("compaction") (decrease in height of the device or a deepening of the proximal and
      distal concave recesses during follow-up9 based on non-subtracted images)
    
  