
    
      During the last year, clinical studies on vitamin D have confirmed the presence of world-wide
      incidence of vitamin D deficiency. Recently, the investigators detected an incidence of 80%
      vitamin D deficiency/ insufficiency in patients presenting to our tertiary stone clinic.
      However, there is no data in the literature regarding the safety of vitamin D replacement in
      this highly specialized group of patients. Consequently, clinicians are concerned about
      vitamin D replacement in these patients for fear of increased risk of hypercalciuria and
      stone formation.

      This study aims to determine the effect of vitamin D replacement on patients presenting to a
      tertiary stone clinic in terms of changes in 24-hour urine collection parameters and
      secondary stone formation. Eighty- six eligible patients with 25-(OH)D deficiency or
      insufficiency (defined as serum level <72 nmol/L) with history of calcareous urolithiasis and
      urinary calcium excretion <7.5 mmol/day will be included in the study.

      Eligible patients will be randomly divided into 2 equal groups depending on whether they will
      receive vitamin D replacement or not. Randomization will be done using a computer-based
      random number generator. Patients will receive vitamin D3 tablets 10.000 IU twice a week for
      8 weeks followed by a maintenance dose of 1.000 IU daily for 21 months. All patients will be
      subjected to full history taking and clinical examinations, urinalysis and culture when
      indicated, liver function tests, urea and creatinine, ionized normalized calcium, phosphate,
      magnesium, uric acid, potassium, PTH, TSH and both forms of vitamin D [25(OH)D and 1, 25
      (OH)2D], low dose CT scan to confirm stone free status and baseline bone density scan,
      together with metabolic stone workup consisting of stone analysis and two 24-hour urine
      collections for calculation of volume, osmolality, pH, creatinine, urea, calcium, phosphate,
      chloride, magnesium, sodium, potassium, oxalate, citrate, uric acid, and quantitative
      cystine. Similar follow-up measures will be done at 3, 6, 12, 18 & 24 months. At the end of
      the study, low dose CT scan and bone density scans will be repeated.

      Data will be collected and tabulated using the commercially available SPSS software version
      17 (SPSSInc, Chicago, IL, USA). Descriptive statistics will be presented in terms of
      percentage, frequency, means and standard deviations for parametric variables and median with
      interquartile ranges for non-parametric. Differences between both groups will be compared
      with the Fisher's exact test for categorical data and Student's t- test for the continuous
      variables. In addition, interplay of more than 2 variables will be analysed using
      multivariate logistic-regression. The effect of season of recruitment on and changes in serum
      25(OH)D will be evaluated using multivariate analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) with two-tailed
      p-values less than values 0.05 representing statistical significance. Time to hypercalciuria
      or time to stone formation c will be analysed using a survival analysis technique and
      comparison of the 2 groups using a log-rank test.
    
  