
    
      With a prevalence of 7-10% endometriosis is one of the most common diseases of women during
      their reproductive period. There is a broad range of clinical symptoms of endometriosis,
      which may vary between an incidental asymptomatic finding and a chronic severely painful
      disease. Symptoms are nearly independent from disease stage and current therapeutic options
      do not permit to reliably reduce symptoms to an acceptable level. Independent from the
      therapy chosen, about 20% of women re-develop clinical symptoms in the first year and another
      50% within a period of five years.

      The currently provided medical support concentrates on surgical and medical i.e. hormonal
      options. Although it seems evident that endometriosis-associated pain will have a serious
      impact on the daily life of women attaint and there is a broad literature on the effect of
      other chronic pain diseases on patients' lives, comparable data for endometriosis are rare.
      Also, support models to allow women to integrate a chronic endometriosis into their daily
      life are currently lacking. To provide a reliable basis for the development of better
      holistic support models, the current study collects data on different aspects of the quality
      of life in a minimum of 600 women with different stages of endometriosis and a minimum of 600
      control women matched for age (± 3 years) and nationality. To evaluate which features of the
      quality of life are specific for endometriosis a second control group of 100 women with
      chronic abdominal/pelvic pain not related to endometriosis is investigated. Recruitment takes
      place in different university clinics, and districts hospitals in Switzerland, Germany and
      Austria. Control women i.e. women without any evidence for endometriosis presenting for
      annual routine gynaecological controls are collected at the same places.

      A composition of different internationally validated questionnaires as well as specific
      questions on dealing with endometriosis is used to collect information on the quality of life
      and potential risk factors for endometriosis. The questionnaire includes basic
      socio-demographic data, life style parameters, a general as well as gynaeco-obstetric history
      including detailed questions on the diagnosis, treatment and current symptoms of
      endometriosis. In addition questionnaires on pain (modified version of the Brief Pain
      Inventory (BPI), Pain Disability Index (PDI), resources (SOC), stress perception (PSQ20),
      professional development, satisfaction with medical support, adverse childhood experiences
      (modified version of the childhood trauma questionnaire (CTQ), daily life, partnership
      (Partnerschaftsfragebogen, PFB), sexuality (modified version of the Brief Index of Sexual
      Functioning and Global sexual functioning) and anxiety/depression (PHQ, GAD) have to be
      completed by study participants. Socio-demographic questions, questions on partnership as
      well as on the estimated impact of endometriosis on partnership /sexuality were also given to
      study participants' partners. In addition to the current quality of life potential risk
      factors for the development of endometriosis e.g. traumatic childhood experiences are
      evaluated as well as satisfaction with medical support are evaluated.

      All diagnosis of endometriosis and classification of ASRM disease stages are based on woman's
      medical charts.
    
  