
    
      Aim of the study This is a randomized controlled parallel-group, superiority trial comparing
      RAMIE to MIE with intrathoracic anastomosis (Ivor-Lewis) in patients with resectable
      esophageal adenocarcinoma or adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal junction in the Western
      World.

      Methods Objectives Patients with resectable esophageal adenocarcinoma or adenocarcinoma of
      the gastroesophageal junction are randomized at the outpatient department to either (a)
      robot-assisted minimally invasive esophagectomy (RAMIE) or (b) conventional minimally
      invasive esophagectomy (MIE). The objective is to evaluate the extent of lymph node
      dissection, efficacy, risks, survival and cost-effectiveness of RAMIE as an alternative to
      MIE as treatment for esophageal adenocarcinoma or adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal
      junction. We hypothesize that RAMIE leads to an improved lymph node dissection compared to
      MIE.

      Study design This is a multicenter investigator-initiated and investigator-driven randomized
      controlled parallel-group, superiority trial comparing RAMIE to MIE. This study is conducted
      in accordance with the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and Good Clinical Practice
      Guidelines. The independent ethics committee of the University Medical Center of the Johannes
      Gutenberg University, Mainz, Germany has approved the study. Written informed consent will be
      obtained from all participating patients. All centers participating in the ROBOT-2 trial have
      extensive experience in minimally invasive esophageal surgery and have an experience with at
      least 50 MIE an 50 RAMIE procedures performed.

      Clinical trial monitoring will be conducted by an independent data monitor from the Johannes
      Gutenberg University, Mainz, Germany. A Data safety monitoring board (DSMB) will evaluate
      safety for patients included within this trial. All outcomes will be evaluated by a (blinded)
      external independent data committee board for the Upper GI International Robotic association
      (UGIRA).

      Study protocol Patients are informed about the trial by one of our surgeons at the outpatient
      department. After receiving the information, all patients get one week time to consider their
      consent. After obtaining informed consent, randomization, with concealment of allocation, is
      done centrally by an online randomization program. There is no blinding for the patient,
      surgeon and coordinating researcher because this is difficult in daily practice. However the
      UGIRA committee and DSMB are blinded to the allocated intervention. This study is funded by
      Intuitive surgical Inc., Sunnyvale, CA, USA. Neoadjuvant (radio)chemotherapy will be
      administered according to current international policy. Multiple esophageal cancer biopsies
      for pathological analysis will be obtained through esophagogastroscopy of which 4 biopsies
      will be snap frozen and stored for translational research. All resection specimens will be
      preserved and stored (biobank) for translational research. The study will start on April 1st
      2020. Inclusion will take approximately 2 years. Follow up for each patient will be 5 years.
      Total duration of the study will be 7 years.

      Surgery All procedures (RAMIE or MIE) will be carried out by experienced surgeons with
      experience of at least 50 MIE and 50 RAMIE procedures. All patients will receive an epidural
      catheter to provide adequate postoperative analgesia. Patients will be intubated with a
      left-sided double-lumen tube to enable selective desufflation of the right lung during the
      thoracic phase in both procedures.

      Antibiotic prophylaxis (Ampicillin 2000 mg and Sulbactam 1000mg) will be administered 30
      minutes prior to incision. A thoracic drain will be positioned in the right hemithorax at the
      end of the procedure. Extubating will take place in the operating theater directly
      postoperatively and hereafter all patients will be admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU)
      for hemodynamic and respiratory monitoring. Hemodynamical and respiratory stable patients
      were discharged towards the surgical ward. All patients were placed on a nil-by-mouth routine
      for the first 3 days postoperatively. In absence of clinical signs of anastomotic
      insufficiency, patients started with sips of water and the oral intake was gradually
      increased to solid food. There was no enhanced recovery program.

      Surgical procedure: RAMIE The RAMIE technique using the 4 arm daVinci Xi system was described
      previously (daVinci Xi system, Intuitive Surgical Inc., Sunnyvale, CA, USA).20 For the
      abdominal phase, the patient is placed in supine position. Robotic trocars positions are
      shown in figure 2a. The lesser omentum is opened and transected closely to the liver, until
      the left crus of the diaphragm is reached. Hereafter, the greater gastric curvature is
      dissected. An abdominal lymphadenectomy is performed including lymph nodes surrounding the
      hepatoduodenal ligament, the celiac trunk, along the left gastric and splenic artery and the
      lesser omental lymph nodes. The left gastric artery and vein are ligated with robotic
      Hem-o-lok and transected at their origin. The gastric conduit is created at the level of the
      crow's foot using a (robotic) endostapler .

      For the thoracic phase, the patient is positioned in the left lateral decubitus position,
      tilted 45° towards the prone position (semi-prone). Trocars positions are shown in figure 3a.
      The robotic system is brought into the field at the dorsocranial side of the patient. After
      incision and installation of the operation robot and selective desufflation of the right
      lung, the pulmonary ligament is divided. Hereafter, the parietal pleura is dissected at the
      anterior side of the esophagus from the diaphragm up to the azygos arch. The azygos vein is
      ligated with robotic Hem-o-lok and divided. Dissection of the parietal pleura is continued
      above the azygos arch to establish dissection of the right paratracheal lymph nodes. At the
      posterior side of the esophagus, the parietal pleura is dissected cranially to caudally along
      the azygos vein, including the thoracic duct. The thoracic duct is clipped with robotic
      Hem-o-lok to prevent chylous leakage. The esophagus is resected en bloc with the surrounding
      mediastinal lymph nodes. The gastric conduit is pulled up and the specimen is removed through
      a small incision (mini-thoracotomy) at the location of the trocar in the 6th intercostal
      space. Continuity is created with a circular stapled esophago-gastrostomy, which is routinely
      oversewn with a V-Lock (Medtronic). An omental wrap around the anastomosis is created in all
      patients.

      Surgical procedure: MIE For the abdominal phase, the patient is placed in supine French
      position. The lesser omentum is opened and transected closely to the liver, until the left
      crus of the diaphragm is reached. Hereafter, the greater gastric curvature is dissected. An
      abdominal lymphadenectomy is performed including lymph nodes surrounding the hepatoduodenal
      ligament, the celiac trunk, along the left gastric and splenic artery and the lesser omental
      lymph nodes. The left gastric artery and vein are ligated with clips and transected at their
      origin. The gastric conduit is created at the level of the crow's foot using an endostapler
      For the thoracic phase, the patient is positioned in the left lateral decubitus position,
      tilted 45° towards the prone position (semi-prone). After selective desufflation of the right
      lung, the pulmonary ligament is divided. Hereafter, the parietal pleura is dissected at the
      anterior side of the esophagus from the diaphragm up to the azygos arch. The azygos vein is
      ligated with an Endostapler or clips. Dissection of the parietal pleura is continued above
      the azygos arch to establish dissection of the right paratracheal lymph nodes. At the
      posterior side of the esophagus, the parietal pleura is dissected cranially to caudally along
      the azygos vein, including the thoracic duct. The thoracic duct is clipped with a clips to
      prevent chylous leakage. The esophagus is resected en bloc with the surrounding mediastinal
      lymph nodes.

      The gastric conduit is pulled up and the resection specimen is removed through a small
      incision (mini-thoracotomy) at the location of the trocar in the 6th intercostal space.
      Continuity is created using stapled esophago-gastrostomy, which is routinely oversewn with a
      V-Lock (Medtronic). An omental wrap around the anastomosis is created in all patients.

      Statistical analysis All prospective data will be statistically analyzed by the use of the
      statistical software SPSS. All analyses were performed according to the intention-to-treat
      (ITT) principle. Results are presented as risk ratios with corresponding 95% confidence
      intervals (CI). To evaluate significance of differences between groups, the chi-squared test
      was used as appropriate for categorical variables and the student's T-test and non-parametric
      Mann-Whitney U-test for continuous variables.

      Differences over time in quality of life and pain scores between and within treatment groups
      were assessed using linear mixed-effects models adjusted for the baseline value. Overall and
      progression-free survival curves were estimated with the Kaplan-Meier method and compared
      with the log-rank test. All reported P-values were two-sided. Significance level was set at
      0.05.

      The cost-effectiveness analysis will compare the mean costs and effects for both strategies
      and result in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio. Uncertainty in the balance between
      costs and effects will be assessed with bootstrapping. A time horizon of 5 years will be
      applied, and costs and effects will be discounted according to Dutch guidelines.

      If the baseline characteristics differ after randomization, i.e. there is a lack of balance
      in the confounding factors; this will be corrected using the multivariate analysis or by
      using a net benefit regression approach.

      Interim-analysis There will be one interim-analysis. The stopping rule used for efficacy
      (i.e. better outcome for minimally invasive for the primary endpoint) is the Peto-approach,
      meaning a p-value <0.001. The trial will not be stopped for futility (i.e. no difference) and
      there is no there is no formal stopping rule for harm.

      After every 50 patients, individualized patient description charts including safety
      parameters will be presented to the UGIRA Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB). The DSMB will
      discuss these in a plenary, telephone or online conference with the study coordinator and
      principal investigator present. The trial research group will discuss in a plenary session
      together with the DSMB the potential harm per patient and determine whether a relationship
      can be drawn between the surgical procedure and the adverse events. Consensus will be reached
      and the Institutional ethical board will be informed.
    
  