
    
      Mirtazapine has significant advantages in response and remission rates compared with various
      SSRIs in double-blind treatment. Mirtazapine combined with SSRIs or venlafaxine was also
      found to be one of the more effective and successful strategy for nonresponders in MDD. The
      investigators hypothesized that mirtazapine as adjunctive treatment to paroxetine can boost
      the onset time and also can improve the antidepression action of SSRIs in patients without
      early improvement.

      The aim of this study is to provide physicians with further information regarding early
      improvement and mirtazapine combined with a SSRI antidepressant therapy in nonresponders, by
      providing a comparison of depressive symptoms outcomes associated with adjunctive mirtazapine
      or mono- paroxetine in MDD patients who have previously been treated with paroxetine for 2
      weeks and who have not attained improvement. Paroxetine has been chosen as a comparator
      because it is a widely-used and relatively well-tolerated SSRI antidepressant.

      The study is designed as a multi-center, randomized, double-blind, active-controlled trial in
      subjects with MDD.

      Patients will be male or female, 18 to 60 years of age, inclusive, outpatient or inpatient
      status, with diagnosis of major depressive episode (single or recurrent) by DSM-IV. The
      patients should also have HAMD-17 total score ≥ 20,a HAMD-17 Item 1(depressed mood) score ≥ 2
      at enrollment in open-label preliminary phase.

      It will consist of 2 phases. An open-label preliminary phase lasts for 2 weeks, during which
      paroxetine is titrated up to 20mg/day (Day 5). At Week 2, patients will be evaluated by
      HAMD-17. The patients who have achieved early improvement (the decrease of HAMD-17 total
      score ≥ 20%) will be discontinued. The patients who have not achieved early improvement (the
      decrease of HAMD-17 total score < 20%), will be randomized into three treatment arms
      [1.Mirtazapine (30mg/d); 2.Paroxetine (20mg/d); 3.Mirtazapine (30mg/d) +Paroxetine(20mg/d)].
      In double-blind treatment phase (consist of 6 weeks), patients will be evaluated at Week 3,
      4, 6 and 8.

      Primary efficacy measure will be assessed based on the decrease of HAMD-17 from randomization
      (Week 2) to endpoint (Week 8). CGI-I and CGI-S will be used as secondary efficacy measures
      throughout this phase.

      The safety in this study will be assessed by adverse event reporting, clinical laboratory
      measurements and physical examinations.

      Up to 540 patients will enter into Open-label Phase in order to yield approximately 200
      evaluable patients in Randomization Phase.
    
  