
    
      METHODS

      Study design: multicentre, international retrospective cohort study.

      Sites: multiple expert investigators from different countries are invited.

      Conditions to fulfil to participate include availability of a database with the required data
      or ability to retrospectively collect the data in a timely manner.

      Procedure

      The participant centres are asked to include:

        -  Previously published cases: all these cases should be included if possible. The fact
           that the case had been previously published should be specified in the database.

        -  Additionally, participants are asked to include consecutive episodes detected by
           reviewing their databases (clinical, infection control or microbiological records) from
           January 2004 to June 2012, according to the following criteria:

             -  For ESBL producers:

      A minimum of 20 and a maximum of 50 cases should be included from each centre (the more
      recent ones should be selected).

        -  Cases for which the enzyme is characterised at least to group level by polymerase chain
           reaction, PCR, (it is, CTX-M, SHV, TEM) should be prioritised despite the date of
           diagnosis.

        -  If not enough number of cases with PCR-characterized enzymes are available, or
           PCR-characterisation has not been performed, the total number of cases should be
           completed by including cases in which ESBL-production was identified using a standard
           phenotypic method.

             -  For carbapenemase-producers: only cases in which the carbapenemase was
                characterised by PCR should be included. All episodes up to a limit of 50 cases per
                centre may be included.

      Overall, to avoid selection biases, consecutive cases according to previous criteria should
      be included.

      Variables

      A common online database has been designed. Individual access to the database will be
      provided.

      Main outcome variable: Cure rate at day 14

      Secondary outcome variables: Mortality at 72 hours, 7, 14 and 30 days, clinical improvement
      at 72 hours, clinical cure at day 28.

      Explanatory variables:

        -  Demographics

        -  Severity of chronic underlying conditions: McCabe and Charlson index

        -  Acute severity of underlying disease: Pitt score during the the day before BSI.

        -  Type of acquisition

        -  Source of BSI

        -  Severity of SIRS at presentation

        -  Microorganism, betalactamase, MICs

        -  Empirical therapy

        -  Definitive therapy

      Quality of data. Data will be approved and signed by the responsible investigator in each
      center. All data will be centrally reviewed; queries will be sent for lacking data and those
      showing inconsistencies or discrepancies. Data will be analysed per center; those with data
      showing significant differences with the average will be requested for review.

      Statistical Analysis Plan

        -  Subcohorts with patients treated with the treatment to be compared will be selected.

        -  A propensity score to receive the 2 treatment types to compare will be calculated by
           obtaining a non-parsimonious multivariate model by logistic regression in which the
           outcome variable will be the treatment type. The explanatory variables will include age,
           gender, center, type of ward, acquisition, Charlson index, Pitt score, severity of SIRS
           and source.

        -  After univariate analysis, multivariate analysis to investigate the adjusted association
           of treatment type with the main and secondary outcome variables will be performed by
           using logistic regression (for clinical response at day 14) and by Cox regression for
           mortality. If time until death is unavailable, logistic regression will be used for
           30-day mortality. Logistic regression will also be used for 72-hour and 30-day clinical
           response. The propensity score will be added in all cases; also, Charlson score, Pitt
           score, severity of SIRS and source will be added. Finally, interaction between treatment
           type and source classified as urinary tract and others will be included.
    
  