
    
      All patients who present for a colonoscopy and meet inclusion and exclusion criteria will be
      asked to participate, and all patients with resectable polyps will be included. See also
      inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      All patients will have undergone a regular bowel preparation with polyethylene glycol lavage
      with 4-6 L until clear rectal fluid is evacuated.

      Polyp resection will be performed by experienced endoscopists (each with over 500
      colonoscopies performed). All polyps between 5 and 20mm will be removed with an
      electro-cautery snare. Polyp size will be estimated using the snare catheter (2.5mm) or the
      snare diameter (10x20mm, 15x30mm, 20x20mm) before resection. The endoscopist will grade the
      difficulty of resection. Following the resection, the endoscopist will closely examine the
      resection margins. Biopsies will be taken from resection margins: 2 biopsies will be obtained
      from opposite margins for polyps 5-9mm, and 4 biopsies will be taken for polyps 10-20mm from
      all four quadrants of the resection margins. In case of assumed incomplete resection this
      will be documented and further (piecemeal) resections should be done, if this is not
      feasible, margins can be cauterized according to standard polypectomy resection (e.g. by
      argon beamer coagulation) after previous biopsy. Only those polyps that are found to be
      adenomatous polyps will be included in the analysis.

      If polyp resection is complicated by bleeding (not self-sustained), no biopsies will be taken
      and any additional polyps that will be found during the remaining examination will be
      excluded from analysis. Any bleeding from the margins after polypectomy will be treated by
      endoscopic injection using diluted epinephrine (1:10.000).

      A single research subject may have many eligible polyps. To avoid taking many biopsies, the
      investigators will not include more than 5 eligible polyps (the first 5 that are detected)
      per patient in the study.

      Laboratory Analysis:

      Polyps and biopsies will be sent to the pathology lab of each center. The polyps will be
      evaluated according to common practice. In addition information regarding resection margins
      will be provided for each polyp: R0= free of adenomatous tissue, R1=adenomatous tissue
      detected in the margin. This information is not routinely provided by the pathologist as
      there is so far no data whether this information is reliable. Only adenomatous polyps will be
      included in the analysis. Hyperplastic polyps will not be included. Biopsies will only be
      processed after the diagnosis of an adenomatous polyp was made. Biopsies will be evaluated
      for presence of adenomatous tissue. The additional impact for the pathology lab includes a)
      processing of biopsies belonging to the polyp specimens, and b) providing information on
      polyp margins. The VA pathology lab estimated the financial impact to be low and there will
      be no financial requests. The pathological diagnosis, including the reading of the biopsies,
      will become part of the medical record. If biopsies contain adenomatous tissue the patient
      will be ask to return for a follow-up colonoscopy within 1 year. This is within current
      standard of care to repeat a colonoscopy to assure complete adenoma resection.
    
  