
    
      In the last decade, HSCT has become an efficient strategy for the treatment of many malignant
      and non-malignant hematological diseases, being the most common, according to the European
      Bone Marrow Transplantation (EBMT), acute leukemias. Both myeloid and lymphoid acute
      leukemias are considered malignant clonal diseases of the hematopoietic stem cells, and
      represent a therapeutic challenge due to the high relapse rate and mortality using
      conventional chemotherapy regimens. HSC reside mainly within the bone marrow, protected by a
      microenvironment or niche, which is perivascular, created partly by mesenchymal stromal cells
      and endothelial cells. Interactions between these cells and many adhesion molecules are
      considered a key factor for growing, transformation, and migration of neoplastic cells. The
      main pathway involved in the cellular transit regulation is chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) and
      its chemokine ligand 12 (CXCL12), responsible of mediating interactions between the HSC and
      stromal cells, and whose blocking through other cytokines and antagonists of the CXCR4
      receptor (plerixafor) favors chemotaxis and HSC output to peripheral blood. Such strategy has
      become an effective technique to increase mobilization and harvesting in patients undergoing
      stem cell transplantations.

      On the other hand, some preclinical studies have shown that the activation of CXCL12 pathway
      favors tumor growth, promoting survival and invasion of the malignant cells, recruiting
      stromal cells that facilitate their proliferation and promote angiogenesis directly. In such
      way, this pathway has been considered a therapeutic target to block their activity and
      inhibit tumor progression.

      Patients with acute leukemia in first or second complete remission undergoing autologous or
      allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), commonly present low response
      rates and low survival due to persistent minimal residual disease, despite conventional high
      dose chemotherapy regimens. It is necessary to create strategies to increase the destruction
      rate of neoplastic cells in patients with acute leukemia candidates to HSCT. Our hypothesis
      is that the administration of a CXCR4 antagonist as part of the conditioning regimen in
      patients with acute leukemia candidates to HSCT will allow the mobilization and sensitization
      of leukemia blast cells, eradicating efficiently the minimal residual disease, responsible of
      posterior relapse, and will achieve a higher response rate and survival of patients
      undergoing this procedure.
    
  