
    
      Social phobia afflicts between 3%-15% of the US population. As such, it is a particularly
      common debilitating psychiatric disorder. Like many anxiety disorders, social phobia
      typically arises during adolescence. Treatment has consisted of medication or cognitive
      behavioral therapy (CBT). Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) represent the
      first-line pharmacological treatment both in adults as well as adolescents (APA Treatment
      Guidelines 2004). Similarly, CBT significantly improves outcome in both age groups. This
      treatment consists of psychoeducation, exposure therapy, and cognitive restructuring. While
      both treatments produce clinically meaningful benefits, most patients exhibiting positive
      responses to these treatments continue to exhibit marked residual symptoms, if not full-blown
      anxiety disorders. Thus, there is great need for treatment advances.

      Intense fear of social scrutiny represents a core component of social phobia, and extinction
      of this fear represents the goal of exposure therapy during CBT (Cohn and Hope). Finding
      treatments that facilitate extinction is of paramount importance. In animals, extinction
      involves an active learning process that is blocked by glutamatergic NMDA antagonists and
      facilitated by NMDA agonists. Specifically, administration of D-cycloserine (DCS), a partial
      agonist at the glycine modulatory site on the NMDA receptor, produces a dose-dependent
      facilitation of extinction in the rat. As such, DCS might facilitate extinction during
      exposure-based CBT. Indeed, Ressler (Ressler et al 2004) recently reported preliminary data
      from a clinical trial supporting this hypothesis.

      We will examine the degree to which DCS treatment can augment the clinical response in social
      phobia to CBT-exposure-based therapy. Specifically, we will study two groups of individuals
      with social phobia, both of whom will receive CBT. One group will receive placebo; a second
      group will receive 50 mg of D-cycloserine 1-2 hours before each exposure therapy session. We
      hypothesize that compared to placebo, DCS will produce greater reductions in social anxiety
      symptoms following CBT treatment. Finally, given that chronic social anxiety disorder
      virtually always begins during childhood, it is particularly vital to develop early
      interventions for the disorder. Accordingly, our trial will examine both adolescents and
      adults with the disorder.
    
  