
    
      This study aims to investigate whether liver patients may tolerate alitretinoin.

      Toctino (alitretinoin) is a vitamin A like substance that has proven effective in the
      treatment of specially hand eczema. The medicine is taken as capsules daily for up to 3
      months. Toctino is currently only approved for patients with normal liver function, because
      it has never been studied how drug metabolism and excretion occurs in liver disease patients.
      This, however, the investigators want to examine in order to achieve an additional treatment
      for patients with severe hand eczema and concomitant liver disease.

      The study is a collaboration between dermatology and medical department, Gentofte Hospital
      and University of Copenhagen, where blood and urine tests will be conducted. From the medical
      department, 8 patients diagnosed with liver disease will be recruited. Patients should only
      receive a single dose of Toctino (30 mg capsules). 20 blood samples and one urine sample will
      be taken over the next 24 hours (approximately 250-300 ml) to measure the concentration of
      Toctino in blood and urine. Moreover, the urine will be collected over 24 hours. Then the
      investigators will recruit an 8-person control group that is matched according to gender, age
      and weight. In this control group will take exactly the same samples. Based on determining
      concentrations in blood and urine will be able to mathematically calculate how Toctino is
      absorbed, distributed and excreted in liver disease patients in conjunction with a healthy
      control group. The study will therefore help to determine what dose of Toctino that would be
      preferable in liver disease patients.

      The survey is estimated to be associated with a very low risk both for participating patients
      and control group. Toctino is an approved drug and side effects occur almost exclusively in
      long term treatment.
    
  