
    
      Cystic fibrosis is a recessive autosomic fatal disease, affecting about 6000 people in
      France. Thanks to progress in symptomatic care, median survival is increasing. The lung
      involvement is the most common and responsible for most deaths. The evaluation of respiratory
      disease severity is based on pulmonary functional tests (PFT) and imaging. Multi-slice
      computed tomography (CT) is the method of reference to quantify lung involvement in cystic
      fibrosis. It detects respiratory lung involvement earlier than PFT, and it reveals lesions
      associated with the onset of respiratory exacerbations, the mortality increase and the
      reduction of quality of life. However CT provides ionizing radiation, thus limiting the
      possibility of long-term follow-up. MRI is a non-ionizing 3D imaging technique; nevertheless,
      lung MRI is technically challenging with the result that it is currently not used in routine
      practice. Indeed, both low proton density and susceptibility effects lead to very low signal
      intensity derived from lung parenchyma. Recently, pulse sequences with ultrashort echo time
      (UTE) have been implemented by the use of half radio-frequency excitations and radial
      projection reconstruction. These UTE sequences make it theoretically possible to retrieve
      more signal from the lung parenchyma. The investigators aim at using 3D T1-weighted UTE pulse
      sequences on a 1.5T magnet (Avanto dot, Siemens) in cystic fibrosis patients in order to
      assess lung involvement severity. Thirty three cystic fibrosis adults are expected to take
      part in the study. All will benefit from PFT, CT and MRI. The investigators' strategy is to
      establish a semi quantitative score of pulmonary severity (Helbich score) using MRI and CT in
      subjects, testing for correlations between MRI and CT measurements and assessing the
      reproducibility of lung lesions quantification using MRI. The investigators' objective is to
      demonstrate that MRI-UTE pulse sequence at 1.5T is accurate and reproducible in evaluating
      and quantifying pulmonary involvement in cystic fibrosis.
    
  