
    
      In patients with a previous heart attack, the scar formed in the left ventricle (bottom
      chamber of the heart) consists of dead tissue mixed with strands of live tissue which form
      "conduction channels" (CC's). These Conduction channels can cause dangerous heart rhythms
      such as Ventricular Tachycardia (VT). This can lead to symptoms such as shortness of breath,
      dizziness, blackouts, and, in some, sudden death.

      Patients at risk of sudden death receive special implanted devices called implantable
      cardioverter defibrillators (ICD) and can present with recurrent painful and debilitating ICD
      therapies consisting of internal shocks. Patients experiencing frequent ICD shocks due
      recurrent VT usually undergo a procedure to burn (ablate) the area of scar within the heart
      thought to be the source of the VT. This involves catheters (plastic tubes) inserted into the
      heart via the groin vessels allowing the cardiac electrophysiologists to obtain information
      about the scar. Scar tissue has low electrical voltage. By measuring the electrical voltage
      of the tissue in the heart, areas of scar as well as areas of live, healthy tissue can be
      identified and mapped. By burning (ablation) these abnormal channels of live tissue within
      scar (conduction channels), this can effectively reduce the episodes of VT a patient
      experiences, thereby reducing the frequency of shocks they experience and improve their
      quality of life.

      In any one patient, more than 1 conduction channel and hence source of VT can be found.
      Current mapping technologies are incapable of providing electrophysiologists with the
      information that is required to locate all these conduction channels. Therefore ablation
      strategies have shifted from ablating in a single location in the scar, to extensive ablation
      within the scar in the hope that ALL conduction channels will be burnt. However, this
      extensive ablation strategy has no globally agreed consensus with several techniques used
      worldwide.

      The disadvantage of this extensive ablation strategy is that the potential regions which can
      be responsible for VT can be large, requiring extensive ablation and therefore prolonged
      procedure times in sick patients who are unable to tolerate such lengthy procedures. In its
      current state, VT ablation by any strategy is technically challenging and time consuming with
      procedural times as long as 8 hours. In addition, although acute procedural success ranges
      from 77% to 95%, recurrence rates remain high - up to 50%.

      Therefore, identification of ALL conduction channels within scar is a desirable goal for
      catheter ablation therapy in VT. Ripple Mapping (RM) is a novel mapping program which allows
      simultaneous display of "voltage" and "activation" data of the underlying ventricular tissue.
      RM therefore has the potential to display more detailed information of the functional
      properties of the underlying scar including any interspersed live tissue channels.
      Investigators at Imperial College have demonstrated the proof of concept of RM and validated
      the program in a series of abnormal heart rhythms that arise within the upper heart chambers
      (the atria) where RM was found to have a superior diagnostic yield as well as aiding the
      operator in reaching a diagnosis in shorter time when compared with conventional mapping
      systems. The Investigators subsequently performed a retrospective analysis of 21 patients
      undergoing post infarct VT ablation. All documented locations with concealed entrainment or
      perfect pace matches to the induced or clinical VT coincided with Ripple Mapping Conduction
      Channels (RMCC). In patients where ablation lesions overlapped all identified RMCCs, these
      patients remained free of VT recurrence for >2 year follow up interval.

      The Investigators therefore propose to study the hypothesis that Ripple Mapping can identify
      all conduction channels within scar tissue critical to the VT circuit, ablation of which will
      lead to long-term freedom from VT and ICD therapies. This will be determined via a
      prospective randomised study comparing Ripple Mapping guided VT ablation against conventional
      VT ablation.
    
  