
    
      One of the causes of hypertension is overactivity of the renin angiotensin system, the main
      mechanism by which the human body regulates its sodium and water balance. An enzyme called
      renin cleaves a peptide from the protein angiotensinogen, releasing angiotensin I (AI), which
      is then converted to a peptide hormone called angiotensin II (AII) by the angiotensin
      converting enzyme (ACE). Angiotensin II is a hormone which is a powerful vasoconstrictor and
      increases blood flow to vital organs. Angiotensin Therapeutic Vaccine acts by inducing
      antibodies which bind to angiotensin, so suppressing its actions.

      ATV may offer a way of improving control of blood pressure by increasing patient compliance
      with treatment. Infrequent vaccinations may provide a sustained reduction in blood pressure
      and afford a desirable, slow onset of action. Such a vaccine could provide an adjunct to and
      possibly a replacement for existing therapy in some patients, particularly where patient
      compliance is likely to be a problem.

      This study will determine if three injections of ATV given over the period of six weeks will
      reduce daytime BP as measured by ambulatory blood pressure monitoring.

      The study is split into 2 stages Stage A and Stage B.

      The rationale behind Stage A is to closely evaluate the safety and tolerability of ATV in a
      small number of subjects prior to enroling the majority of subjects into the remaining
      portion of the study. Stage A will include a minimum of 12 subjects who will receive each of
      their three injections at a dedicated Phase 1 facility with access to critical care
      facilities.

      Based on the safety profile of the stage A subjects, a recommendation will be made by an
      independent Data Safety Monitoring Committee on whether to proceed to Stage B.

      Stage B will include approximately 112 subjects. As safety and tolerability will have been
      closely assessed in Stage A, Stage B subjects will be monitored less closely and will be
      recruited from a number of sites in the UK.
    
  