
    
      Introduction:

      Minimally Invasive Surgery (MIS) has conferred considerable advantages on patient's post
      operative outcome and recovery when compared with open surgery.

      Major clinical trials including; Clinical Outcomes of Surgical Therapy Study Group (COSTSG),
      Colon Cancer Laparoscopic or Open Resection (COLOR), and Conventional vs.
      Laparoscopic-Assisted Surgery in Colorectal Cancer (CLASICC) have uniformly and consistently
      shown a significant reduction in the post operative pain, the use of narcotics and oral
      analgesics, and length of hospital stay, as well as a faster resumption of diet, return of
      bowel function when using a MIS approach.

      Despite all these advantages to the patients, MIS imposed a significant difficulty on the
      surgeons. These difficulties were primarily human factor in nature.

      The use of Virtual Reality (VR) simulation has been proven to help in the acquisition of MIS
      skills. The use of proficiency-based, virtual reality simulation should help training of MIS
      providers in a safe environment where complex tasks can be repeated as many times as needed
      to achieve a pre-set proficiency level. A well designed proficiency-based simulation
      curriculum should help the widespread use of the MIS approach.

      Aims

      Primary:

      We aim to prove that subjects randomised to train under a proficiency-based progression
      simulation curriculum (SC) will learn to perform laparoscopic assisted colectomy faster,
      complete more surgical steps and commit fewer operative errors compared to subjects
      randomised to the current surgical training curriculum (CC)

      Secondary:

      We aim to set the institutional and national proficiency level for Laparoscopic Assisted
      Colectomy (LAC) using the ProMIS-LAC simulator from Haptica, Ireland.

      Methods Randomised, controlled, single blinded, multicentre study. Primary Variable 8
      centres, 8 co-investigators (expert consultant laparoscopic colorectal surgeons > 300 MIS
      procedures) and 16 surgical trainees will be recruited for the study. Subjects (surgical
      trainees) will be randomised into;

        -  Simulator Curriculum (SC) group.

        -  Conventional Curriculum (CC) group.

      Subjects randomised to the CC group will continue to have the conventional training programme
      offered at their respective hospitals. Subjects randomised to the SC group will complete a
      standardised laparoscopic skills training course followed by a training curriculum including
      the performance of simulated LAC procedures in nine predetermined steps on the simulator.
      Subjects must reach a predetermined proficiency level to complete the simulation training
      course before re-joining their training programme offered at their respective hospitals. .

      Upon completion of the training courses, both groups' subject populations will perform a
      total of five LAC procedures on consecutive patients in the presence of a surgeon proctor.

      Patients indicated for LAC procedure will be screened, consented, and enrolled as patients
      into this study. Each procedure will be recorded and forwarded to the chief investigator for
      analysis. The number of completed surgical steps and the incidence of intraoperative errors
      between the two SC and CC groups will be evaluated via blinded video review.

      Secondary Variable

      All participating co-investigators will participate in defining the proficiency level for LAC
      on the ProMIS-LAC simulator.

      The average values of the recorded metrics which are obtained from the expert performance
      will be used to set the proficiency level.
    
  