
    
      Hypertension is a common problem in patients undergoing chronic maintenance hemodialysis (HD)
      with a reported prevalence of 50 to 90 % [Hörl, 2002]. As a major risk factor for
      cardiovascular disease, hypertension contributes to the high rate of morbidity and mortality
      in ESRD patients [Foley, 1996; Port, 1999]. For a majority of dialysis patients, volume
      overload (VO) plays a major role in the pathogenesis of hypertension [Fishbane, 1996; Rahman,
      2000; Ventura, 1997] and removing excess volume can often normalize blood pressure [Fishbane,
      1996]. Unfortunately, correcting VO frequently proves to be difficult because of hemodynamic
      instability during HD sessions. As much as 20 to 50% of dialysis patients present with
      symptoms of intradialytic hypotension (IDH) [Santoro, 2002]. IDH increases nursing work load
      and negatively affects the efficacy of dialysis and the quality of life of HD patients.
      Different measures are used to avoid IDH, such as limitation of salt and water intake,
      avoidance of antihypertensive medication before dialysis, utilization of low temperature
      dialysate, and modeling of ultrafiltration and/or dialysate conductivity. These measures
      often generate mixed results.

      The Hemocontrol (HC) biofeedback system (Gambro®) has been reported to reduce hemodynamic
      instability and hypotensive episodes during hemodialysis [Basile, 2001; Begin, 2002; Ronco,
      2000; Santoro, 1994; Santoro, 1998; Santoro, 2002; Wolkotte, 2002]. The HC system consists in
      a fully integrated biofeedback system that monitors and regulates blood volume contraction
      during hemodialysis through software-driven adjustments of ultrafiltration rate and dialysate
      conductivity. By improving hemodynamic tolerance during dialysis, the use of the HC system
      has been suggested to facilitate fluid removal and correction of VO, leading to improved
      control of hypertension.

      The present randomized controlled trial was designed to test the hypothesis that the use of
      the HC system would lower home BP in comparison with standard hemodialysis as a primary
      endpoint. Secondary endpoints are a variation in the percentage of HD sessions requiring
      nurses' interventions and a change in the health-related quality of life of HD patients.
    
  