
    
      To evaluate the influence of SMP on renal pelvic pressure for the treatment of renal calculi
      measuring smaller than 25 mm. Investigators will do a single center randomized open-label
      trial，and investigators plan to perform this study in the First Affiliated Hospital of
      Guangzhou Medical University of China.

      Investigators plan to beginning their study at April in 2016 and end at March in 2018.One
      hundred patients with renal calculi measuring smaller than 25 mm will be enrolled in this
      study. By simple random sampling technique, patients will be assigned to two 50-patient
      groups(group 1:F14,group2 :F12).All the patients will be diagnosed definitely before
      operations with non-contrast CT. Patients with positive preoperative urine culture should be
      treated with suitable antibiotics based on the culture sensitivity result for at least 72h
      before SMP. Patients who have negative urine culture should receive a single dose of broad
      spectrum antibiotic prophylaxis just prior to the procedure.

      Surgical technique Routine preoperative preparations are carried out as for conventional
      percutaneous surgery. Under general anesthesia and with the patient in the lithotomy
      position, an open-ended 5F ureteral catheter is advanced into the renal pelvis under direct
      vision. The patient is then turned into the prone position. Percutaneous access is achieved
      using an 18-gauge coaxial needle to puncture the selected calyx under fluoroscopic or
      ultrasonic guidance. The success of the puncture is confirmed both by the free flow of the
      irrigation fluid and by fluoroscopic images. Using a guidewire, the dilatation is carried out
      with 10 F fascial dilators. Thenan irrigation-suction straight sheath, with the obturator, is
      advanced over the guidewire and introduced into the pelvicalyceal system. The guidewireis
      then removed, and the "handle" is connected to the straight sheath. The irrigation port of
      the irrigation-suction sheath is connected to an irrigation pump. The oblique tube of the
      sheath is connected to the specimen collection bottle, and the bottle then to the negative
      pressure aspirator. The irrigation fluid pressure is set as 200-250 mmHg. The suction
      pressure is controlled to a setting of 100-150 mmHg. The irrigation is delivered through the
      irrigation channel of the sheath. Thus, a one-way flow is created as the inflow that comes
      out of the irrigation channel of the sheath is immediately aspirated through the suction
      conduitof the sheath. Stone fragmentation is accomplished using either holmium laser or
      pneumatic lithotripter. The tiny pulverized stone fragments will pass around the scope and
      evacuate through the oblique sluice. If the stone fragments are too large to pass around the
      scope inside the sheath, the scope can be withdrawn slowly to proximal to the bifurcation in
      order to create an unobstructed channel for larger fragments evacuation. At the end of the
      procedure, a single fluoroscopic image is obtained to assess the stone-free status. A
      Double-J stent is placed only when there is the presence of an obstructing inflammatory
      ureteric edema, ureteropelvic junction obstruction, or concurrent treatment of ipsilateral
      ureteric stone with rigid ureteroscope. The sheath is removed, and the wound is either
      sutured or seal with absorbable gelatin. For patients with significant bleeding or
      extravasation, a nephrostomy tube is placed.

      Measurement of Renal Pelvic Pressure In Vivo While preparing for the SMP, the open-ended
      ureteric catheter, which had been inserted into the renal collecting system retrogradely, was
      connected to the invasive blood pressure channel of patient monitor with a baroceptor. The
      baroceptor was fixed onto the horizontal plane of renal pelvis; after a zero adjustment, the
      measurement of renal pelvic pressure was in session. A computer collected the renal pelvic
      pressure data each second. Any factor that caused a high renal pelvic pressure was noticed .

      Data collection Data for the 2 groups -demographic characteristics, site of access ,Hb
      decrease, CRP increase, WBC increase, postoperative pain, operation time, hospital stay,
      cases of tubeless, postoperative infection complications (systemic inflammatory response
      syndrome, urosepsis), stone clearance rate and the need for auxiliary treatment are compared.

      Primary study endpoint: The renal pelvic pressure. Secondary endpoint: Postoperative systemic
      inflammatory response syndrome or urosepsis, stone clearance rate, operation time, hospital
      stay.

      Demographic characteristics include age, sex, BMI, stone size and location, etc.

      Stone size is defined as the maximum diameter. Operation time is recorded from the time of
      the first percutaneous renal puncture to the completion of the stone removal.

      Hospital stay are rounded to the nearest whole day and calculated from the day of surgery to
      the day of discharge.

      Postoperative pain (visual analogue scale [VAS], use of analgesics) and Postoperative comfort
      scores (Bruggrmann comfort scale [BCS]) will be recorded.

      The rate of hemoglobin decrease is assessed by comparing the preoperative Hb level with
      24-hour postoperative Hb level.

      Primary SFR and final SFR is assessed by KUB at day 1 and 1 month after operation.

      Stone-free status are defined as either the absence of any residual stone fragments or the
      presence of clinically insignificant residual stone fragments in the kidney which were
      defined as ≦ 3mm, asymptomatic, non-obstructive and non-infectious stone particles.

      If the procedure is considered as successful, the double J stent is removed as outpatient
      after 2 weeks. Follow-up including KUB or non-contrast CT will be generally scheduled in 1
      month.

      Bleeding severity is judged by the treating physician, and transfusions are administered
      according to local practice guideline.

      Complications of all patients are recorded according to modified Clavien classification
      system.
    
  