
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea/hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS) is a disorder characterized by recurrent
      upper airway collapse during sleep. Clinical consequences as increased cardiovascular events
      and automobile accidents were noted. Polysomnography is diagnostic while continuous positive
      airway pressure (CPAP) is the standard treatment. The adherence of CPAP treatment remained
      suboptimal, between 29 to 83%. In selected cases, alternative treatments were considered
      useful. However, how to choose candidates is still an issue.

      Sleep endoscopy has been introduced since 1991 to allow direct visualization of the upper
      airway under sleep simulation. It predicts better outcome in non-adherent OSAHS patients who
      received alternative treatment. However, the ideal dose, drug, and sedative depth were not
      known.

      Bispectral Index (BIS) monitor is a noninvasive neurophysiological monitoring device that
      been introduced since late 1990's. By applying a sensor to the forehead, the BIS obtained
      electroencephalograms(EEG) and electromyograms(EMG) which were transformed into simplified
      scaled numbers through 0-100. It has been applied in the real time monitor of anesthesia
      depth during operation or recovery, monitor of sleep in critical illness patients and
      gastrointestinal endoscopy sedation.

      This study focuses on CPAP non-adherent patients. It evaluates the upper airway
      collapsibility in awake and two different sedative levels, BIS 65-75 (light sedation) and BIS
      50-60(deep sedation). Conscious sedation will be achieved by propofol pump infusion. No
      benzodiazepam or opioid are used to avoid the effect of upper airway muscle tone and
      respiratory drive. The patency over the velopharynx, oropharynx, larynx, and hypopharynx will
      be recorded. Specific obstruction patterns such as tongue base retraction, epiglottis
      anterior-posterior decent, omega-shaped epiglottis,and bilateral arytenoids anterior drawing
      will also be recorded. The correlation of the upper airway collapsibility between sedative
      depth and sleep stages (ex. NREM vs. REM) will be evaluated. Besides, mandible advancement
      will be done under deep sedation. The response will guide further treatment choice for those
      CPAP non-adherent patient.
    
  