
    
      For many people, mechanical low back pain (LBP) is a long-term, function-limiting condition
      rather than a short-term, self-limiting condition. Exercise is one of the primary
      non-surgical approaches used worldwide for managing LBP. Specifically in people with chronic
      LBP, exercise has been found to be as efficacious, if not more efficacious than 1) no
      treatment, 2) usual care, and 3) many other treatments, such as massage or laser therapy.
      Despite the growing body of evidence for the beneficial effects of exercise, however, there
      is limited evidence about 1) which exercise is best for which person, 2) how long the effects
      of different exercises last, 3) which types of exercise people will adhere to, and for how
      long, and 4) the mechanisms underlying the effects of different types of exercise.

      This study aims to address these limitations by directly comparing the effects of 1) exercise
      to increase strength of the trunk and increase flexibility of the trunk and extremities, and
      2) individualized, motor skill training directed at performance of daily functional
      activities that are painful or limited due to the person's LBP. This study also will examine
      1) the effects of a booster phase of intervention, 2) the relationship between adherence to
      intervention and function, and 3) the relationship between performance of functional
      activities and function-related outcomes. People with chronic LBP will be randomized to 1) an
      intervention of strength and flexibility exercise or motor skill training, and 2) a booster
      or no-booster intervention. Intervention will be provided in 2 phases: 1) initial phase: 6 -
      1 hour sessions, once/week for 6 weeks, and 2) booster phase: # of sessions needed to regain
      independence in home program, beginning 6 months after the initial phase. The investigators
      will collect 1) measurements of pain, function, disability, and economic outcomes, 2) reports
      of adherence, and 3) laboratory-based measures of performance of functional activities.
      People will be followed for 12 months after the initial intervention phase. Three sets of
      hypotheses are proposed. First, the investigators hypothesize that both interventions will
      result in improvements in pain, function, disability, and economic outcomes, but that the
      motor skill training will result in more long lasting improvements than the strength and
      flexibility exercise. Second, the investigators hypothesize that the effect of a booster
      phase of intervention will 1) result in longer lasting improvement in function and better
      adherence than a no-booster intervention, and 2) be greater for motor skill training than for
      strength and flexibility exercise. Finally, the investigators hypothesize that 1) adherence
      to motor skill training will be more strongly related to function than will adherence to
      strength and flexibility exercise, and 2) performance of functional activities by people
      receiving motor skill training will be more strongly related to function than performance of
      functional activities by people receiving strength and flexibility exercise.
    
  