
    
      There is a quality chasm between the care Gulf War Veterans (GWVs) should receive and the
      care they do receive. The investigators' data show 70% of GWVs with Gulf War Illness (GWI) do
      not receive treatment recommendations for their GWI and 78% are NOT very satisfied with their
      care. Reducing this quality chasm is essential. The VA and DoD have invested hundreds of
      millions of dollars to develop new treatments, including the second largest clinical trial
      for GWVs which is finding health coaching and problem-solving treatment both reduce the
      disability of GWI. Without effective models of healthcare to implement these treatments, GWVs
      will not benefit. In the current model of care, GWVs receive care locally through VA's
      primary care patient aligned care teams (PACTs). The VA War Related Illness and Injury Study
      Center (WRIISC) supports the current model of care by increasing local knowledge of the
      skills and treatments needed to manage GWI through national education efforts and electronic
      consultation (e-consultation) on difficult cases. The WRIISC and other stakeholders are
      currently questioning whether improving local knowledge of skills and treatments for GWI is
      enough to address the quality chasm, or if GWI is too complex to be treated in primary care
      without additional support from specialists in GWI. A potentially useful model of care for
      GWI is collaborative specialty care where specialists work with PACTs to synergistically
      treat patients. The local PACT is the lead of the team with the specialist providing some
      direct care to the patient (through tele-health) and also consulting with the PACT about
      other aspects of care. Collaborative specialty care is effective for other complex conditions
      (e.g., depression) with over 40 studies documenting its efficacy. The goal of this proposal
      is to conduct a hybrid type 1 randomized effectiveness/implementation trial for GWVs with GWI
      (n=220). The primary aim is to determine the effectiveness of tele-CSC as compared to
      e-consultation. In tele-CSC, the investigators' specialty provider team will deliver health
      coaching and problem-solving treatment to GWVs and recommend the PACT make monthly
      optimization of analgesics. In e-consultation the specialty provider team will make a onetime
      recommendation to the PACT that the GWV locally receive health coaching and problem-solving
      treatment and analgesic optimization. The secondary aim is to understand implementation
      outcomes. This information will be used to guide a future randomized (by VISN) multi-site
      implementation study. Throughout, an advisory committee of operations partners will be
      convened to ensure that the results of the study are able to directly and immediately improve
      care. Determining the best model of care to translate research into practice for GWVs with
      GWI is a key goal of the VA Gulf War Strategic Plan and a specific aim of this Request for
      Applications.
    
  