
    
      This was a randomized (1:1), double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, withdrawal
      study designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of amifampridine phosphate in patients
      diagnosed with LEMS. The study was planned to include approximately 28 male and female
      patients.

      Prior to the study, patients were receiving unblinded treatment in the expanded access
      program (EAP-001). Patients had to be on a stable dose and frequency of amifampridine
      phosphate for at least 1 week prior to randomization into LMS-003. Screening and
      randomization (Day 0) may have been into a single visit.

      Patients who met eligibility criteria were randomized 1:1 to amifampridine phosphate (at the
      patient's optimal dose) or placebo on Day 0.

      Baseline assessments were obtained on Study Day 0, while the patient has been on open-label
      amifampridine phosphate and in relationship to the usual dosing schedule. Patients took
      blinded study medication on Day 1 through Day 3. On Day 4, a dose of blinded study medication
      was administered by the site study personnel. This was the same medication that the patient
      took on Day 1 through Day 3. The assessments listed below were performed following either the
      second, third, or fourth dose of medication taken on Day 4, and this should be the same dose
      after which Day 0 assessments were performed. For example, if the patient took their second
      dose of amifampridine in the clinic on Day 0 and had assessments started 40 minutes later,
      then on Day 4, that patient should be assessed after taking their second dose of
      investigational product (IP).

      Beginning with the next dose after all Day 0 baseline assessments were completed, the patient
      received IP through Day 4, with a clinic visit on the last day (Day 4) for assessments.

      The planned duration of participation for each patient was up to 12 days, including screening
      (up to 7 days), Day 0 assessments and randomization, and IP administration (Day 1 through Day
      4).
    
  