
    
      This multi-center study will recruit 21 subjects to undergo an open-label tocilizumab
      treatment for 13-18 weeks in order to examine the efficacy of tocilizumab on plaque
      inflammation in RA patients. This multi-center study will employ PET/MR imaging of the
      carotid and coronary arteries and aorta to assess the effect of anti-IL-6 therapy on arterial
      inflammation in patients with RA who are synthetic dMARD inadequate responders and are naive
      to biologic therapy.

      Secondary, exploratory evaluation will also examine correlations between atherosclerotic
      plaque inflammation and the inflammatory activity of the rheumatoid joint measured by PET-MR
      imaging, as well as how the changes in inflammation correlate with lipid and inflammatory
      biomarkers, and how stress levels are associated with inflammatory activity.

      Adults between 50 and 75 years old diagnosed with RA will come in for an initial screening
      visit to assess for clinical eligibility criteria (visit 1). During the screening period,
      patient acceptability for the study will be assessed on the basis of medical history,
      concomitant medications, physical examination, and clinical laboratory test results. The
      study doctor will review the screening test results and procedures to determine the subject
      eligibility prior to imaging. Women able to become pregnant will be excluded due to
      teratogenic side effects.

      A FDG-PET/MR imaging study will be performed at a second screening visit (visit 2) to assess
      for the presence of arterial, plaque and joint inflammation. A serum pregnancy test will be
      drawn and confirmed to be negative prior to imaging for female subjects of childbearing
      potential. Acceptability for study participants will be confirmed on the basis of a
      tissue-to-background ratio (TBR) of greater than or equal to 1.7 in qualifying vessel
      (calculated using the mean of the maximum SUV) as measured from FDG-PET/MR imaging.
      Participants who meet clinical and imaging eligibility criteria will be enrolled into the
      study (visit 3). Subjects will receive first dose of tocilizumab subcutaneously, on
      subsequent weeks, subjects will be instructed to self-administer tocilizumab at a dose of
      162mg every week for a 12 week period. 4 weeks post-initiation, participants will return for
      a clinical safety follow-up (visit 4). Final evaluation will include physical exams, clinical
      assessments and carotid IMT test. A second FDG-PET/MR imaging session will take place 12
      weeks post-administration (visit 5).

      Effect of tocilizumab on arterial plaque inflammation will be examined by measuring the
      change in FDG uptake in the carotid arteries, coronary arteries and aorta between the
      baseline and 12 week FDG-PET/MRI.
    
  