
    
      All three drugs used in this clinical research study are widely used stimulants to help
      cancer patients who have fatigue and problems with concentration.

      Before treatment starts, you will have a physical exam, including measurement of blood
      pressure, and neuropsychological and symptom evaluations. The neuropsychological evaluation
      is made up of tests of attention, memory, speech, and other brain functions, and takes about
      30 minutes to complete. The other test evaluates symptoms you may be experiencing, such as
      fatigue or depression, and takes about 10 minutes to complete.

      You will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a coin) to one of three treatment groups.
      Participants in the first group will receive Immediate Release (IR) methylphenidate.
      Participants in the second group will receive Sustained Release (SR) methylphenidate.
      Participants in the third group will receive modafinil. There is an equal chance of being
      assigned to any of the groups. After you are randomized, you will contact the M. D. Anderson
      pharmacy to receive your assigned medication. You will receive a total of 5 weeks worth of
      medication. The extra week of medication is to allow for buffer should there be any conflict
      in rescheduling the follow-up evaluation.

      IR methylphenidate is a pill taken twice a day. Both SR methylphenidate and modafinil are
      pills taken once a day. The amount of the medicine is the same for all three groups. You will
      take the medication every day for a total of 4 weeks.

      You will be asked to complete a study calendar, which will be provided by the research staff.
      In the study calendar, you will be asked to initial after you take the study drug each day,
      and to record any side effects you may experience. You will be required to return the
      completed study calendar at the final evaluation visit, along with the empty bottles and any
      of the study drugs that may be left over.

      You will remain on treatment for 4 weeks and return for a final evaluation. A follow-up
      neuropsychological evaluation and evaluation of symptoms will be performed. At the end of the
      study treatment period, you will be allowed to remain on active treatment if you wish to. You
      can discuss with your doctor whether to continue on the same medication or to try another
      one.

      This is an investigational study. All of the study drugs are FDA approved and currently are
      used to help brain tumor patients. A total of 75 patients will take part in this study. All
      will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  