
    
      Subjects will be recruited from three regions in Panama known to be endemic for L panamensis
      CL. Subjects will be screened over a period up to 28 days for eligibility including medical
      history, physical examination, leishmaniasis history, vital signs, clinical chemistry, prior
      medications, and parasitology for confirmation of ulcerative CL. If eligible, subjects will
      be randomized in a targeted 1:1 ratio (200 subjects per group) using site as a stratification
      variable to receive either WR 279,396 (15% paromomycin + 0.5% gentamicin topical cream) or
      Paromomycin Alone (15% paromomycin topical cream) by topical application to CL lesions once
      daily for 20 days. Efficacy will be assessed by measuring the size of the index lesion ulcer,
      non-index lesions ulcers, and overall size of other non-ulcerated lesions at baseline (before
      the start of treatment), and on Study Days 20, 35 ± 2 days, 49 ± 4 days, 63 ± 7 days, 100 ±
      14 days, and 168 ± 14 days. A notation will be made if clinical evidence of parasite
      persistence is observed at the Day 63 and beyond visits including significant erythema and
      induration when a lesion has otherwise completely re-epithelialized to document any subjects
      removed from the study early if the investigator judges them to be in need of rescue
      treatment. A photograph will be taken of all lesions at baseline, Day 20 and each of the
      follow-up visits. Safety will be assessed by monitoring adverse events (AEs) from the start
      of treatment until study completion, lesion site reactions during treatment, physical
      examination of the nasal and oral mucosa for appearance of mucosal leishmaniasis on Days 63 ±
      7 days, 100 ± 14 days, and 168 ± 14 days, concomitant medication use for the duration of the
      study, blood creatinine, alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST)
      levels on Study Day 20. After the sponsor's approval, biochemistry can be repeated in the
      case of abnormal results and if the causes of these results could not be determined. A repeat
      pregnancy test on Day 35. Recent infection with leishmaniasis prior to the start of the study
      may result in the development of lesions that were not present at the start of the study that
      did not receive treatment. New lesions may be treated at the discretion of the investigator
      with the topical cream to which the subject was assigned any time during the conduct of the
      study except that treatment must be completed by the Day 168 visit. If a new lesion is
      discovered at the final study visit, the subject will be referred to their primary physician
      for treatment.

      Subjects who fail therapy (see definition of failure below) will be taken off study and may
      be administered rescue therapy at the discretion of the subject's personal physician. If the
      subject met the criteria for therapy failure but was undergoing treatment for new lesions,
      the subject can continue in the study (by signing a consent addendum) if the investigator
      decides it is in the best interest of the subject to do so.
    
  