
    
      Thomas JS et al evaluated the benefits of a game of virtual reality baseball on improving
      lumbar flexion in a randomized study (virtual reality versus control). After 3 virtual
      reality sessions, the 2 groups were compared, there was no difference in the improvement in
      lumbar flexion or in the improvement in pain, probably due to the low number of sessions
      offered (only 3 ). Nevertheless, the harmlessness, feasibility and safety of the game were
      proven here. In addition, the perception of the game was positive by the participants and
      there was no aggravation of pain or side effects of virtual reality.

      On a larger scale and more recently, France CR and Thomas JS have shown in a randomized study
      of 230 patients the value of an immersive virtual reality game based on the progression of
      lumbar flexion compared to another game that does not improve this parameter. This was a
      virtual reality-based rehabilitation program, carried out over 18 weeks with 3 then 2 then 1
      session (s) per week; the primary endpoint was assessment of pain and disability one week
      after the program. There was a sharper decrease in pain and disability with play that
      specifically worked lumbar flexion. The progression of lumbar flexion was correlated with the
      decrease in pain and disability. The authors thus showed that an immersive virtual reality
      game combining: a way to distract the patient's attention, a target to be reached, and a
      progression of the lumbar flexion exercise in the game would improve pain and pain. handicap
      of chronic low back pain.

      Virtual reality is a distraction technique, which combines visual and auditory, allowing
      immersion in a virtual world through a headset that transcribes a three-dimensional image.
      The diversion of attention by the use of virtual reality allows the patient to immerse
      himself in a fictitious environment thanks to a mask on the eyes that inhibits the vision of
      the outside world and a hearing headset reducing external sounds and reinforcing the
      mechanism of 'immersion. Our hypothesis is that the use of an immersive virtual reality tool
      would improve the rehabilitation care and the future of chronic low back pain patients, via
      this immersion capacity.
    
  