
    
      The algorithms for the enteral nutrition support also called protocols had been developed and
      implemented in the intensive care units (ICU) across the world to enhance the provision of
      calories and proteins via enteral nutrition (EN), increasing the proportion of patients that
      received an optimal amount (80-85% of their energy and protein requirements), and decreasing
      the caloric and protein debt. The algorithm includes different designs and interventions, the
      variability of the design is because the algorithm is adapted to the local necessities.

      The principal reason for the algorithm implementation is the rate of underfed (receiving <80%
      of prescribed of energy and protein requirements) as a result of numerous causes 26%
      considered avoidable events, and the variation of the clinical practice. There's a universal
      consensus that the EN is the principal artificial way for the macro-micro nutrients delivery,
      it comes with the novelty "if the gut works, use it or prepare to lose it". The evidence
      shows that the EN is more physiological and when the patients received the optimal amount of
      EN the clinical outcomes (length of hospital stay, mortality and infection rates) can
      decrease significantly. In average 74% of the patients in the ICU that received EN are
      underfed, in Mexico 71% of the hospitalized patients with EN in non-critical areas are
      underfed, receiving only 61% of their energy requirements during their hospitalization.

      The investigators propose an algorithm for the EN support based on evidence, in order to
      avoid the variability in the prescription that include a prediction equation according to the
      BMI to calculate the energy and protein requirements. The algorithm propose the range for the
      initial infusion for the gastric and post-pyloric feeding in continuous infusion and
      evaluated the tolerability, if there is no signs and symptoms of intolerance then the
      infusion can be increased. If the subject present intolerability to the EN (diarrhea,
      abdominal distention), an action in the algorithm indicate options rather than the
      suspension. Moreover when the EN is interrupt for a reason that is not intolerance and only
      if the patient already reach the goal rate the compensatory feed table can be use it. As a
      part of the intervention, several educational sessions for the medical, nutritionist and
      nurse staff were performed during the period of the study.

      The investigators hypothesize that the implementation of the algorithm for EN support will
      increase the amount of energy and protein safely and effectively to the patients compared
      with the usual practice.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the implementation of an
      algorithm for EN support (ASNET).
    
  