
    
      1.0 BACKGROUND Postural tachycardia syndrome (POTS) is a disorder of chronic orthostatic
      intolerance characterized by symptoms of palpitations, lightheadedness, chest discomfort,
      shortness of breath, blurred vision, and mental clouding. These symptoms occur during
      standing and are associated with a marked increase in heart rate (HR) in the absence of
      hypotension, which typically resolve when sitting or lying down. Most importantly, POTS is
      associated with a very poor quality of life and significant functional disability. POTS
      patients commonly experience mental clouding ("brain fog") even while lying down or seated,
      which poses significant limitations to daily activities .

      Unfortunately, there is a relative paucity in the literature assessing therapies for POTS
      patients. Given that excessive tachycardia on standing is a fundamental component of this
      syndrome, a handful of studies have evaluated medications that reduce HR. In a randomized
      crossover study of 54 patients with POTS, low-dose propranolol (10-20 mg PO) was found to
      acutely reduce standing HR compared to placebo. Further, there was greater improvement in
      symptom burden (quantified using the Vanderbilt Orthostatic Symptom Score [VOSS]) from
      baseline to 2 hours in patients treated with propranolol compared to placebo.

      Ivabradine is newer drug that is a selective If channel blocker that reduces HR without
      affecting other cardiovascular functions. In non-randomized reports, it has been shown to
      improve symptoms in patients with POTS. In a case series of 22 patients, approximately 60% of
      patients with POTS treated with ivabradine had symptom improvement

      2.0 RATIONALE / STUDY PURPOSE Patients with POTS suffer great disability and currently used
      pharmacologic therapies require more rigorous study. Currently, there are no studies
      comparing the relative efficacy of propranolol and ivabradine in patients with POTS.

      We propose to compare the efficacy of propranolol and ivabradine on HR response to standing,
      and symptom burden in patients with POTS. This would be the first study to compare the
      relative efficacy of ivabradine to propranolol in POTS. The results of this exploratory study
      may help inform design of a larger multicenter clinical trial investigating the use of
      ivabradine or propranolol in POTS over time. We will test the null hypothesis that the heart
      rate lowering response to ivabradine is not different than the heart lowering response of
      propranolol.

      In addition, we propose to assess sleep complaints and sleep quality using questionnaire and
      actigraphy based assessments.

      3.0 Study Design This will be a multi-center double-blind placebo-controlled randomized
      crossover trial conducted in patients with POTS to compare effects of (1) oral ivabradine 5
      mg bid plus placebo BID (to fill out a QID schedule); (2) oral propranolol 20 mg qid; and (3)
      oral placebo qid in POTS patients. After a baseline screening assessment following a washout
      period of 7 days, participants will be randomized to start with a 4-week course of either
      ivabradine, propranolol or placebo. The other two treatments will be given in separate 4-week
      courses with a 7-day washout period between phases, with each participant acting as his or
      her own control. At the end of each 4-week phase, participants will complete the
      symptom-rating and HRQOL questionnaires, and also undergo tilt table testing to assess the
      change in HR at 10 min with head up tilt.

      Participants will undergo POTS testing at baseline and at the end of each 4-week treatment
      course in the Libin Cardiovascular Institute TRW Human Physiology Research space. This will
      involve a total of 4 separate study visits.

      •• Studies will start between 8-9am, with the patient in a fasting state (to avoid acute
      hemodynamic effects from eating).

        -  Prior to hemodynamic data collection, a brief medical history will be conducted to
           ensure that the medications have not changed, and that there are not new medical issues
           that would make the study unsafe or imprudent.

        -  Participants will be instrumented for continuous beat-to-beat BP and
           electrocardiographic monitoring. BP will be monitored continuously using a finger volume
           clamp method (Nexfin, BMEYE Inc.) and calibrated with intermittent brachial cuff
           measurements using a standard automatic BP monitor (IVY Model 450C, IVY Medical,
           Branford, CT, USA) or by using Finapres NOVA, Finapres Medical Systems .

        -  Baseline seated continuous data (EKG signals and continuous BP will be collected for ~10
           min).

        -  Neuropsychological testing of the cognitive domains of memory, attention and executive
           function will be assessed using the Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery
           (CANTAB) while seated.

        -  The patient will be asked to stand and repeat portions of the CANTAB tests

        -  Baseline lying down continuous data (EKG signals and continuous BP will be collected for
           ~10 min).

        -  The patient will then be strapped onto the tilt table and then tilted to 80° head-up for
           10 minutes with continuous hemodynamic data collection. Oxygen saturation will be
           assessed from a finger probe. End-tidal CO2 will be measured using nasal prongs.

        -  Participants will be asked to comment on any side effects or unrated symptoms.

        -  VOSS ratings will be collected at the end of tilt.

        -  Participants and the research staff will be asked to "guess" at which intervention was
           given on that study day (not applicable to baseline visit).

        -  After the study is finished, we will remove the recording patches, and electrodes. This
           testing day will last about 3 hours.

      Upon conclusion of the tilt testing, we will connect patients to a 24-hour Holter monitor for
      continuous ECG and HR monitoring. Participants will return the monitoring device the
      following day.

      This testing protocol will be repeated at baseline, and at the end of phase 1, 2, and 3 with
      different study drugs.
    
  