
    
      The process of the study, the choice of the patients, the collection and the processing of
      data A. Potential participants of study will be familiarized with the course of research in
      every detail before entering the study and after signing of an informed consent they will be
      examined by algesiologist. The patients will receive ID number generated by computer because
      of preserving of anonymity for the purpose of statistical processing of the data. Monitored
      clinical parameters: The current consumption of analgesics, examination of the type of pain
      (nociceptive vs. neuropathic - completed questionnaire for PainDetect, DN4 and LANSS Pain
      scales), demographic information (weight, height, age). Examination of biochemical parameters
      (ALT, AST, GMT, bilirubin, urea, creatinine, creatinine clearance, antioxidant enzymes and
      their substrates (glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, catalase, superoxide
      dismutase, glutathione). These data will be entered into an online database. The statistical
      analysis of the activities of the enzymes will determine the confidence interval (CI) of 95%.
      Patients whose entrance numbers will be in this range will keep on in the study, remaining
      patients will be excluded. The patients who will keep on in study will be divided into four
      groups.

      Group A: patients with chronic pain taking morphine, hydromorphone, oxycodone Group B:
      patients with chronic pain taking transdermal patch (Buprenorphine) Group C: patients with
      chronic pain taking transdermal patch (Fentanyl) Group D: opioid rotation B. The first
      inspection will be carried out 6 months after the beginning of taking of opioids for severe
      pain. During the first inspection, clinical and biochemical parameters will be examined same
      as during the input examination of the patient. The patient will fill out a questionnaire
      PainDetect, DN4 and LANSS Pain scales. C. The second inspection will be carried out 12 months
      after the beginning of taking of opioids for severe pain. During the second inspection,
      clinical and biochemical parameters will be examined same as during the previous two patient
      examinations. The patient will fill out a questionnaire PainDetect, DN4 and LANSS Pain
      scales.
    
  