
    
      Postoperative pulmonary complications (PPCs) are major causes of postoperative morbidity,
      mortality, and prolonged hospital stay. The incidence of PPCs was found to vary from 2 to
      19%, but this rate may be as high as 41 to 75% in patients after intrathoracic and
      intraabdominal surgery. According to Canet's model, the predicted incidence of PPCs in
      high-risk patients (ARISCAT risk index ≥45 points) is 42.1%.

      Use of effective strategies to prevent PPCs is essential for those high-risk patients. As a
      bronchodilator, anticholinergic inhalation may be helpful. Studies showed that, in high-risk
      patients undergoing intrathoracic surgery, airway resistance is increased due to bronchial
      hyperresponsiveness, which increased the risk of PPCs. Inhalation of anticholinergic
      bronchodilator can reduce the activity of vagus nerve and relieve high airway resistance,
      which may decrease the risk of bronchospasm and other PPCs. It has been shown that M1,
      M3-receptor selective blockers have better effects than β2-receptor activator in dilating
      bronchia.

      Penehyclidine hydrochloride is a new anticholinergic agent, which selectively blocks M1 and
      M3 receptors. Preclinical studies found that it also has anti-inflammation effects. In a
      pilot study of the investigators, prophylactic inhalation of penehyclidine decreased the
      incidence of bronchospasm and the use of aminophylline in elderly patients after
      long-duration surgery. In a previous randomized controlled trial, 864 high-risk patients were
      recruited and randomized to receive prophylactic inhalation of either penehyclidine or
      placebo.

      The investigators hypothesize that prophylactically penehyclidine hydrochloride inhalation
      may improve long-term outcomes in this patient population by reducing PPCs. The purpose of
      this 3-year follow-up study is to investigate whether prophylactically penehyclidine
      hydrochloride inhalation can affect the 3-year outcomes in high-risk patients recruited in
      the previous randomized controlled trial.
    
  