
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the rate of pathologic complete response to chemoradiation (no evidence of
      residual tumor in the resected specimen) of Stage II and Stage III rectal cancers that are
      staged preoperatively by endorectal ultrasound (ERUS) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI),
      treated according to a standardized chemoradiation and surgery protocol, and evaluated by a
      systematic pathologic exam of the surgical specimen.

      II. To study the effect of different chemoradiation-to-surgery intervals on the rate of
      pathologic complete response, on surgical difficulty, and on postoperative complications.

      III. To investigate the feasibility of using sensitive molecular assays to detect tumor cells
      in the tumor bed and regional lymph nodes of rectal cancer specimens, with or without
      pathologic complete response to preoperative chemoradiation.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients are assigned to 1 of 4 treatment groups. All patients undergo chemoradiation therapy
      comprising radiation therapy once daily 5 days a week for 5 weeks and fluorouracil
      intravenously (IV) continuously over 24 hours 7 days a week for 6 weeks.

      GROUP I (closed to enrollment): Patients undergo standard surgical resection after completion
      of chemoradiation therapy.

      GROUP II (closed to enrollment): Beginning 4 weeks after completion of chemoradiation
      therapy, patients receive modified FOLFOX-6 chemotherapy comprising oxaliplatin IV over 2
      hours and leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV continuously over
      46 hours on days 1-2. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 2 courses. After the last week of
      post-radiation chemotherapy, patients undergo standard surgical resection.

      GROUP III: Beginning 4 weeks after completion of chemoradiation therapy, patients receive
      modified FOLFOX-6 chemotherapy as in group II. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 4 courses.
      After the last week of post-radiation chemotherapy, patients undergo standard surgical
      resection.

      GROUP IV: Beginning 4 weeks after completion of chemoradiation therapy, patients receive
      modified FOLFOX-6 chemotherapy as in group II. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 6 courses.
      After the last week of post- radiation chemotherapy, patients undergo standard surgical
      resection.

      In all groups, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. A

      fter completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 5 years.
    
  