
    
      The primary study objective is to compare the proportion of household child TB contacts
      eligible for PT (under-5 years and HIV-infected children 5-14 years without active TB) who
      initiate and complete PT using facility-based and decentralized community-based models of
      care for contact screening and management.

      Secondary objectives are:

        1. To compare the facility and community-based models in terms of:

             -  The full cascade of care for the initiation and completion of PT in child TB
                contacts < 5 years or HIV+ children 5-14 years .

             -  Cascade of care for the detection and treatment of TB in child contacts (all ages):

             -  PT tolerability and adherence among eligible child contacts initiated on PT.

             -  Treatment uptake and outcomes for child contacts diagnosed with TB .

             -  Child contact outcomes at 6 months after enrollment for all child contacts.

             -  Acceptability by the parents/guardians, health personnel and community of the
                different models of care.

             -  Cost and cost-effectiveness of the different models.

        2. To assess the number of adult contact cases diagnosed with TB through the
           community-based screening.

        3. To compare between the pre- (baseline assessment) and post-intervention (by model of
           care) data related to:

             -  Children diagnosed with TB and registered at facility level and their treatment
                outcome.

             -  Adults diagnosed with TB and registered at facility level and their treatment
                outcome.

             -  PT initiation and outcomes.

      This study will be implemented under the frame of the Catalyzing Pediatric TB Innovation (CaP
      TB) Project, funded by Unitaid and implemented by the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS
      Foundation (EGPAF). The goal of CaP TB is to improve the pediatric TB morbidity and mortality
      by catalyzing the wide uptake of the new first-line fixed dose combination drugs for children
      and optimizing the use of these drugs through improved case detection and innovative models
      of care. In both models of care, contacts with TB suggestive symptoms will be investigated
      for TB at the cluster facility that is supported by EGPAF within the CaP TB project. In
      Cameroon the CaP TB project will be implemented in the Central and Littoral regions and in
      Uganda in the South-West region.
    
  