
    
      Study Groups:

      If you agree to take part in this study, and you are among the first 40 participants, you
      will have an equal chance of being in either group. If you enroll after that, you will have a
      higher chance (51%-100%) of being assigned to the group that had better results.

        -  If you are in Group 1, you will receive granisetron by patch.

        -  If you are in Group 2, you will receive ondansetron by mouth.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are in Group 1, you will receive ondansetron by vein at your first visit only, which
      is standard of care. Then, you will receive cisplatin by vein over about 1 hour as part of
      the chemoradiation. A granisetron patch will then be placed on your skin before the
      chemotherapy . The patch will be replaced every 7 days before the chemotherapy.

      If you are in Group 2, you will receive ondansetron by vein before cisplatin. Then, you will
      receive cisplatin by vein over about 1 hour. Then you will take ondansetron by mouth with a
      cup of water (8 ounces) 3 times a day for 3 days. Ondansetron is a tablet that you can take
      with or without food and is best taken at least 30 minutes before eating.

      Both groups will be given a study drug diary to record the times that you take the study
      drugs. You will also record any nausea or vomiting that you may have. You should bring the
      diary to each study visit. You should also bring your study drug bottles/packages to each
      study visit.

      Study Visits:

      The visits for this study will be at the same time as your chemoradiation therapy visits over
      5 weeks.

      You will complete 3 questionnaires at your study visits and then again 1 week after the last
      chemotherapy. The last questionnaires will be completed by phone. The questionnaires ask
      about how easy or difficult it is to use your assigned study drug, your level of nausea and
      vomiting, and your quality of life. It should take about 5 minutes to complete these
      questionnaires each time.

      Length of Treatment:

      You may continue using the study drug up to 5 weeks during your chemoradiation treatment. You
      will no longer be able to take the study drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side
      effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over when you have completed 5 weeks of
      chemoradiation treatments.

      This is an investigational study. Both granisetron and ondansetron are FDA approved and
      commercially available for the treatment of nausea and vomiting. It is investigational to
      compare these drugs administered in different ways.

      Up to 150 patients will take part in this study. Up to 120 participants will take part at MD
      Anderson. Up to 30 will be enrolled at the Harris Health System.
    
  