
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, double-blind, double dummy, multicenter, comparative study
      in subjects 2 months of age and older with SITL (including secondarily-infected lacerations,
      sutured wounds and abrasions) or impetigo (bullous and non-bullous) due to MRSA. A laceration
      or sutured wound cannot exceed 10 cm in length with surrounding erythema not extending more
      than 2 cm from the edge of the lesion. Abrasions cannot exceed 100 cm2 in total area, or up
      to a maximum of 2% total body surface area for subjects <18 years of age, with surrounding
      erythema not extending more than 2 cm from the edge of the abrasion. Subjects with impetigo
      can have up to 10 lesions and the infected lesion(s) must not be more than 100 cm2 in area
      (or up to a maximum of 2% total body surface area for subjects <18 years of age), must not
      require surgical intervention and must be able to be appropriately treated with a topical
      antibiotic.

      There are five study visits occurring over a 17-19 day period. At the baseline visit (Visit
      1, day 1), subjects will be randomized to receive retapamulin (plus oral placebo) or
      linezolid (plus placebo ointment) in a 2:1 ratio. Retapamulin is applied twice daily for 5
      days, and linezolid is dosed, depending on subject age, either twice or three times daily for
      10 days. The on-therapy, end of therapy and follow-up visits are staggered due to the
      difference in duration of the treatment regimens. Subjects will be monitored and clinically
      evaluated at all postbaseline visits.

      Randomization will be center-based and stratified by age (<5 years, ≥5 to <12 years, ≥12
      years), performed using an appropriate Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS), an automated
      telephone system. The block size will remain confidential. Subjects are considered to have
      completed the study if they meet all inclusion/exclusion criteria, are considered compliant
      with study medication, and attend all study visits as defined by the protocol.
    
  