
    
      The theoretical basis for the smoking cessation program is motivational interviewing (MI), an
      established counselling method previously used in smoking cessation programs as well as in
      other behaviour change programs. MI is defined as "a directive, client-centred counseling
      style for eliciting behaviour change by helping clients to explore and resolve ambivalence"
      (Miller 1983, cited in a Cochrane report by Lindson-Hawley, N et al., 2015). The 2015
      Cochrane review concluded that MI may help people to quit smoking, but underlined at the same
      time that there were huge variations in study quality and intervention implementations. To
      our knowledge, a MI-based smoking cessation program has to a very limited extent been tried
      in a hospital setting before.

      The program includes a cessation kit with a few samples of different smoking cessation drugs
      (nicotine replacement therapy) and consists of at least four individual counselling sessions
      (30-60 min) and follow up as needed during six months with a trained smoking cessation
      counsellor. Counselling will take place at the hospital premises, in conjunction with
      scheduled cancer treatment sessions for the patients.

      In the current study, two nurses or radiation therapists at each of the included hospitals
      will receive training in using MI in smoking cessation counselling. The Norwegian Directorate
      of Health's standard smoking cessation program based on MI will be modified to be appropriate
      for cancer patients in treatment. The Norwegian Cancer Society (NCS) will be responsible for
      the training and the adaptation of the program. NCS will cover on average a 50 percent
      position designated smoking cessation counselling at each cancer ward. Counselling (one to
      one counselling) will take place in connection with cancer treatment appointments, before or
      after (preferably before as patients might feel unwell or nauseas after treatment), except
      for the first appointment that will happen before cancer treatment starts. Each counselling
      session will last for approximately 30-60 minutes.
    
  