
    
      Background: Patients with severe kidney failure require dialysis or transplantation to
      survive. For those in whom a transplant is not an option, there are two main dialysis
      options: hemodialysis (either incenter or at home) or home peritoneal dialysis. Home-based
      therapies (peritoneal and home hemodialysis) are under-utilized in many Canadian
      jurisdictions with the proportion of home-based therapies varying between 10 and 40% across
      centres. The use of home dialysis remains lower than expected due to combination of patient,
      caregiver, provider, and health system barriers. Previous studies have highlighted several
      potential patient and caregiver barriers to use of home therapies including knowledge,
      skills, personal circumstances, and social supports. Provider barriers have been reported to
      include lack of training in peritoneal dialysis, lack (or perceived lack) in skills and
      knowledge, bias, and possibly inadequate physician reimbursement for home dialysis.

      The Canadian Kidney Knowledge Translation and Generation Network (CANN-NET), a national
      network of clinicians, researchers and knowledge users that was established to ensure best
      practices for patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD), recently created dialysis modality
      educational tools aimed at patients and kidney health care providers. On behalf of CANN-NET,
      the investigators propose a cluster randomized controlled trial (with clusters consisting of
      severe CKD clinics) of a knowledge translation (KT) strategy to increase use of home dialysis
      in patients with end-stage renal disease. Informed by careful survey work, clinics randomized
      to the knowledge translation intervention will receive patient and provider directed
      educational tools, including the MATCH D tool, compelling visual aids (infographic, white
      board animated video, and an educational video on dialysis modality options), audit and
      feedback, and in-person medical detailing. Control clinics will continue with their usual
      practice with respect to dialysis modality education.

      Primary Objective To determine whether a standardized modality education program directed at
      patients, in combination with provider-directed interventions can increase the use of home
      dialysis in incident dialysis patients in Canada

      Study Design: A cluster randomized trial of CKD clinics across Canada comparing the efficacy
      and safety of a KT intervention aiming to increase use of home dialysis in patients with
      advanced CKD. The unit of observation will be the patient (i.e., outcomes will be measured at
      the level of an individual patient), and the unit of randomization will be at the level of
      the multidisciplinary CKD clinic.

      Team: The investigative study team includes experts in the clinical epidemiology of CKD and
      kidney failure, local opinion leaders from every province/region, as well experts in
      knowledge translation and cluster randomized design. As such, the investigators are well
      positioned to carry out the proposed study.

      Research Significance: Home dialysis, in comparison to incenter hemodialysis, is associated
      with increased patient independence, better clinical outcomes, and lower health care costs.
      Due to a variety of factors, home dialysis use remains variable across Canada. This study
      will test the effectiveness of a KT strategy to increase the use of home dialysis.
    
  