
    
      The research has been aimed at studying translation, validation, a cross-cultural adaptation
      of the Turkish version of the Jefferson Scale of Empathy for Health Professional Students
      (JSE-HPS).

      Study Setting:

      This research was planned as a descriptive study. The research is planning to be performed
      between May 2020 and October 2020. The students who are currently studying in the Faculty of
      Health Sciences will be asked to participate in this study. Since ethical board approval was
      taken in February 2020 and study was planned to start in March or April 2020. However, due to
      the Covid-19 pandemic, the research in which test and re-test protocols should be performed
      by students was re-planned by doing these protocols via internet-based forms. Before the
      study, all participating students were informed about this study. To achieve their consent in
      regard to participate in this study, a "tick-box" was placed prior to the questionnaire in
      which whether they accept that participating in this study voluntarily. The primary target
      for sample size was set as 300 students.

      Measurement and Method:

      The descriptive data will be gathered by using the Jefferson Scale of Empathy for health
      professional students (JSE-HPS), the Turkish version of Empathic tendency scale (ETS), and
      sociodemographic form in which age, gender, and other information will be requested to fill
      out.

      JSE-HPS:

      JSE-HPS was originally developed by Jefferson University. It consists of 20 items each scored
      according to the seven-point Likert type scale in which 1 means "Strongly Disagree" while 7
      means "Strongly agree". The minimum and maximum scores range from 20 to 140. Higher scores
      indicate a better empathic aspect or vice versa.

      Empathic Tendency Scale (ETS):

      ETS was originally developed in the Turkish language in 1988. Turkish validation and
      reliability of ETS were also conducted and found to reliable according to the Cronbach's
      alpha value is 0.82. ETS consists of 20 items each scored according to the five-point Likert
      type scale in which 1 equals "Completely contradictory" while 5 means "Completely proper".
      Each item is related to some ideas which are quite common in daily life. 20 and 100 are
      minimum and maximum scores, respectively. Higher scores indicate a better empathic aspect.

      Translation and Cross-cultural Adaptation Process:

      The permission was granted from the copyright Holder of JSE-HPS in order to study the
      reliability, validity, and adaptation of the Turkish version of JSE-HPS. The cultural
      adaptation was performed according to the protocol explained by Beaton et al. Steps and a
      detailed explanation of this protocol can be found in the literature. Briefly, an expert
      committee consists of study researchers separately translated the original version of the
      JSE-HPS into Turkish. The final version of the Turkish translated JSE-HPS was created
      according to the separately translated ones. This final version was re-translated to English
      by a native English speaker who is also capable to talk Turkish language. The expert
      committee eventually made a final version to which can be applicable to the participants.
    
  