
    
      Ensuring the safety and comfort of the more than 100,000 critically ill infants and young
      children supported on mechanical ventilation in the US each year is integral to the practice
      of pediatric critical care. Humane care of these young patients requires the use of sedating
      medications, most commonly combinations of opioids and benzodiazepines. Unfortunately,
      sedative use also carries risk. Animal studies found that even transient administration of
      benzodiazepines and other sedatives during periods of developmental synaptogenesis caused
      widespread neuronal apoptosis and residual learning and memory deficits. Sedation is
      administered for days to weeks in >90% of acutely-ill, ventilated infants and children. Thus,
      a commonly used treatment in critically ill young children may itself have detrimental,
      age-dependent long-term effects.

      An opportunity to increase the understanding of the long-term cognitive effects of sedation
      during critical illness in children has been provided by the cluster randomized, controlled
      trial of a sedation protocol, Randomized Evaluation of Sedation Titration for Respiratory
      Failure (RESTORE), U01 HL086622, PI Curley, 31 sites, n=2,816. This trial determined whether
      the trial's sedation protocol used at intervention sites decreased the duration of mechanical
      ventilation and sedative exposure among children with acute respiratory failure due to a
      primary pulmonary process. Control sites continued usual sedation practice. We collected
      detailed data on doses and durations of sedative medications, in-hospital course, and
      post-discharge quality of life.

      The purpose of RESTORE-cognition is to determine the relationships between sedative exposure
      during pediatric critical illness and long-term neurocognitive outcomes. We will assess
      multiple domains of neurocognitive function 2.5-5 years post-discharge in 500 RESTORE
      subjects with normal baseline cognitive function aged 2 weeks to 8 years at pediatric
      intensive care unit admission. In addition, we will study 310 matched, healthy siblings of
      RESTORE subjects to provide data on an unexposed group with similar baseline biological
      characteristics and environment. Our goal is to increase our understanding of the
      relationships between sedative exposure, critical illness, and long-term neurocognitive
      outcomes in infants and young children.
    
  