
    
      Classic BCR-ABL negative chronic myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN) are stem cell disorders
      characterized by abnormal myeloid proliferation and increased blood cell counts and comprise
      polycythemia vera (PV), essential thrombocythemia (ET) and primary myelofibrosis (PMF).

      Myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN) are common malignancies in elderly individuals as the
      combined annual incidence rates of classical MPNs were reported to be 0.84, 1.03, and 0.47
      per 100,000 respectively for PV, ET, and PMF but with a wide variation in prevalence rates
      reported in different studies. The 5-year relative survival rates are 84.8, 89.9, and 39% for
      PV, ET and PMF patients, respectively.

      Thromboembolic complications represent a major cause of morbidity and mortality in MPN,
      particularly in PV and ET. The mechanisms underlying increased thrombotic risk in chronic
      myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN) are incompletely understood.

      Several pathophysiological mechanisms help explain the increased likelihood of thrombosis in
      these patients. Factors, such as leukocyte and platelet activation leading to the formation
      of leukocyte-platelet aggregates, activation of the coagulation cascade by microparticles,
      high levels of inflammatory cytokines, and endothelial dysfunction have a crucial role in
      thrombosis in MPN patients.

      Accurate prediction of the thrombotic risk still represents a challenge and adequate
      predictive biomarkers are not available. The mechanisms underlying thrombosis involve a
      complex interplay among blood cells, the endothelium and the coagulation system. Both
      increased blood counts and cellular activation, which is due to hyperactivation of
      intracellular signaling pathways and enhanced interaction between blood cells, are implicated
      in the thrombotic predisposition.

      The JAK2V617F mutation is a diagnostic marker for MPN and it also plays an important role in
      patient treatment since inhibition of JAK2-associated proliferative pathways has the
      potential to inhibit cell proliferation in MPNs. This mutation is present in ~95% of PV
      patients and 50% of ET or PMF patients. Thrombosis and hemostasis are major complications
      that affect the life expectancy of patients with MPN.

      Current guidelines recommend testing for JAK2 mutations in any patient suspected to have an
      MPN. JAK2 mutation leads to distinct changes in hematopoietic cells that increase the
      likelihood of thrombus formation.

      The risk of thrombosis, in both PV and ET, exceeds 20% and a substantial proportion of
      patients experience vasomotor disturbances (e.g. headaches, lightheadedness, acral
      paresthesias, erythromelalgia, atypical chest pain, ocular disturbances, tinnitus) and in
      case of PV, pruritus.

      Mean platelet volume (MPV) is largely considered as a useful indirect marker of platelet
      activation. Larger platelets are metabolically and enzymatically more active, and have a
      greater prothrombotic potential. Elevated MPV is associated with other markers of platelet
      activity, including increased platelet aggregation, increased thromboxane synthesis and
      beta-thromboglobulin release, and increased expression of adhesion molecules.

      High sensitivity CRP is an inflammatory marker might be useful to reflect a condition of
      chronic inflammation which is associated with the disease severity .

      In addition, Elevated CRP and elevated LDH are risk factors for survival in MPN patients.

      Elevated γ-Glutamyl (γ-GT) transferase is an independent risk factor for Splanchnic venous
      thrombosis (SVT) presence in MPN.

      About 30% of vascular events in Ph-negative MPN patients are VTE, which generally present as
      lower limb deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary artery embolism. However, in Ph-negative MPN,
      VTE characteristically occurs in uncommon locations such as splanchnic veins, including
      hepatic veins (presenting Budd-Chiari syndrome), portal and mesenteric veins, or, less
      frequently, cerebral veins or sinuses. In patients with MPN, the prevalence of CVT is 3-7% of
      cases.

      Myeloproliferative neoplasms are known to be pro-thrombotic diseases (arterial and venous).
      For both of ET and PV, thromboses occur more frequently in arterial sites (between 64 and 75%
      for PV, and between 72 and 91% for ET).

      JAK2 mutation can affect cardiac arteries and veins in ET and PV, which results in
      thrombosis, ischemia and other cardiovascular events. JAK/STAT signaling pathway plays an
      important role in heart diseases. High incidence of atrial arrhythmias among patients with ET
      or PV. The patients were older, cumulating more cardiovascular risk factors inducing more
      thrombotic events mainly in arteries, and have a higher incidence of death.

      The importance of treatment compliance has now been clearly established in many pathological
      conditions as poor adherence has a negative impact on clinical evolution and non-adherence to
      cytoreductive therapy was associated with a significant reduction in the complete
      haematological remission rate but no significant association between thrombosis or death and
      non-adherence was found. This may be related to the fact that thrombosis is a more acute
      event, depending on the immediate hemostatic status at the time of thrombus constitution,
      whereas the phenotypic evolution of chronic haematological malignancies may be more the
      result of long term evolution of the clone, reflecting its exposure to therapeutic pressure.

      Patients with MPN should also avoid factors that are known to increase risk of VTE, including
      systemic hormone therapy such as oral contraceptive pills and smoking, and optimize
      cardiovascular risk factors, including control of blood pressure, diabetes, and cholesterol,
      in order to minimize thrombotic complications.
    
  