
    
      Introduction:

      Pancreatic metastases are a rare entity and often synonymous with broader dissemination.
      However, in cases of metastatic renal carcinoma (RCC) it can present as isolated pancreatic
      metastasis, considering the possibility of surgical resection. Most of the literature refers
      to isolated cases or short series, with the Johns Hopkins Hospital series being the largest
      in a single published center (1,2). In all of them, survival after resection is prolonged.

      Recently, due to the results obtained with the tyrosine kinase inhibitor drugs, the value of
      resection of metastases of RCC origin has been questioned in an Italian multicenter study
      (3), although other studies consider that resection can improve the prognosis if It is
      associated with these drugs (4).

      Justification:

      The existing literature is limited to short series or mostly isolated cases. There are no
      clear prognostic factors that are limited in most cases to being merely descriptive studies.

      Goals:

        -  Define survival after resection of pancreatic cancer metastases renal in a wide range of
           our country.

        -  Identify predictive survival factors that allow establishing Subgroups of patients with
           the greatest benefit after surgery or, conversely, those who potentially do not benefit
           from drug treatment.

      Method:

      Retrospective multicenter study in which cases of pancreatic resection due to renal cancer
      metastases are collected until December 2019, identified by each of the centers included in
      the study. A data collection sheet has been designed for each case that will be sent to the
      participating centers. To know which centers could have performed some pancreatic resection
      due to renal cancer metastases, an email has been sent to all members of the Spanish
      association of surgeons and Spanish members of International Hepato-pancreatic and biliary
      surgery association and this information has been included on their websites. The study
      variables include those related to demographic data of the patient, with the primary tumor,
      with the presentation of pancreatic metastasis, pancreas surgery and short-term and long-term
      postoperative follow-up.

      Statistic analysis The data will be analyzed using the IBM SPSS Statistics for Mac version
      22.0 program (IBM Corp., Orchard Road Armonk, New York, US). Student's t, Mann Whitney U,
      Chi-square, or Fisher's test will be used according to the parameters studied. Categorical
      data will be presented as frequency and percentage. Continuous data will be presented as mean
      and standard deviation or median and interquartile range depending on the distribution of the
      data. Subgroups created to compare characteristics and results will be measured using Mann
      Whitney U, Chi-square or Kruskal Wallis test. A p <0.05 will be considered statistically
      significant.

      Limitations of the study:

      The main limitation is the retrospective and multicenter nature that can lead to selection or
      information bias.
    
  