
    
      Women requesting epidural analgesia will receive a bolus of intravenous infusion of lactated
      Ringer's solution before initiation of the procedure. An 18-gauge Tuohy needle and closed-tip
      clear catheter with three lateral orifices (Portex, Smith Medical, Hythe, UK) were used in
      the sitting or lateral position, with a loss-of-resistance to air technique. Epidural
      catheters will be inserted 5-6 cm inside the epidural space. A test dose of 2 ml of lidocaine
      2% iss initiated followed by a loading dose of 10 ml of bupivacaine 0.25%. Analgesia is
      established and maintained throughout labor and delivery using 0.125% bupivacaine with
      fentanyl 2 μg/ml with patient-controlled epidural analgesia by means of a continuous epidural
      infusion (8 ml/h basal rate) and patient-controlled boluses (3 ml each) with 20-minlock-out
      intervals, continued at the same bolus dose until delivery.

      Pain was evaluated using a 0-10 cm visual analogue scale (VAS) before, 15 and 30 min after
      the loading dose followed by hourly assessment until delivery. VAS score assessment was based
      specifically on abdominal or back pain resulting from contractions. Failed epidural is
      defined as VAS score ≥5, 30 min after a loading dose, given after the last attempt. Women who
      had a repeated attempt due to VAS ≥5 at 30 min or dural puncture or required repositioning of
      the catheter, resulting in subsequent pain relief expressed as VAS score <5 were not
      considered to have a Failed epidural. VAS score is assessed by obstetrician and not the
      anesthesiologist who performed the block. Furthermore, intrapartum vaginal examinations to
      assess cervical dilatation and fetal head station were also performed by experienced
      obstetrician.

      As part of the study, the women's satisfaction was assessed the morning following delivery
      using a 1-5 satisfaction scale, where score 1 corresponded to very unsatisfied and score 5
      corresponded to very satisfied. Before satisfaction assessment, all women who agreed to
      participate signed an informed consent and then relevant data was collected from the
      participants' medical charts.
    
  