
    
      Consenting subjects who have met inclusion and exclusion criteria will be enrolled to receive
      either fluorescein+ALA or fluorescein alone. HGG patients will be randomized on a 2 to 1
      basis to receive either both fluorescein and ALA or fluorescein alone, and LGG patients will
      be randomized on a 1 to 1 basis.

      This study is a diagnostic trial of fluorescein fluorescence as an intraoperative imaging
      biomarker during open cranial surgery for tumor resection of first-time (preoperatively)
      presumed high or low grade glioma. Subjects participate in a "one-time" event/visit (i.e,
      surgery) as part of this protocol. Images and data from the patient's pre- and post-operative
      MR scans are used for analysis in the study, but these acquisitions are part of the patient's
      standard-of-care, would occur independently of whether the participant is enrolled; and thus,
      are not considered to be research study visits. No post-surgical follow-up visit is part of
      the protocol data collection or analysis. Patients are monitored for possible adverse events
      through the routine follow-up under the care of the operating surgeon involved in the study
      procedures, post-operatively and subsequently through the medical record. Hence, this
      information is already being collected as part of standard-of-care and is available for
      adverse event surveillance. Patients receiving ALA who present with abnormally elevated LFTs
      beyond the peri-operative observation period are monitored on a regular basis until
      resolution and this blood testing is considered to be part of the study.

      Administration of study drug:

      Patients enrolled in the fluorescein+ALA arm will be administered orally 5-ALA (DUSA
      Pharmaceuticals, Tarrytown, NY) at 20 mg/kg body weight, dissolved in 100 ml of water,
      approximately 3 hours prior to the induction of anesthesia.

      For patients receiving only fluorescein, the operating surgeon will request bolus injection
      (at a dose of 5 mg/kg) approximately 30 minutes prior to the start of tumor resection. For
      especially long cases (e.g., > 4 h) or if fluorescein fluorescence dissipates substantially
      during the course of the procedure, a second bolus injection may occur later in the case.
    
  