
    
      Deep vein thrombosis is associated with severe morbidity and mortality. It is the most
      frequent type of venous thromboembolism (VTE) and responsible for approximately 800.000
      deaths per year in the European Union and the United States combined. The post-thrombotic
      syndrome (PTS) is a frequent long-term complication of proximal deep vein thrombosis (DVT),
      which occurs in up to 50% of patients despite adequate anticoagulation therapy and
      compression stockings. Patients with DVT of the inferior vena cava or iliac veins are at
      highest risk for the development of PTS. Inadequate recanalization and persistent venous
      outflow obstruction promotes the development of venous hypertension, secondary valve damage,
      valvular reflux, and the clinical manifestation of PTS, which consists of a similar set of
      signs and symptoms as in superficial venous insufficiency. Symptoms may include leg edema,
      pruritus, dysesthesia, leg pain on standing, skin changes, venous claudication with limited
      exercise capacity, and leg ulcers. Venous ulcers occur in approximately 10% of patients with
      iliofemoral DVT after 3 years.

      The diagnosis of PTS is made based on the presence of its clinical features, a prior history
      of proximal DVT, and the results of imaging studies. Clinical scores, such as the Villalta
      score, can function as a tool to stage severity of disease. PTS in classified as mild if the
      Villalta score is 5-9, moderate if the Villalta score is 10-14, and severe if the Villata
      score exceeds 15 points. Disabling venous claudication can be diagnosed by treadmill exercise
      tests. Magnetic resonance imaging venography can be used in addition to duplex ultrasound to
      objectify central venous obstruction, and unmark underlying strategic compression sides (e.g.
      May-Thurner syndrome).

      Recommendations by the American Heart Association for endovascular treatment of PTS suggest
      percutaneous recanalization including the implantation of stents for symptomatic patients)
      Endovascular therapy with provisional stent placement shows promising clinical outcomes to
      improve PTS-associated symptoms, including leg ulcers. However, there is significant risk for
      early stent thrombosis, estimated as high as 21% after 12 months.

      Antithrombotic therapy is the corner stone of the prevention of stent thrombosis, but there
      is great inconsistency in the use of antithrombotic agents. The value of extended
      anticoagulation therapy in PTS patients beyond the durations recommended in VTE management
      guidelines is controversial, and it has not been specifically investigated in the presence of
      venous stent implants. Although oral anticoagulants are accepted as the main therapy regimen,
      the benefit of antiplatelet therapy (APT) in the early phase after venous stent implantation
      is unclear.

      According to a recent international survey completed by 106 experts, one third reported to
      use life-long anticoagulation with a vitamin-K antagonist (VKA), and another 19% chose
      life-long anticoagulation with direct anticoagulant (DOAC) for a presented case scenario of a
      PTS patients treated with venous stents. The use of APT following stent placement alone or in
      combination with an anticoagulant was reported in 7% and 13%, respectively, whereas 25%
      reported use of APT following discontinuation of ACT.

      Conventionally, antiplatelet agents, such as acetylsalicylic acid, are regarded as drugs that
      prevent arterial thrombosis, as platelet adhesion predominates clotting in high-flow,
      high-sheer circulation.

      There is compelling evidence that Aspirin® is effective in the prevention of arterial stent
      thrombosis, but it is unclear, whether it can prevent venous stent thrombosis.
    
  