
    
      Vaginal rejuvenation is a catch-all term of trendy procedures which claim to provide relief
      of many issues affecting women's health, ranging from postmenopausal vulvovaginal symptoms
      (i.e. dryness, burning, itching), stress urinary incontinence, sexual dysfunction or
      discomfort, vaginal laxity, and labial appearance, amongst others2,3. Several companies have
      emerged with non-invasive or minimally-invasive technologies to alleviate these conditions
      which operate by radiofrequency delivery (IntraGen by Jeisys), Hybrid Fractional Laser (diVa
      by Sciton), or fractional CO2 laser (Mona Lisa Touch by Cynosure and Femi Lift by Alma
      Laser)4.

      All of these technologies work theoretically by remodeling extracellular matrix
      configuration. It is of important note that radiofrequency therapies are typically delivered
      at 45-55 degrees Celsius in the tissues whereas the laser based products heat up to 60-70
      degrees Celsius5. It is believed that "neocollagenesis" may only start if the temperatures
      are high enough and that such changes in the collagen matrix of the vagina could lead to
      durable vaginal wall changes. Sciton's diVa is hybrid fractional laser with wavelengths of
      2940 nm and 1470 nm for ablation and coagulation, respectively, to treat vaginal tissue6. It
      is not known whether the changes experienced by patients are due to the reconfiguration of
      the extracellular matrix (ECM) deep in the vaginal wall or related to the acute swelling and
      inflammatory processes that occur at the surface of the vagina after these rejuvenation
      procedures.

      The early anecdotal success reported on some user websites might be attributable to surface
      changes that may not be lasting or to possibly more lasting deeper muscular vaginal wall
      changes, which may or may not be beneficial. Based on the answer to this first set of
      questions, we might possibly surmise how such changes will ultimately improve vaginal dryness
      and/or stress urinary incontinence complaints.

      An overriding question and concern is: Assuming these treatments induce collagen changes in
      the vagina, is it safe to induce such changes? If changes occur, are they long lasting? Can
      it age the vagina instead of making it "younger"? What are the long-term effects of doing so?
      Is tissue tightening really scar formation that may be deleterious in the future? The
      histological, genetic and dynamic changes following vaginal rejuvenation have never been
      studied.
    
  