
    
      Study Drugs:

      Brivanib is designed to keep cancer cells from receiving the blood supply they need. This may
      slow down the growth of cancer cells.

      Irinotecan is designed to interfere with the DNA (genetic material) of cancer cells. This may
      slow down the growth and spread of cancer cells.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take brivanib by mouth 1
      time every day. The study drug should be taken at the same time each day with a glass (about
      8 ounces) of water. You can take it with or without food.

      You will be given irinotecan by vein over about 1½ hours on Day 1 of each 14-day cycle. You
      may be given other drugs to help prevent side effects. The study staff will tell you about
      these drugs, how they will be given, and the possible risks.

      If you have a side effect, you should tell your doctor or study nurse right away. Your study
      doctor may prescribe drugs for your side effects, delay future treatments, lower the dose of
      the study drugs, or stop your treatment with the study drugs.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 7 of Cycle 1:

        -  Your vital signs will be measured.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to check your thyroid
           function. If the doctor thinks it is needed, part of the blood may be used to check your
           blood's ability to clot.

      Before all cycles, starting with Cycle 2:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 1-2 tablespoons) will be collected for routine tests. If the doctor thinks
           it is needed, part of the blood may be used to check your blood's ability to clot if
           needed.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may have taken and side effects you may have had.

        -  Before Cycles 2 and 3 only, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn to check your
           thyroid function.

      Every 8 weeks:

        -  You will have a CT scan or MRI scan to check the status of the disease.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) will be drawn for thyroid, CEA, and cytokine testing.

        -  Urine will be collected for routine tests.

      Every 12 weeks (Weeks 12, 24, 36, and so on), you will have an ECHO to check your heart
      function.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drugs for as long as the doctor thinks it is in your best
      interest. You will no longer be able to take the study drugs if the disease gets worse or
      intolerable side effects occur.

      End-of-Treatment Visit:

      Within 2 weeks after you stop taking the study drugs, the following tests and procedures will
      be performed if not done in the last 14 days:

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have had and any drugs you may be
           taking.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will have a CT scan or MRI scan to check the status of the disease.

        -  Blood (about 1-2 tablespoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) will be drawn for thyroid, CEA, and cytokine testing.

      Long-Term Follow-Up:

      After you stop taking the study drugs, you will be called every 3 months. You will be asked
      questions about your health. These calls should last about 15 minutes each time.

      This is an investigational study. Brivanib is not FDA approved or commercially available. It
      is currently being used for research purposes only. Irinotecan is FDA approved and
      commercially available for the treatment of colorectal cancer. The combination of brivanib
      and irinotecan is considered investigational.

      Up to 60 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  