
    
      Background/Rationale:

      Heart failure (HF) is a major contributor to cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and one
      of the most common urgent cardiovascular (CV) presentations in patients with diabetes
      mellitus (DM). The incidence of HF is higher in adults with DM than in those without. In
      addition, among patients with HF, those diagnosed with DM have a higher risk of CV death or
      hospitalization for HF (HHF). As a result of the intersection of DM, atherosclerotic CV
      disease, and HF, the importance of determining diabetes therapies that are not only safe but
      also effective in reducing CV risk is paramount. Recently, three large randomized trials have
      shown that sodium-glucose transport protein 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors, used for the treatment of
      DM, significantly reduced the risk for HHF. In addition, recent evidence indicates the
      beneficial effects of the SGLT2 inhibitor dapagliflozin in terms of reducing the risk of
      worsening HF or CV-related death in patients with established HF and a reduced ejection
      fraction, regardless of the presence or absence of DM.

      As per the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association (ACC/AHA), patients with
      DM have at least stage A HF; thus, early identification of patients at higher risk and prompt
      intervention with medical treatments may not only provide symptomatic relief but also delay
      the development of HF. In view of the scarce epidemiological data regarding the
      classification of HF stages among diabetics and the fact that imaging and circulating
      biomarkers could be of significant prognostic value, there is an eminent need for
      comprehensive phenotypic characterization of high-risk patients that could provide valuable
      insight to support the optimal care transition and timely referral of patients with
      unrecognized HF who fit a particular profile to HF specialists for appropriate diagnostic
      evaluation and planning of optimal treatment and follow-up care. In light of the above, this
      epidemiological study aims to generate novel real-world data on the prevalence and evolution
      of HF stages as well as to explore potential determinants of the development of symptomatic
      HF, among patients diagnosed with type 2 DM (T2DM) in the past 5 years who are at high CV
      risk, in Greece. This study, complemented with cardiac imaging and circulating biomarkers
      data, could provide the necessary data for the creation of an algorithm for the selection of
      a high-risk population that could draw a greater benefit from medical interventions.
      Furthermore, the study will attempt to measure the burden of HF- and CV-related healthcare
      resource utilisation (HCRU) by HF stage and to capture the impact of symptomatic HF on
      patient-perceived health status.

      Objectives and Hypotheses:

      The study is not planned to reject or affirm any formal statistical hypothesis. It is noted
      that the term 'overall study population' used in the objectives below encompasses high CV
      risk T2DM patients undiagnosed with HF at study enrollment who fulfil the study eligibility
      criteria.

      Primary Objective The primary objective of this study is to estimate the prevalence of
      previously undiagnosed, symptomatic (clinically overt) HF and to determine the distribution
      of HF stages (as defined by the ACC/AHA classification) in the overall study population and
      by New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional classification.

      Secondary Objectives

        -  To assess the evolution of HF stages and of the severity of functional limitation
           imposed by HF (as assessed by NYHA classification) over the 2-year observation period in
           the overall study population and by HF stage at enrollment.

        -  To estimate the incidence of symptomatic HF over the 2-year observation period in the
           study subpopulation with preclinical HF (Stages A and B) at enrollment.

        -  To estimate the rate of progression from asymptomatic left ventricular dysfunction
           (Stage B) at enrollment to symptomatic HF, in the study subpopulation with HF Stage B at
           enrollment.

        -  To characterize the baseline clinical, biochemical and echocardiographic profile in the
           overall study population and by HF stage at enrollment.

        -  To capture the patient-perceived impact of HF on health status (symptoms, function, and
           quality of life) and to measure the change in health status from enrollment at 6 and 24
           months post-enrollment using the short version of the HF-specific Kansas City
           Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire (KCCQ-12) in the study subpopulation diagnosed with
           symptomatic HF (Stage C) at enrollment.

        -  To assess the HF- and CV-related HCRU in terms of inpatient and outpatient healthcare
           encounters and use of medical procedures/interventions/tests over the 2-year observation
           period in the overall study population and by HF stage at enrollment.

      Exploratory Objectives

        -  To identify which baseline clinical, echocardiographic and biochemical parameters of
           interest are associated with the HF stage at enrollment and to determine potential
           predictors of symptomatic HF.

        -  To identify baseline clinical, echocardiographic and biochemical parameters that are
           associated with progression from preclinical to symptomatic HF, in the study
           subpopulation with preclinical HF at enrollment.

        -  To explore whether the change in NT-proBNP level from enrollment to 6 months can serve
           as a possible predictor for HF- and CV-related morbidity and mortality outcomes in the
           overall study population.

        -  To identify number of patients who experience an acute kidney injury event

        -  To explore changes in eGFR during the study observation period

      Methods:

      Study design:

      This is an epidemiological, single-country, multicenter, 2-year prospective cohort study
      based on both primary and secondary data collection, which will include a representative
      sample of 300 eligible T2DM patients managed in real-life settings in Greece. A
      cross-sectional approach will be applied for addressing the primary objective of the study
      (prevalence of HF) and for determining potential predictors associated with HF stage and the
      presence of symptomatic HF at enrollment, whereas the prospective cohort phase will capture
      the 2-year incidence rate of progression to symptomatic HF as well the long-term outcomes of
      interest. Τhe study will be conducted and reported as per the Good Pharmacoepidemiology
      Practice and the local rules and regulations. The study will be carried out by approximately
      8 cardiology departments that are HF centers of excellence. In addition, aiming at
      facilitating recruitment, a referral network will be formed comprising endocrinologists,
      diabetologists, internists and general practitioners treating DM and practicing at the
      private healthcare sector or at public health facilities.

      The overall study duration is expected to be 32 months, including an 8-month recruitment
      period and a 24-month observation period per patient. Εach patient will be followed for up to
      24 months, or until death, withdrawal of consent, or physician's decision for patient
      withdrawal, whichever occurs earlier. Follow-up visit frequency will be determined by the
      participating Investigators, however study-related data will be collected at enrollment and
      at 6-, 12-, 18-, and 24-month data collection timepoints post-enrollment. Data collection at
      enrollment, and at 6 and 24 months post-enrollment will be performed in the context of
      on-site routine clinical visits at the hospital sites whereas data collection at 12 and 18
      months will be performed through telephone contacts.

      Data Source(s):

      Data collection will be carried through a web-based data capture system (eCRF). Primary data
      -which will be obtained at enrollment and prospectively during the study visits/contacts as
      performed per standard clinical practice or through patient self-report- will mainly be
      employed. Data regarding the patient-perceived health status will be collected through
      completion of the KCCQ-12 instrument at enrollment and at 6 and 24 months post-enrollment.
      Data regarding the patient's medical, DM- and CV-related history will be abstracted from
      patients' medicals records and patient self-report, where applicable. Clinical decisions
      concerning the optimum diabetes, HF and CV risk management strategy for a particular patient
      are taken independently of and/or prior to any decision by the physician to invite a patient
      to participate in the study. The medications administered for T2DM, HF, CV diseases and any
      underlying CV risk factors will be recorded and presented only by drug classes.
    
  