
    
      Individuals with moderate to severe stroke will be recruited. Based on power analysis with
      the consideration of 7% drop out rate, we will recruit 30 subjects for each group.

      Protocol:

      A REDCap database (Research Electronic Data Capture, Vanderbilt University) for this study
      will be setup to manage every step involved in the protocol. All the potential subjects will
      go through standardized steps:

        1. Patient recruitment. Experienced research team members will conduct pre-screening of
           subjects from the Clinical Neuroscience Research Registry (N=700+), which is maintained
           by the Physical Therapy and Human Movement Sciences (PTHMS) department at Northwestern
           University. Recruitment will also be conducted via flyers in various rehabilitation
           centers in the Chicago-land.

           After pre-screening, we will start the recruitment by an 'initial phone contact' to
           introduce the study and confirm the interests for participation. Once confirmed, a
           standardized 'phone screening' will be followed to partially go through the questions
           related to eligibility. If a potential participant passed all the questions over phone,
           a lab-based eligibility test will be scheduled. These individuals will come to the
           department of PTHMS. During the first visit, one of the qualified team members will
           explain the designed study and the right of participants in details, and answer all the
           related questions from potential participants. The paper consent form will be signed and
           dated by the individual once he/she agrees to participate, and a copy of the signed
           consent form will be given to the participant. Following consent, the blinded assessor
           will determine the eligibility using the inclusion and exclusion criteria.

        2. ReIn-hand parameter setting session. During this session, the treating therapist will
           determine the settings of ReIn-hand device. A 3D scan will be made to enable the produce
           of subject-specific ReIn-Hand device.

        3. Baseline clinical assessments (2 visits within 2 weeks). Participants who satisfy study
           criteria will undergo 2 baseline clinical assessments.

        4. Randomization. Using the REDCap randomization module, all of the enrolled participants
           will be randomly assigned to the either experimental or control group with consideration
           of the balance in FMA scores of the 2 groups. Randomization results will be concealed to
           the assessor all the time, and will be only assessable to treating therapists and
           bio-statisticians on the day for the first session of the assigned intervention.

        5. Pre-intervention neural imaging and bio-mechanical data collection. We will collect
           individual's MRI data and EEG data during hand opening with and without arm lifting
           within two weeks prior to the intervention. MRI scans will be performed at Northwestern
           University's Center for Translation Imaging on a 3 T Siemens Prisma scanner with a
           64-channel head coil. Structural T1-weighted scans will use an MPRAGE sequence (TR=2.3s,
           TE=2.94ms, FOV 256x256mm2) producing an isotropic voxel resolution of 1x1x1 mm3. DTI
           collection will use spin-echo echo-planar imaging (TR=5s, TW=85ms, matrix size=150x150,
           FOV=225x225mm, number of slices=120).

           For functional EEG data collection, we will first measure a subject's maximal voluntary
           torque (MVT) in the direction of shoulder abduction (SABD), maximum finger grasping
           forces of the paretic upper extremity (UE), maximum hand pentagon area, defined as the
           area formed by the tips of thumb and fingers, of the non-paretic hand when the hand is
           maximally stretched on a table top, and subject's upper- and forearm lengths for
           normalization purposes. For the hand opening without SABD loading, participants' arm
           will be rested on the virtual table provided by the robot at the home position.
           Participants will relax in the home position for 5-7s and then to self-initiate maximal
           hand opening for 2s, without blinking or eye moving. For the hand opening with SABD
           loading, participants will perform the maximal hand opening while lifting the arm above
           table against 50% of his/her SABD MVT after 5-7s resting on the home position. A set of
           60-70 trials will be collected for each condition, in a block randomized way (20-30
           trials per block). Rest periods of ~15 s between trials and ~10 min between blocks will
           be included to avoid fatigue.

        6. Intervention Research participants will participate in a 24-session intervention, ~2
           hours per session, 3 sessions per week, for 8 weeks in total. The individuals involved
           with the administration of the intervention are two training physical therapists
           (Training PT) and two training technicians. Research participants, training PTs, and
           clinical evaluators will be blind to group assignment.

           For all sessions and both groups, research participants will be seated in a seating
           system with straps across the chest and waist to prevent unwanted trunk movement. The
           training technicians will stretch the paretic UE for up to 15 minutes. The ReIn-Hand
           device will be attached to the paretic upper extremity (UE) and then positioned at a
           home position in 75째 shoulder abduction (SABD), 30째 shoulder flexion, and 60째 elbow
           flexion.

           The first session will be a 'parameter adjusting session', during which the training PT
           will determine training parameters, including: 1) SABD load, 2) target(jar) distance, 3)
           jar width, 4) jar weight, 5) jar height, and 6) jar orientation. These training
           parameters will be established both on the table condition and using a robot. The robot
           modulates the supporting force in Z-direction applied to the arm while participants are
           required to lift the arm, thus changing the shoulder abduction (SABD) load. The SABD
           load will be set as the maximum load that allows the participant to: actively reach the
           target distance, and achieve a ReIn-Hand mediated hand opening no less than 4 cm between
           the tips of the thumb and index fingers. After establishing SABD load, all the
           additional parameters (2-6) will be set, first with the established SABD load as
           following: 2) Target distance is 70% of the distance of the max reach of the paretic UE
           when fully supported on a frictionless table created by the robot; 3) Jar width will be
           increased in 0.5 cm increments, by adding padding around the jar, to the max width the
           participant can achieve with the ReIn-Hand; 4) Jar height (i.e., distance from the
           lowest part of the jar to the surface of the table) will be set as 2 cm increments to
           the max height the participant can successfully (and painlessly) reach the jar; 5) Jar
           orientation (i.e., the relation of the long axis of the jar to the table surface) will
           be set as 2째 increments to the maximum amount that allows the participant to
           successfully grasp the jar; and 6) Jar weight will be increased in 100 g increments,
           stopping if the participant experiences pain or cannot lift the jar. The Training PT
           will then repeat the steps 2-6 to determine the these parameters (2-6); however, this
           time without robot support and thus using a height-adjustable table.

           Once the intervention parameters are set, the training technician will guide the
           participant to perform the GR3 activities using these parameters. Participants in the
           experimental group will be trained using the robot. Their forearm of a participant will
           be attached to an orthosis, which will be firmly attached to the robot. Participants in
           the experimental group will be trained on a regular table. All training sessions will
           consist of 40 trials (about 1 hour) of 'reaching-grasping-retrieving-and- releasing'
           (GR3) activities, which include: 1) Reaching towards a plastic jar (diameter=3cm,
           weight=30g when empty); 2) Activating finger/wrist extensor muscles to trigger the
           ReIn-Hand device, which in turn assists the opening of the paretic hand while reaching;
           3) Grasping the jar; 4) Retrieving the jar to the home position and placing it on the
           table; and 5) Releasing the jar. In order to avoid fatigue, a resting time of 20-30
           seconds will be provided between trials.

           Participants in the control group will be encouraged to perform GR3 activities with the
           arm above the table. The experimental group will get the necessary SABD support via the
           PACT3D and thus be required to reach above the table. Both groups will be provided with
           the same verbal cues. A successful trial requires the completion of all five tasks
           required during one trial: Reaching towards a plastic jar, triggering the ReIn-Hand
           device, grasping the jar, retrieving the jar to the home position and placing it on the
           table, and releasing the jar. An unsuccessful trial is defined as the failure to
           complete one of the five tasks during one trial. The result of each of the 40 trials
           will be recorded by the training technician.

           The Training PT will review the training performance after each session to determine if
           adjustment of parameters is necessary for the next session. If a participant
           successfully completes 30/40 trials in 2 successive sessions, the training PT will
           re-adjust all the parameters at the following session in order to progressively
           challenge the participant. New parameters then will be implemented by the training
           technician during the following session.

        7. Weekly outcome measures. The blinded clinical assessor will measures the following
           outcomes weekly: Box and Blocks Test, Quantitative Measure of Hand Opening and Closing,
           and Cutaneous Sensory Touch Threshold.

        8. Post-intervention clinical assessments (3 separate visits). The blinded clinical
           assessor will check participant's sensory and motor function using the same clinical
           assessments as that used for baseline within 1 week after the intervention.

        9. Post-intervention neural imaging and biomechanical data collection. Within one week
           after the end of intervention, we will repeat the neural imaging and biomechanical data
           collection, using the same protocols as stated before.

       10. Three-month follow-up. Three months after the intervention, the blinded clinical
           assessor will check participant's sensory and motor function using the same clinical
           assessments as stated before. To maximize the retention, we will have a clear and
           standardized communication of our expectations of the participant over the course of the
           study. For each participant, the project coordinator will generate a personal timetable
           with scheduling of experiments. Flexibility of appointments will be included. Finally,
           the project coordinator will call the participants about at 7 days and then 1 day before
           the scheduled 3-month follow up to remind the last assessment.

      AE and SAE reporting Adverse event (AE) report form has been implemented in the RedCap
      database of this study, which can be used at anytime. We will report all adverse events (AEs)
      to the Northwestern IRB per established policies and requirements. We will create adverse
      events reports every six months to review for trends, and troubleshoot any issues that arise
      and require study protocol revision. If any adverse events are reported that require
      follow-up medical care we will immediately refer the participant back to his/her physician
      team.

      Serious adverse events (SAEs) that are unanticipated, serious, and possibility related to the
      study intervention will be reported to the Independent Monitor (s), IRB, and National
      Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD) in accordance with requirements.
      Unexpected fatal or life-threatening AEs related to the intervention will be reported to the
      Northwestern IRB in accordance with IRB requirements within 24 hours, and to the NICHD
      program Officer with 7 days. Other serious and unexpected AEs related to the intervention
      will also be reported to the Northwestern IRB in accordance with IRB requirements within 24
      hours, and to the NICHD program Official within 15 days. Anticipated or unrelated SAEs will
      be handled in a less urgent manner but will be reported to the Independent Monitor(s), IRB,
      NICHD, and other oversight organizations in accordance with their requirements. In the annual
      AE summary, the Independent Monitor(s) Report will state that they have reviewed all AE
      reports.

      All study staff will be trained on all aspects of the study - including data monitoring,
      quality and security. The PI and study staff will review all data collection form on an
      ongoing basis for data completeness and accuracy as well as protocol compliance. The PI will
      regularly create and review reports on eligibility, screening, recruitment, retention,
      reasons for ineligibility, declining participation and withdrawals. Information from these
      reports and monitoring activities will be used to identify protocol deviations and
      troubleshooting that may or may not require modification. Data quality will also be
      guaranteed by the use of database for all the data collection/recording.

      Each study undertaken at our Lab has a unique study protocol manual, which will be checked
      and approved by IRB at Northwestern University before recruiting subjects. Finally, in
      accordance with Northwestern University IRB requirements, all research team members are
      required to complete training certification in human subjects' research ethics through the
      online CITI (Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative) certification program - a
      leading provider of research education content. All of these elements will ensure a high
      quality of the study data as well as a consistent and comprehensive approach practiced by all
      research team members.

      Data security will be ensured by adherence to all operating procedures, study protocol, and
      research training requirements as noted above. The data will be secured in electronic format
      in the database as described above. The link between the study identification numbers and
      identifying information (e.g., name, address, age, telephone numbers and email addresses)
      will be kept separate from the dataset. Only the research study staff has need (and necessary
      access) to cross-reference files such as when it is necessary to contact a participant for
      scheduling follow-up appointments and/or clarification of survey answers (e.g., interpreting
      hand-written comments).
    
  