
    
      History and current related studies Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a kind of serious disabling
      disease caused by various factors (such as trauma, infection), and can lead to paralysis. At
      present, 16-40 people/million suffer from SCI in developed countries every year; 34.3-60
      people affect SCI in China every year. SCI is often caused by physical trauma, such as
      rotation, compression and hyperextension. This type of SCI is also known as traumatic spinal
      cord injury (TSCI). At present, there are many treatments for TSCI, but the prognosis is
      poor.

      Hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) therapy is the medical use of oxygen at a level higher than
      atmospheric pressure for treating hypoxic disease (Hu et al., 2016). Secondary injuries, such
      as edema, neuronal necrosis, blood and spinal cord barrier disorders, have been shown to be
      strongly associated with a large number of inflammatory factors. HBO can effectively inhibit
      the generation of inflammatory factors, and promote repair and regeneration of neurons.
      Moreover, HBO can relieve hypoxia, protect the surrounding tissue, reduce the mitochondrial
      dysfunction in injury area, reduce bleeding area and reduce edema. HBO has been used to treat
      TSCI for a long time. Holbach et al. first found that HBO therapy improved postoperative
      dysfunction in TSCI patients. In recent years, a number of clinical studies have focused on
      HBO therapy for TSCI, and the patients recovered well. Atmospheric pressure is very low in
      the plateau, and oxygen content in plateau environment is less than that in plain area.
      Secondary apoptosis induced by ischemia and hypoxia after SCI is the main cause of spinal
      cord dysfunction. HBO therapy can increase the dissolved oxygen, which is helpful for the
      recovery of incomplete spinal nerve function. Therefore, HBO therapy has higher therapeutic
      value in plateau than in plain.

      Data management The observation forms were filled out accurately, completely and timely by
      researchers. Data were recorded electronically by data managers using a double-data entry
      strategy. The electronic database was collated and locked only by the project manager. The
      locked electronic database could not be altered. All data regarding this trial were preserved
      by the Affiliated Hospital of Qinghai University, China. The electronic database was
      statistically analyzed by a professional statistician. Anonymized trial data will be
      published at www.figshare.com.

      Statistical analysis Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS 22.0 software (IBM,
      Armonk, NY, USA). Measurement data were expressed as mean ± SD. Normality test and variance
      homogeneity test were conducted. Normally distributed data with homogeneity were compared
      using one-way analysis of variance. Non-normally distributed data were compared using
      Wilcoxon two-sample rank sum test. Ranked data were analyzed using rank sum test. A value of
      P < 0.05 was considered statistically significant. Results followed the intention-to-treat
      principle.

      Confidentiality Identifying information, such as observation forms and informed consent, was
      password-protected and not altered for future reference. No person, other than an authorized
      researcher, may be in contact with it.
    
  