
    
      Over the years, preterm very low birth weight (PVLBW) infants (<32 weeks gestation) have
      better survival rates and improved outcomes. Nonetheless, It is of concern that there are
      increased risk of psychiatric problems reported in PVLBW infants, 11.5% to 31% of them are
      reported to be at increased risk of attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and
      25 % of them would develop autism spectrum disorder (ASD).

      Many VLBWs experience rapid vaginal or Caesarean births that increased relative risk of
      developing ASD and possibly ADHD when compared to vaginal delivery. Further, PVLBW infants
      often experience delays in enteral feeding, and many receive little or no mother's own milk,
      use of antibiotics, invasive procedures and maternal separation can contribute to dysbiosis
      and dysbiosis in early life may prone to develop ASD and ADHD There is growing body of
      evidence demonstrates that gut microbiota is involved in communication, and may impact brain
      development and modulate behavior. Evidences have showed that there were increased intestinal
      permeability, altered gut microbiota and activity in autism and ADHD. Studies have
      demonstrated that early postnatal phase of microbial development is a primer for future
      health. Giving all the evidence, it is reasonable to speculate that probiotics could reduce
      the ASD and ADHD in preterm VLBW infants.

      From Aug 1, 2017 to June 30, 2020, a prospective, double blind, randomized, controlled trial
      will be conducted in five NICUs at Taiwan. The study protocol will be approved by the
      institutional review board of each hospital. Preterm infants ≧ 23 weeks and ≦ 32 weeks
      gestational age and birth weight below 1500 gm and who survive to NICU are eligible for the
      trial. They will be assigned randomly to either group A: multiple strian probiotics or group
      B: control group received 1 mL of a 5% glucose solution. Study is continuous until preterm
      infants grow up to 4 months postnatal age.

      The management protocols, clinical practices, equipment, infrastructure, and key personnel in
      NICU are unchanged during the study period. The data collected by each center are transmitted
      to the office of the principal investigator (Dr Lin) at China Medical University Hospital.
      Primary outcome is death or attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and ASD.

      Mortality is defined as death prior to discharge. Secondary outcomes are NEC ≧ stage 2,
      sepsis, severe (grade 3-4) IVH, BPD, alteration of liver function, and adverse effects or
      intolerance and neurodevelopment impairment. Objection of the first two years is to enroll
      cases, ASD and ADHD will be assessed by two independent neurologists at third year of life;
      no examiner is aware of treatment assigned to any infant.
    
  