
    
      This will be a multi-site, blinded investigators, prospective randomized controlled trial
      (RCT). Randomization (CO2, WE with water, WE with 50% saline, WE with 25% saline) will be
      based on computer generated random numbers placed inside opaque sealed envelopes. The
      envelope (in pre-arranged order) will be opened to reveal the code when the colonoscopist is
      ready to insert the endoscope to begin the examination. This will be a comparison of two
      different insertion methods with four arms (CO2 insufflation, WE with water, WE with 50%
      saline, WE with 25% saline) to see which solution used in WE is better in reducing mucus
      production.

      Patients who are willing to participate will sign an informed consent before starting the
      colonoscopy procedure. Separate parallel randomization will be set up at each site,
      stratified by investigators and indication of colonoscopy (screening, surveillance, or
      positive fecal immunochemical test). Mode of sedation will include unsedated (Taipei Medical
      University Hospital), conscious sedation (Evergreen General Hospital), or full sedation with
      propofol (Taipei Medical University Hospital). Randomization (prepared by statistics
      consultant) will be carried out by the method of random permuted block design (based on
      computer generated random numbers) with variable block of 3 and 6.

      Control method: One arm of the study will include sedated/unsedated colonoscopy with water
      infusion during insertion as the control method. Residual air in the colon will be removed
      and sterile water will be infused to guide insertion through an airless lumen. Infused water
      will be removed by suction, along with residual fecal debris, predominantly during insertion.
      Another arm of the study will include sedated/unsedated colonoscopy with CO2 insufflation
      during insertion as an additional control method.

      Study method: Two arms of the study will include sedated/unsedated colonoscopy with saline
      infusion of different strength, i.e., 50% saline and 25% saline, during insertion. Residual
      air in the colon will be removed and normal saline will be infused to guide insertion through
      an airless lumen. Infused saline will be removed by suction, along with residual fecal
      debris, predominantly during insertion.
    
  