
    
      Background:

        -  At time of diagnosis, fewer than 10% of newly diagnosed pancreatic cancer patients
           present with resectable disease (patients who can undergo surgery) and patients able to
           undergo a margin-negative surgical resection (R0) are reported to have the most
           favorable outcome.

        -  Locally advanced, non-metastatic pancreas cancer (LAPC) is observed in up to 30% of all
           pancreas cancer patients at time of diagnosis (including both borderline resectable and
           non-resectable disease).

        -  The primary goal of neoadjuvant therapy in LAPC is, among tumor control and extension of
           survival, the conversion to resectable disease achieving a R0 resection.

        -  Radiation therapy (RT) is commonly used as neoadjuvant treatment for LAPC.

        -  However, currently used RT neoadjuvant treatment regimens result in only about 40%-60%
           of patients with borderline resectable pancreas cancer to undergo surgical resection, in
           initially unresectable LAPC patient conversion are even lower, with only 7% - 19% able
           to undergo resection.

        -  Combining immunotherapy and radiation therapy could synergistically improve anti-cancer
           activity.

        -  M7824 is a bifunctional fusion protein consisting of an anti-programmed death ligand 1
           (PD-L1) antibody functioning as an immune checkpoint inhibitor and the extracellular
           domain of transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) receptor type 2, a TGF-beta trap.

        -  The M9241 immunocytokine is composed of 2 IL-12 heterodimers, each fused to one of the
           H-chains of the NHS76 antibody, which has affinity for both single- and double-stranded
           DNA. M9241 targets delivery of IL12, a proinflammatory cytokine that has been shown
           anti-tumor activity including objective responses in phase I clinical trials, to regions
           of tumor necrosis where DNA has become exposed, e.g. after radiation therapy.

        -  We hypothesize that released neo-epitopes upon increased DNA damage induced by radiation
           therapy together with the local proinflammatory action of M9241 will complement the
           anti-tumor activity of M7824 in locally advanced pancreas cancer.

      Objectives:

        -  To determine the safety and tolerability and the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of
           M7824 and M9241 in combination with SBRT as neoadjuvant/perioperative treatment in
           subjects with pancreas cancer.

        -  To determine a preliminary estimate of efficacy as best overall response (BOR) according
           to RECIST 1.1 of M7824 and M9241 in combination with SBRT as neoadjuvant/perioperative
           treatment in subjects with locally advanced pancreas cancer.

      Eligibility:

        -  Histologically or cytologically proven pancreatic adenocarcinoma.

        -  Patient must be eligible to undergo stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) (Cohorts
           2-3).

        -  Patients must have measurable disease.

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years

      Design:

        -  This is an open label Phase I/II trial. During phase I the safety and tolerability of
           M7824 and M9241 will be evaluated and recommended Phase II dose (RP2D) of M7824 and
           M9241 in combination with SBRT will be estimated. During phase II efficacy of the M7824
           and M9241 in combination with SBRT will be examined.

        -  Patients will receive treatment in cycles consisting of 28 days (with exception of
           additional administer of M7824 alone in Phase IA).

        -  Treatment will continue until unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

        -  If during treatment patient become candidate for curative surgery, treatment will be
           stopped and can be restarted after surgery in case if surgical exploration does not
           result in the successful removal of the tumor.
    
  