
    
      This study will examine the utility of Abbott neurostimulation devices for restoring
      therapeutic benefit from neuromodulation therapy. These devices include programming the
      BurstDR waveform in an enabled implantable pulse generator (IPG), and dorsal root ganglion
      stimulation (Proclaim DRG). The BurstDR waveform offers a unique mechanism of action that may
      explain why it can restore efficacy where tonic stimulation has failed. While all forms of
      SCS activate the lateral pain pathway, which is responsible for the sensory aspects of pain,
      only BurstDR has been shown to activate the medial pain pathway which is responsible for the
      affective components. It is this medial activation that may allow BurstDR to succeed despite
      psychological factors such as catastrophizing and depression. Additionally, it is possible
      that BurstDR may be less susceptible to habituation because it more closely mimics natural
      thalamic firing.

      Several different methods of implementing BurstDR may be included in this investigation to
      account for a range of possible existing systems and patient needs. It can be implemented by
      reprogramming a BurstDR-capable device, connecting a BurstDR-capable IPG to existing leads
      with an adapter or compatible header, or through full system replacement.

      While traditional SCS applies stimulation to the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, DRG
      stimulation targets a bundle of sensory nerve cell bodies just outside of the spinal cord
      known as the dorsal root ganglion. This form of stimulation has been shown to make it easier
      to achieve pain-paresthesia overlap, provide consistent stimulation irrespective of body
      position, and produce paresthesia with a lower current than traditional SCS. Using DRG
      stimulation as a replacement or supplement to SCS may ensure reliable coverage of the entire
      painful area and improve pain outcomes.

      This is the first prospective investigation designed to evaluate the effectiveness of Abbott
      neurostimulation devices for restoring pain relief in patients with waning or failed therapy.
    
  