
    
      This is a Phase I/II study of blinatumomab in combination with pembrolizumab in adult
      patients with relapsed or refractory B-lineage ALL The primary objective of this study is to
      determine if the addition of pembrolizumab to blinatumomab improves the overall response rate
      (CR+ CRh) relative to blinatumomab alone in adult subjects with relapsed or refractory B-cell
      acute lymphoblastic leukemia with high bone marrow lymphoblast percentage.

      Mechanisms of resistance to blinatumomab are not well understood although inhibition of or
      suboptimal T-cell activation may play an important role. PD-L1 and PD-L2 expression and
      upregulation in lymphoblasts and the bone marrow microenvironment at baseline and in response
      to cytokines including those released upon blinatumomab exposure may inhibit T-cell function
      through the PD-1 receptor and lead to resistance to blinatumomab. The investigators
      hypothesize that part of the resistance to therapy with blinatumomab is mediated by the
      exuberant cytokine release seen with higher disease burden leading to increased expression of
      PD-L1 and PD-L2. Enhancing T-cell activity through use of the PD-1 inhibitor pembrolizumab is
      predicted to augment the activity of blinatumomab and convert more patients to complete
      remission and prolong remission durations. This study will also act to expand knowledge of
      PD-L1 and PD-L2 dynamics in response to blinatumomab. It will also be a paradigm for the
      addition of checkpoint inhibitors to therapy with bifunctional T-cell engaging antibodies
      currently in development for targeting other liquid and solid tumors.

      The PD-1 receptor-ligand interaction is a major pathway hijacked by tumors to suppress immune
      control. This suggests that the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway plays a critical role in tumor immune
      evasion and should be considered as an attractive target for therapeutic intervention.
      Pembrolizumab is a potent and highly selective humanized monoclonal antibody (mAb) of the
      IgG4/kappa isotype designed to directly block the interaction between PD-1 and its ligands,
      PD-L1 and PD-L2.

      The study will be conducted in 2 stages:

      Stage 1 is to ensure safety of pembrolizumab in combination with blinatumomab.

      Stage 2 of the study will include an expansion cohort of up to 21 additional subjects (for a
      total of 24 subjects) to evaluate the efficacy of the combination of blinatumomab and
      pembrolizumab in adults with relapsed/refractory B-cell ALL
    
  