
    
      To improve monitoring of patients with early RA the investigators have developed an automated
      remote monitoring system SandRA (Showing-any-need-for-Re-Assessment) based on short message
      service (SMS) of cell phones and patients' global assessment of the severity of RA (PtGA) on
      a numeric scale of 0 to 10.

      SandRA software sends every 2 to 6 weeks automatically an SMS to a patient's cell phone, and
      the patient answers by one push on keyboard. The patients' answers are recorded in SandRA and
      automatically analysed. If answers indicate non-adherence, adverse events, or missed target,
      the system automatically sends SMS: "Your nurse will call you within 2 work days", and the
      nurse gets an alarm by e-mail. If needed, an extra visit is arranged for treatment
      adjustment.

      Preliminary studies show that PtGA given by cell phone has sufficient convergent validity.
      Structured feedback from patients has been favourable and most professionals assess the
      system as feasible.

      The objective of this study is to investigate the impact of SandRA monitoring on clinical
      outcomes of RA, on patients' quality of life and drug adherence, as well as consumed
      resources. Cost-effectiveness of SandRa is estimated.

      Methods Consecutive incident patients (200) with RA are enrolled. Those, who can use SMS
      messages of cell phone, who understand the SandRA system, and are willing, are included.
      After informed consent the patients are randomized into two groups: 1) SandRA group and 2)
      control group.

      The patients randomized into SandRA group are instructed as usual. Regular doctor visits are
      scheduled at 3 months and at 6 months, when the SandRa monitoring ends. The following
      clinical data will be gathered. 1) ACR core data set at baseline, at 3 and 6 months, and at
      possible extra visits; 2) radiographs of the hands and the feet at baseline (if not taken
      within 6 months); 3) antirheumatic medication and the possible causes of switches and changes
      over the 6 months 4) patient confidence (VAS) at each doctor visit; 5) quality of life
      (SF-36) at baseline and at 6 months. Patient feedback of the system by a structured
      questionnaire is gathered at 6 months.

      The patients in the control group are treated as usual. Follow-up visits are scheduled as
      needed. The same clinical data as in SandRA group are collected at baseline and at 6 months.

      In the both groups concomitant diseases and medications as well as age, sex, and education
      level are recorded at baseline. The consumption of resources is assessed as the number of
      contacts (doctor visits, nurse visits, as well as phone calls scheduled and non-scheduled)
      with the outpatient clinic over the 6-month follow-up.

      In addition, the patients are assessed at 12 months, when the ACR Core Data Set is gathered.

      The radiographs at baseline and ACR Core Data Set at doctor visits, safety laboratory tests,
      and assessment visits at 3, 6, and 12 months are included in the normal clinical care. No
      extra visits are required because of the study.
    
  