
    
      A. Specific Aims/Objectives The goal of this study is to prospectively evaluate the impact of
      antacid therapy on esophagitis in children with repaired esophageal atresia. Recent clinical
      guidelines have attempted to define a systematic approach to the management of these patients
      with regards to minimizing and treating esophagitis (Krishnan et al 2016), however the
      quality of evidence supporting many of the recommendations are based on expert opinion or on
      limited, retrospective studies. Risk factors for esophagitis and optimal length of antacid
      therapy are not well defined. Through this study, we aim to identify risk factors for the
      presence of esophagitis in patients with repaired esophageal atresia. We hypothesize that
      antacid therapy improves esophagitis severity in children following esophageal repair.

      B. Background and Significance

      Esophageal atresia is one of the most common congenital gastrointestinal anomalies and
      affects 1 in 2500 to 1 in 4000 live births (Pinheiro et al 2012; Krishnan et al 2016). Recent
      ESPGHAN-NASPGHAN guidelines have attempted to define a systematic approach to the
      post-operative management of these patients with regards to minimizing and treating
      esophagitis, anastomotic strictures, and feeding difficulties (Krishnan et al 2016), however
      the quality of evidence supporting many of the recommendations are based on expert opinion or
      on limited, retrospective studies. For example, there are no controlled studies describing
      benefit of systematic acid suppression on outcomes such as esophagitis or associated
      long-term sequelae such as esophageal stricture. While esophagitis in these patients has been
      presumed to be related to high rates of acid reflux, it is unclear that antacid therapy leads
      to reduced rates of esophagitis or its complications. A recent meta-analysis of four
      observational studies suggests that antacid therapy with PPI is not associated with lower
      rates of esophageal strictures (Miyake et al 2018). Boston Children's Hospital Esophageal and
      Airway Treatment Center has one of the largest cohorts of children with esophageal atresia in
      the United States with the opportunity to study the impact of antacid therapy in management
      of esophagitis in repaired esophageal atresia.

      C. Design and Methods

      Prospective analysis of inpatient and ambulatory pediatric patients and their medical records
      at Boston Children's Hospital who have undergone primary anastomosis repair of esophageal
      atresia beginning upon IRB approval.

      For the remainder of the protocol, "year-1" refers to the initial set of
      testing/procedures/clinic visits occurring during the study period. "Year-2" refers to the
      second set of routine testing/procedures/clinic visits occurring approximately one year after
      the "year-1" time point.

      Inclusion Criteria: All repaired esophageal atresia patients with primary esophageal
      anastomosis are eligible to enroll at the time of their routine year-1 surveillance endoscopy
      / pH-impedance studies:

        -  For patients with histology showing no or mild esophagitis, no erosive esophagitis, and
           reflux index <3% on pH-metry, antacid therapy will be discontinued.

        -  For patients with histology showing moderate or severe esophagitis and/or erosive
           esophagitis and/or reflux index > 3% on pH-metry, antacid therapy with PPI will be
           initiated. For patients already taking PPI at therapeutic dosing, an H2 blocker will be
           added.

      Data collection will include:

        -  Clinical history including age at enrollment, gender, esophageal atresia type, date of
           esophageal atresia repair, associated anomalies, history of prematurity, history of
           anastomotic leak, history of prior esophageal dilations, history of gastrostomy tube
           placement, history of fundoplication, hiatal hernia

        -  Medication history

        -  Symptom questionnaire at enrollment and at 1 year post-enrollment

        -  pH-Impedance data (including reflux index, retrograde bolus movements, mean acid
           clearance time, mean bolus clearance time, and proximal events) at enrollment and at 1
           year post-enrollment

        -  Endoscopic findings as well as data from interventions (e.g. dilations, injections) at
           enrollment and at 1 year post-enrollment

        -  Histology from esophageal biopsies

        -  Outcome data including primary outcome histologic esophagitis severity and secondary
           outcomes including presence of Barrett's esophagus, erosive esophagitis on endoscopy,
           and rates of BRUEs, respiratory infections, hospitalizations, and need for dilations
    
  