
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine whether the combination of tavokinogene telseplasmid (tavo)-electroporation
      (EP), pembrolizumab, and epacadostat increases the best overall response rate (BORR) in
      squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) compared with historical data for
      pembrolizumab monotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the safety of tavo-EP and pembrolizumab in combination with epacadostat (Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events [CTCAE] version 4).

      II. Determine the durability of clinical benefits in patients treated with tavo-EP,
      pembrolizumab, and epacadostat as assessed by time to progression, median progression-free
      survival (PFS), median overall survival (OS).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine whether the combination of tavo-EP, pembrolizumab, and epacadostat increases the
      objective response rate in SCCHN compared with emerging data for pembrolizumab in combination
      with epacadostat.

      II. Determine the effects of combination therapy on treated and untreated lesions by
      examining paired biopsy specimens for changes in inflammatory gene expression, relative
      proportion of effector versus regulatory T cells, evaluation of inflammatory cytokines,
      T-cell activation, clonality, and other hallmarks of immune activation.

      III. Explore systemic markers of immune activation by examining circulating T-cell
      populations for changes in the frequency and effector function of short-lived effector cells
      and memory T cells.

      IV. Explore changes in functional immune responses using enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot
      (Elispot) and other assays.

      V. To explore biomarkers that inform scientific understanding of this therapeutic treatment
      through analysis of specimens retained for Future Biomedical Research.

      OUTLINE:

      This is a multi-center, open label, 2-stage, double-arm, clinical trial in which patients in
      Stage 1 will receive either tavo-EP with pembrolizumab, and epacadostat (Arm A) or tavo-EP
      and pembrolizumab (Arm B) after a dose escalation safety lead-in phase. Stage 2 will open
      pending additional clinical and translational data emerging from Stage 1.
    
  