
    
      Inhospital cardiac arrest still constitutes an important clinical problem with survival to
      discharge ranging within 0-42% (most common range = 15-20%). Survival after witnessed,
      pulseless ventricular fibrillation/tachycardia(VF/VT) that is responsive to one or two direct
      current countershock(s) may exceed 30%. However, survival after inhospital asystole,
      pulseless electrical activity, or refractory VF/VT (defined as not responsive to two
      countershocks) may be substantially lower (< 5-10%). As in nonsurvivors, both endogenous
      vasopressin and adrenocorticotrophin are reduced compared to survivors, we hypothesized that
      the addition of exogenous vasopressin and steroids to the standard CPR protocol may increase
      the rates of both the return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) and of post-arrest survival.
      The mechanistic basis of this hypothesis comprises the simultaneous activation of adrenergic
      and vasopressin receptors, in conjunction with a potential steroid-mediated enhancement of
      the vascular reactivity to epinephrine.

      Adult in-patients with cardiac arrest not responsive to two direct current countershocks
      (when applicable) or asystole or pulseless electrical activity are randomized to receive
      either arginine vasopressin (Pitressin, 20 IU/CPR cycle for the first 5 CPR-cycles in
      non-VF/VT and from the second to sixth CPR-cycle in VF/VT) plus epinephrine (1 mg/CPR-cycle)
      plus methylprednisolone (single dose = 40 mg during the first and second CPR-cycle in
      non-VF/VT and VF/VT, respectively) or normal saline-placebo plus epinephrine (1 mg/CPR-cycle)
      plus normal saline-placebo during the first 5 or second to sixth CPR-cycles. Further
      CPR-vasopressor treatment includes epinephrine (1 mg/CPR-cycle) for both groups. Apart from
      the initial, combined drug administration in the study group, CPR is conducted in full
      concordance with the 2005 European Resuscitation Council Guidelines. Following ROSC and in
      the presence of postresuscitation shock (defined as inability to maintain mean arterial
      pressure > 70 mm Hg without using exogenous catecholamines at infusion rates conferring
      vasopressor and/or inotropic activity), study group patients receive stress dose
      hydrocortisone (300 mg/day for a maximum of 7 days and then gradual taper), whereas controls
      receive saline placebo. Following ROSC, control group patients may receive stress dose
      steroid treatment if prescribed by the attending physician for indications such as septic
      shock or known adrenocortical insufficiency. This holds also for study group patients during
      the follow-up period. Any steroid prescription by attending physicians cancels any
      concomitant investigational interventions regarding steroid supplementation.

      The investigators involved in CPR drug administration are blinded to the use (or no-use) of
      vasopressin and methylprednisolone, and do not coordinate the CPR procedures. For the study
      group, steroid treatment is determined by the director of the pharmacy of Evaggelismos
      hospital, who also performs the computer-based patient randomization and encoding, and
      supervises the preparation of study drugs for CPR.

      Patient follow-up and data recording is being conducted by four associates who are unaware of
      the CPR interventions. Daily follow-up to day 28 post-arrest includes physiological
      variables, medication and other treatment interventions, results of laboratory and diagnostic
      studies (including serum interleukins), and determination of the sequential organ dysfunction
      assessment (SOFA) score. Physiological variables include hemodynamics (arterial and central
      venous pressure, and heart rate), gas exchange and respiratory mechanics, body temperature,
      urinary output and fluid balance. Patient neurological status is being assessed with the
      Glasgow Coma Score. Following successful weaning from mechanical ventilation, cerebral
      performance is being assessed with the cerebral performance scale. Additional follow-up data
      include hospital/intensive care unit (ICU)-related morbidity, length of ICU/hospital stay,
      and cerebral performance/residual disabilities at hospital discharge.

      Primary end-points are ROSC for ≥ 15 min, and survival to discharge either to home or to a
      rehabilitation facility. Secondary end-points include arterial pressure during CPR and at
      15-20 min following ROSC, the intensity of the post-arrest systemic inflammatory response,
      the number of organ failure-free days during follow-up, and neurological status and cerebral
      performance during follow up and at discharge from the hospital.

      In patients who survived for more than 28 days after the occurrence of the cardiac arrest, it
      has been ultimately feasible to collect full data on organ failure free days and medication
      until 60 days following randomization. Consequently, the analysis of the data during April
      and May 2007, actually enabled the calculation of the organ failure free days, the comparison
      of the length of the use of various drugs between the two groups, and the construction of
      survival curves and conduct of Kaplan-Meier analysis and Cox regression analysis until day 60
      following randomization.

      As in previous cardiac arrest trials, the requirement of informed consent before the
      administration of the drug combination during CPR has been waived. Informed consent was
      actually obtained for corticosteroid treatment of postresuscitation shock and for the blood
      sampling required for determination of plasma cytokine concentration after ROSC.
    
  