
    
      This is a randomized, non-placebo controlled study to evaluate the effects of Symbicort 400
      mcg twice daily (BID) and Advair 250 mcg BID over 12 weeks. As the standard of therapy for
      COPD is a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) treatment, a placebo only group cannot be
      ethically justified. The control arm of this study will thus be Oxeze 12 ug BID. The study
      will recruit approximately 69 subjects, from St. Paul's Hospital and British Columbia Cancer
      Agency, randomized 1:1:1 to the 3 arms in blocks. We anticipate 10 to 15% drop out rate,
      which will enable approximately 60 subjects for full analysis.

      After the initial enrolment and confirmation of the entry criteria, subjects will perform
      spirometry before and following bronchodilation with salbutamol (up to 400 ug). They will
      then enter a 4-week run-in period during which all subjects will be withdrawn from inhaled
      corticosteroid containing products. They will then be treated with formoterol via Turbuhaler
      12 ug BID and short-acting beta-2 agonists as needed (PRN). Subjects may also have LAMA
      (either tiotropium 18 ug once daily or glycopyrronium 50 ug once daily) at the discretion of
      the attending physician. At the end of the run-in phase, eligibility will be confirmed and
      then subjects will undergo pre and post-spirometry, low-dose thoracic computed tomography
      (CT) and bronchoscopy. One week post-bronchoscopy, the subjects will be randomized to a
      12-week treatment period. Subjects may also have LAMA at the discretion of the attending
      physician. At the end of the 12 week treatment period, the subjects will undergo pre- and
      post-spirometry and 2nd bronchoscopy. The subjects will be re-evaluated one week following
      bronchoscopy and then discharged from the study. All subjects with pulmonary nodule requiring
      follow-up will be evaluated by the attending physician and the pulmonary nodule will be
      investigated as per guidelines of the Fleischner Society.
    
  