
    
      Cornelia de Lange syndrome (CdLS) is a genetic condition caused by mutations in
      cohesin-related genes, mostly notably NIPBL. The CdLS phenotype includes physical features
      such as typical facies, limb abnormalities, short stature, and hirsutism as well
      developmental and behavioral manifestations such as intellectual disability, communication
      deficits, autistic traits and repetitive/self-injurious behaviors (RBs/SIB).

      Behavioral challenges such as RBs/SIB pose a significant obstacle to quality of life to
      individuals with CdLS and families. In CdLS, disruption of developmental systems can impact
      neuronal and brain development, and impact GABAergic inhibitory interneuron formation,
      leading to RBs/SIB. Given the potential for dysregulated excitatory glutamatergic output in
      CdLS, neuronal oxidative stress may play a role in these maladaptive behaviors. NAC
      replenishes Central Nervous System (CNS) glutathione, a potent antioxidant and may ameliorate
      RBs/SIB. NAC has been shown to decrease maladaptive behaviors in autism and grooming
      disorders such as excoriation disorder (skin picking).

      An 18-week cross-over trial is proposed to decrease RBs/SIB comprising two 8-week
      double-blinded active or placebo treatment with a 2-week wash out period in between. A
      cross-over design will afford for higher efficiency in sample size for similar power. Dosage
      will be titrated weekly starting at 600 mg daily and then increased by 600 mg every week to a
      target dose of 1800 mg per day. Participants will be recruited through CdLS Foundation.

      Based on a mechanism for regulation glutamate transmission homeostasis in the central nervous
      system, the use of NAC may be particularly pertinent to individuals with CdLS. It is known
      that in CdLS genetic networks that impact on limb formation overlap significantly with
      developmental systems that impact neuronal and brain development, in particular GABAergic
      inhibitory interneuron formation. Given a dysregulated excitatory glutamatergic mechanism due
      to interneuron deficits, which can then lead to neuronal oxidative stress and programmed cell
      death, NAC may act as a key homeostatic regulator to prevent glutamate overactivity and
      neuronal damage in CdLS.
    
  