
    
      Since 2006, Congress has provided funding for grants to provide healthy marriage and
      responsible fatherhood services to help interested couples and fathers enhance or improve
      adult and parent-child relationships and meet other objectives. The Administration for
      Children and Families (ACF), within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS),
      oversees these grants and provides supports to assist grantees to meet their goals and
      objectives. To learn about the implementation and effects of these programs, ACF awarded a
      contract in 2011 to Mathematica Policy Research, Inc. to conduct the Parents and Children
      Together (PACT) evaluation. The evaluation includes separate impact and process studies for
      responsible fatherhood and healthy marriage programs.

      Individuals who are eligible for the programs and agree to be in the study are randomly
      assigned to either a program group or a control group. Program group members are offered
      program services; control group members are not offered those services but are able to
      receive other services available in the community. The impact studies will examine whether
      the programs improve outcomes for fathers, mothers, families, and children in the program
      group compared to outcomes of those in the control group. Members of both program and control
      groups are surveyed twice: before they are randomly assigned and 12 months later. At the
      12-month follow-up, both groups will be asked to complete a telephone survey. The survey will
      cover a range of questions related to adult relationships and interactions, parent-child
      interactions and economic stability. Corresponding process studies will examine multiple
      aspects of the implementation and operation of the programs. Information for the process
      studies will be obtained through: interviews with program and partner organization managers
      and staff; observations of program operations; from focus groups with program participants
      and non-participants; and from data from each grantee's management information system.
    
  