
    
      In this Phase 2, open-label, dose-rising study, subjects with high grade (CIN 2 or 3) CIN
      will receive once-weekly topical application of SOR007 ointment to the ectocervix for four
      weeks. Subjects will be enrolled in three dose-escalating cohorts of three subjects assigned
      consecutively to receive 0.15%, 1.0%, or 2.0% SOR007 ointment. At the final study visit
      (Visit 7) subjects will undergo an excision or punch biopsy to record the stage of CIN. PK
      samples will be obtained post-application on Day 0 at 1, 2, 4, 6, and 24 hours'
      post-application on Day 1. Additional PK samples will be collected at each visit. Plasma
      samples for PK analysis on Days 7, 14 and 21 will be collected prior to SOR007 application.

      The Medical Monitor will review all available data prior to dose escalation. Dose-escalation
      of SOR007 will be determined by the Medical Monitor. This will be repeated for each escalated
      dose until all dose levels have been enrolled or a dose is determined unsafe. Safety will be
      assessed in an ongoing manner and formal safety reviews will be conducted twice for each
      cohort: after Day 14 and after Day 49 of the last subject in the cohort. If a safety or
      tolerability issue becomes apparent in a cohort, an additional three subjects will be
      enrolled at that dose level, for a maximum of six subjects in that cohort. If ≥ 1 safety or
      tolerability issue occurs in the additional 3 subjects, the prior dose-level will be
      determined to be the highest dose with an acceptable safety and tolerability profile. If no
      further safety and tolerability issues are identified in the expanded cohort, dose-escalation
      will continue.

      Once the highest dose with an acceptable safety and tolerability profile has been determined
      by the Medical Monitor, PI, and Sponsor Medical Director, a further 3 subjects will be
      enrolled to that dose level in order to increase the subject numbers.
    
  