
    
      COPD is an increasing cause of death and morbidity and smoking is its primary cause.
      Professional smoking cessation treatment is very cost-effective and therefore recommended by
      national guidelines. A controlled study demonstrated that a smoking cessation protocol in
      routine primary care, specifically targeted at patients with COPD (SMOCC), doubled the quit
      rates. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was Euro 1012 showing that the
      protocol was cost-effective. The protocol was tested under optimal trial conditions, but it
      is unclear if a large-scale implementation strategy is (cost-)effective. Therefore the
      present study investigates an implementation strategy in a 2-armed community intervention
      trial. General practices (N=150, 2700 smoking patients with COPD) will be randomly allocated
      to the intervention or control condition. In the control condition the usual dissemination
      strategy of distributing guidelines and subsequent products through the professional channels
      (journals, postgraduate education) will take place. In the intervention condition a
      multifaceted implementation strategy wil be executed aimed at support of the general practice
      team (outreach education by a facilitator, support for detecting smoking patients with COPD,
      provision of patient education materials, help desk/website, telephone and e-mail reminders).
      The research question is how (cost-)effective this implementation strategy is compared to
      usual implementation procedures. Primary outcome measures will be biochemically validated
      smoking abstinence at 12 and 18 months. Secondary outcome measures will be counseling
      contacts and counseling behaviour of professionals and cessation attempts of patients. A
      process analysis and evaluations by patients and professionals are an integral part of the
      study. A cost-effectiveness analysis taking a health care sector perspective will be
      performed and will show the expected costs per practice and an incremental cost-effectiveness
      ratio (ICER). The study will last 34 months, the intervention period will take 18 months per
      practice.
    
  