
    
      This study (Specific Aim 2 of the linked study protocol) will compare the effectiveness of
      the interactive, trust-enhanced consent application to an interactive consent and standard
      consent (no interactivity, no trust- enhancement) using a randomized trial of the three
      consents with 750 adults in a network of family medicine practices. Primary outcomes will be
      satisfaction with the consent decision and understanding of the consent content.

      Conceptually, the hypothesized effectiveness of this study's new consent application relies
      on two constructs, interactivity and trust. Many studies have identified the importance of
      trust in researchers when it comes to people's willingness to participate in research.
      Moreover, trust in the source of information is critical to participants' evaluations of risk
      information. And, risk information is an important element of the research consent process.
      Thus, highlighted relevant messages to participants at the outset of a research consent
      process. It is expected that these messages will not coerce participants nor will they
      dramatically alter participants' general trust in researchers. More importantly, empirically
      assessments of both of these expectations to ensure the application delivers an ethically
      appropriate consenting experience. However, it is expected that presenting key facts about
      research data protections, researcher training, and research regulations will increase the
      likelihood that participants will be willing to learn about research using medical records.
      In turn, this will increase participants' understanding and help them make a more informed
      decision. In the absence of these trust-related messages, it is expected that many
      participants will simply disengage from the details of the consent information and thus make
      a less informed decision about participating. Next, the investigators' use of interactivity
      is supported by research on the effectiveness of communications that interactively deliver
      detail, empower audiences, and allow a self - discovery process. Indeed, an interactive,
      person-to-person consent process is the standard approach in clinical trials. Therefore, in
      the new consent application, the interface will allow participants to interactively explore
      the details that are most important for their personal understanding of research using EHRs
      and most relevant to their personal information needs and satisfaction with the consent
      decision. Without this interactive information exploration, which is essentially dynamically
      tailored to their personal information needs, participants are more likely to be overwhelmed
      by the volume of information presented and unable to obtain the information they want most.
      Under these circumstances, participants' overall understanding of the consent information is
      likely to decrease, and they are likely to make less satisfactory decisions. There are two
      specific hypotheses: (1) compared to the standard consent, the interactive consent will lead
      to increased decisional satisfaction and understanding of the consent; and (2) compared to
      the interactive consent, the interactive, trust-enhanced consent will lead to increased
      decisional satisfaction and understanding of the consent.
    
  