
    
      This study will be a prospective observational study of women with newly diagnosed breast
      cancer. To date, there is little data in the literature assessing and comparing the outcomes
      associated with breast cancer surgical procedures. Information of satisfaction of patients
      with treatment, result, and breast cancer education they receive is particularly deficient.
      Therefore, breast cancer female patients will be recruited at Henry Ford Health System.
      Participants will voluntarily complete surveys electronically at specific points during their
      treatment and recovery process. Responses and satisfaction of quality of life will be
      collected and analyzed.

      The BREAST-Q survey will be used to obtain patient reported outcomes.The surveys will be
      given preoperatively, at six months, one year, two years, and five years. Specific surveys
      will be given to the patients based on the treatment modality they receive.The groups are
      breast conserving therapy, mastectomy along, and mastectomy with reconstruction.The
      mastectomy with reconstruction group will be further subdivided based on implant or
      autologous tissue reconstruction. A survey adapted from the 'Patient Satisfaction with Cancer
      Treatment Education (PS-CaTE)' questionnaire will be administered at the preoperative and one
      year time point to evaluate satisfaction with their breast cancer education. PS-CaTE consists
      of two parts. Part one evaluates the patient's perception of the breast cancer education.
      Part two serves to elucidate the primary information sources the patients utilized by the
      patients. A demographic survey will also be given to patients preoperatively and
      postoperatively. Survey results will be analyzed to detect differences in health-related
      quality of life among the different treatments.

      BREAST-Q surveys are health-related quality of life survey instruments developed to allow
      validated and reliable acquisition of patient reported outcomes.These surveys were
      meticulously crafted following internationally accepted guidelines as established by the
      Scientific Advisory Committee of the Medical Outcomes Trust and the U.S. Food and Drug
      Administration. The item list of this survey was developed from patient interviews, focus
      groups, expert panels, and literature review. Separate modules were developed for each
      treatment modality and include BREAST-Q Breast Conserving Therapy, BREAST-Q Mastectomy,
      BREAST-Q Reconstruction. These surveys have been used in major trials including the United
      Kingdom's National Health Service survey of 8,000 patients with mastectomy and mastectomy
      with reconstruction and FDA surveillance and longitudinal follow-up of patients with silicone
      breast implants.
    
  