
    
      The proposed study is a group-randomized trial to determine the frequency and treatment
      target of community-wide mass antibiotic treatment to eliminate trachoma. We will continue to
      monitor a sub-set of communities from our TANA study, in Goncha Siso Enese district of East
      Gojam Zone, Ethiopia. Here we evaluate how infection returns when antibiotics are
      discontinued, whether infection can be predictably eliminated, and whether infection can be
      prevented from returning with targeted treatment strategies:

      Specific Aim 1. To determine whether antibiotics can be stopped after 4 years.

      Specific Aim 2. To determine whether infection can be completely eliminated if mass
      treatments continue for seven years.

      Specific Aim 3. To determine whether treatment targeted to pre-school aged children, or to
      households in which a pre-school aged child has clinically active trachoma, will prevent
      infection from returning into the community.

      Specific Aim 4: To determine whether mass azithromycin distributions reduce visits to local
      health clinics due to all causes and infectious causes.

      Specific Aim 5: To determine whether mass azithromycin distributions result in better growth
      metrics (weight-for-height, height-for age, weight-for-age, middle upper arm circumference)
      compared to no treatment.

      Specific Aim 6: To determine whether under-5 mortality is lower in communities treated with
      mass azithromycin compared to no treatment

      Specific Aim 7: To determine whether macrolide resistance in Streptococcus pneumoniae,
      Hameophilus influenzae, and Staphylococcus aureus is more prevalent in communities treated
      with biannual mass azithromycin compared to communities treated with annual mass
      azithromycin, and to determine whether targeted azithromycin treatments result in less
      macrolide resistance compared to mass azithromycin distributions.
    
  