
    
      Background:

      Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) is overexpressed in multiple adenocarcinomas.

      Previous clinical studies utilizing CEA-based vaccine therapy have demonstrated safety,
      T-cell immune responses against CEA, and preliminary evidence of clinical benefit.

      Preclinical studies have shown that Saccharomyces-CEA (yeast-CEA) can induce a strong immune
      response to CEA as well as therapeutic antitumor responses in a CEA-transgenic host.

      Previous and ongoing clinical studies utilizing whole, heat-killed recombinant Saccharomyces
      cerevisiae yeast genetically modified to express mutated Ras (GI-4000) or hepatitis C
      (GI-5005) proteins demonstrated this vaccine vehicle to be well tolerated, with no
      product-related serious adverse events in >200 treated subjects.

      Objectives:

      Primary

      -To determine the safety and tolerability of escalating doses of a heat-killed yeast-based
      vaccine that targets tumors that express CEA.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate CD4 and CD8 immunologic response as measured by an increase in CEA-specific
           T cells measured by ELISPOT in HLA-A2, -A3 and -A24(+) patients, and proliferation in
           response to CEA protein.

        -  To evaluate evidence of clinical benefit, such as progression-free survival, RECIST
           criteria, reduction in serum markers, and/or reduction in circulating tumor cells.

      Eligibility: (dose escalation phase)

      Must have metastatic cancer that is CEA-positive (either a CEA serum level > 5 ng/mL or a
      tumor that stains positive for CEA in > 20% of a tumor block).

      Must have completed or had disease progression on at least one prior line of
      disease-appropriate therapy, or not be a candidate for therapy of proven efficacy for their
      disease.

      Must be ECOG Performance Status 0 2.

      Should have no autoimmune diseases; no evidence of immune dysfunction; no serious
      intercurrent medical illness;

      No untreated brain metastasis (or local treatment of brain metastases within the last 6
      months)

      Any hypersensitivity reaction to yeast-based products.

      Eligibility: (extension phase: 10 additional patients at highest tested dose/MTD)

      Same as for the dose escalation phase with the following exceptions:

        -  Patients must be HLA-A2, -A3, or -A24(+) for immunologic monitoring

        -  ECOG PS = 0 1

      Design:

      This is an open label, phase I trial with sequential cohorts of patients (3-6 patients per
      dose cohort) with dose escalation of heat-killed GI-6207 vaccine (see statistical analysis
      section).

      GI 6207 vaccine will be administered subcutaneously at 4 sites biweekly for 7 visits (days 1,
      15, 29, 43, 57, 71, 85), then monthly until patients meet off-study criteria.

      All patients on a given dose level will have completed 1 month on-study before enrollment can
      begin on the next dose level or on the extension phase (see statistical analysis section).
    
  