
    
      This will be a randomized controlled study enrolling participants scheduled for outpatient
      minor laparoscopic gynecologic surgery. This is a two arm study consisting of 60 subjects in
      each arm. The participants will be randomized at the time of enrollment. We will use computer
      generated blocks of four participants. Both arms of participants will receive the same
      non-narcotic pain medication prescriptions which will include fifty tablets of acetaminophen
      500mg (1-2 tablets every 6 hours as needed) and twenty-five tablets ibuprofen 600mg (1 tablet
      every 6 hours as needed). The arms will only differ in the number of tablets of oxycodone
      prescribed. In one arm (experimental) subjects will receive five tablets of oxycodone 5mg (1
      tablet every 6 hours as needed) and the other arm (comparator) ten tablets of oxycodone 5mg
      (1 tablet every 6 hours as needed). Both prescription regimens are within the range of normal
      clinical practice for post-operative pain control.

      The participants will receive a telephone call by administrative staff, who is not directly
      involved in the participants care or data collection for the study subjects, on postoperative
      day 1 and 7. The participants will all be scheduled for a 2- week post-operative follow up
      with the surgeon in the office. The primary outcome to be assessed will be number of opioids
      used by the participants at 24 hours and 7 days post-operative. The primary hypothesis is
      that participants prescribed only 5 tabs of oxycodone will not require more medication. The
      secondary hypothesis is that the pain scores between the two groups will not be different.
      The other variables being studied include the following: having had a post-operative bowel
      movement, presence of nausea, number of ibuprofen, acetaminophen tablets remaining, calls to
      the office prior to the follow up visit for pain issues, and urgent or emergency department
      visits for pain issues. These assessments will be asked during the brief telephone calls and
      also at the postoperative visit.

      All participants will be given the clinic phone number and advised to call with any questions
      or clinical concerns. The participants will be advised if possible to return to a Montefiore
      Emergency Department or gynecologic provider in case of an urgent issue prior to the 2 week
      postoperative visit, as opposed to an outside facility.
    
  