
    
      Induction Therapy - Dose escalation of selinexor with Daunorubicin and cytarabine at fixed
      doses.

      Consolidation Phase - Patients who are in complete remission (CR) or complete remission with
      incomplete count recovery (CRi) by day ≤70 and have recovered from any previous non-
      hematologic toxicity to baseline or grade ≤1 by day ≤70 following induction chemotherapy may
      go on to receive consolidation therapy for up to 2 cycles. The consolidation treatment phase
      will include up to two courses of therapy (28 day cycles) as follows:

      Daunorubicin 45mg/m^2/day (days 1-2) Cytarabine 100mg/m^2/day (continuous infusion on days
      1-5) Selinexor same dose as induction (days 1,3,8,10) unless dose limiting toxicity (DLT)
      dictates a dose reduction. Selinexor will be given 2 hours prior to daunorubicin on day 1.

      A second cycle of consolidation therapy using the same doses as above will be administered,
      at the investigators discretion, between 28 and 42 days following initiation of the first
      consolidation treatment, after peripheral blood counts have recovered to CR, CRi levels, and
      after recovery from any non-hematologic toxicity to baseline or grade ≤1. Dose escalation of
      Selinexor will not occur during the consolidation phase.

      Maintenance Phase - Patients who remain in CR, CRi after up to 2 cycles of consolidation and
      are not eligible for allogeneic stem cell transplant will be eligible for the maintenance
      phase of treatment after recovery from any previous non-hematologic toxicity to baseline or
      grade ≤1. Maintenance therapy will consist of:

      Selinexor at the same dose as induction on days 1 and 8 of a 21 day cycle. They will continue
      for a maximum of 12 months.

      Expansion Phase - Once the MTD has been established, there will be an expansion phase to
      enroll an additional 13 subjects at the MTD to better characterize the safety profile and
      tolerability.
    
  