
    
      The 912 study participants (youth ages 12-14) will be randomized to the intervention or
      control arm upon completion of the baseline survey. The assignments will be generated with
      the use of a pseudo-random-number generator with permuted blocks, used to ensure a
      sex-balanced and age-balanced assignment to each arm. All participants will be given a
      low-cost (<$40) Android phone on which the study game will be loaded. Intervention arm phones
      will have app for Tumaini programmed on them, while control arm phones will have a
      commercially available game to be determined prior to the start of the randomized clinical
      trial. Preference will be given to a game or other app with educational content, for example,
      a general knowledge quiz or strategy game. Each app will be standalone and not require data
      access or connection to the Internet to function. All participants will be invited to play
      their assigned game for at least 10 hours during the November-December school holiday. While
      we anticipate that access to smartphones will be widespread at time of roll-out of an
      efficacious game, this is not yet the case: for the purposes of this study, phones need to be
      provided in order to ensure consistency of technology and avoid SES bias. All other phone
      functions aside from the alarm, will be disabled for safety reasons. The game will
      automatically record the time spent playing and the choices made in the context of gameplay.
      When returning the phones, all participants will be asked to fill out a form identifying
      others with whom the game or app was shared and creators of each profile on their study
      phones.

      In line with the preferences expressed by parents during the feasibility test, the phones
      will be provided to participants during the long November-December school holidays and
      collected at the end of the holiday. Providing there is no evidence of contamination,
      participants will (a) keep the phone throughout the long November-December school holiday;
      and (b) receive the phone, loaded with the game, again during the November-December holidays
      of the following years.
    
  