
    
      Background

      Trigger point injections (TPIs) are a commonly-performed procedures by physicians for the
      treatment of myofascial pain, specifically targeting myofascial trigger points (MTrPs).
      Commonly injected substances include local anesthetic, botulinum toxin, or corticosteroid
      (CS), though non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and other substances have been
      reported. A Cochrane review found that intramuscular injection of local anesthetic
      demonstrated moderate evidence of benefit for mechanical neck disorders; no other treatment
      demonstrated greater benefit.

      Great variation is seen in how TPIs are performed, however. The standard method was described
      by Simons and Travell, and is often cited. Hong et al. demonstrated that, similar to the
      technique described by Simons and Travell, obtaining a local twitch response (LTR) was the
      most important factor in producing pain relief. Further research by Shah et al., which
      demonstrated an inflammatory component to MTrPs, also showed a decrease in inflammatory
      cytokines following trigger point injections that obtained a LTR. Despite these findings,
      most studies do not use the LTR method in their TPI techniques.

      Prior studies demonstrated that most patients obtain significant relief from TPI, but did not
      identify differences between injection of CS or other substances. However, none of these
      studies identified LTRs in their injection techniques.

      As can be learned from a review of the published literature on muscular trigger points, the
      cause of this condition is unknown, and no single treatment approach has been established as
      a clearly accepted gold standard treatment. There is evidence, however, that there is an
      inflammatory component associated with trigger points and that obtaining a local twitch
      response is associated with a decrease in local inflammation at the site of a trigger point.
      The combination of injecting an anti-inflammatory medication and obtaining a local twitch
      response has never been studied. The purpose of this study is to examine the comparative
      effectiveness of injectable substances on patient outcome after a TPI with LTR identified,
      namely a CS (dexamethasone), a NSAID (ketorolac), or only a local anesthetic (lidocaine).
    
  