
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the sixth most common cancer in the world and the third
      most common cause of cancer-related death .. With improved surveillance of patients with
      chronic liver disease and advances in imaging, more patients are diagnosed with early-stage
      HCC . For the treatment of early stage HCC, curative therapies including liver
      transplantation, hepatic resection, and radio frequency ablation (RFA) are recommended. Liver
      transplantation is the treatment option especially for patients with decompensated cirrhosis,
      but potential recipients outnumber donors. Hepatic resection is widely used as the main
      choice of treatment for resectable HCC. However, the risk of postoperative hepatic
      dysfunction often precludes surgery.

      For unresectable patient, trans-arterial chemo-embolization (TACE) was the treatment of
      choice .

      At 2014, Yang et al. compared the treatment effects of hepatic resection, RFA, and
      conventional TACE on long-term survival. It was found that the range of patients treated by
      TACE in clinical practice reported survivals widely range from 8-26% at 5-years. which was
      similar to that with hepatic resection and RFA in patients with single-nodule HCC of 3 cm or
      smaller without vascular invasion when the underlying liver status was balanced among the
      patients receiving each treatment. In addition, most of the patients initially treated with
      c-TACE achieved a complete response, which was one of the independent prognostic factors of
      survival, although some should receive repeated treatments. However, when c-TACE is used as
      an initial treatment, special care should be taken to obtain a complete response, and
      surveillance for tumor recurrence should be undertaken. These results are consistent with
      those of cohort studies demonstrating that TACE provided overall survival similar to hepatic
      resection in early-stage HCC .

      Conventional (Lipiodol) TACE Base on technique with emulsified combination of chemotherapy
      such as Doxorubicin and Lipiodol administrate via arterial feeder.

      Less in systemic chemotherapy and increase overall survival rate were the most concern in
      treatment but many studies reported side effects from conventional (Lipiodol) TACE
      significantly among an improvement of overall survival rate .

      Conventional TACE may cause side effects because it can damage healthy cells as it kills
      cancer cells. Side effects can develop any time during, immediately after or a few days or
      weeks after chemotherapy . in addition to the patient needed frequent ablation after a short
      time .

      The most commonly Side Effect of TACE is (Post embolization syndrome) which is a group of
      symptoms . include : fever, Right upper quadrant pain, nausea, vomiting and fatigue .

      Other side effects may occur include bruising or bleeding at the catheter site, hair loss,
      abnormal liver functions, lung infections, gall bladder inflammation and tumor lysis syndrome
      .

      Drug-eluting bead TACE is the new method of delivering chemotherapy during TACE which uses
      special beads that already have the chemotherapy drug in them . after these are injected into
      the arteries of the liver , they slowly sustained releasing the drug to treat the tumor .

      The studies showed that TACE with (Hepasphere) less systemic side effect in patient than TACE
      with (Lipiodol) but no definite statistical difference in treatment and survival outcome.

      This study compares effectiveness of those methods in treatment of Hepatocellular carcinoma
      in Assiut university
    
  