
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is most common arrhythmia in the worldwide population, and it is
      defined as paroxysmal, persistent and/or permanent. Patients with persistent AF might have
      higher rate of tromboembolic stroke, heart failure events and worse prognosis. Therefore, for
      patients with persistent AF the sinus rhythm restoration by catheter ablation might be a
      valid treatment to ameliorate clinical outcomes. On other hand, in patients with persistent
      AF the catheter ablation by percutaneous approach has a success rate about the 50% at 5 years
      of follow-up. Indeed, the endocardial ablation cannot determine deeper and extensive trans
      mural lesions in pulmonary veins and left atrium structure, and this might favor atrial
      fibrosis and remodeling with consequent persistence of arrhythmic substrate. In this setting,
      the epicardial AF ablation has been proposed to reach epicardial gaps of the complex
      arrhythmic atrial substrate, and this might favor sinus rhythm restoration with consequent
      reduction of the left atrial diameters and volume in patients with persistent AF. Notably,
      40% of patients treated by epicardial ablatiion might show an AF recurrence at follow-up.
      This might be explained by multiple ionic, molecular and cellular alterations favoring AF
      persistence. In this setting, recently a great interest has been focused to study the calcium
      handling as cause of abnormal trigger activity and reentry in AF patients, that are both
      mechanisms implied in the genesis and perpetuation of persistent AF. Intriguingly, patients
      with persistent AF have an over activity of the Sarcoplasmic Endoplasmic Reticulum (SR) with
      increased calcium (Ca2+) release. However, in human atrial myocites the Ca2+ overload causes
      an increased prevalence of spontaneous events and delayed after depolarizations (DADs), (12).
      Therefore, the SERCA over activity increases the risk of Ca overload and this might be
      arrhythmogenic (13). Therefore, abnormal Ca2+ signaling and enhanced diastolic SR Ca2+ leak
      along with cellular DAD-mediated triggered activity might promote AF persistence, than
      favoring electrical and anatomical reentry. Conversely, the persistence of abnormal Ca2+
      signaling and enhanced diastolic SR Ca2+ leak can activate ion channels and trigger
      Ca2+-dependent signaling pathways, thereby promoting the evolution of atrial remodeling and
      the progression of AF to more persistent forms. In this setting, authors might speculate that
      these AF-related alterations in Ca2+ handling and SERCA over activity might contribute to AF
      persistence after an epicardial ablation. Intriguingly, no data have been reported about the
      SERCA activity in patients with persistent AF before and after epicardial ablation. Moreover,
      authors study hypothesis is that a SERCA over expression might be linked to higher rate of
      failure to an epicardial ablation for patients with persistent AF. Thereafter, in this study
      authors will evaluate AF recurrences during 1 year of follow-up after epicardial ablation,
      correlating this clinical outcomes to SERCA protein modifications in patients with sinus
      rhythm restoration (responders group), vs. atrial fibrillating patients (non responders
      group) after an epicardial ablative approach.
    
  