
    
      Patients hospitalized with COVID-19 predominantly die of organ failure due to a surge of
      pro-inflammatory cytokines triggering the need for mechanical ventilation, often due to acute
      respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Known as a cytokine storm, the surge in cytokines is
      similar to the excessive inflammatory reaction associated with septic shock.

      Anti-viral agents will most likely be required to reduce the molecular viral burden in
      COVID-19 patients, but an additional approach to control the damaging cytokine release is
      required to alter the course of disease in hospitalized patients and improve chances of
      survival. Immunosuppressant drugs may reduce inflammation and the tissue damaging cytokines,
      but they could also be detrimental by inhibiting natural anti-viral immune responses (i.e.,
      suppression of interferons), thereby delaying viral clearance and increasing the risk of
      secondary infections and death.

      The reason for the severity of the disease course in some individuals may lie in the
      regulation of the immune system by the vagus nerve. The vagus nerve is involved in an
      inflammation controlling reflex similar to the blood pressure regulating baroreflex. The
      vagus inflammatory reflex is triggered when the afferent vagus nerve senses inflammatory
      products through peripheral receptors.

      Vagus nerve activity is relayed through the central nervous system to the efferent vagus
      nerve. This pathway involves the splenic nerve, which when activated releases norepinephrine
      and results in suppression of pro-inflammatory cytokine production by macrophages and
      alleviates inflammation in many pathological settings (e.g., endotoxemia, peritonitis, or
      acute kidney injury).

      Electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve using VNS can improve the body's natural ability to
      regulate the inflammatory response and may be potent enough to suppress pro-inflammatory
      cytokines and prevent death from COVID-19, especially if used early enough in the course of
      hospitalization.

      In rat models of sepsis, VNS attenuates the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines, prevents
      hypotension, modulates coagulation, and prevents fibrinolysis activation, decreasing organ
      dysfunction, and improving survival. Human studies also demonstrate that VNS suppresses the
      production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and improves clinical symptoms in rheumatoid
      arthritis, intractable epilepsy, atrial fibrillation, and Crohn's Disease.

      This suggests that VNS may be effective in treating disorders characterized by cytokine
      dysregulation and that it has the potential to prevent hospitalized patients with COVID-19
      from progressing to respiratory failure and death.
    
  