
    
      1. Background: Asthma remains a significant source of morbidity and mortality in children.
           In the United States, more than 11 million people reported having an asthma attack in
           the year 2000, and more than 5 percent of all children younger than age 18 reported
           having asthma attacks. The trend of increasing asthma-associated morbidity and mortality
           that occurred during 1980-1995 has not continued for all measures. During 1995-1998, the
           rate of emergency department visits for asthma increased, while the rate of
           hospitalization and death decreased for all age groups, except children younger than age
           15. Asthma remains a significant problem despite scientific advances that generated
           greater understanding of the mechanisms of asthma and the development of therapeutic
           approaches that can reduce morbidity.

           Status asthmaticus is a common diagnosis for admission to pediatric intensive care units
           (PICUs). Widely accepted treatment for status asthmaticus includes inhaled beta-2
           agonists, systemic corticosteroids, and inhaled anticholinergic agents. The intravenous
           and/or subcutaneous administration of beta-2 agonists has been advocated in the
           treatment of severe asthma and is prescribed in current practice. Additional treatment
           regimens may include magnesium, theophylline, and/or heliox with some patients still
           requiring mechanical ventilation, anesthetic agents or extracorporeal membrane
           oxygenation.

           Beta-adrenergic receptor agonists are critical in the treatment of asthma. Their use
           frequently results in effective bronchodilation. Commonly used beta-adrenergic agonists
           are epinephrine, albuterol and terbutaline, with albuterol and terbutaline having an
           increased selectivity for beta-2 receptors. These agents can be given by inhaled, IV,
           subcutaneous or oral routes. In the United States inhaled albuterol is the drug and
           route of choice in a majority of circumstances. Regarding efficacy when administering
           medications via the inhaled route, one must take into account many factors including
           inhalation technique, inspiratory flow rate, inspiratory volume and mode of delivery.
           Several characteristic pathophysiological changes that occur during a severe asthma
           attack (near complete airway obstruction, low tidal volumes, mucus plugging) may
           preclude the delivery of inhaled particles to the area of the lung that is most
           affected. In these instances, intravenous beta-agonists should be considered. Because of
           cardiac related side effects that are more pronounced in non-selective beta-agonist
           therapy, a beta-2 receptor agonist should be administered. In the United States,
           terbutaline is the only approved intravenous beta-2 receptor agonist.

           Terbutaline is a sympathomimetic amine synthesized in the mid-1960's that has been shown
           by in vitro and in vivo pharmacologic studies in animals to exert a preferential effect
           on beta 2-adrenergic receptors (beta2-AR), such as those located in bronchial smooth
           muscle. It has been available for clinical use since the 1970's and has been approved by
           the FDA for use in the treatment of asthma in children. Terbutaline binds to the beta-2
           adrenergic receptor resulting in Gs-protein stimulation which in turn activates adenylyl
           cyclase increasing intracellular levels of 3'-5' cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP).
           cAMP then activates protein kinase A (PKA) that phosphorylates several proteins that
           contribute to smooth muscle relaxation and resultant bronchodilation.

        2. Hypothesis and Primary Objectives: Intravenous terbutaline by continuous infusion is
           effective in decreasing the severity of an acute asthma attack and is safe to use in
           children 2 years to 18 years old. Terbutaline has different pharmacokinetics when given
           by continuous infusion versus single dose administration.

        3. Study Design: Phase 2 clinical pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic trial in pediatric
           patients aged 2-18 years old who are receiving intravenous terbutaline for a severe
           asthma attack. Three groups of 12 children will be examined based on age for a total N
           of 36. The first group will be 2-6 years, the second group will be 6-12 years old and
           the third will be adolescents 12-18 years old. Treatment efficacy will be gauged by
           comparing scores of the modified pulmonary index (MPIS) as well as utilization of the
           rescue medication protocol (see below). Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics will be
           determined by serum samples collected in 1-2 ml aliquots prior to infusion and at 20
           minutes, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 hours post infusion, or until clinical improvement
           necessitates discontinuation of the infusion if less than 12 hours.

        4. Study Components:

             -  Modified Pulmonary Index Score (MPIS): Children will be assessed for clinical
                changes during therapy by utilizing the modified pulmonary index score (MPIS) which
                is a combination of 6 physiologic parameters, each graded 0-3, the sum of which
                reflects pulmonary status. The MPIS was assessed for reproducibility and validity
                and was shown to be highly reproducible across groups of health care providers
                (nurses, physicians, respiratory therapists) and was a valid indicator of asthma
                severity in children.

             -  Terbutaline levels as determined by HPLC at designated times stated previously.
    
  