
    
      Biliary-related conditions, such as autoimmune conditions Primary Biliary Cholangitis (PBC),
      and Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis (PSC), and also cancers such as cholangiocarcinoma, affect
      tens of thousands of individuals in the UK each year. All biliary conditions require careful
      tracking of the structure and integrity of the biliary tree so that intervention can be
      carefully planned and with that, outcomes improved.

      The current non-invasive gold-standard for assessment of the biliary tree is MRI-based
      Magnetic Resonance Cholangiopancreatography (MRCP). This method uses no contrast and takes up
      to 10 minutes to obtain within a normal scan event. However, there are several limitations to
      its use which include, images having great variability in quality and are used mainly for
      qualitative analysis. Using conventional MRCP a consultant can, depending on image quality;
      identify key structures, inform diagnosis, and give a general assessment on the health of the
      biliary tree structure. However, current MRCP imaging only allows limited quantitative
      assessment of the ducts. More extensive, objective quantification has the potential to
      dramatically improve the usability of MRCP imaging.With this in mind, imaging scientists at
      Perspectum Diagnostics have developed a hessian-based mathematical model to enhance
      conventional MRCP to a 3D geometric model of the biliary tree, 'Quantitative MRCP'. This
      enables quantitative measurement of bile duct width, orientation, branching point and
      curvative metrics.

      The technology has been validated against 3D printed phantoms for accuracy, and early
      clinical research has demonstrated the technology has potential for clinical impact, with
      improvement in radiologist performance versus conventional non-enhanced MRCP imaging (Vikal
      et al 2017). Thus, further research into the technology and its viability as an enhancement
      to current procedure is necessary if it is to replace conventional MRCP as the primary method
      of non-invasive biliary assessment.

      Integral to the development of any new technology, is demonstration of the repeatability and
      reproducibility of the method. This is the inter-examination variability in results.
      Quantitative MRCP aims to act as a tool to not only improve assessment of the current status
      of the biliary tree, but also act as a mechanism to track change within the ducts. Thus, it
      must be established that any change between scans is due to change in the physiology of the
      individual and not due to a quirk or fault of the technology.

      The above will be tested by a series of scans performed on an individual over a short period
      of time, for which the condition of the biliary tree within that individual can be assumed to
      be constant. Between each scan, subject and coil repositioning will occur. The study will
      recruit a group of adult volunteers, from both diseased groups and healthy groups in order to
      achieve a range of physiological biliary metrics.

      Quantitative MRCP is an MRI based method, requiring no contrast, however consuming a drink
      containing manganese improves the quality of MRCP images significantly (Frisch et al., 2017),
      and therefore patients are routinely asked to drink pineapple juice (naturally high in
      manganese) before having a clinical MRCP scan. At present, multiparametric MRI to assess the
      health of liver tissue is performed in a fasted state (Banerjee et al., 2014), however, in
      order to offer a comprehensive liver scan including both MRCP and multiparametric MRI in the
      same scan, it is important to understand whether consuming pineapple juice will affect the
      multiparametric MRI measurements of cT1, PDFF and T2*.

      MRI is safe and non-invasive, with no known risks to patients as long as they are
      appropriately screened to ensure they have no contraindications to MRI (e.g.pacemaker, metal
      implant that is not certified as MR-safe).
    
  