
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) over-expression in tumor specimens from patients with
           early-stage rectal cancer.

        -  Determine whether administration of a COX-2 inhibitor, celecoxib, results in changes in
           tumor (COX-2 overexpressing) levels of eicosanoids but not in levels in the surrounding
           normal tissue that is expected not to express COX-2.

        -  Determine whether surrogate markers of eicosanoid metabolism (i.e., serum VEGF levels,
           tumor prostaglandin E_2 [PGE_2], and the major urinary metabolite of PGE_2 [PGE-M]) in
           biological specimens from these patients correlate with changes noted in tumor tissue.

        -  Determine if there is a greater change in protein and gene expression from pretreatment
           biopsy levels in patient tumor specimens (COX-2 overexpressing) vs specimens of
           surrounding normal tissue (expected not to be COX-2 overexpressing).

      OUTLINE: Patients receive oral celecoxib twice daily on days 1-5. Patients then undergo
      planned local excision or definitive radical resection on day 6.

      Tumor tissue and normal tissue (at least 5 cm away from the tumor) samples are collected
      pretreatment. Post-treatment tissue samples are collected along with the surgery. Serum and
      urine samples are obtained at baseline and after administration of celecoxib. Tumor and
      normal tissue specimens are analyzed by assays measuring markers of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2)
      activity (i.e., COX-2 mRNA and protein, tumor prostaglandin E_2 [PGE_2], and VEGF). Tissue
      samples are also assessed by cDNA microarray and imaging mass spectrometry to determine
      overall changes in gene and protein expression from pretreatment levels. Surrogate markers of
      COX-2 activity in serum (i.e., VEGF) and urine (i.e., urinary metabolite of PGE_2 [PGE-M])
      are also assessed and compared with changes noted in tumor tissue. COX-2 protein levels are
      determined by immunohistochemistry in patients with limited pretreatment tumor tissue
      specimens.
    
  