
    
      Fractures in which bone has been exposed to the outside world through an associated skin
      injury, known as open fractures, are frequently encountered in orthopaedics. Traditionally,
      treatment calls for a formal, operative treatment in which the bone is exposed, foreign
      tissue is debrided and the wound is irrigated. The bone itself, depending on the age of the
      patient, fracture location and stability is then treated by the appropriate method of casting
      or internal fixation. However, while this is the current standard of care for all open
      fractures, not all open fractures are the same and can differ in terms of the bone involved,
      energy causing the injury and the skeletal maturity of the patient. Children, for example,
      have a thick periosteum which may diminish the rate of infection and decrease the time to
      healing. In addition, the protocol of operative debridement was introduced at the same time
      as widespread antibiotic use. It is not known whether the mechanical operative management or
      antibiotic use has resulted in improved outcomes. In retrospective studies, centers are
      reporting emergency department management alone may result in equal results without the time
      and expense of the operative theater.

      The investigators propose a prospective, randomized trial of children with type I open
      fractures to evaluate whether formal operative treatment is necessary. The investigators
      hypothesize that minor open fractures in children can be safely treated in the emergency room
      with irrigation, closed reduction and home antibiotics without an increased risk of infection
      or other complications. If the inclusion criteria is met and informed consent is obtained,
      children will be randomized into two treatment arms - formal operative management (OR) and
      emergency department (ED) management. Children randomized to the OR arm will be taken to the
      OR within 24 hours for irrigation and debridement and appropriate bone management. Children
      in the ED arm will have a washout in the emergency room under conscious sedation, a closed
      reduction and home antibiotics. Both wounds will be examined at interval follow up periods
      for signs of infection. Outcomes evaluated will include the rate of infection, the number of
      return visits to the operating room, the time to bone healing, and other complications. This
      is a pilot study with the plan of eventually being a multicenter study evaluating open
      fracture care in children.
    
  