
    
      Chronic wounds can be categorized into two main groups: (a) chronic ulcers, such as diabetic
      foot ulcers, venous leg ulcers and pressure (decubitus) ulcers (b) post-operative or
      traumatic, difficult-to-heal wounds, some of which may be infected such as sternal wound
      infections following cardiac surgery or wounds following abdominal or orthopedic surgery.
      Age, peripheral vascular disease, infection, diabetes mellitus, auto-immune dis., obesity,
      cardiac disease, cardiac failure, malnutrition, immunological deficiencies, steroid
      treatment, bed confinement and prolonged operation time are among the causes of wound repair
      delay or failure and often results in considerable morbidity and mortality. In addition,
      these wounds lengthen hospital stays, significantly increase the cost of care, and negatively
      impact the quality of life of both the patients and care giversCurrently available wound care
      products include various dressings, ointments, gels, antiseptic agents and devices. These
      products are intended to supply a suitable environment for wound healing (e.g. moist
      environment, particular factors required for the healing process), but they do not provide an
      adequate solution for this growing problem of chronic wounds.

      Macrocure has developed an advanced cellular therapy for wound healing named Curexcell™.
      Curexcell™ not only provides the natural environment for wound healing, but also ensures that
      the appropriate cell activities and factor secretions are maintained as required during each
      of the stages of wound healing. The product contains primed/activated Monocytes, Neutrophils
      and Lymphocytes derived from whole blood unit, which are key role players in the normal
      natural wound healing process. The cells are injected locally into the wound bed.

      The proposed study is a post-marketing observational study (PMOS) in which the decision to
      use Curexcell™ for treatment of patients with chronic and/or refractory wounds are made by
      local physicians. Curexcell™ will be administered to the patient in accordance with the
      Instructions for Use.

      In this PMOS, there is no control by the investigator with respect to patients, duration and
      frequency of follow-up and the method by which patients are managed in general. This design
      truly reflects real-life circumstances.
    
  