
    
      In the present work, we plan to study the safety and efficacy of a peptide vaccine termed
      Cenv3 ( C for HCV, en for envelop, v for vaccine, 3 for 3 epitopes). The main outlines of the
      current study include: 1) Examining the safety parameters throughout the vaccination period
      including acute and chronic reactions if present in a phase 1 clinical study ( i.e. in
      healthy volunteers). The vaccine will be administered sc at 3 escalating doses in presence
      and absence of adjuvant. Bioavailability of the vaccine throughout the experiment duration
      will also be determined. 2) Assessment of the humoral and cellular immune responses towards
      Cenv3 in healthy volunteers ( higher risk for acquiring HCV infection). 3) Evaluation of the
      neutralizing capacity of the generated Abs to interfere with intracellular replication of HCV
      in permissive cell lines

      ii) Objective The present proposal aims at:-

        1. Examining safety and tolerability towards the candidate HCV peptide vaccine in healthy
           volunteers.

        2. Testing cell mediated immunity via cytotoxic T lymphocyte responses in vaccinated
           healthy subjects ( CMI).

        3. Determining epitope specific B cell response and antibody titers in vaccinated
           individuals (humoral Immunogenicity).

        4. Testing the viral neutralization by antibodies against the vaccine epitopes. (Efficacy).

        5. Studying the bioavailability of the peptides in subjects' circulation throughout the
           vaccination time and 90 days post vaccination.

      iii) Study population

      Subjects with any cardiovascular problems, asthma, or allergies, should be excluded from the
      study. Also, any subject who has participated in any experimental medicine clinical trial in
      the past 3 months will be excluded. Healthy volunteers including subjects from both sexes,
      18-55 years of age will be enrolled. All subjects had to fulfill all inclusion criteria as
      follows: mentally and physically healthy, no clinically relevant pathological findings in any
      of the investigations of the pre-study examination including blood chemistry ( liver and
      kidney function tests), differential blood counts, coagulation test, ultrasensitive
      C-reactive protein levels. Subjects should be able to provide written informed consents. The
      exclusion criteria included pregnant or breast feeding women, patients with chronic
      viral-infections (e.g., HBV, HCV, HIV, CMV, HSV), evidence of decompensated liver disease,
      pre-existing hematuria, or proteinuria, cryoglobulin levels >1% or other immunologically
      driven diseases, schistosomiasis, acute infectious illness, severe psychiatric disorders,
      current or past history of malignancy and patients who received treatment with interferon or
      any investigational therapy for hepatitis during the 3 months prior to study entry.

      iv) Consent The volunteers will be provided with a written information sheet on the vaccine
      and the requirements of this trial. They will

      , in return, give written consent to participate in the study. Subjects will be paid an
      honorarium for their participation. They will also be provided with transport money to and
      from the hospital.

      v) Outlines of the study : In the proposed study, we aim at evaluating tolerability, safety,
      immunogenicity and efficacy of Cenv3 peptide vaccine in 112 healthy volunteers as a placebo
      controlled open labeled phase 1 clinical trial. Tolerability and safety parameters include
      clinical signs ( acute and chronic), biochemical assays ( hepatic and renal functions as well
      as other metabolic parameters) and hematological tests ( all blood cell parameters). Both
      humoral and cellular responses to the immunization protocols will be evaluated. Neutralizing
      capacities of specific Abs generated in response to the vaccine will also be determined after
      vaccination.

      vi) Vaccination

      Preparation of vaccine will be performed under the principles of Good Manufacturing Practice.
      The lyophilized peptides are manufactured in an eight arm multiple antigenic peptide (MAP) in
      a commercial facility specialized in peptide synthesis and structure modification ( .e.g
      AnaSpec USA). Peptides will be dissolved in PBS made for human use. The whole procedure will
      be done in sterilized areas of drug/vaccine industry ( e.g. VACSERA, MOH Wezaret Al Zera'a
      street Agouza). The lyophilized peptides will be stored in regular fridge, while dissolved
      peptides will be stored at -80 0 C as aliquots ( in sealed ampoules each contains 1X dose)
      ready for injection and transported to the hospital in dry ice just before use. Note : These
      storage and transportation precautions are followed during these early stages of the study.
      While the strategy would be modified at a commercial scale when the current product proves
      effective. In this later case a lyophilized powder with the recommended dose will be packaged
      in a sealed ampoules and dissolved just before use. HCV peptide vaccine Cenv3 will be
      injected subcutaneously in 3 different doses ( 1x i.e. 324 ug , 2x i.e. 648 ug or 3x 1296 ug/
      70 kgm body weight adult). It should be noted here, that dose 1X equals to the calculated
      pharmaceutical dose from mice experiments, therefore 324 ug/ 70 kg body weight is the Minimum
      Available Biologically Effective dose Level (MABEL). Based on other laboratories experience
      with peptide vaccine administration to man ( Tanaka and Manns) who used up to 5000 ug of
      peptide vaccine for their immunization experiments. The highest dose used in our protocol is
      4X ( 1296 ug/ 70 kg bw) and therefore considered the No Observable Adverse Effect Level (
      NOAEL) in this protocol. The vaccine will be administered either as a MAP form ( self
      adjuvanted) or supplemented with adjuvant ( MF59) in a common protocol of monthly injection
      for 3 consecutive months.

      vii) Sample collection

      All immunization and sampling procedures will be performed in Ahmed Maher Educational
      Hospital ( MOH). Subject enrollment, consenting, vaccination, sampling and clinical
      observation post vaccination will be done under close medical supervision by trained
      clinicians in the hospital. Seven blood samples will be taken from subjects prior to the
      first immunization and at days 30, 60, 90 ( during vaccination period) and days 135, 180 and
      360 thereafter. At day 360 subjects will be immunized with a booster dose equal to the
      original dose given to the same subject and an 8th blood sample will be collected 30 days
      after the booster dose. Each time 15 ml venous blood will be withdrawn. Eight ml will be used
      for serum separation for humoral response determination, neutralization assays and
      biochemical testing. Seven ml on EDTA for CBC and lymphocyte separation for EliSpot assay.
    
  