
    
      HIV and sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) are a major public health concern worldwide.
      Although prevalent across all groups of people, HIV/STDs have had a remarkable effect on men
      who have sex with men (MSM), who accounted for 71% of all HIV infections among American males
      in 2005. After years of decline, the number of HIV diagnoses appears to have increased for
      MSM, especially within the black MSM population. Thus, new approaches geared for HIV
      prevention and education and built on past HIV prevention methods are needed. New
      technologies, such as interactive computer games, delivered in a modern and appealing manner
      may gain or recapture the attention of MSM who have disregarded more traditional HIV
      prevention and educational services. Socially Optimized Learning in a Virtual Environment
      (SOLVE)-IT is an interactive virtual environment computer game, designed specifically for
      MSMs, that simulates the emotional, interpersonal, and contextual narrative of an actual
      sexual encounter and provides challenging decision-making opportunities. By promoting
      development of self-regulatory and behavioral skills, SOLVE-IT may be an effective approach
      to reduce sexual risk behaviors. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of SOLVE-IT in
      reducing risky sexual behaviors among MSM.

      Participation in this study will last 6 months from the beginning of treatment. All
      participants will first undergo baseline assessments that will include questionnaires about
      sexual behavior, drug use, health history, feelings, and beliefs. Participants will then be
      assigned randomly to receive SOLVE-IT immediately or after a 6-month waitlist period.
      SOLVE-IT will include two 1-hour sessions conducted on a computer over the Internet,
      occurring at baseline and 6 months later. During sessions, participants will play an
      interactive computer game that presents dating or sexual scenarios and allows participants to
      choose how the scenarios unfold. Participants will repeat baseline questionnaires at Months 3
      and 6 of follow-up. Participants in the waitlist group will be offered to receive SOLVE-IT
      after completion of the Month 6 follow-up.
    
  