
    
      Septic shock is a frequent complication in patients with malignancies and remains affected
      with a mortality rate higher than 50%.

      Red blood cell (RBC) transfusion remains a major issue for critically ill cancer patients who
      frequently display anemia as a result of malignant bone marrow involvement or imposed by
      cytotoxic treatments. However, our current practice of RBC transfusion in the intensive care
      unit (ICU) is drawn from general populations. Several case-control studies suggested that RBC
      transfusion was associated with higher mortality and increased incidence of ICU-acquired
      complications in critically ill patients. In 1999, a restrictive strategy of
      non-leucodepleted RBC transfusion to maintain hemoglobin above 7 g/dL was shown to be as
      effective as a liberal transfusion strategy aimed to maintain haemoglobin > 10 g/dL in
      critically ill patients. As of today, the current recommendations for RBC transfusion remain
      largely based on this study which excluded patients with a history of anemia. Leucodepletion
      that is now routinely implemented in France might be associated with fewer
      transfusion-related events. Indeed, some recent studies challenged the restrictive strategy
      and suggested that a higher transfusion threshold might be beneficial in septic patients for
      whom oxygen delivery is of paramount importance. Most importantly, a hemodynamic support
      algorithm for severe sepsis also known as early goal-directed therapy (EGDT) included a
      hematocrit target of 30%. The majority of EGDT-treated patients received RBC transfusion
      within the early 72 hours of resuscitation, thereby representing a major difference compared
      to standard treatment, but the prognostic value of RBC transfusion was not specifically
      assessed. A recent case-control study also suggested that RBC transfusion was an independent
      predictor of survival in patients with septic shock.

      Cancer patients with septic shock and hemoglobin level < 9 g/dL initiation will be randomized
      to the interventional arm (liberal transfusion strategy to maintain hemoglobin > 9 g/dL) or
      to the control arm (restrictive transfusion strategy to maintain hemoglobin > 7 g/dL) in a
      1:1 ratio.

      Patients from the intervention arm will have their hemoglobin level maintained above 9 g/dL
      for the whole time under vasopressors, for a maximum of 28 days. After weaning from
      vasopressor, the transfusion threshold will be lowered to 7 g/dL as recommended by the SSC
      guidelines. In case of shock relapse requiring reintroduction of vasopressors, the
      transfusion threshold will be upgraded back to 9 g/dL until next catecholamine weaning.

      In the control arm, the transfusion threshold will be 7 g/dL until ICU discharge regardless
      of catecholamine administration.

      The primary objective of the study will be the restoration of tissue oxygenation as assessed
      by lactate clearance at 12 hours following randomization. The secondary endpoints will be
      related to restoration of tissue oxygenation at alternative time points (6h, 24h, 36h, 48h)
      as assessed as above, the 7-day, 28-day, in-ICU and in-hospital mortality rate, changes in
      organ failures over the first 48 hours and 7 days, duration for organ failure supports, the
      development of acute ischemic and thrombotic events (myocardial infarction, mesenteric
      ischemia, ischemic stroke, limb ischemia, deep venous thrombosis) over the first 7 days.

      An interim analysis on the primary endpoint has been pre-planned at the end of the follow up
      of half of patients included.
    
  