
    
      A persistent, significant racial disparity exists in infant mortality rates attributable to
      Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS) and other types of sleep-related sudden unexpected infant
      death (SUID), such as suffocation and undetermined causes of death. SIDS and other
      sleep-related deaths account for ~4600 U.S. deaths annually.4 While the incidence of SIDS has
      declined, infant deaths from accidental suffocation and strangulation in bed have
      quadrupled.5 Additionally, racial disparities in SIDS and other sleep-related deaths have
      increased over the past decade, with African-American infants twice as likely to die as other
      infants.6, 7 Certain infant sleeping practices, such as prone (stomach) sleeping, use of soft
      bedding and soft sleep surfaces, and bedsharing, likely play a significant role, both in SIDS
      and SUID, and in the disparities seen therein. Elimination of health barriers and
      racial/ethnic disparities, and promoting healthy development, have been highlighted as MCHB
      research priorities; this application is directly responsive to both of these priorities.

      In the current system, health care providers and public health messages, using the American
      Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommendations,8 stress the use of supine (back) positioning,
      avoidance of soft bedding, and room sharing without bedsharing as recommendations to reduce
      the risk of SIDS. However, our research suggests that African-Americans have problems with
      this message, as they have a low degree of self-efficacy with regards to SIDS risk reduction
      (i.e., they do not believe that their actions can make a difference in whether SIDS occurs)
      and are suspicious of the concept of "risk reduction."2 However, African-American parents
      have a high degree of self-efficacy with regards to preventing infant suffocation. Given the
      increasing number of suffocation and other preventable sleep-related deaths and the fact that
      many of the behavioral risk factors for both SIDS and preventable sleep-related deaths are
      the same, providing parents with an additional safe sleep message that emphasizes prevention
      of suffocation may be more effective in changing parent behavior. Such a message would be
      carefully crafted based on our current community-based research1-3 to address emerging risks
      of greatest concern and potential self-efficacy. A simple, easily reproducible change in the
      system of newborn care could thus address a critical barrier to further progress in reducing
      infant mortality rates, particularly among African American families. The best systems of
      care to reduce disparities must use the best available and culturally competent messaging
      based on strong empirical evidence and require rigorous evaluation.
    
  