
    
      For this study two case situations are being considered.

      6.1.1 Case Situation A Guidewire crossed the lesion, micro catheter does not cross

      Case situation A is the circumstansis where a physician is using a guidewire in combination
      with a micro catheter. When in such case the guidewire is crossing at a certain moment of the
      procedure and the micro catheter not a balloon crossing attempt is one of the current common
      options as next step.

      For the study the physician will go through following steps

        1. select alternating in 50% of these cases his current first choice regular balloon (≤ 1.5
           (mm) OD) and in the other 50% of cases the Blimp.

        2. If first choice regular balloon does not cross select the Blimp and if the Blimp has
           been first choice select regular first choice balloon.

        3. If step 2 is not succesfull take a 6F guide extension and repeat sequence of step 1&2.

        4. If step 3 is also not succesfull report how else succeeded (e.g. tonus, balloon rupture,
           carlino, rotablation, subintimal cross…) or not.

      See also appendix I for a flow chart case situation A.

      6.1.2 Case Situation B Small balloon catheter (≤ 1.5 (mm)) needed for procedure- no micro
      catheter used.

      Case situation B is the circumstansis where a physician is in the stage of a procedure where
      he/ she would normally want to select a small balloon catheter ((≤ 1.5 (mm)) to cross an
      occluded or subtotlal stenotic segment of the coronary artery. When in such case the balloon
      catheter is not crossing the selection/ attempt with another balloon is one of the current
      common options as next step.

      For the study the physician will go through following steps

        1. select alternating in 50% of these cases his current first choice regular balloon (≤ 1.5
           (mm) OD) and in the other 50% of cases the Blimp.

        2. If first choice regular balloon does not cross select the Blimp and if the Blimp has
           been first choice select regular first choice balloon.

        3. If step 2 is not succesfull take a 6F guide extension and repeat sequence of step 1&2.

        4. If step 3 is also not succesfull report how else succeeded (e.g. tonus, balloon rupture,
           carlino, rotablation, subintimal cross…) or not.See also appendix I for a flow chart of
           case situation B.

      6.1.3 Use of the Blimp during the study

      The Blimp should be used conform its Instruction For Use (IFU). Following techniques can be
      attemted to cross the lesion.

        1. Regular balloon crossing of lesion if no significant resistance is felt.

        2. Application of distal force/ push to the tip of Blimp against the proximal cap of the
           occlusion/subtotal lesion for 5-10 seconds to allow cap penetration due to spring
           principle of Blimp shaft.

        3. If no progressing in step 2 keep distal force/ push to the tip of the Blimp and inflate
           to 25-30 ATM to attempt wedging/ scoring of the proximal cap.

        4. Repeat step 2&3 up to three times to see if proximal cap/ crossing progression is made.

        5. If after multiple attemps of step 2&3 no progression is demonstrated it should be
           concluded that the Blimp was unsuccesfull in crossing.

      6.1.4 Study population and number of subjects A total 128 patients which are being targeted
      for percutaneous coronary intervention are selected for this study. Pased on power
      calculations, 128 patiants are sufficient to demonstrate a statistical significant difference
      in outcome (P<0.05) with 80% power.

      6.1.5 Inclusion/exclusion criteria Patients will be enrolled if they require percutaneous
      coronary intervention (PCI) procedure and

        1. During the case a micro catheter is being used which is not able to cross after crossing
           of the guidewire (case situation A).

        2. During the case a small balloon catheter (≤ 1.5 (mm) OD) is being used and is not able
           to cross the target lesion (case situation B) .

      Patients which under normal conditions would be excluded for a PCI procedure by the hospital
      will be excluded from the study.

      6.1.6 Rational and justification of chosen study design The Blimp is intended for balloon
      dilatation of a coronary artery subtotal lesion/occlusions.

      Due to its

        -  very small profile

        -  high rated burst pressure and

        -  guidewire scoring element over the balloon

      the device has several features which can improve the crossabiltiy and initial dilation of
      severe occluded vessels. The study has been designed such to investigate in an objective and
      controlled manner if the Blimp Scoring balloon is providing an improved procedural success
      rate in these matters.
    
  