
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Identify family characteristics, personality traits, and religious and spiritual beliefs
           that significantly affect individual decisions regarding mutation testing for hereditary
           nonpolyposis colon cancer (HNPCC) (recruitment of new families with HNPCC stopped as of
           04-26-06, recruitment of persons within families already participating continues).

        -  Determine the impact of negative vs positive mutation test results on family
           relationships and psychological status.

        -  Assess expectations regarding testing and how they influence perceptions of risks and
           responses to risk notification.

        -  Determine the impact of risk notification on the frequency of screening/prevention
           activities.

        -  Formulate a standard diagnostic algorithm for determining microsatellite instability
           based on the analysis of tumors with this extensive array of markers and correlate
           specific replication error phenotypes with germline genotype.

      OUTLINE: Participants complete a baseline assessment of knowledge, risk perception, and
      personality traits followed by a structured pretest education session. Participants are then
      offered the choice of whether or not to undergo genetic testing for mutations in hereditary
      nonpolyposis colon cancer (HNPCC) genes. Participants who choose to undergo genetic testing
      provide a blood sample for this purpose. Participants who undergo genetic testing receive
      results and counseling (recruitment of new families with HNPCC stopped as of 04-26-06,
      recruitment of persons within families already participating continues).

      Available surveillance options are discussed for all participants. Psychological and
      behavioral outcomes are reassessed at 6 and 12 months for both those choosing and not
      choosing genetic testing.

      Tumors (when available) are analyzed for mismatched repair deficiency on the basis of
      microsatellite instability.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 900 participants will be accrued for this study, with a
      specific target of 200 individuals who have not experienced cancer within families identified
      with hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer (HNPCC) mutations (recruitment of new families with
      HNPCC stopped as of 04-26-06, recruitment of persons within families already participating
      continues).
    
  