
    
      Significance:

      The population of adults aged >65 years in United States is expected to nearly double between
      2012 and 2050, with a projected estimate of 83.7 million adults aged >65 years by 2050. The
      prevalence of depressive symptoms among older adults ranges 15 - 27% in the community and up
      to 37% in primary care settings. Though subclinical depressive symptoms are more prevalent
      than Major Depression (MDD) among older adults (MDD: 5.5% prevalence), rates of MDD in older
      people have been rising over the past two decades. Late-life depression (LLD) results in
      enormous economic, public health, and caregiver burden. This high economic cost consists of
      both direct and indirect costs (e.g., increased use of medical resources, need for unpaid
      family caregiving). Further, LLD exacerbates chronic medical illness burden and confers the
      greatest risk for mortality across all mental health conditions in aging. LLD also increases
      disability risk, with one report estimating 79% of LLD having functional limitations.
      Importantly, those with LLD are at a twofold increased risk for dementia relative to the
      general aging population, which has catastrophic implications for the long-term economic and
      public health burden of LLD.

      Background:

      Older adults with LLD are particularly predisposed to accelerated rates of cognitive decline
      and progression to dementia. While nearly half of those with LLD have significant cognitive
      impairment, cognitive deficits are inadequately addressed using conventional antidepressant
      treatments. Exercise has emerged as the leading non-pharmacological approach to improve
      cognition and reduce dementia risk in aging. AE interventions in older adults, over as short
      as 6-months, have been shown to improve performance in cognitive functions (i.e., executive
      function) and brain regions and networks (i.e., PFC, HC, DMN) that are most sensitive to the
      neurotoxic effects of LLD. However, our knowledge of AE-related cognitive and brain changes
      in aging are primarily drawn from AE trials conducted in populations at low risk for
      dementia. Though an emerging literature supports the benefits of AE for cognitive and brain
      health in those with MCI, these studies systemically exclude psychiatric populations. By
      excluding those with LLD, existing studies are overlooking a subsample of older adults at
      ultra-high risk for dementia for whom the cognitive and neural benefits of AE training may be
      particularly consequential. This necessitates a better understanding of the potential of AE
      training to target systemic brain features and cognition in those who have had LLD.

      Impact:

      This study will probe whether AE -related systemic brain changes may be mechanistic targets
      for improving cognition in those with rLLD. It cannot be assumed that AE effects on brain
      health will be consistent across populations with varying levels of brain-related
      abnormalities. This study allows for an initial exploration of the extent to which AE effects
      on cognitive and brain health in those with rLLD are similar to and distinct from AE effects
      on cognitive and brain health in older adults who 1) are cognitively normal or 2) do not have
      a history of LLD, for whom the majority of the AE brain health and cognition literature is
      based.

      Study Aims:

      Aim 1. Examine AE effects on structural and functional neuroimaging markers of brain health
      in rLLD. H1a. AE relative to SE will result in greater preservation of gray matter integrity
      in areas shown to be abnormal in LLD (HC and PFC) but not in the occipital cortex or
      thalamus. H1b. AE relative to SE will result in enhanced functional connectivity within the
      DMN and cross-network connectivity between the DMN and ECN. H1a. Separate ANCOVA models will
      be used to examine intervention group differences in change in HC and thalamus volume (mm3)
      and cortical thickness of PFC regions (i.e., dorsolateral PFC, medial orbitofrontal cortex,
      and ACC) and the occipital cortex, from baseline to 6-months, all of which will be estimated
      using semiautomated segmentation methods. H1b. Primary analysis of resting state functional
      magnetic resonance (fMRI) data will involve ANCOVAs to examine group differences in change in
      within-network DMN connectivity and cross-network DMN-ECN connectivity using summary network
      connectivity measures. Linear mixed models testing group x time interaction effect for
      PCC-whole brain voxel-wise connectivity maps will be used in secondary analyses.

      Aim 2. Examine AE effects on cognitive functioning in rLLD. H2. AE relative to SE will
      improve cognitive performance, showing the greatest effect for executive functioning. Primary
      analyses will use ANCOVA models to examine group differences in change in performance for
      each cognitive domain from baseline to 6-months. Secondary analyses will involve random
      slopes and random intercept models for repeated longitudinal data to examine group
      differences in trajectory of change in performance for each cognitive domain over 6-months
      across three timepoints (baseline, 3-months, 6-months). Exploratory analyses will also
      involve a comparison of group differences in trajectory of change in objective cognitive
      performance relative to subjective reports of cognitive functioning.

      (Exploratory) Aim 3. Explore the extent to which AE-related structural and functional brain
      changes are associated with AE-related cognitive changes in those with rLLD. H3. AE-related
      changes in HC and/or PFC integrity and/or DMN connectivity will be associated with AE-related
      cognitive changes. H3. Pearson's correlations will be used to examine the association between
      change in brain outcomes showing an effect of AE training and change in performance for
      cognitive domains showing an effect of AE training.
    
  