
    
      Rationale: In patients with pulmonary embolism, most assessments of the burden of blood clots
      and possible related complications, currently rely on chest imaging and heart ultrasound.
      While these tests are useful in charting the course of the disease, they offer little about
      how the function of the heart and lungs is altered by the disease or the cause of common
      symptoms such as breathlessness during exercise. To better understand the reasons for
      persistent activity- related breathlessness in patients with a history of clots to the lungs,
      the investigators will undertake detailed assessment of breathlessness using validated scales
      and questionnaires during standardized exercise testing. At the same time the investigators
      will also measure a broad range of physiological tests that will indirectly measure how much
      blood perfusion of the lungs is reduced, how much the drive to breathe is increased, and
      whether there is additional strain and weakness of the muscles of breathing, particularly the
      diaphragm. This will allow the investigators to identify the main factors contributing to
      breathlessness in this population and will help to guide management. It is hoped that the
      development of simple new physiological markers or tests obtained during the stress of
      exercise can, in addition to conventional imaging, be used to monitor the course of the
      disease and response to treatment. In particular, the investigators hope that these new tests
      will help clinicians recognize at an early stage of the disease individuals more likely to
      develop progressive heart disease and breathing problems as a result of blood clots to the
      lungs.

      Study design/methodology: This will be a single-centre, cross-sectional study observing the
      effect of Chronic Thromboembolic Pulmonary Hypertension (CTEPH) on exertional dyspnea and
      physiological responses to a standardized exercise task. After giving written informed
      consent, participants will complete 2 visits, each conducted in the morning 2-7 days apart.
      Visit 1 (screening for eligibility): medical history, symptom evaluation, complete pulmonary
      function testing, a symptom-limited incremental exercise test for familiarization of dyspnea
      assessments during exercise. Visits 2: pulmonary function testing (spirometry,) and a
      symptom-limited incremental exercise test to tolerance including detailed measurements of
      dyspnea (intensity, quality, affective dimensions), EMGdi and pressure-derived respiratory
      mechanical measurements. EMGdi will be used as an observational tool to measure inspiratory
      neural drive. An esophageal electrode-balloon catheter consisting of 5 electrode pairs will
      be inserted nasally and carefully positioned based on the strength of the EMGdi signal. EMGdi
      will be recorded continuously at rest and during exercise. The raw EMGdi signal will be
      sampled at 2000 Hz, band-pass filtered and converted to a root mean square (RMS) using
      computer software (LabChart). Maximal EMGdi (EMGdi,max) will be measured during inspiratory
      capacity (IC) maneuvers. EMGdi/EMGdi,max will be used as an index of the inspiratory neural
      drive to the crural diaphragm. Esophageal (Pes) and gastric pressures (Pga) will be recorded
      continuously at a rate of 200 Hz (PowerLab) using balloons mounted on the electrode catheter.
      Transdiaphragmatic pressure (Pdi) will be recorded as the difference between Pga and Pes
      signals. The continuous flow signal from the Vmax229d system will be input into the PowerLab
      system for offline analysis. Pre- and post-exercise inspiratory sniffs will be performed to
      obtain maximum Pes (Pes,sn) and Pdi (Pdi,sn). IC maneuvers at rest and throughout exercise
      will be used to obtain dynamic peak inspiratory Pes (Pes,IC) and Pdi (Pdi,IC). Pre- and
      post-exercise FVC maneuvers will also performed to obtain dynamic peak expiratory Pes
      (Pes,FVC). Respiratory mechanics will be analyzed as previously described (see reference).
      Vital signs will be monitored throughout exercise. Subjects will avoid caffeine, heavy meals,
      alcohol and major physical exertion prior to visits.
    
  