
    
      Chronic pain affects a very high proportion of aging people living with HIV (aPLWH) and is
      thought to be related to both direct toxicity of HIV and antiretroviral therapy (ART) and by
      psychosocial factors that negatively affect pain (i.e. loneliness, HIV stigma). PLWH are also
      at increased risk for prescription opiate misuse. However as PLWH age, non-opiate medications
      used for pain can contribute to other negative outcomes such as falls, altered mental status
      and gastrointestinal bleeding. Thus there is a critical need for the development of novel
      interventions in the management of chronic pain in aPLWH that consider the psychological
      co-morbidities of aging with HIV and that can minimize the need for prescription medications.
      Acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT) has previously been evaluated in older persons with
      chronic pain and has demonstrated higher levels of satisfaction and efficacy when compared to
      cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT). ACT has never been evaluated in aPLWH for chronic pain,
      but has theoretical advantages over CBT for this population. Specifically several negatively
      modifying factors of CBT efficacy such as cognitive deficits are common in aPLWH.

      The overarching objective of this study is to determine the acceptability and feasibility of
      an ACT intervention for the management of chronic pain adapted to aPLWH. To accomplish this
      objective the investigators will 1) train lay personnel to perform ACT to determine
      feasibility of this approach for future implementation, 2) conduct uncontrolled group ACT in
      aPLWH to generate participant feedback and questionnaire data to inform ACT adaption with the
      assistance of a steering commitee, and 3) conduct a pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT)
      evaluating the acceptability of adapted ACT compared to pain education. At completion of this
      grant the investigators expect to have successfully trained lay personnel to perform group
      ACT, adapted ACT from quantitative and qualitative data collected from an uncontrolled study
      of group ACT, and determined whether ACT is acceptable and feasible as an intervention in
      aPLWH. These expected outcomes may benefit other aging populations with chronic pain that are
      enriched for psychosocial co-morbidities such as persons who inject drugs, the
      socioeconomically disadvantaged, and racial or gender minorities. This proposal is aligned
      with the Office of AIDS Research High Priorities to better understand "HIV-associated
      comorbidities" which includes pain and to "Reduce Health Disparities in treatment outcomes of
      those living with HIV/AIDS" and with the National Pain Strategy to "expand investment ... in
      the development of safe and effective pain treatments."
    
  