
    
      Objectives of the study: An evaluation of the improvement of mobility after a stroke using
      the Selfit system.

      Type of study: Case Control Study. Study population: 30 patients, after stroke (men and women
      aged 18-85). Criteria for Inclusion: Stroke patients who are capable to walk with a little
      help or no help at all, with or without any assitive device, for a distance of 10 meters.

      Intervention: Random distribution of the study participants into two groups - Case: stroke
      patients (15 patients) - evaluation of patients using Selfit for 2 sessions per week, for a
      period of at least 30 minutes per session, during 3 weeks.

      Control: Stroke patients (15 patients) - continuing with current therapy with no use of the
      Selfit system.

      Measurement tools and outcome measures:

      Duration of each treatment session, the duration of the actual treatment, the number of
      technical failures in the system during the exercise and the duration of each session will be
      recorded. At the end of the intervention, questionnaires describing the experience of using
      the system will be completed with a rating of the degree of satisfaction, convenience and
      simplicity of using the Selfit system. The following tests will be carried out : 10 meter
      walk test, Timed up and go test, Dynamic Gait Index (DGI).

      Analysis of the data: For each patient's treatment, a personal activity profile will be
      established that includes the timing and speed of walking, the number of steps, the length
      and width of each step, the elevation of the leg at each step and the accuracy of the
      patient's performance. Statistical analysis will examine the various levels of activity
      throughout the intervention period for each patient and for the entire study population
      before and after the intervention. At the same time, the correlation between the level of
      activity in the treatment and the scores on the neurological tests will be examined. The data
      will be presented descriptively for the therapist and patient. For statistical analysis, the
      SPPS version 21 (IBM) will be used.
    
  