
    
      Aim 1 over 6 months will demonstrate ASIS device's consistent performance on 60 adult
      subjects with Chronic Migraine (≥15 days per month, with headache lasting 4 hours a day or
      longer). Gadolinium will be injected with ASIS subdermally (30) or conventional
      intramuscularly (30) for these 6 muscle groups: Glabella, Frontal, Temporal, Occipital,
      Paraspinal, and Trapezius. An MRI will be taken promptly after Gadolinium injection, as
      starting reference, to which subsequent MRI taken at 6 hrs, 12 hrs, and 24 hrs later will be
      compared for Persistent %. Since there isn't a way to measure level of Gadolinium within it,
      or any other (e.g. Botox) for that matter, at least the Prolongation of Gadolinium may be
      approximated by the greater or longer Persistent % on MRI. However, this approximation can
      only work if the variables are minimized to the same population with Chronic Migraine, and
      these particular 6 muscle groups. Case in point, patients with Chronic Migraine presumably
      have hyperactive Glabella, Frontal, Temporal, Occipital, Paraspinal, and Trapezius muscles,
      so expectantly will have shortened Gadolinium intramuscularly Persistent %, and somewhat
      Gadolinium subdermally Persistent % as well due to agitation, thus these Persistent % values
      in Chronic Migraine patients will not be like those of normal patients, or even the same
      between these 6 different muscle groups. Therefore, the Relative Prolongation Ability Score
      or total Persistent % subdermally over total Persistent % intramuscularly, will be specific
      and valuable indicators to help us modify the Botox dosage and duration to inject into that
      "unknown" subdermal bloodless space for Aim 2.

      Aim 2 over 12 months, using Botox, instead of Gadolinium, to demonstrate the advantages of
      ASIS device subdermally over intramuscularly, for the particular 6 muscle groups on the same
      60 Chronic Migraine adults. Given that there isn't a way to detect Botox in the peripheral
      blood to document Prolongation of Botox Pharmacokinetically, this Relative Prolongation
      Ability is our best and only possible way to demonstrate that subdermal bloodless space's
      ability on Botox. Although valuable, that Relative Prolongation Ability Score from Aim 1
      isn't absolutely required to start Aim 2. Hypothetically speaking, if that subdermal
      bloodless space in patients with e.g., Chronic Migraine somehow failed to show prolongation
      of half-life for Gadolinium in Aim 1, we can still proceed with primary interest being
      therapeutic comparison for Botox in Aim 2, in terms of reduction in Number of Headache Days
      from Baseline, and adverse reactions.
    
  