
    
      The overall design of this study is an experimental study based on the real world. All the
      patients in the study group were from early gastric cancer patients who were operated on in
      gastrointestinal surgery of Renji Hospital. According to the preoperative evaluation of early
      gastric cancer (gastroscope, ultrasonic gastroscope and abdominal enhanced CT), patients with
      early gastric cancer whose tumor is located in the gastric body and whose cutting edge is
      enough to retain pylorus and non lymph node metastasis (N0) were included in the study. Group
      A (Study Group): lappg treatment group, group B (control group): laparoscopic distal
      gastrectomy type I group. In this study, group A was taken as the study group and group B as
      the control group Group, the differences between groups were compared. The main end point was
      the quality of life score (eortc-qlq-c30 scale, see the attached table). According to the
      literature and the data of the retrospective study of the center, it was assumed that the
      expected mean of the study group after treatment was 7.27, the mean of the control group
      after treatment was 6.76, and the total standard deviation of the test group and the control
      group was 0.51. The design of the test group and the control group was 1:1. According to
      this, two independent α = 0.05 were carried out Test of the average number of standing
      samples. It is calculated that 144 patients (72 in each group) are needed, so that under the
      test level of α = 0.05, according to 80% test efficiency, the difference between the two
      groups is statistically significant. Assuming that 10% of the patients could not be evaluated
      (shedding), 80 patients in each group were enrolled, and 160 patients in both groups were
      enrolled.

      2) inclusion / exclusion / withdrawal criteria of subjects

      Inclusion criteria: 18 years old < age < 75 years old; primary gastric lesions were diagnosed
      as gastric adenocarcinoma by tissue biopsy; preoperative clinical stage was T1N0M0 according
      to ajcc-7thtnm tumor stage; the tumor site was expected to receive R0 after pylorus
      preserving gastrectomy and D1 + lymph node dissection; preoperative Eastern Cooperative
      Oncology Group physical state score was 0 / 1; preoperative ASA score was I-III, with
      informed consent of the patient.

      Exclusion criteria: pregnant or lactating women; severe mental illness; history of upper
      abdominal surgery (except for laparoscopic cholecystectomy); history of gastric surgery
      (including endoscopic submucosal dissection/ endoscopic mucosal resection for gastric
      cancer); preoperative imaging examination showed regional enlarged lymph nodes; history of
      other malignant diseases within 5 years; patients with gastric cancer who have implemented
      new adjuvant treatment or recommended new adjuvant treatment; no History of stable angina
      pectoris or myocardial infarction; history of cerebral infarction or cerebral hemorrhage
      within 6 months; history of continuous systemic corticosteroid therapy within 1 month;
      simultaneous operation for other diseases; emergency operation for gastric cancer with
      complications (hemorrhage, perforation, obstruction).

      Withdrawal criteria: conversion to laparotomy; intraoperative / postoperative pathological
      confirmation of tumor invasion depth exceeding T1, or tumor invasion of duodenum;
      intraoperative / postoperative pathological confirmation of lymph node metastasis;
      intraoperative / postoperative pathological confirmation of M1 cases; intraoperative
      confirmation of failure to complete D1 + lymph node dissection / R0 due to tumor reasons;
      intraoperative confirmation of the need for total gastrectomy to ensure safe proximity; need
      for other diseases During the same period of the study, the patients were operated at the
      same time; because of severe complications (unable to tolerate surgery or anesthesia) during
      the perioperative period, the treatment plan of the study was not suitable or could not be
      implemented according to the plan; after entering the study, because of the patient's
      condition change, the emergency operation was confirmed by the doctor in charge; at any stage
      after entering the study, the patients voluntarily requested to withdraw or suspend the
      treatment due to the patient's personal reasons Treatment; treatment proven to be in
      violation of this protocol.

      3) end point of study

      Primary endpoint: 5-year quality of life assessment [time window: 5 years after operation].
      Secondary endpoint: 3-year quality of life [time window: 3 years after operation]; immune
      index [time window: 5 years after operation]; nutritional index [time window: 5 years after
      operation]; gastric emptying rate [time window: 5 years after operation]; incidence of basic
      reflux gastritis [time window: 5 years after operation]; gallbladder contraction function
      [time window: 5 years after operation]; 5-year total survival rate [time window: 5 years
      after operation] 5 years; 5-year recurrence free survival [time window: 5 years after
      operation].

      4) diagnostic criteria for this study

      In this study, ajcc-7th primary tumor, regional nodes, metastasis tumor staging system was
      used; the diagnostic criteria and classification of gastric cancer were based on the
      international diagnostic criteria of histopathology; the definition of early gastric cancer:
      tumor infiltration was limited to the mucosa and submucosa, and did not invade the muscular
      layer (T1); in this study, T1N0 was the study object, but not the study object.

      5) interventions

      According to the preoperative evaluation (gastroscope, ultrasonic gastroscope and abdominal
      enhanced CT), the tumor is located in the body of the stomach, and the cutting edge is enough
      to retain the pylorus and early gastric cancer without lymph node metastasis (N0). By
      randomized grouping, the laparoscopic pylorus preserving gastrectomy (lappg, D1 +
      lymphadenectomy) and traditional laparoscopic distal gastrectomy (BII type anastomosis, D1 +
      lymphadenectomy) are performed Bed operation intervention.

      6) statistical analysis

      In demographic indicators, numerical variables are mainly described by means of means and
      standard deviations, and classified variables are mainly described by rates or ratios.
      T-test, chi square test or nonparametric test can be used to test the equilibrium of two
      groups of demography.

      Statistical analysis method of main index and secondary index. The main index is patients'
      postoperative quality of life score (postscript symptom scores), which is a numerical
      variable. The statistical description mainly uses mean and standard deviation. Statistical
      inference uses t-test, ANOVA or nonparametric test according to data distribution conditions.
      The secondary indicators involve the expression of usage rate of classified statistical
      description, and the expression of chi square test of statistical inference hypothesis test.
      If there is no balance between the two groups, we can use multiple regression to adjust the
      confounding factors and compare the difference between the two groups.
    
  