
    
      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is an umbrella diagnosis defined by obstructive
      lung function impairments, and is likely to be caused by a multitude of etiologies including
      environmental exposures, genetic predispositions and developmental factors. Due to the
      heterogeneity of the disease, molecular and mechanistic sub-phenotyping of COPD represents an
      essential step to facilitate the development of relevant diagnostic and treatment options for
      this constantly growing patient group. Obstructive lung disease is an increasing global
      health problem of pandemic proportions, with COPD alone affecting >10% of the population, and
      predicted by WHO to become the 5th leading cause of morbidity and disability worldwide by
      year 2020. Smoking is the main and most well studies risk factor for developing COPD.
      However, chronic airway obstruction also in never-smoking populations has recently been
      recognized as an increasing health problem: An estimated 10% of patient diagnosed with COPD
      have never smoked, representing 1% of the general public. Low birth weight and premature
      birth represent important risk factors for developing pulmonary obstruction in adulthood.
      Particularly prematurely born children with bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), defined as the
      need for oxygen therapy up to the 28th day of life for children born prior to gestational
      week 32, have an increased incidence of both airway obstruction and hyper-reactivity, both
      representing major risk factors for developing COPD, or asthma, later in life. The purpose of
      the LUNAPRE study is to perform in-depth clinical and molecular characterizations of of the
      lungs of survivors of BPD as they enter adulthood, and compare these profiles to relevant
      control groups. The study encompasses profiling of epigenetic alterations, mRNA, miRNA,
      proteomes, metabolomes and lipid mediators from multiple lung compartments (airway
      epithelium, alveolar macrophages, exosomes, and bronchoalveolar exudates) using a range of
      'omics platforms, in combination with extensive clinical phenotyping of very prematurely born
      subjects with- and without BPD in the neonatal period as they enter adulthood, as well as
      healthy subjects with mild asthma born at term. The primary objective of the study is to
      identify molecular alterations that persist into adulthood that are related to early onset
      obstructive lung disease, specifically by correlating clinical phenotypes with
      multi-molecular 'omics profiling from several lung compartments of the study groups.
      Secondary goals involve identification of subsets of prognostic/diagnostic biomarkers for
      classification of the defined subgroups, as well as relevant pharmaceutical targets.
    
  