
    
      Introduction: Dysphagia is a difficulty during the swallowing process (transportation food
      from the mouth to the stomach. Oropharyngeal Dysphagia (OD) is diagnosed by videoflouroscopy
      and faringolaringoscopy and it is frequently associated with neurodegenerative problems. OD
      threatens the efficacy and safety of swallowing, contributing to an increased risk of
      aspiration and pneumonia.

      Problem statement: There are different interventions aimed to change and improve the
      physiology of swallowing; however, OD can be an important predictor of the progression of
      malnutrition in different types of patients. Malnutrition is defined as an acute or chronic
      disease whereby an energy imbalance, lack of energy, protein or other nutrients causes
      measurable and adverse effects on body composition, functional and clinical outcomes. In
      addition, it leads to a decrease in the quality of life.

      Justification: It is essential to provide adequate nutritional interventions according to the
      specifications of the dysphagia in order to improve the nutritional status of these patients,
      as well to provide adequate early nutritional treatment when changing from tube to oral
      feeding, focusing on dietary factors that can significantly improve nutrition of the patient.
      However, there are no studies that evaluate the specific requirements for the nutritional
      treatment of these patients. By implementing a diet based on improving the safety and
      efficacy of swallowing in patients with OD, specific nutritional recommendations that impact
      on the rate of malnutrition and mortality of the different pathologies that present this
      condition could be established.

      Objective: To establish a strategy of nutritional treatment and swallowing rehabilitation in
      patients with dysphagia.

      Hypothesis: An adequate nutritional intervention in content and consistency, combined with
      swallowing rehabilitation in patients with dysphagia, will improve the nutritional status and
      clinical evolution of patients with dysphagia.

      Methodology: This is a prospective randomized controlled clinical trial, in which OD patients
      will be recruited to participate. The participants will be receiving swallowing
      rehabilitation by a specialist phoniatrician. They will be randomise assigned to a special
      nutritional treatment during 12 weeks. Swallowing rehabilitation, laboratory analyses,
      anthropometric measurements and consume and quality of life questionaries will be carried
      out.
    
  