
    
      Background and Rationale:

      Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a clonal hematopoietic malignant disease characterized by
      genetic and epigenetic alterations leading to inactivation of the tumor suppressor p53. This
      contributes to a block in normal differentiation of the various blood type lineages and to an
      accumulation of leukemic blasts in the blood and bone marrow. The disease variants have been
      grouped into favorable, intermediate and poor risk categories. The largest group of poor risk
      AML is characterized by the genetic alterations of the FLT3 receptor gene termed FLT3-ITD or
      FLT3-TKD. The prognosis for this specific subset which comprises 25-35% of all AML patients
      is generally poor, particularly in elderly or in relapsed patients, highlighting the unmet
      need for novel treatments.

      Targeting the mutated FLT3 receptor is a promising approach to treat this specific poor risk
      AML subset. Midostaurin is particularly effective to induce cell death in FLT3-ITD/-TKD and
      TP53wt cells. Targeting MDM2 is a novel approach to restore the crucial p53 tumor suppressor
      function in AML cells. Preliminary data indicate that the MDM2 inhibitor HDM201 is active in
      AML cell lines in vitro and in vivo. Like midostaurin HDM201 is specifically effective to
      induce cell death in FLT3-ITD and TP53wt cells. The combination of midostaurin and HDM201
      targets FLT3-ITD AML cells, with little effect on FLT3 wt cells and healthy blood cells. Both
      compounds induce apoptosis and cell death in a dose-dependent manner in FLT3-ITD TP53wt AML
      cells, with enhanced effects in the combination treatment. The combination treatment with
      midostaurin and HDM201 ought to be superior to the current best available treatment which
      utilizes intensive genotoxic induction therapy. In order to confirm inhibition of mutated
      FLT3 receptor and restoration of p53 tumor suppressor function, blood samples will be
      analyzed in this trial before, during and after treatment with HDM201 and midostaurin for
      changes in the expression of FLT3 and p53 target genes as well as induction of pro- apoptotic
      genes. These gene expression levels will be correlated with clinical response and outcome.

      Objectives:

      Primary objective:

      The primary objective of this trial is to establish the recommended dose for a subsequent
      phase II (RP2D) of HDM201 in combination with midostaurin in patients with relapsed or
      refractory FLT3mut TP53wt AML.

      Secondary objectives:

      The secondary objectives are to determine the safety and tolerability of HDM201 in
      combination with midostaurin and to assess the preliminary antitumor activity of HDM201 in
      combination with midostaurin in patients with relapsed or refractory FLT3mut TP53wt AML and
      in newly diagnosed AML with FLT3mut and TP53wt.

      Study Duration:

      The trial study duration encompasses the time from when the first participant signs the
      informed consent until the last protocol-specific procedure of the last patient in the trial
      has been completed.

      This phase I trial involves a minimum of 3 and a maximum of 24 subjects. Accordingly, the
      Investigator anticipate a duration of recruitment of between 3 and 18 months.

      All patients will be followed up for up to 12 months after end of treatment, adding to a
      total study duration of between 15 and 33 months depending on the effective number of
      patients in the various dose cohorts.
    
  