
    
      Background

      Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common arthritic condition, which is one of the leading
      causes of disability in adults. Currently, no treatment can stop or reverse the progressive
      joint degeneration caused by OA. Most clinical interventions aim to improve pain and physical
      function. Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) is widely used in the management
      of knee OA to relieve osteoarthritic pain and facilitate the performance of therapeutic
      activities in order to maintain or improve physical function. Although its use is widespread,
      the available evidence is of questionable quality. An adequately sized and well conducted
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) investigating the effectiveness and safety of TENS as
      treatment modality for knee OA is warranted to assist clinicians and policy makers to make
      decisions that are based on high-quality evidence, ultimately optimizing delivery of
      health-care in knee OA.

      Objective

      To determine TENS safety and effectiveness on pain and physical function compared to sham
      TENS in patients with knee OA.

      Methods

      Multi-center, randomized, double blind (patient and assessor), sham controlled clinical trial
      using a parallel 2 group design. Patients will be randomly allocated to receive TENS or sham
      TENS for 3 weeks. Informed consent of eligible patients will be obtained prior to
      randomization. Patients will be assigned on a 1:1 basis to the TENS or sham TENS group.
      Randomization will be centralized using randomization software and an electronic
      randomization form, generated by the trial coordinating centre (CTU Bern). Patients will be
      randomized once demographic data and selection criteria are completed by the recruiting
      physician in an electronic form. Randomization will be stratified according to treatment
      centre, TENS naivety and clinical severity.
    
  