
    
      HCC is a major global health problem, which is the third leading cause of cancer-related
      deaths, and accounts for 7% of all cancers worldwide. Curative treatment, such as SR, RFA has
      improved patients prognosis, however, even after successful curative treatment, high rates of
      disease recurrence limiting overall survival in HCC patients. In this regard, method to
      reduce HCC recurrence is an essential component of a therapeutic strategy to maximize
      outcome.

      Antiviral therapy for HBV may play an important role here, as a large observation study from
      Taiwan reported that the use of NUCs was associated with 33% reduction in HCC recurrence. In
      the first randomized controlled trial evaluating the use of NUC after surgical resection for
      HCC, NUC therapy was associated with better 2-year overall (94% vs. 62%) and recurrence-free
      (56% vs. 20%) survival. However, patients with active liver disease should be treated
      regardless of their impact on HCC recurrence (patients with high serum HBV DNA and abnormal
      ALT). What is less clear is that whether patients with low level HBV DNA, and normal serum
      ALT levels should be treated to reduce HCC recurrence.

      In the randomized controlled trial by Yin et al, antiviral therapy was also beneficial in
      Chronic hepatitis B patients with low viral load (HBV DNA < 104 copies/ml). However, there is
      a need for further validation of their finding for several reasons. First, the baseline
      characteristics between two groups were not same (more advanced tumors in the control arm).
      Second, the recurrence rates in the control arm was too high (about 80%), and the number of
      patients was small (control = 32, antiviral therapy = 22). Third, HBV DNA levels at 6 months
      was decreased in the antiviral therapy group (3.36 ± 0.68 log10 copies/ml vs. 4.66 ± 1.38
      log10 copies/ml), but was not optimal. The used drugs were lamivudine, adefovir plus
      lamivudine or entecavir 0.5 mg. With more potent antiviral drug, better outcome is expected.

      In this trial, we will investigate to determine the efficacy of the treatment with Tenofovir
      disoproxil fumarate (Viread(R)) as measured by the cumulative incidence rate of
      hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) at 3 year after curative treatment with radiofrequency
      ablation (RFA) or surgical resection (SR) in chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infected
      patients with low viral load.
    
  