
    
      The proposed investigation is a randomized, double-blind, placebo and positive-controlled
      within-subjects design clinical study to evaluate the role of the cytokine tumor necrosis
      factor (TNF) in acute inflammation using a specific TNF receptor antagonist, etanercept
      (Enbrel, Immunex Corporation, Seattle, WA). The goal of this study is to determine whether
      inhibition of TNF bioactivity can attenuate acute inflammation. The anti-inflammatory and
      adverse effects of etanercept, a recombinant TNF receptor fusion protein, will be evaluated
      using a model of tissue injury, the oral surgery model. Briefly, healthy volunteers referred
      for third molar extraction will undergo the surgical extraction of third molars with local
      anesthesia and conscious sedation. At the completion of the surgical procedure, a
      microdialysis probe will be placed under the mucogingival flap previously elevated for the
      surgical procedure and subjects will be observed for pain and swelling over the course of
      four hours following surgery. Tissue biopsies prior to and following surgery will be obtained
      from the buccal mucosa. Etanercept or control will be administered parenterally one hour
      prior to surgery. Tissue levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines, growth factors, and
      inflammatory mediators will be measured at time intervals postoperatively. Pain and swelling
      will be assessed postoperatively over the course of four hours and at 48 hours. Demonstration
      of amelioration of pain, swelling, and/or changes in levels of tissue mediators will be taken
      as evidence of an acute anti-inflammatory effect of etanercept. Since the fusion protein
      (hereafter, TNFR:fc) specifically binds TNF-alpha and prevents its interaction with cellular
      receptors, changes in the inflammatory cascade and clinical endpoints of inflammation may
      provide insight into role of TNF-alpha in the pathophysiology of acute inflammation and its
      clinical sequela.
    
  