
    
      In this study the effects of fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) on patients with
      Parkinson's disease will be investigated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled randomized
      clinical trial.

      At time of FMT, forty patients will be randomized in a double-blinded fashion to the
      treatment arm (healthy donor stool) or placebo arm (own stool). Transplantation will be
      performed through nasojejunal administration.

      Donors for this study will be recruited from a healthy donor pool who will donate stool after
      clearance of a strict inclusion protocol which will assess the presence of any infectious
      diseases. Donor stool will be frozen and stored until day of FMT.

      Participants will be screened for relevant inclusion and exclusion criteria and will have to
      sign an informed consent before admission to the study.

      Prior and on a regular basis following the FMT participants will be evaluated through
      neurological clinical examination and standardized clinical scoring scales including
      MDS-UPDRS, PDQ-39, NMSS and MoCA. Stool samples will be taken regularly and stored at -80°C
      for microbiome analysis. Blood will be collected for determining relevant markers. All
      participants will also undergo sampling for oral and nasal microbiome. Follow-up will
      continue for a total duration of one year.

      Prior to FMT, all participants will undergo a colonoscopy to exclude contra-indications for
      FMT and to collect mucosa-adherent microbial samples and gastrointestinal tissue biopts. This
      colonoscopy will be repeated once, one year following the FMT.

      The primary endpoint in this study will be a change in clinical status measured through the
      MDS-UPDRS. Additionally, motor and non-motor symptoms will be correlated with serum markers
      of inflammation and gut and central nervous system barrier function, microbiota changes and
      gastrointestinal biopsy analysis of inflammation.
    
  