
    
      This study is a multi-center, prospective registry study led by Beijing Tiantan Hospital, and
      a number of comprehensive hospitals in China, aiming to uncover the treatment result of AVM
      in Real-World in China and discover a standard diagnosis and treatment process for the
      comprehensive treatment of arteriovenous malformations. This study lasted for 5 years and was
      an observational study. All patients were enrolled prospectively, and the study will not
      influence the choice of treatment modalities. All the patients clinical baseline data and
      imaging data were stored through a cloud server to facilitate the input work at different
      locations and at different times. According to different treatment modalities, patients
      receive corresponding follow-up procedures. Through the final follow-up data, the differences
      in the prognosis of patients under different treatment modalities are compared, and the best
      diagnosis and treatment modality for arteriovenous malformations is obtained. Patients of
      experimental group is discussed at multi-disciplinary conference and must meet the following
      standard treatment criteria:

      Treatment criteria for craniotomy: 1. For patients with a history of rupture and bleeding: a.
      If the lesion is not located in the deep functional area, surgical treatment is recommended;
      b. If the lesion is multi-system blood supply or high blood flow, the volume is large, and
      with a deep blood supply, hybrid surgery (embolization + resection) can be performed; c. If
      the lesion is located in the deep functional area, craniotomy is not recommended. 2. For
      patients with unruptured hemorrhage: a. If the lesion is not located in the deep brain
      tissue, and is not located in an important functional area or the fiber bundle is more than
      5mm away from the lesion, then surgery or combined surgery can be performed; b. If the lesion
      is located in the deep brain tissue, important functional areas or fiber bundles are less
      than 5mm away from the lesion, craniotomy is not recommended; c. If the lesion does not have
      the above characteristics, surgical resection alone can be performed.

      Interventional embolization treatment standards: 1. Ruptured bAVM should be actively treated.
      If there is no need for craniotomy to clear the hematoma in the acute phase, DSA should be
      performed 2-6 weeks after hemorrhage, and individualized treatment plans should be developed
      and actively treated. 2. Unruptured bAVM, if there are bleeding-related risk factors
      (aneurysm or high-flow fistula), relevant risk factors should be actively treated; When
      stereotactic radiation is planned, active treatment is required for volume reduction(10cm3)
      when craniotomy was planned, preoperative embolization for flow reduction is recommended; 3.
      Unruptured bAVM, without the above risk factors, conservative treatment was suggested if
      symptoms could be well controlled.

      Stereotactic radiosurgery standard treatment: 1. No history of bleeding: Patients with no
      indications for craniotomy and with appropriate volume for radiosurgery, and poor symptom
      controlled. Pre-treatment imaging assessment DSA (required) and enhanced MRI was required to
      clarify the structure of the malformation; 2. There is a history of bleeding: the period
      between bleeding time and the time of consultation is less than 3 months, it is recommended
      to wait head-enhanced MRI and DSA were performed after the hemorrhage was absorbed (3 months)
      to confirm the vascular architecture.
    
  