
    
      Patient selection Patients in need of a single implant in the premaxilla (15-25) will be
      included in this multicenter RCT following screening and after having received written
      consent.

      Sample size calculation A sample size calculation using the Pearson Chi-square test was
      performed in SAS Power and Sample Size based on a comparison of the proportion on the need
      for soft tissue augmentation at 5 months following alveolar ridge preservation (ARP) between
      the control group (ARP + delayed implant placement 'DIP') and test group (ARP + immediate
      implant placement 'IIP'). The calculation was based on finding a 30% difference between these
      groups. With alpha set at 0.05 and a power of 0.80, the sample size calculation indicated 28
      patients to be included per group. To compensate for drop-outs, 30 patients would be treated
      with ARP+DIP and 30 would be treated with ARP+IIP.

      Clinicians and centers, randomization, allocation concealment and blinding Six experienced
      clinicians will treat at least 10 patients each. Five clinicians are staff members of the
      Department of Periodontology and Oral Implantology at UGent - UZ Gent, who also work
      part-time in different private practices. The final clinician is a professor at the Saint-Luc
      University Hospital (UCL). The digital workflow, the implant placement protocol, the
      application of a connective tissue graft (CTG) at 6 months following ARP and the restorative
      protocol will be thoroughly discussed among the 6 clinicians in a training session before the
      start of the trial.

      During the training session each clinician will receive 5 sealed envelopes internally coded
      as 'Delayed implant placement' and another 5 as 'immediate implant placement'. Just prior to
      surgery, a sealed envelope will be randomly selected and opened to reveal the treatment to be
      conducted. The measuring investigator will not be involved in the treatment of any of the
      patients and will be blinded to allow unbiased registrations.

      Pre-operative digital planning for fabrication of surgical guide A digital workflow will be
      adopted for every patient for fabrication of a surgical guide prior to tooth extraction. This
      requires 3D digital implant planning in designated software on the basis of a pre-op low-dose
      small-field Cone-Beam CT and intra-oral scan. Note that surgical guides for patients in the
      ARP+DIP group will also be fabricated following patient selection, even though they are only
      to be used 4 months later.

      Control group: ARP+DIP Patients start to take systemic antibiotics (Amoxicilline 1g) and
      anti-inflammatory medication (Ibuprofen 600 mg) 1h pre-operatively. Following local
      anesthesia (Septanest special, Septodont, Saint Maur des Fossés, France) and oral
      disinfection (Corsodyl mouth rinse, GSK, Wavre, Belgium), the failing tooth is extracted
      without raising a flap. Following socket debridement and rinsing, collagen-enriched DBBM
      (Bio-Oss Collagen 250 mg, Geistlich Pharma AG, Wolhusen, Switserland) is applied up to the
      level of the palatal bone crest and slightly condensed. The occlusal aspect is closed with a
      collagen matrix (Mucograft Seal, Geistlich Pharma AG, Wolhusen, Switserland), which is fixed
      with single sutures (Seralon 6/0, Serag Weissner, Naila, Germany) to the soft tissues.
      Post-op instructions include the intake of systemic antibiotics during 4 days (Amoxicilline
      1g, two times a day), anti-inflammatory medication as deemed necessary by the patient and
      oral disinfection twice a day during 1 week. Then, sutures are removed. A removable partial
      denture as used as provisional tooth replacement when considered needed.

      At 4 months, a mucoperiosteal flap is raised, the surgical guide is applied, and the implant
      is installed according to manufacturer's prescriptions. Then, an implant impression is taken
      for fabrication of a provisional crown. Prior to wound closure with vertical mattrass sutures
      (Seralon 6/0, Serag Weissner, Naila, Germany), an appropriate healing abutment is installed.
      This healing abutment is replaced by the provisional crown two days later.

      At 6 months, the need for soft tissue augmentation is assessed by the 5 clinicians who have
      not been clinically involved. The treating clinician is excluded since he/she cannot be
      blinded for the treatment group. The need for soft tissue augmentation is assessed on the
      basis of screenshots from the pre-op CBCT with lip retractors enabling to evaluate buccal
      bone and soft tissue thickness. Pre-op clinical pictures, clinical pictures at 6 months with
      the provisional crown in situ and the STL file at 6 months are also offered to the panel in
      order to assess the loss of buccal convexity.

      Soft tissue augmentation is required necessary when at least one of the following criteria
      are met: thin gingival biotype as defined as < 1mm midfacial soft tissue thickness as
      assessed on pre-op CBCT with lip retractors, thin buccal bone wall as defined as < 0.5mm as
      assessed on pre-op CBCT, loss of ideal buccal convexity at 6 months following ARP as assessed
      on the basis of clinical pictures and STL. Each clinician makes a decision on the need for
      soft tissue augmentation for 50 out of 60 cases independent from the other clinicians. Soft
      tissue augmentation is offered to the patient when the majority of the panel is in favor of
      it.

      Soft tissue augmentation is performed using a CTG harvested from the lateral palate using the
      single incision technique. At the recipient site, a pouch is made in the buccal mucosa and an
      appropriately sized CTG is pulled in. The CTG is secured into the buccal mucosa with multiple
      single sutures (Seralon 6/0, Serag Weissner, Naila, Germany) and the provisional crown is
      re-installed. Sutures are removed after 1 week. The provisional crown is replaced by a
      permanent crown 3 months later.

      Test group: ARP+IIP Patients start to take systemic antibiotics (Amoxicilline 1g) and
      anti-inflammatory medication (Ibuprofen 600 mg) 1h pre-operatively. Following local
      anesthesia (Septanest special, Septodont, Saint Maur des Fossés, France) and oral
      disinfection (Corsodyl mouth rinse, GSK, Wavre, Belgium), the failing tooth is extracted
      without raising a flap. Following socket debridement and rinsing, the surgical guide is
      applied, and the implant is installed according to manufacturer's prescriptions. Then, an
      implant impression is taken for fabrication of a provisional crown. Finally, the gap is
      filled with collagen-enriched DBBM (Bio-Oss Collagen 250 mg, Geistlich Pharma AG, Wolhusen,
      Switserland), which is applied up to the level of the free mucosal margin, and an appropriate
      healing abutment is installed. This healing abutment is replaced by the provisional crown two
      days later.

      At 6 months, the need for soft tissue augmentation is assessed by the 5 clinicians who have
      not been clinically involved. The treating clinician is excluded since he/she cannot be
      blinded for the treatment group. The need for soft tissue augmentation is assessed on the
      basis of screenshots from the pre-op CBCT with lip retractors enabling to evaluate buccal
      bone and soft tissue thickness. Pre-op clinical pictures, clinical pictures at 6 months with
      the provisional crown in situ and the STL file at 6 months are also offered to the panel in
      order to assess the loss of buccal convexity. Each clinician makes a decision on the need for
      soft tissue augmentation for 50 out of 60 cases independent from the other clinicians. Soft
      tissue augmentation is offered to the patient when the majority of the panel is in favor of
      it.

      Soft tissue augmentation is performed using a CTG harvested from the lateral palate using the
      single incision technique. At the recipient site, a pouch is made in the buccal mucosa and an
      appropriately sized CTG is pulled in. The CTG is secured into the buccal mucosa with multiple
      single sutures (Seralon 6/0, Serag Weissner, Naila, Germany) and the provisional crown is
      re-installed. Sutures are removed after 1 week. The provisional crown is replaced by a
      permanent crown 3 months later.
    
  