
    
      Background:

      CBOCs represent one of VA's main managed care strategies for shifting the focus of care from
      the inpatient to the outpatient setting and for improving the health of our nation's
      veterans. Hypothesis-driven research is critically needed to test the basic assumptions
      motivating the expansion of CBOCs throughout the VA health care system.

      Objectives:

      The purpose was to determine how increased geographic access to primary care services affects
      service use and costs. Two specific aims addressed were: 1) to determine how CBOCs impact the
      service use of all existing users and existing users with the following ambulatory care
      sensitive conditions (ACSC): alcohol dependence, angina, chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease (COPD), depression, diabetes and hypertension; and 2) to describe how CBOCs affect
      the workload and costs of the VA health care system from the VISN's perspective.

      Methods:

      A quasi-experimental pre-post study design with intervention and reference groups was
      employed to compare service use and costs in the 18 months following the establishment of a
      new CBOC. Fifteen CBOCs from 11 VISNs were included in the analysis. For specific aim 1, the
      intervention group was defined as existing users in the catchment area of a new CBOC and the
      reference group was defined as matched existing users outside CBOC catchment areas.
      Multivariate statistical regression analyses were used to estimate the impact of residing
      within the CBOC catchment area on use and cost in the post-period, controlling for patient
      casemix and use/cost in the 18 month pre-period. For specific aim 2, the intervention group
      was defined as zip codes in the catchment area of a new CBOC and the reference group was
      defined as matched zip codes outside CBOC catchment areas. Average use and costs for all
      users, existing users and new users from intervention zip codes and reference zip codes were
      compared.

      Status:

      Complete.
    
  