
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the 4-month progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with low-grade
           neuroendocrine tumors treated with AMG 706 and octreotide acetate.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the response rate and overall survival of patients treated with these drugs.

        -  Determine the toxicity and tolerability of AMG 706 in these patients.

        -  Determine the effect of AMG 706 on tumor perfusion by functional computerized tomography
           (CT) scan.

        -  Determine the effect of AMG 706 on tumor markers (e.g., chromogranin A,
           5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, and gastrin) specific for neuroendocrine tumors.

        -  Determine the effect of AMG 706 on serum vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)
           levels.

        -  Determine the expression of VEGF, VEGF receptor-2 (VEGFR-2), chromogranin A, human
           achaete-scute homolog-1 (hASH1), and Notch1 markers of neuroendocrine tumors.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive oral AMG 706 and octreotide acetate intramuscularly once daily on days 1-28.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Plasma samples are collected at baseline, periodically during study treatment, and at 4 weeks
      after the completion of study treatment. Samples are used to determine plasma VEGF levels.
      Gene expression of downstream markers of Raf kinase expression (raf, MEK, and ERK) as well as
      hASH1 and Notch1 are evaluated at baseline. Tumor tissue collected at diagnosis or prior
      surgery is examined by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction assay. Contrast CT
      scans are conducted at baseline, day 2 of course 1, and week 8 to assess tumor perfusion.

      After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 44 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  