
    
      General schedule of the study :

        -  Prospective multicenter national study

        -  Duration of inclusions:3 years

        -  Effective : 25000 patients

        -  Duration of the follow-up: 7-8 years

        -  Duration of the cohort: 10 years

      Population :

      Twenty-five thousands of people will be included and followed in investigator sites, 15000
      with an hepatitis C and 10000 with an hepatitis B, according their usual follow-up of their
      liver disease.

      We aim to include up to 50% patients naive of any HCV treatment at inclusion. Also HBV
      "cured" patients could be included (less than 10%).

      Design study:

        -  During the recruitment visit, demographics, clinical, biological and virological data
           will be collected. The patient will move through several assessments involving
           questionnaires, measurements and blood sampling.

        -  Then the minimum follow-up is one medical visit per year. The follow-up (clinical data
           and biological collections) will be driven by events or based on protocols that will be
           developed on the cohort.

        -  There is no specific treatment in this cohort.

      The scientific project is structured into 4 scientific thematic axes :

        -  Therapeutics:

             -  To analyze the long term effects of therapy

             -  To study predictors of virological response or fibrosis progression (or
                regression)and pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamics either in HCV or HBV treatments

        -  Virology:

             -  To understand the molecular mechanisms of antiviral treatment success and failure

             -  To provide treatment recommendation to prevent resistance and achieve sustained or
                definitive control of infection

        -  Pathology and physiopathology :

             -  To identify new pathophysiological targets responsible for chronic hepatitis
                severity,prognosis, and evolution.

             -  To validate new therapeutic combinations based on pathophysiological researches

        -  Public Health:

             -  To identify psychosocial and behavioral correlates of access to care, progression
                of liver disease and of the burden of chronic viral hepatitis B and C.

             -  To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of HBV and HCV treatments and quality of life
    
  