
    
      Research Goals & Objectives. Our overall goal is to conduct a feasibility study of two
      successful evidence-based interventions (Mother's Empowerment Program and Kid's Club Program)
      designed specifically to meet the needs of Indigenous mothers and their children who have
      experienced intimate partner violence (IPV).

      Specifically, our objectives are:

        1. To successfully adapt two existing effective evidence-based interventions for mothers
           and children who have experienced IPV for Indigenous mothers and children who have
           experienced IPV. Our adaptation process reflects our overall integrated knowledge
           translation (iKT) approach, undertaken in close partnership with our Community Advisory
           Council (CAC) and in consultation with Elders at both sites. As outlined by the Canadian
           Institutes of Health Research (CIHR), it follows a two-eyed seeing approach,
           incorporating Western and Indigenous knowledge, ways of knowing and being.

        2. To pilot and evaluate our adapted interventions with mothers and children recruited from
           our community partners (Wahbung Abinoonjiiag, an Indigenous non-profit organization in
           Winnipeg and Discovery House, a crisis shelter and second stage housing facility for
           women in Calgary). We plan to evaluate our adapted programs using a two-eyed seeing
           approach that combines Western (quantitative) and Indigenous (qualitative)
           methodologies. As part of our iKT approach, our mixed methods evaluation will rely upon
           ongoing engagement and feedback from our CAC. Quantitative methods (e.g., standardized
           questionnaires) will be used to assess changes in the mental and physical health and
           well-being of mothers and their children over time. Qualitative methods (e.g.,
           semi-structured interviews, narratives) will be used to evaluate the intervention
           experience and perceived changes in self perceptions (e.g., resilience).

      Hypotheses. We will determine if there is an increase, both immediately post-intervention and
      sustained over 6-8 months, in mothers' and children's mental (e.g., resilience) and physical
      well-being (e.g., perceived health status), and if there is a reduction in mothers' and
      children's mental health (e.g., depression, anxiety and traumatic stress symptoms) and
      physical difficulties (e.g., somatic symptoms such as headaches). For children, analyses will
      take age, gender and sex into account.
    
  