
    
      The primary objective of the study is to establish whether the key components necessary for
      conducting a full randomized control study in the future, such as recruitment, consent,
      randomization, and treatment processes are working well and all function together. As a
      secondary objective, the investigators will determine trends in patients exposed to
      MindfulGarden (MG), for example:

        1. At the first and second administration of the Confusion Assessment Method - short form
           (CAM) after admission to a medical ward are there more, the same or fewer patients in
           the intervention group than in the control group whose CAM scores change from positive
           to negative?

        2. During the first 24 hours after admission to a medical ward, did fewer, the same, or a
           greater number of patients in the intervention than in the control group experience
           significant events/alerts (e.g. aggressive/violent behaviours, falls, code white)?

        3. During the first 24 hours after admission to a medical ward, were fewer, the same, or a
           greater number of patients in the intervention than in the control group administered
           psychotropic drugs (e.g. haloperidol, risperidone, quetiapine, lorazepam)? were more,
           the same, or fewer administered sleeping aids (e.g. trazodone, melatonin)?

        4. During the first 24 hours after admission to a medical ward, were fewer, the same, or a
           greater number of patients in the intervention than in the control group physically
           restrained?

        5. Was mean length of stay from time of admission to a medical ward until discharge due to
           death, return to place of residence before admission or to a different place of
           residence longer, the same or shorter in the intervention than in the control group?

        6. Were there more, the same or fewer deaths or discharges to a higher level of care (e.g.
           to assisted living, to a complex care facility in patients who previously lived at home)
           in the intervention than the control group?

      Additionally, to the extent that movement and vocalization are reflective of anxiety,
      agitation and/or aggression (i.e. responsive behaviours) the investigators also want to
      determine whether there is a correlation between changes in these as recorded by the MG and
      any of the indicators listed in 1-6 above.
    
  