
    
      People with rare diseases experience many of the same challenges as those with more common
      diseases, but also face unique challenges, including gaps in knowledge about their disease
      and limited treatment and support options. Professionally organized support services are
      often available for people with more common diseases but are not typically available for
      people with rare diseases. Instead, many people with rare diseases rely on peer-led support
      groups for education and to cope with their disease. Support groups may be held face-to-face
      or online, led by professionals or peers, and have a structured or an unstructured format.
      Activities typically involve an educational or information-sharing component and the exchange
      of emotional and practical support.

      SSc is a rare, chronic, autoimmune connective tissue disease characterized by abnormal
      fibrotic processes and excessive collagen production. Peer-led support groups play an
      important role for people with the disease. There are currently approximately 200 active SSc
      support groups listed by Scleroderma Canada or the Scleroderma Foundation in the USA, most
      led by people with the disease. Many people with SSc, however, do not have access to SSc
      support groups, and many support groups that are initiated are not sustained due to obstacles
      that could be addressed by providing training to support group leaders. Challenges for
      patient support group leaders, particularly in rare diseases, include practical difficulties,
      such as a lack of resources or poor coordination with medical professionals and leader
      organizations; difficulties with group leadership tasks, such as managing complex group
      dynamics; and personal challenges, such as managing one's own health condition while
      supporting others and preventing burnout.

      A training and education program could provide the necessary information and skills to
      improve the ability of SSc peer support group leaders to lead sustainable, effective support
      groups; reduce their emotional and physical burden; and encourage new leaders to set up
      support groups where none exist or via the internet. In rare diseases, face-to-face delivery
      of such a training program is not feasible because current and potential leaders are widely
      dispersed geographically. Videoconferencing has been used successfully to train educators,
      health service providers, and parents of children with behavioural difficulties, for example,
      and is as effective as face-to-face training.

      The SPIN-SSLED Program was developed by a team of researchers with expertise in SSc, patient
      organization representatives, and a Patient Advisory Board comprised of current SSc support
      group leaders. The program content and design are based on results of our preliminary
      research on support groups in SSc and informed by instructional material for support group
      leaders we identified via the internet and by consultations with support group leaders. The
      program uses a problem-based learning approach. Problem-based learning is a learner-centered
      approach that integrates theory and practice by providing the necessary knowledge and skills,
      presenting a complex, real-world problem, then working to identify an approach to solving the
      problem. To implement this, each module, or learning session, will introduce a topic and
      provide an overview of key information. Then, there will be a guided discussion among
      training group participants about possible approaches and solutions. The program includes 13
      modules that will be delivered live via webinar over the course of the 3-month program. In
      addition to the live modules, SPIN-SSLED participants will receive a workbook that summarizes
      didactic material that is provided and will be shown filmed vignettes demonstrating effective
      group facilitation techniques and ways to respond to support group issues. SPIN-SSLED
      participants will also have access to an online resource center that includes a range of
      helpful tools for leaders including files of SSc related videos to show at meetings and an
      online forum for leaders to post questions, open only to leaders enrolled in the training
      program.

      The proposed SPIN-SSLED Program Feasibility Trial builds on this background research and will
      evaluate the feasibility of delivering the SPIN-SSLED Program and of our planned full-scale
      trial design. The objectives of this study are (1) To evaluate the feasibility of steps
      needed to take place in the full-scale trial, including the required resources (e.g.,
      staffing, time, and budget), management issues (e.g., related to optimizing performance of
      personnel and data systems), and scientific aspects (e.g., recruitment of eligible leaders,
      fidelity of intervention delivery, acceptability of intervention to leaders, assessing
      performance of outcome measures); (2) To make any necessary modifications to the SPIN-SSLED
      Program based on participant feedback

      The aim of the SPIN-SSLED Feasibility Trial is to collect data related to the study's
      process, in order to assess the feasibility of the steps that need to take place as part of
      the main study; required resources (e.g., staffing, time, and budget), management issues
      (e.g., optimizing performance of personnel and data systems); and scientific aspects (e.g.,
      recruitment rates of eligible leaders, fidelity of intervention delivery, acceptability of
      intervention to leaders, performance of outcome measures).

      Our partners from the Scleroderma Canada and the Scleroderma Foundation will contact group
      leaders to describe the SPIN-SSLED Feasibility Trial and ascertain interest in participating.
      SPIN-SSLED personnel will send email invitations with the consent form to interested support
      group leaders. Following this, support group leaders will be contacted by phone within 48
      hours to describe the study, review the consent form, and answer questions assessing
      eligibility. Eligible patients who verbally accept the offer to enrol in the study will
      receive an email with the consent form for the study, which they can sign by replying, "I
      have read the consent form and understand the terms of the feasibility study. I agree to
      participate in the study testing the feasibility of the SPIN-SSLED Program." We will enroll
      10 SSc support group leaders to participate in the program. Based on our previous experience
      with videoconferencing and consistent with previous trials of videoconference training, to
      maximize effective interaction and participation, 5 group leaders will be assigned to each
      training group. Training sessions will be delivered using the GoToMeeting® videoconferencing
      platform, a high-performance platform that has been used successfully for similar
      applications.

      A survey will be administered to all participants before the trial. The survey will contain a
      demographics questionnaire designed for this study that includes basic demographic
      information, such as gender, age and employment status. The survey also includes
      disease-related variables, such as years since scleroderma diagnosis and questionnaires for
      all outcome measures. These questionnaires will be administered again upon completion of the
      program, along with a satisfaction questionnaire. All questionnaires will be completed using
      the online surveying tool Qualtrics. Once the online survey data is collected, data will be
      exported to the statistics software program, IBM SPSS.

      A description of feasibility outcomes will be presented, including leader eligibility and
      recruitment, leader enrolment and randomization, technological performance of the
      videoconferencing system, and treatment fidelity. Qualitative information will inform any
      necessary changes to the program or trial methods before conducting a full-scale trial.
      Descriptive statistics will be used to provide means and standard deviations for SPIN-SSLED
      Program outcome measures.
    
  