
    
      A prospective, randomized, parallel, double-blind, placebo controlled trial will be used.
      Healthy older adults will be recruited from the Gainesville area via direct mailing, flyers,
      list servs, presentations to clubs/organizations/church groups, social networks, etc.
      Informed consent will be obtained and once the informed consent is signed the
      inclusion/exclusion form will be reviewed to determine whether a subject qualifies for the
      study.

      Prior to randomization, height, weight, age, and a stool sample will be obtained. On the day
      of randomization, blood will be drawn and saliva will be collected for baseline immune
      function studies from all subjects who qualify based on the final criteria (i.e., cannot have
      a cold on the day of randomization).

      Subjects will be stratified based on body mass index and age and randomized via sealed
      envelope to the treatment (5 g GOS) or placebo groups (n=40/group). The fiber will be
      provided in small packets containing 2.5 g of fiber and 2.5 g sucrose (treatment) or 5 g of
      sucrose (placebo). Subjects will be instructed to add the contents of the packet to coffee,
      tea, water, milk, or other non-carbonated drink, hot cereal or pudding and mix well. Subjects
      will be told to consume two packets per day and maintain a daily study log. The daily
      questionnaire will ask about intake of the fiber, cold symptoms, and general health (i.e.,
      new medications, doctor visits).

      Between weeks two and three of the intervention, a second stool sample will be obtained.
      After three weeks of the intervention, subjects will receive the influenza vaccination and
      blood and saliva will be collected for immune function studies. Two weeks postvaccination
      (i.e., 5 weeks of intervention), blood and saliva will be collected for immune function
      studies. Subjects will continue the intervention and maintain daily logs for a total of 24
      weeks. Subjects will also be asked to complete a questionnaire on a monthly basis regarding
      gastrointestinal symptoms and typical level of exercise.
    
  