
    
      This study is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel group, two-site study
      designed to assess the effects of varenicline as compared with placebo on responses to in
      vivo alcohol cue exposure in the human laboratory setting. After signing informed consent,
      subjects will be screened for eligibility including medical history, physical examination,
      vital signs, electrocardiogram (ECG), drinking history by the timeline follow-back (TLFB)
      method, alcohol breathalyzer test, Clinical Institute Withdrawal Assessment for
      Alcohol-revised (CIWA), medication use, MINI neuropsychiatric interview, urine toxicology
      screen, clinical chemistry, response to cue reactivity, and Columbia Suicide Severity Rating
      Scale (CSSR-S). Women of child-bearting potential will have a pregnancy test. If eligible for
      the study, subjects will be randomized using a stratified permuted block randomization
      procedure in an approximate 1:1 ratio (targeting 24 subjects per group - 12 subjects per
      group per site) to receive either varenicline or placebo for 6 weeks. Any nicotine use versus
      no use (cigarettes, cigars, chewing tobacco, electronic cigarettes, etc.) in the week before
      randomization is the stratification variable.

      Varenicline or matched placebo will be titrated over the first week of the study up the
      maintenance dose of 1 mg (active) or two capsules (placebo) taken orally BID for an
      additional 5 weeks. Subjects will be seen in the clinic at screening, at randomization and 6
      other times during the study. A final follow-up telephone interview will occur during Week 9
      (2 weeks after the end of study visit).

      After the first two weeks and after five weeks of investigational product administration at
      Study Week 3 and Study Week 6, respectively, subjects will undergo a cue reactivity paradigm
      session (HLAB) including 4 individual visual analog scale (VAS) items assessing alcohol
      craving, 2 VAS items assessing emotional reactivity to picture stimuli, and 2 items assessing
      emotional manipulation. Immediately after the HLAB session, subjects will view each picture
      again and record the emotion felt using the Self-Manikin Assessment (SAM).
    
  