
    
      Carpometacarpal osteoarthritis (OA) is a degenerative condition of the hand that causes pain,
      stiffness and weakness. It is the second most common site of degenerative disease in the hand
      after arthritis of the distal interphalangeal joints. The prevalence of symptomatic hand OA
      in people over 70 years of age has been estimated as 13.4 % for men and 26.2 % for women. OA
      is more frequent in older age groups, leading to considerable disability with a burden on
      health services and on the economy. Risk factor for carpometacarpal osteoarthritis of the
      thumb includes being female, middle age, previous trauma, repetitive use and inflammatory
      joint disease. Lifetime prevalence of this condition approaches 10%.

      Injections are a useful conservative treatment modality prior to considering surgical
      treatment. Corticosteroid injection is helpful in the treatment of the disease, but some
      patients gain only short-term benefits. Evolving reports are showing promising results for
      the application of dextrose as an alternative method for the treatment of Carpometacarpal
      osteoarthritis, based on their induction for growth factors and inflammatory mediators. For
      instance, prolotherapy has been used as a treatment of musculoskeletal pain with various
      etiologies. It has been suggested that prolotherapy induces little inflammation and
      stimulates endogenous repair especially by prompting release of growth factors. Dextrose is
      an agent commonly used for prolotherapy.

      The evolving reports form recent studies are creating a promise on the potential use of
      dextrose injections for treating arthritis and replacing current method of treating early OA
      by corticosteroids by giving long standing effect and improving patients' symptoms and
      function. Over the past 5 years, an increasing number of level I and level II studies have
      emerged, examining the effect of intra-articular prolotherapy for the treatment of both hip
      and knee osteoarthritis. On the contrary, there is limited data in small joints, such as the
      temporomandibular joint.
    
  