
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease. T lymphocytes are essential for initiating and
      maintaining the asthmatic inflammatory immune response. Corticosteroid treatment targets
      several inflammatory responses, including T lymphocytemediated responses. In addition,
      leukotriene receptor antagonists (LTRA) may influence T cell activation. To investigate the
      effects of these two controller agents in the treatment of asthma on airway function is the
      goal of the IMPACT clinical trial in mild chronic adult asthmatics. The Improving Asthma
      Control Trial (IMPACT) is one of the trials within the NHLBI-supported Asthma Clinical
      Research Network (ACRN). IMPACT is a double-blind, randomized, parallel group design clinical
      trial to determine the best long-term strategy for treating adults with mild asthma who
      experience symptoms more than occasionally. The trial will test whether these patients should
      be taking anti-inflammatory medications on a daily basis and whether a newer class of
      medications provides the same benefit as older drugs. In the IMPACT study, 234 adults with
      mild asthma who have more than occasional symptoms will be enrolled in six clinical research
      centers. Following an initial evaluation, patients will be randomized to receive either a
      twice daily inhaled corticosteroid, a twice daily anti-leukotriene, or a placebo. All
      patients will receive treatment for symptoms if and when they occur. The results should
      demonstrate whether medication is required on a daily basis by these patients, and if so,
      whether inhaled corticosteroids and leukotriene modifiers are equally effective. Recruitment
      began in May, 2000. The trial is expected to be completed in 2003.

      The study is in response to an initiative "Ancillary Studies in Heart, Lung, and Blood
      Disease Trials" released by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute in June 2000.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      A total of 39 patients, 13 in each arm, will be randomized to inhaled steroid, leukotriene
      receptor antagonist or placebo and followed for 18 months for changes in T-cell costimulatory
      pathways.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  