
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the feasibility of using a 10 week (Workshop A) or a 5 week (Workshops B-C)
      comic art creation workshops for supportive care.

      II. To determine the feasibility of studying comic art creation workshops for supportive
      care.

      III. To describe those factors affecting the ability or inability of participants to engage
      in the workshop.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe changes in emotional wellbeing and communication of patients and
      caretakers/family/friends.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Identify the methods that most engage supportive care patients and caretakers.

      II. Identify the social and cultural interactions most impacted by comics creation.

      III. To describe participant feedback regarding the intervention and study design.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      WORKSHOP A: Patients and a family member, caretaker, or friend participate in an artist-led
      comic art therapy workshop over 2 hours once a week for 10 weeks. Patients and participants
      receive a range of assignments that focus on creative art and experimentation with materials
      and storytelling in order to make a series of small handmade books that relate directly or
      indirectly to their experience with cancer. Patients undergo a qualitative interview over
      approximately 45 minutes and complete validated questionnaires within 4 weeks prior to the
      workshop and midway through the workshop.

      WORKSHOPS B AND C: Patients participate in an artist-led comic art therapy workshop over 3
      hours once a week for 5 weeks. Patients receive a range of assignments that focus on creative
      art and experimentation with materials and storytelling in order to make a series of small
      handmade books that relate directly or indirectly to their experience with cancer. Patients
      undergo a qualitative interview over approximately 45 minutes and complete validated
      questionnaires within 4 weeks prior to the workshop.

      After completion of the study, patients are followed up at 1 and 6 weeks.
    
  