
    
      The investigators' central hypothesis is that pregnancy in obese women creates an
      oxidant/anti-oxidant imbalance, which adversely impacts maternal health and neonatal outcome.
      The investigators hypothesize that restoring oxidant/anti-oxidant balance with a body mass
      index (BMI) based prenatal micronutrient supplement will decrease oxidative stress. The
      investigators aim to devise a prenatal vitamin supplement based on maternal BMI to increase
      serum levels of antioxidant vitamins in obese pregnancy, to assess how the BMI-based prenatal
      vitamin supplementation impacts markers of oxidative stress and inflammation in obese
      pregnant women and to evaluate the effectiveness of this vitamin formulation in reducing
      oxidative stress and inflammation and improving growth trajectories in infants born to obese
      women.

      The investigators will conduct a double-blind randomized-controlled study. Two groups of
      women will be randomized independently. 1) Obese women (BMI>30) planning pregnancy through
      the through advertising and mailings (N=50) and 2) Pregnant women who are early in pregnancy
      (<13 weeks) will be approached at their first prenatal visit at the BWH and BIDMC obstetric
      practices (N=120).

      Women will be prescreened and approached by study staff if they qualify. After informed
      consent is obtained, patients will be randomized to either control or intervention group by
      computer-generated permuted block randomization. All subjects will be given a standard
      prenatal vitamin provided by the study and in addition, the control group will be given a
      placebo and the Intervention group will be given a supplement with vitamin C, E, B6 and
      folate.

      The primary outcomes are maternal systemic markers of inflammation and oxidative stress. At
      the time points mentioned above, the following laboratory assays will be conducted in
      maternal blood or urine: C reactive protein, vitamins C, E, B6, folate 8-iso-PGF2a and
      8-OHdG. The secondary outcomes are cord blood markers of inflammation and oxidative stress,
      breastfeeding success, and the following infant outcomes over the first year:
      neurodevelopmental outcome, growth trajectories and adiposity, systemic markers of
      inflammation and oxidative stress.
    
  