
    
      Methods of laparoscopic repair of large and giant hiatal hernias are the most challenging
      questions in gastrointestinal minimally invasive surgery. The literature demonstrates high
      rates of anatomical and functional recurrence after laparoscopic repair of large hiatal
      hernias, particularly following primary crural repair. Different methods of mesh repair were
      introduced and several trials showed their benefits. However, necessity and method of
      prosthetic repair remain questionable as mesh repair results in high frequency of long-term
      dysphagia and oesophageal strictures.

      There is insufficient grade 1 evidence for choice of optimal method of repair of large hiatal
      hernias. Only 3 prospective randomized trials comparing prosthetic and primary hiatal repair
      were published by Frantzides et al (2002), Granderath et al (2005), and Oelschlager et al
      (2006). However, these trials could not recommend effective, safe, and relatively inexpensive
      method of repair. Although Frantzides et al (2002) showed statistically significant decrease
      of recurrence rate in composite (ePTFE) mesh arm, the study included only patients with
      diameter of defect 8 cm and greater, thus it is still unknown whether mesh should be used for
      hernias with smaller diameter of hernia defect, for example, between 5 and 8 cm. Most
      specialists use mesh when the diameter of the defect is just greater than 5 cm, based on
      their own experience and widespread literature data, including studies of Champion et al
      (1998, 2003). In addition, hiatal surface area (HSA), first described by Granderath et al
      (2007), is more sensitive measure than diameter of hiatal hernia defect, and further trials
      should focus on it. Finally, ePTFE prosthesis is rather expensive.

      The trial of Granderath et al (2005) also was not primarily focused of relation between
      diameter of hernia defect and rate of recurrences. In this study, recurrence rate was also
      smaller in the polypropylene arm, but the rate of dysphagia was lager in the same arm.
      Although later these authors reported that differences between arms in rates of dysphagia and
      motility disorders vanished in 1 year, most of authors still consider polypropylene mesh
      potentially unsafe (Frantzides et al, 2010).

      To remove the risk of mesh-related oesophageal complications, biological prostheses were
      introduced for hiatal repair, but the study of Oelschlager et al (2006) demonstrated
      insignificant difference in recurrence rates in prosthesis arm compared to primary repair
      arm, although no cases of mesh-related complications were observed in prosthesis arm. Data
      from the literature and international congresses suggest that biological devices cannot be
      widely used in the setting of large hiatal hernias due to high rate of recurrences and their
      high price. Data from another recent numerous publications including reviews made the same
      conclusions that large and giant hiatal hernias require mesh repair but search for the
      optimal prosthesis and fashion of its fixation is ongoing.

      Hiatal repair by partially absorbable lightweight meshes is promising technique and may
      become an optimal because it can minimize both recurrences and oesophageal complications.
      Hazebroek et al (2008) reported good functional, endoscopic, and radiological outcomes in
      terms of esophageal complications after on-lay placement of titanium-coated lightweight
      polypropylene mesh (non-randomized prospective study). Our own experience of 400 repairs
      using lightweight mesh (Ultrapro, Ethicon) and original sub-lay technique of its fixation
      precluding contact of the mesh with the oesophagus, showed low recurrence rate (4,9%) and a
      few cases of long-term dysphagia (2,1%). Therefore, the hypothesis of our double-blind
      prospective randomized trial is: original technique of lightweight mesh (Ultrapro, Ethicon)
      repair is highly effective for prevention of recurrences compared to primary repair and safe
      in terms of mesh-related dysphagia and oesophageal strictures.

      The study will enroll at least 100 patients with large (i.e. with hiatal surface area (HSA)
      ranging from 10 to 20 sq.cm, which corresponds to diameter of defect from 5 to 8 cm) types I,
      II, and III hiatal hernias. The chosen size of the defect is the most questionable in terms
      of the need for applying a mesh: when HSA is 20 sq.cm or greater the necessity of mesh repair
      is obvious, when it is less than 10 sq.cm usage of mesh is unreasonable. The basic
      eligibility criteria will be: absence of oesophageal motility disorders, absence of
      oesophageal shortening requiring Collis procedure, absence of peptic strictures and other
      factors that may independently influence the rate of recurrence and dysphagia/oesophageal
      strictures. Thus, the only difference between arms will be method of hiatal closure. To
      exclude fundoplication-related bias, standard floppy-Nissen procedure will be performed in
      every patient.

      Every patient will be operated by single surgical team with an experience of more than 1500
      laparoscopic anti-reflux procedures since 1998. The necessary ethic regulations will be saved
      including informed consent with the statement that patient is unaware of the method of repair
      (double-masked). Every patient is going to be evaluated preoperatively, 6 months, and 24
      months postoperatively using symptom questionnaires, quality of life and satisfaction
      questionnaires, barium studies, endoscopic examinations, and 24-hour pH testing. For issue of
      efficacy of prosthetic repair, recurrence rate of hernia and GERD, which are the primary
      outcome measure, will be studied. For issue of safety of prosthetic repair, rates of short-
      and long-term dysphagia/oesophageal strictures/mesh erosions, which are main secondary
      outcome measure, will be evaluated.
    
  