
    
      BACKGROUND:

      In the early 1990s, posttransfusion NANBH, mainly caused by HCV, was the most common serious
      complication of transfusions, occurring in 2-5 percent of transfusion recipients. About 50
      percent of those infected developed chronic hepatitis, of whom, 10 to 20 percent developed
      cirrhosis. Hepatocellular carcinoma had been reported to occur in some. This study provided
      the first evaluation of the effectiveness of donor screening for anti-HCV by the then
      recently licensed HCV antibody test and surrogate markers of NANBH. It also provided a
      precise estimate of the risk of transfusion-transmitted HCV. The results allowed examination
      of risk factors for HCV infected donors who were seronegative at the time of donation.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study was a nonconcurrent prospective, seroepidemiologic study. To estimate the incidence
      of HCV infection, six-month postoperative serum samples were tested for antibody to HCV.
      Preoperative samples corresponding to positive postoperative sera were also tested. The
      donors of a patient who received blood screened for HCV, i.e., a donation since May, 1990,
      and seroconverted in the six months since transfusion were located and retested for
      antibodies to HCV. The donors were administered a questionnaire designed to ascertain risk
      factors for HCV infection. A sample of donors who were HCV positive at the time of donation
      were given the same questionnaire. Comparison of these three groups of donors (i.e.,
      seropositives, donors tested negative but implicated in seroconversion, seronegatives)
      allowed an investigation of factors associated with false negative screening results.
      Analytical methods included standard methods for contingency tables and both conditional and
      unconditional logistic regression.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  