
    
      Study participants. Given their documented high rates of respiratory illness, US military
      trainees were selected for participation. A sample size of 166,744 person-years was
      calculated based on the following assumptions: 12% attrition from military training, clinical
      pneumonia attack rate of 11 cases per 1000 person-years, 20% of captured pneumonias caused by
      Sp, 90% of captured Sp pneumonias caused by a vaccine-covered Sp strain, and 70% vaccine
      efficacy.

      Enrollment and follow-up. This study was approved by multiple Department of Defense (DoD)
      institutional review boards. Using an informed consent process, basic training recruits at 5
      recruit training centers (in South Carolina, Missouri, Illinois, and California) were invited
      to participate during their first week of training. Pregnancy screening was performed on all
      women, and those with positive results were not enrolled. Exclusion criteria included having
      previously received the a 23-valent pneumococcal vaccine during the previous 5 years or
      having a medical condition that either required or precluded pneumococcal vaccination. Study
      participants completed a study questionnaire and were administered a pre-packaged, blinded,
      and randomized injection containing either the 23-valent pneumococcal vaccine (Wyeth
      Pharmaceuticals or Merck & Company, Inc.) or saline in a 1:1 ratio. Study injections were
      administered at the same time as other recruit in-processing vaccinations, which may have
      included vaccines against polio, measles-mumps-rubella, varicella, tetanus-diphtheria,
      hepatitis A virus, hepatitis B virus, meningococcal disease (A/C/Y/W135), and influenza. At
      the end of recruit training, a questionnaire was administered to capture symptoms and signs
      of illnesses which might have been missed captured by the active and passive surveillance.

      As enrollment continued for more than two years, the person-year contributions of those first
      enrolled were greater than those enrolled near the trial's end. The original planned
      surveillance period was 1.7 years. This was later extended to 6.7 years from enrollment of
      the first participant, for continued monitoring of impact in this large double-blinded trial.

      Specimen collection. During the active surveillance period, study participants with suspect
      pneumonia were identified by the attending physician. Study personnel obtained three throat
      swabs, blood cultures (aerobic and anaerobic), sputum sample (if producible), and acute serum
      samples from participants. Attempts were made to also capture a convalescent serum sample 2
      weeks after the acute presentation on all radiographically-confirmed pneumonia cases. These
      attempts were not always successful. Barriers included: trainee discharge from military
      service, difficulty in obtaining access to the recruits when they were in field exercises,
      and recruits graduating and moving to new duty stations.

      Laboratory methods. Specimens collected from study participants were examined using classic,
      molecular, and serologic laboratory methods at the Naval Health Research Center (NHRC)
      Respiratory Disease Laboratory, a College of American Pathologist (CAP) accredited
      laboratory.

      NHRC isolated adenovirus, influenza, parainfluenza, and respiratory syncytial virus from
      pharyngeal swabs using fluorescent antibody antigen tests. Adenovirus and influenza isolates
      were typed using standard viral identification techniques.

      Sputum specimens were inoculated for Sp culture using standard techniques. When Sp species
      were identified, capsular serotyping was performed, and standard antimicrobial sensitivities
      were assessed. Paired acute and convalescent sera were assessed for IgM and IgG titers to
      pneumolysin. Sera were tested with an enzyme immunoassay using a procedure such as described
      by Kalin, M, et al.

      For Chlamydophila pneumoniae polymerase chain reaction (PCR) study, throat swabs were
      collected from patients diagnosed with pneumonia, immediately placed in Chlamydia transport
      media, and transported on ice. The throat swabs were used in a direct PCR method, such as the
      procedure described by Campbell et al. Amplification products were analyzed by
      electrophoresis through a 1.5% agarose gel by standard methods. Sample preparation, PCR
      amplification, and analysis of amplification products were performed in separate rooms.

      To assess M. pneumoniae, a throat swab was collected and immediately placed into 2.0 ml of M.
      pneumoniae transport media (SP-4 broth). Culturing, sub-culturing, and molecular testing was
      performed as per previously published protocols.

      Capturing disease outcomes. Outcome measures included any cause pneumonia, any cause
      respiratory disease, recruit training clinical pneumonia (radiographically-confirmed during
      the recruit training period), or days lost from training. Active surveillance was conducted
      for radiographically-confirmed pneumonias only during the recruit training period (Marines-12
      weeks, Navy-8 weeks, Army-9 weeks). Passive electronic monitoring of health care encounters
      for outcomes other than recruit training clinical pneumonia took place during recruit
      training and at the subsequent duty stations using the DoD comprehensive electronic databases
      of outpatient healthcare encounters (SADR), inpatient encounters (SIDR), and encounters at
      civilian facilities billed to the DoD (HCSR). ICD-9-CM codes 480 through -486 and 487 were
      monitored for these outcomes throughout the entire study period. Meningitis cases (ICD-9-CM
      codes 320 through -320.2, 320.9, and 322.9) were also captured through these electronic
      databases.

      Statistical analysis. After descriptive investigation of population characteristics,
      univariate analyses were performed to assess the significance of associations between
      demographic variables with acute respiratory infection, pneumonia, and
      radiographically-confirmed pneumonia.

      Active surveillance time was calculated from the participant's enrollment date to the
      projected completion of training, or diagnosis with radiographically-confirmed pneumonia.
      Passive surveillance was calculated from the date of enrollment to June 01 2007, diagnosis
      with pneumonia or acute respiratory infection, or separation from active duty service,
      whichever occurred first.

      Using regression diagnostics, collinearity among variables was investigated. Cox's
      proportional hazard time-to-event modeling was used to evaluate outcomes among study
      participants, while adjusting for differences in population characteristics between treatment
      arms and accounting for different enrollment dates and active and passive surveillance
      periods. The saturated Cox regression model was reduced by a manual backward stepwise
      elimination approach removing those variables that were insignificant at α = 0.05 level and
      not confounding the other measures of association. Additionally, cumulative probabilities of
      outcomes from enrollments through end of follow-up periods were graphed. Statistical modeling
      to produce adjusted hazard ratios (HRs) and associated 95% confidence intervals (CIs) was
      performed using Statistical Analysis System (SAS) software (Version 9.0, SAS Institute, Inc.,
      Cary, North Carolina).

      Crude vaccine effectiveness measures for each outcome were calculated for all participants
      and for each branch of service using a 1-relative risk x 100% estimate.

      Days lost from training were estimated using a survey administered at the end of training to
      a convenience sample of 71,692 study participants. Differences between treatment arms were
      evaluated using ANOVA.
    
  