
    
      2.1 Design A multicenter prospective study was performed in three French hospitals (Reims,
      Nancy and Besançon) between January 2008 and January 2011. The follow-up period was 18 months
      for each dyad.

      2.2 Population

      In practice, our study will be carried out in five sessions and at three visits:

      The first visit in maternity service, following the birth of the child, the second visit, in
      the neonatology service, right before the discharge. The third time will be repeated at 6, 12
      and 18 months, within the framework of the systematic tracking of premature babies within the
      early medico-social actions' center (CAMSP).

      2.3 Data collection 2.3.1 Sociodemographic and clinical data Sociodemographic variables
      recorded during the study were age, marital status, level of education and profession.

      For the mothers, clinical data were: number of childbirths, number of pregnancies, medical
      history of the pregnancy (threatened premature labor, hospitalization,...), obstetric history
      (miscarriage, medical interruption of pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, in vitro
      fertilization, threatened premature labor, prematurity, hospitalizations,…), delivery
      conditions (C-section or vaginal), multiple pregnancy (number of babies), anesthesia type
      (none, epidural, total), personal histories (medical, surgical, psychiatric, family).

      For the infants, clinical data were: date of birth, term of birth, weight, size, cranial
      perimeter, Apgar score at five and ten minutes, necessity or not of a neonatal resuscitation,
      method of feeding (breast-, bottle-, mixed-feeding).

      For the dyads, clinical data were the presence or absence of a specific coping (psychologist,
      psychomotor therapist, …).

      2.3.2 Evaluation scales 2.3.2.1 For the mother Evaluation of trauma of the mother using "
      Perinatal Posttraumatic Stress Disorder " or PPQ.

      It consists of a self--questionnaire made up of 14 items, specially adapted to the parents of
      perinatal high-risk children, in order to evaluate the presence of traumatic elements
      concerning the birth.

      In order to neutralize identified biases, the investigators also evaluate the maternal co
      morbidity while using:

      The HADS scale (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale) which is a self-questionnaire
      frequently used in international literature. Fast and easy to use, it makes it possible to
      evaluate anxious and depressive symptomatology of the people having somatic diseases. It
      makes it possible to evaluate the episodes of recent anxiety and depression and to attribute
      an overall score to each one. The result is expressed in a score.

      The EPDS scale (Edinburgh Post-natal Depression Scale) consists of a self-questionnaire that
      tracks postnatal depression and includes 10 items, which the investigators offer to the
      mother as of the 4th week of postpartum.

      The maternal social support self-evaluation by the Support Social Questionnaire (SSQ) of
      Sarason, proposes the measure of the number of people available and the perceived quality of
      this support, using 6 items.

      2.3.2.2 For the child The investigators evaluate the perinatal risk of the infant with the
      scale Perinatal Risk Inventory (PRI). This scale uses 18 items to describe the gravity of the
      perinatal problems and the severity of the perinatal risk while being based on perinatal
      factors such as the Apgar score, the gestational age, the weight or the cranial perimeter.

      The developmental evaluation of the child is done using DDST, Denver Developmental Screening
      Test. This assessment makes it possible to evaluate the level of the child between 0 to 6
      years of age in the various fields of the development (global motricity, language, fine
      motricity, social contact).

      The perceived temperament of the child is evaluated by the self-questionnaire filled out by
      the mother on the temperament of her infant QT6, translation of Bates' "Infant
      Characteristics Questionnaire". The mother ranks each item indicating the level of perceived
      difficulty in dealing with the described behavior. Four subscales have been identified
      through principal components analyses: Fussy/Difficult, Unadaptable, Dull, and Unpredictable.

      2.3.2.3 For the interactions in the dyad Censullo's DMC (Dyadic Mutuality Code) Scale can be
      used for the first 6 months of the baby's life. After a 5-minute observation of the dyad
      interacting the observer codes 6 items (mutual attention, positive affect, reciprocity,
      maternal pauses, clearness of the signals of the baby, receptivity/maternal sensitivity). The
      score makes it possible to define a low or high interactional synchrony.

      Fiese's PIPE (Pediatric Infant Parent Exam) can be used from 0 to 18 months. The mother is
      invited to play for a short time, games like "peek-a-boo" with her baby. The observer of the
      interaction grants a grade to the degree of interactional reciprocity and positive affects at
      the beginning, during and at the end of the play.
    
  