
    
      The study is a randomized, 2-arm, placebo-controlled, within-subjects crossover study to
      evaluate the satiety and metabolic response patterns of gum/no gum in relatively healthy
      weight and obese women.

      The study will require one initial screening visit (1 hour) and 2 study visits. We are
      looking for healthy, non-smoking women older than 18 years of age with no significant medical
      history.

      The initial screening visit will determine subject eligibility through height, weight and
      waist circumference measurements, vital signs, blood glucose test (finger prick) and
      completion of a series of surveys related to eating, health, exercise and mood.

      If willing and eligible to participate, subjects will have 2 study visits. The lunch will be
      provided 4 hours after a intra-subject standardized breakfast (the same breakfast for each
      subject before each study visit). Upon arrival at each visit, subjects will have
      anthropometric measurements, vital signs upon blood glucose finger prick as well as
      assessment for compliance with breakfast protocol, subsequent fasting and adequate water
      intake.

      Upon completion of pre-study procedures, a registered nurse will place a catheter (flexible
      tubing) in the subjects' arm during each study visit. A catheter is used so subjects are not
      stuck with a needle for every blood sample. Instead, the catheter is inserted using a needle,
      the needle is removed and the flexible plastic tubing remains the arm for the duration of the
      study day serving as a port for collecting blood samples at the specific time points

      The initial blood draw will be collected (pre-lunch) then the lunch meal served. Subjects
      will have 20 minutes to finish the entire lunch meal. Thereafter, subjects will describe
      feelings of hunger, thirst and desire to eat every 30 minutes for 3 hours followed by blood
      draws.

      At one of the 2 study visits, subjects will be provided chewing gum at which they will chew
      gum for 15 minutes leading up to the question set and blood draw.

      A tray of snacks will be provided at 3 hours post-lunch and subjects may consume the snacks
      as desired. Lastly, a final set of questions will be answered followed by a blood draw at 4
      hours post-lunch.

      During the course of the study, subjects will be instructed to maintain their usual level of
      activity and a self-selected diet. Three day food records will be maintained throughout the
      course of the study.

      Each study visit will last approximately 4 1/2 hours and subjects will be required to remain
      at the Clinical Nutrition Research Center on the IIT Campus for the duration of the visit.
    
  