
    
      Fludarabine and cyclophosphamide are designed to enter CLL cells and destroy the "machinery"
      that allows CLL cells to multiply. Rituximab is designed to bind to CLL cells and cause cell
      death. GM-CSF is designed to help the bone marrow to produce white cells. It may also
      increase the target molecule called cluster of differentiation antigen 20 (CD20) for
      rituximab on the surface of the CLL cells which may improve the activity of rituximab.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have what are called "screening
      tests." These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in the
      study. You will have a complete physical exam. Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for
      routine tests. The routine blood draw will include a test for hepatitis B, unless this has
      been done within the last 6 months. This routine blood draw will also include a pregnancy
      test for women who are able to have children. To be eligible to take part in this study, the
      pregnancy test must be negative. A bone marrow aspirate and biopsy will be collected. To
      collect a bone marrow aspirate and biopsy, an area of the hip or chest bone is numbed with
      anesthetic and a small amount of bone marrow and bone is withdrawn through a large needle.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in the study, you will receive GM-CSF thorough a
      needle under your skin on Day 1. Each study cycle is about 4 weeks, but may be longer
      depending on side effects or leukemia response.

      You will receive rituximab through a needle in your vein on Day 2. The first infusion may
      take up to 8 hours. For every dose of rituximab after that, the infusion may take 2-4 hours.
      The length of the infusion time depends on whether you have any reactions to the infusion.
      The dose level of rituximab may be increased for Cycles 2-6 as well. The drugs Tylenol
      (acetaminophen) and Benadryl (diphenhydramine hydrochloride) will be given before each dose
      of rituximab. This will be done to decrease the risk of side effects. If side effects do
      occur during rituximab treatment, the drug may have to be stopped until the side effects go
      away and then restarted, so your time in the outpatient area may be longer if that occurs.

      On Days 3-5 of the first treatment cycle, fludarabine and cyclophosphamide will be given
      through a needle in your vein. Each infusion will take about 30 minutes. After the first
      treatment cycle, fludarabine and cyclophosphamide will be given on Days 2, 3, and 4 for every
      cycle after that.

      During each cycle, the day after you receive fludarabine and cyclophosphamide, you will begin
      to receive GM-CSF. You will receive the drug for 1 week or until your white cell count has
      returned to an acceptable level.

      Cycle 1 will be given at M.D. Anderson's outpatient clinic. In some cases, Cycle 1 may be
      given in the inpatient area. The other 5 cycles can be given either at M.D. Anderson or at
      another location.

      With the exception of rituximab, the same doses of all other drugs will be used throughout
      the study unless side effects become severe. In that case, the dose may be lowered, or the
      treatment may be stopped.

      During each cycle, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn once every 1-2 weeks for routine
      tests.

      You will have a bone marrow biopsy performed at the end of Cycles 3 and 6 to check the status
      of the disease.

      You may remain on study for up to 6 cycles. You will be taken off study if the disease gets
      worse or if intolerable side effects occur.

      Once you are off study, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn every 6-12 months for routine
      tests.

      This is an investigational study. Fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, rituximab, and GM-CSF are
      all FDA approved and commercially available. However, their use in this study and in this
      combination is considered investigational. Up to 60 patients will take part in the study. All
      will be enrolled at M.D. Anderson.
    
  