
    
      Aims: (1) Examine whether tart cherry juice supplementation with cycling exercise augments
      fat oxidation rate and therefore plays a role in weight management in healthy active human
      participants. (2) To extrapolate findings from this study to future biomedical health and
      disease research.

      Methods: Random counterbalanced, within-group, double-blind study design. Participants were
      randomly allocated into consuming either cherry juice first or placebo. Eleven recreationally
      active male and female participants were recruited. Participants consumed 30ml Montmorency
      tart cherry juice concentrate mixed with 100ml water, twice daily for 20 days. Participants
      underwent a 14 day washout period between trials. All participants were instructed to keep to
      their habitual intake of polyphenols and anthocyanins. Twenty-four hours before each exercise
      testing session, participants consumed similar meals at the same times. Diet adherence was
      monitored through food diaries.

      Participants attended each testing session following an overnight fast, with the testing
      being completed at the same time in the morning to avoid circadian variation. Preliminary
      testing was conducted to ascertain VO2max and individual FATMAX, 4 days before the one hour
      pre-supplementation exercise test. VO2max was re-assessed 4 days before the one hour
      post-supplementation exercise test to determine if any changes in training status affected
      results.

      Testing will occur at baseline, 10 days after the onset of supplementation and after 20 days
      supplementation. Exercise protocol consisted of 60min cycling at pre-determined individual
      FATMAX. Continuous gas analysis and heart rate were monitored throughout. Substrate oxidation
      rates and energy expenditure were calculated using stoichiometric equations (Jeukendrup and
      Wallis, 2005). During each testing session blood pressure and body composition (impedance)
      measurements were taken at baseline and pre-exercise during all testing sessions. Resting
      metabolic rate (indirect calorimetry) was assessed at baseline and pre-exercise during all
      testing sessions.

      Serum blood samples were obtained from participants at the following time points: baseline,
      pre-exercise and post-exercise for one hour submaximal exercise tests, in both trials. The
      following markers were analysed: Glucose, Lactate, Triglycerides, HDL, Total Cholesterol and
      Total Antioxidant Status.
    
  