
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will continue receiving the
      same TKI at the dose you had been receiving for the last 6 months.

      You will receive azacitidine either as an injection under your skin or through a vein every
      day for 3 to 7 days of each 28-day cycle. The dose and how often you take the drug will
      depend on when you enter the study. The study staff will tell you how often you will receive
      the drug.

      In the first part of the study, you will be assigned to a dose level of azacitidine based on
      when you join this study. Up to 2 dose levels of azacitidine will be tested. At least 3
      participants will be enrolled at each dose level. The first group of participants will
      receive the lowest dose level. The next group will receive a higher dose than the group
      before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen. This will continue until the highest
      tolerable dose of azacitidine is found. This is called the Dose Escalation Group.

      Once the highest tolerated dose has been found, an extra 36 participants will receive
      azacitidine at this dose level. This is called the Expansion Group.

      If you have severe side effects from the study drug, the study doctor may decide to reduce
      and/or stop drug dosing until your side effects improve. If the doctor thinks it is in you
      best interest, your dose may be increased.

      Study Visits:

      At every visit, you will be asked about any side effects you have had and to list any drugs
      you may be taking.

        -  Every 1-2 weeks for 8 weeks, then at the start of every cycle, blood (about 1 teaspoon)
           will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Every 2-4 weeks for 8 weeks, then before each cycle, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will also
           be drawn to test your kidney and liver function.

        -  Before each cycle for 3 cycles, then every 3-6 cycles until 1 year, then every 6-12
           cycles, blood (about 1 tablespoon) drawn for molecular testing.

        -  Every 3-6 months in Year 1, then as often the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have
           a bone marrow aspirate to check the status of the disease.

        -  If you are in the Expansion Group, every 3 months (+/- 1 month) for the first 6 months,
           then every 6-12 months, you will have a complete physical exam.

        -  If you are in the Dose Escalation Group, every 2 weeks for the first month, Months 1, 2,
           3, and 6 (+/- 1 month), and then every 6-12 months, you will have a complete physical
           exam.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drug for as long as the doctor thinks it is in your best
      interest. You will no longer be able to take the study drug if the disease gets worse, if
      intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over once you have completed the end-of-treatment and
      follow-up visits.

      This is an investigational study. TKIs are approved for the treatment of CML. Azacitidine is
      FDA approved and commercially available for the treatment of patients with MDS. The
      combination of these drugs to treat CML is investigational.

      Up to 48 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  