
    
      Background:

      Social relations are important to people and it affects their quality of life, morbidity and
      mortality. This is especially true among older people and social relations are also important
      for the management of chronic diseases. Those with strong social relations are less sick, and
      recover faster if they become sick. There is also a connection between social relations and
      death, as people with many social relations are more likely to live longer than people with
      few social relations. In Denmark it is assumed that poor social relationships causes between
      1000-1500 deaths per year, equivalent to about 2% of all deaths.

      This is a randomised controlled trial studying the effect of including older people with poor
      social relationships and a perception of loneliness at workshops, at The Storm P. Museum - a
      museum about the well known Danish cartoonist Robert Storm Petersen.

      Hypothesis:

      The hypothesis is, that by including older lonely people with a poor social participation in
      these workshops, they will increase the participants health related quality of life. The
      investigators also hypothesis, that the intervention will improve the participants perception
      of loneliness, social participation and physical function as well as mortality and nursing
      home placement at long term.

      The intervention:

      Both the intervention and the comparison group will be invited to an event at the Storm P.
      Museum.

      This event consist of

        -  A guided tour of the collection with a presentation on Storm P. 's life and artistic
           work.

        -  A representative from the municipal DaneAge Association will subsequently tell about the
           municipality's activities for the elderly.

        -  The museum will serve a refreshment and offer participants a season pass to the museum.

      In addition the intervention group will be invited to participate in a series of workshops at
      the Storm P. Museum with scheduled meetings twice a month. In collaboration with the museum,
      participants at these workshops will create memory material for nursing home residents with
      dementia.

      The workshop will use narrative as a method to give participants a mutual relationship that
      is perceived as meaningful and rewarding for each participant. Storytelling is central in
      creating a cognitive, meaningful and holistic life. In our dialogues we create a mutual
      understanding. Stories are central to people and is used in making sense in transitions and
      essential decisions in your life.

      The museum facilitates the process of storytelling using events, significant stories and
      artistic works by Storm P., and encourage the participants, via the method known as
      "narrative interview", to share similar stories from their life. This will not only benefit
      the participants, but also act as crucial empirical data collected via journal keeping for
      this project.

      The intervention is planned to last for up to 12 months and outcome measures are collected at
      baseline, 9 months and at 18 months.
    
  