
    
      The primary objective is to test with a one-sided significance of 5% whether for the
      treatment of small cell lung cancer (SCLC) patients, brain MRI surveillance alone is
      non-inferior in terms of overall survival compared to prophylactic cranial irradiation (PCI)
      combined with brain MRI surveillance in the entire study population under the treatment
      policy strategy.

      The secondary objectives are:

        -  To test with a one-sided type I error of 2.5% whether brain MRI surveillance is superior
           in terms of cognitive failure free survival (CFFS) compared to prophylactic cranial
           irradiation (PCI) combined with brain MRI surveillance in the study population.

        -  To test with a one-sided type I error of 2.5% whether brain MRI surveillance is superior
           in terms of global health status/QoL and cognitive functioning according to EORTC
           QLQ-C30 questionnaire compared to prophylactic cranial irradiation (PCI) combined with
           brain MRI surveillance in the study population.

        -  To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicities according to CTCAE v5.0 in the two
           arms in the treated population (i.e. patients who have started treatment).

      The exploratory objectives are:

        -  To compare OS and CFFS between the arms within the subgroups of patients with LS and ES
           disease.

        -  To compare OS and CFFS between the arms within the subgroups: HA-PCI or not, first-line
           immunotherapy or not, memantine or not.

        -  To compare cognitive failure free survival (CFFS) rate at 12 months after randomization
           between the arms.

        -  To compare the cumulative incidence of cognitive failures with death as a competing risk
           between the arms.

        -  To compare brain-metastasis-free survival (BMFS) between the arms.

        -  To compare progression free survival (PFS) between the arms.

        -  To compare time to brain-metastasis-attributed death (TBMAD) between the arms.

        -  To compare other QoL scales according to EORTC QLQ-C30 and QLQ-BN20 questionnaires
           between arms.

        -  To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of MRI surveillance alone versus MRI surveillance
           combined with PCI.

        -  To collect blood for biobanking.
    
  