
    
      The primary objective of this investigation is to determine the impact of oxytocin (OT), a
      peptide hormone that influences social affiliation, on socioemotional neural circuitry and
      eating disorder behavior in anorexia nervosa (AN). Because socioemotional processing deficits
      appear to play a key role in AN, OT is implicated as a potential biological mechanism by
      which eating disorder behavior (e.g., restrictive eating) is maintained. Used as a probe,
      intranasal oxytocin (INOT) provides an innovative method for examining the short-term impact
      of OT on socioemotional neural processing disturbances and eating disorder behavior in AN.
      The proposed study tests a theoretical model of the role of OT in the maintenance of AN by
      using an INOT probe to determine, and potentially alter, neurobiological responses to
      socioemotional stimuli. Specifically, this study will use a randomized, controlled,
      double-blind design involving the administration of INOT or placebo to adults with AN
      restricting subtype and age-matched controls prior to neuroimaging to assess the impact on
      frontolimbic brain activity in response to socioemotional stimuli. The potential impact of
      INOT on restrictive eating will also be assessed in a subsequent test meal. We predict that
      for participants with AN, INOT, but not placebo, will normalize frontolimbic activation in
      response to social reward stimuli and prefrontal activation in response to social threat
      stimuli. In addition, the investigators predict that AN participants will display reduced
      restrictive eating in a test meal paradigm following INOT (but not placebo) administration.
      Finally, investigators predict that changes in restrictive eating following INOT
      administration will be mediated by altered frontolimbic responding to socioemotional cues.
      This investigation will provide an essential link uniting the data supporting the importance
      of socioemotional processing deficits in AN with the emerging role of INOT in altering the
      neural circuits involved in social behavior to test an innovative neurobiological maintenance
      model of AN.
    
  