
    
      Children will be recruited through local schools, pediatricians' offices, and through Dr.
      Sylvester's child anxiety clinic by asking staff to present Institutional Review Board (IRB)
      approved recruitment materials to potentially interested families. The investigators will
      also recruit with advertisements and placement of approved flyers, paragraphs and materials
      throughout the greater Washington University community as well as throughout the St. Louis
      community.

      The research assistant will make 'screening materials' available to recruitment sites
      including schools and pediatricians' offices. Staff at these recruitment sites will identify
      potential participants and distribute materials accordingly. Staff will only provide
      recruitment materials and will not answer questions regarding the study -- all questions will
      be answered by study staff. Screening materials will include a consent script, the contact
      information sheet, the SCARED, and the MFQ.

      A member of the research team will review screening materials and contact potential
      participants by phone on the basis of meeting inclusion criteria. This member of the research
      team will provide parent participants with information about the study and required elements
      of consent over the telephone (see attached "Initial Phone Screen") prior to obtaining the
      parent's verbal consent to participate in the screening elements of the study (Initial Phone
      Screen as well as SCARED/MFQ).

      If a parent and child meet eligibility criteria for enrollment in the study based on their
      Initial Phone Screen, and parents indicate they wish to continue with the study, the research
      team will arrange an in-person assessment. On the day of the in-person assessment, a research
      assistant will provide ample time for the parents to read/review the consent form and will
      answer any questions the parent may have prior to signing. Research team members will remind
      participants that their participation is completely voluntary and they can choose to withdraw
      at any time.

      After the in-person assessment, the participant may be asked to return for another visit to
      complete functional magnetic resonance imaging. This additional visit will be optional and
      not a requirement of participation in the overall study. The subject can choose not to
      participate in this phase of the study and may withdraw at any time. If the subject is
      interested, the investigators will obtain a separate document of informed consent for the
      imaging phase. As in the original informed consent document, immediately after the in-person
      assessment, a research assistant will provide ample time for the parents to read/review the
      imaging consent form and will answer any questions the parent may have prior to signing.

      The research assistant may also ask the participants at the end of the in-person assessment
      whether the investigators could call them in the future to participate in the imaging phase
      of the study. If the participant agrees, the team will call the participant within the next 3
      months to set up an appointment. In this case, the informed consent for imaging would be
      obtained at the beginning of the imaging visit with all of the above procedures applying.
    
  