
    
      The ONE PATH: Optimizing Nutrition Education for Parents And Teachers for Healthy growth
      study will rigorously test the efficacy of adding responsive feeding (RF) and appetite
      regulation components to an existing evidence-based intervention, the Nutrition and Physical
      Activity Self-Assessment of Child Care (NAP SACC) program. NAP SACC intervenes on the
      childcare setting environment and has been shown to lower child body mass index (BMI) in
      childcare settings and positively impact food environment policies. NAP SACC lacks Responsive
      Feeding (RF) guidance and does not target parents or the home environment, which is the focus
      of this study. ONE PATH will intervene upon 3 unique targeted audiences, 1) Early Childhood
      Education providers (ECE), 2) preschool children, and 3) parents of the pre-school children,
      to address childhood obesity in rural, under-served areas. ECE providers will receive
      much-needed online RF training and coaching. Preschool children will receive an experiential
      play-based curriculum delivered in the classroom focused on recognition of hunger and
      fullness cues and using attention control and mindfulness strategies to regulate food intake.
      Parents will receive RF guidance from Extension educators through home visitation.

      Aim 1 is to identify which intervention components improve feeding practices and children's
      appetite regulation (primary), and BMI z-scores (secondary) over the 9-month school year. The
      3 candidate intervention components include 1) RF interactive web-based training curriculum
      and coaching for ECE providers, 2) classroom curriculum that teaches regulation strategies to
      preschool children, and 3) responsive parenting (RP) curriculum and interactive activities
      for parents that provide opportunities to practice RF at home (delivered by Extension
      educators). The investigators will use the highly efficient multi-phase optimization (MOST)
      experimental strategy powered to detect main effects and all interactions.

      Aim 2 is to improve understanding of the mechanisms by which the 3 candidate intervention
      components work, and determine if individuals respond differently to intervention components
      using the data from the experiment in Aim 1. The investigators will examine whether food
      security and child temperament explain the effects of the intervention on the outcomes (child
      appetite regulation, caregiver feeding practices, and child BMI z-score).

      To investigate whether certain intervention components are more or less effective in certain
      subgroups, the investigators will explore moderation by child sex, race/ethnicity, and BMI
      categories.
    
  