
    
      Early-onset dementia (EOD), which begins before the age of 65, is less common than late-onset
      dementia but represents a significant burden for the patient, their family and the healthcare
      system. The descriptive epidemiology is poorly known, and the National Reference Center for
      young patients, using English data (Harvey et al., 2003) estimates the number of subjects
      concerned in France at 18,318. It is degenerative dementia that is the most common cause of
      EOD and among them, Alzheimer's disease and then frontotemporal degeneration (FTD) (Vieira et
      al., 2013). The natural history and prognostic factors of PDD are not well known, and only AD
      has some data. Alzheimer's disease (AD) in young people appears to have a worse prognosis
      than that in older people, but this is debated (Stanley and Walker, 2014) and also depends on
      the criteria studied: cognition, function or survival. Prognostic factors other EOD, and in
      particular frontotemporal dementias, which moreover are heterogeneous pathologies, are even
      less known.

      Investigators have chosen to study the functional prognosis of patients because it is both
      very relevant to care needs and easy to measure. Among the prognostic factors of functional
      status, investigators will study in particular psycho-behavioral disorders, and in particular
      depression, which is very common in patients with EOD, a factor of poor quality of life and
      accessible to treatment. Other potential prognostic factors such as cognitive reserve,
      gender, clinical variants of AD and DFT, family status (living alone or having a caregiver),
      genetic status, family history of dementia, CSF biomarkers and MRI imaging will be studied .
      The evolution of instrumental activities of daily living will be measured. The social and
      paramedical resources used by the patient and his family will be collected, as well as the
      use of psychotropic and non-drug treatments. Finally, the overall evolution of the severity
      of dementia will be measured.

      Eligible patients will be included for 3 years and evaluated every 6 months.
    
  