
    
      Primary Objective:

      -To evaluate the efficacy of using aboBTX-A to improve wound healing prior to Mohs
      micrographic surgery and reconstruction for skin cancer as measured by the Visual Analogue
      Scale (VAS) at 6 weeks post surgery.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To evaluate efficacy of using aboBTX-A to improve wound healing prior to Mohs
           micrographic surgery and reconstruction for skin cancer as measured by the Patient and
           Observer Assessment Scale (POSAS) at week 1, 6, and 24.

        -  To evaluate the efficacy of using aboBTX-A to improve wound healing prior to Mohs
           micrographic surgery and reconstruction for skin cancer as measured by the Visual
           Analogue Scale (VAS) at week 1 and 24 post surgery.

        -  To evaluate patient satisfaction

        -  To evaluate safety (adverse events)

      This is a 6 month, prospective, multicenter, double-blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled
      study. A total of 40 male or female healthy volunteers, 20 in each arm, will be enrolled. Up
      to 10 more patients can be enrolled to account for patient drop-out. Subjects will all
      undergo Mohs micrographic surgical removal of a skin cancer lesion on the forehead followed
      by reconstruction. Subjects will be randomized to receive either aboBTX-A injection or
      placebo injection in the frontalis, procerus, and corrugator muscles prior to reconstruction.
      Photographs, POSAS, and clinical assessments will be taken immediately after initial wound
      closure, at 1 week follow-up, at 6 weeks follow-up, and at 6 months follow-up. Adverse events
      will also be reviewed at each study visit. After the completion of the study, the photographs
      will be assessed (blinded as to the patient identifiers) using a 10 cm visual analog scale
      (VAS). The first few photographs will be evaluated by the surgeons together to calibrate the
      VAS and ensure inter-reliability.
    
  