
    
      The overall goal of this study is to determine the impact of non-invasive brain stimulation
      on autonomic function in human subjects without functional gastrointestinal disorders and in
      subjects with Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) or Functional Dyspepsia (FD).

      Aim 1: Determine whether repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) of specific
      cortical areas alters physiologic measures of gastrointestinal and cardiac function.

      The investigators will use rTMS to transiently induce changes in neural excitability within
      specific cortical regions identified as being linked to autonomic regulation. Based on
      preliminary neuroanatomical data, one of the leading candidate cortical areas associated with
      sympathetic regulation lies within the trunk representation of the primary motor cortex.
      Thus, the investigators first plan on targeting this region of the primary motor cortex with
      rTMS and assess the effect of various parameters of rTMS on gastrointestinal and cardiac
      function in healthy human subjects. The investigators will then perform additional
      experiments using rTMS targeted to other specific cortical sites, such as the dorsal premotor
      area and rostral cingulate cortex that have also been linked to autonomic control. Each of
      these identified cortical regions may make unique contributions to autonomic reactivity.

      Aim 2: Determine whether the effects of targeted rTMS on autonomic function are mediated
      through a specific branch of the autonomic nervous system.

      In different sessions, the investigators will use FDA-approved pharmacological agents
      (hyoscyamine and metoprolol) to help determine whether the observed autonomic effects of
      cortical TMS are mediated primarily through the sympathetic or parasympathetic branches of
      the autonomic nervous system.

      Aim 3: Determine whether patients with functional gastrointestinal disorders demonstrate
      altered physiological reactivity to targeted rTMS.

      The investigators will use the optimal parameters of rTMS and regions of interest determined
      in Aim 1 to assess the gastrointestinal and cardiac reactivity in participants with
      functional dyspepsia (FD) and/or irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). These physiological
      responses will be correlated with assessments of disease severity, mood, and quality of life.
      In different sessions, the investigators will use FDA-approved pharmacological agents
      (hyoscyamine and metoprolol) to help determine whether any observed differences in
      physiological reactivity to targeted rTMS are primarily mediated through sympathetic or
      parasympathetic control.
    
  