
    
      The COREABOR Study is an open label, prospective, that will compare patients with sudden
      death who will be included during 2 successive periods of time: first a period of control and
      then a period of intervention.

      Interventional study.

      Altogether, 330 patients with resuscitated sudden death will be screened during the whole
      study period allowing to include 96 patients in the study (alive at 3 months after the event,
      estimated survival rate of 30%). For each screened patient, 2 relatives will be selected to
      participate to the study (n=660).

      To avoid biases, the control group of 48 patients will be included first and treated as
      recommended with usual care in center. Then, the 48 patients of the intervention group will
      be included during the second period of the study and the intensive care unit diary will be
      implemented only at this time.

      In the intervention group (second period with diary), a maximal delay of 8 hours is allowed
      to implement the diary for each patient after admission in centre.

      Visit 0 (V0): inclusion The study will recruit patients in the total incapacity to give their
      own consent for medical reasons (comatose patients) at admission. Subsequently a written
      inform consent of a relative will first be obtained and the patient's written consent will be
      obtained as soon as possible afterwards.

      Period 1: control group Medical care as usually performed in center and as recommended.

      Period 2: intervention group (intensive care unit diary) On top of usual care, an intensive
      care unit diary will be implemented for all patients within the first 8 hours following their
      admission. At discharge, the diary will be given to the patients themselves or to their
      relatives in case of in-hospital death. An anonymous copy will be kept by investigators.

      For all patients A psychological evaluation will be performed at 1 month (V1), 3 months (V2)
      and 6 months by phone contact only (V3) using the following elements Auto-questioner (PDI)
      Nurse diagnosis Psychological evaluation by dedicated personal (CAPS and mini-DSMIV)

      For relatives A psychological evaluation will be performed at 3 months (V2) and 6 months by
      phone contact only (V3)
    
  