
    
      As part of their therapy, some patients with psoriasis require treatment with biologic drugs,
      which are injected into their skin. While these are very effective, patients may experience
      some pain or discomfort associated with the injection of these drugs.

      In this research study conducted at Mount Sinai hospital, the investigators aim to identify
      whether this injection-related pain can be reduced if the area of skin to be injected with
      the biologic drug is treated with either ice packs or heating for two to three minutes prior
      to the injection.

      The investigators' aim is to include a total of 110 patients into this study, who have been
      started by their physician on one of these biologic drugs, such as etanercept, adalimumab,
      ustekinumab, or receiving secukinumab as part of a research study. Patients will be recruited
      at the Dermatology department. Patients who are receiving a biologic drug, which is injected
      subcutaneously (into their skin) are eligible to participate in this study.

      Each patient will receive his/her injection at our study site, by a study
      doctor/investigator. The same designee should inject the subject all three times. Each
      patient will receive a total of three of their biologic drug injections at the study site, so
      he/she can receive the injection once following pre-treatment with ice, once following
      pre-treatment with heating, and once without any pre-treatment.

      Patients will then be asked to mark the intensity of the pain associated with the injection
      on a scale, consisting of a horizontal line, by placing a single mark on the scale. The order
      of pre-treatment with ice or heat, or no pre-treatment will be randomized among all subjects
      (1/3 will receive ice first, 1/3 will receive heat first, 1/3 will receive no treatment
      first; the same randomization ratio will apply for the second and third injections).
    
  