
    
      Study Design: This is an open-label, single centre, prospective, cohort study to assess the
      effect of algorithmic, echocardiography-guided optimisation of CRT-D following implantation
      of a left ventricular quadripolar lead.

      Introduction and background:

      There is now considerable evidence that cardiac resynchronisation therapy (CRT) improves
      outcomes and symptoms in patients with heart failure. However, around a third of patients do
      not demonstrate any haemodynamic or functional benefit following device implantation. Earlier
      studies have used a cut-off of 15% reduction in left ventricular end-systolic volume to
      define response to CRT.

      Failure to respond to CRT is felt to be multifactorial. Issues include:

        -  Anatomical limitations in terms of lead placement (the lead must be placed within a
           branch of the coronary sinus vein and therefore targeting to the site of maximum
           contraction delay can be difficult)

        -  Presence of areas of scar tissue, which are resistant to being paced

        -  Phrenic nerve stimulation with some pacing sites. The phrenic nerve runs close to the
           heart and may be stimulated by the pacemaker, with the effect that the patient's
           diaphragm is stimulated and they experience persistent hiccups.

        -  High pacing thresholds, which means that increased power from the pacemaker must be used
           to create a successful pacing stimulus (capture) and that in some instances, capture may
           not be achieved. This can be due to scar or to poor contact with the heart tissue.

      Previous work has demonstrated that response can be improved in some patients by optimisation
      of inter- and intra-ventricular dyssynchrony and atrio-ventricular delay. However, this
      optimisation is limited by the fixed location of the leads after implantation, with pacing
      possible from the lead tip only. Multi-site pacing (MSP) with a quadripolar left ventricular
      lead has been introduced to increase the number of conformations available to the programmer
      and is especially useful in reducing phrenic nerve capture. Additionally, multiple vectors
      can be programmed sequentially or simultaneously, allowing for incorporation of a greater
      number of myocardial segments. Quadripolar left ventricular leads are now being routinely
      used in many hospitals. They offer new opportunities for optimising CRT-D
      (resynchronisation-defibrillator) devices by altering the pacing vectors between the four
      different poles on the lead and the two defibrillator coils to give hundreds of possible
      pacing combinations.

      Several recent studies have been published looking at the effect of multi-site pacing on
      effectiveness of CRT therapy. Generally these employ limited vector combinations, but have
      already demonstrated beneficial effects on haemodynamics and echocardiographic measures of
      heart function. The evaluation of an algorithm that examines many more vector combinations,
      including in combination with the right ventricular defibrillator coils, has not been
      performed. The researchers propose to investigate this method of optimisation.

      A gold standard for optimisation of CRT has yet to be defined. Methods employed predominantly
      include invasive haemodynamic measurement and echocardiography. The ideal method would have
      low inter-observer variability, high ease of use and rapid sampling rate to allow adjustments
      to be made and evaluated quickly. USCOM, a continuous-wave Doppler method of continually
      assessing cardiac output, has been successfully used in optimisation of CRT and has gained a
      patent, however has so far been used to optimise atrio-ventricular delay only. This method
      may prove a more accurate, rapid and convenient way to rapidly assess response to changes in
      pacemaker parameters. The investigators plan to evaluate these three methods of assessment
      and correlate with each other and with cardiovascular outcomes.

      Hypothesis:

      Use of an algorithm in optimisation of cardiac resynchronisation therapy systems containing
      quadripolar left ventricular leads and dual coil right ventricular leads will increase
      response rate to this therapy.

      Study structure:

      Patients will be recruited consecutively amongst those undergoing implantation of a CRT-D
      device. At baseline, they will undergo assessment of functional capacity and
      echocardiographic parameters as well as invasive left ventricular pressure monitoring. The
      device will be implanted under normal laboratory conditions, aiming for a postero-lateral or
      lateral cardiac vein left ventricular lead position. Algorithmic echocardiography-guided
      optimisation of the devices will be conducted at the time of device implantation. Further
      assessment will be conducted simultaneously with haemodynamic left ventricular pressure
      monitoring and Ultrasound Cardiac Output Monitoring (USCOM) during device optimisation. The
      devices will then be programmed with standard CRT parameters. Subjects will be seen at 12
      weeks for echocardiographic and functional assessment, following which algorithmic
      optimisation will be repeated with haemodynamic and echocardiographic monitoring
      concurrently. Further assessment will be performed at 24 weeks as per baseline, following
      which the study will end.

      Study population: 24 men and women, 18 years and older, who are able to attend follow-up
      assessment 12 and 24 weeks after implantation.
    
  