
    
      1. Screening All patients registering for outpatient services in the outpatient department
           will undergo routine investigation. When malaria is suspected, a thick and thin blood
           smear will be obtained for microscopic diagnosis of Plasmodium vivax or a malaria RDT
           undertaken. After the diagnosis is confirmed microscopically, an assessment will be made
           to see if the patient fulfils the study inclusion and exclusion criteria.

           The following clinical screening procedures will be performed. The age, gender, ethnic
           group, and contact details of the subject will be recorded in the source documents. In
           the medical history, any history of chronic disease including previous history of
           haemolysis or anaemia will be noted along with a history of allergy to any medications
           (including chloroquine or primaquine).

           Pregnancy is a contraindication to primaquine and all women considered at risk of
           pregnancy will undergo urine pregnancy testing prior to enrolment. A pregnancy test is
           done routinely in Afghanistan, consistent with National Treatment Guidelines.

           Vital signs (axillary temperature in degrees Celsius, heart rate, respiratory rate,
           blood pressure, and weight in kilograms) will be recorded. The physician will perform a
           general systems examination.

        2. Consent Patients who fulfil the study inclusion and exclusion criteria will be
           approached for informed consent.

        3. Procedures after enrolment

           Once informed consent is given, a second capillary blood sample (finger prick) will be
           taken for:

             -  CareStart RDT G6PD test. The RDT will be read at the appropriate time (10 minutes)
                and the result noted in the source documents. The RDT itself will be labelled and
                retained for future reference. It can also be analysed for host and parasite
                genotypes.

             -  Baseline haemoglobin measurement via the HemoCue system. This will generally
                involve use of a micropipette and the HemoCue microcuvettes.

             -  Collection of a dried blood spot (FTA card) labelled with an individual barcode.

             -  If a malaria RDT was used for diagnosis this will also be labelled and kept if
                possible for future analyses of G6PD and parasite genotyping.

             -  Biosensor recordings will also be made in a subset of patients at day 0 and day 14,
                if and when the device becomes available. These results will not influence patient
                management which will be based only on the RDT result.

        4. Antimalarials Chloroquine will be provided aiming for a dose of 10 mg/kg on day 0 & 1
           and 5mg/kg on day 2, (Afghanistan NMLCP guidelines).

           Primaquine will also be provided. (See dosing tables below) The target dose of
           primaquine is:

             -  0.25 mg/kg/day for 14 days (G6PD normal patients)

             -  0.75 mg/kg weekly for eight weeks (G6PD deficient patients). For small children,
                accurate drug dosage will be ensured by crushing a whole 15mg tablet and mixing in
                10 ml water (with sugar if possible) prior to oral administration of 1-4 ml via a
                syringe (see Table 2). For older children and smaller adults tablets will be split
                to the nearest quarter (see Appendix these doses can also be crushed for
                administration if necessary).

           Primaquine daily dosing This dosing table provides a daily dose of between 0.19 and 0.33
           mg/kg primaquine (total dose over 14 days 2.6 - 4.7 mg/kg).

           Children will be offered sweet drinks once the drug been administered to minimize the
           chance of vomiting. Parents of children will be shown how to measure the dose to allow
           accurate home administration.

           Treatment will generally be unsupervised to reflect field conditions. Sufficient
           primaquine will be given to last until the next visit. From the investigators own work
           and that of others in a similar population, adherence in this population is good, but
           this will be checked by pharmacological assessments of carboxyprimaquine levels.

           A subset of 25 G6PD normal patients at one site will have their primaquine treatment
           observed each day at the treatment centre by a qualified member of the staff designated
           by the principal investigator. Study patients will be observed for 60 minutes after drug
           administration for vomiting. Any patient who vomits during the first half-hour
           observation period will be retreated with the same dose of drug and observed for an
           additional 30 minutes. If the patient vomits in the second period they should receive
           half the drug. This will simply be noted and no further doses of primaquine given that
           day; doses will be given from the next day onwards as normal. A slightly extended case
           record form (CRF) will be used to record the timing of administration of primaquine
           doses in a tabular format.

        5. Patients with G6PD deficiency discovered at baseline Patients judged to be G6PD
           deficient will receive counselling in terms of what the diagnosis means, how they should
           avoid certain drugs and to show the G6PD card every time they buy drugs from a
           pharmacy/drug store or visit their doctors. They will be provided with a G6PD deficiency
           card listing drugs they should avoid.

        6. Follow-up Prior to going home on day 0, Patients will also be provided with clear verbal
           instructions in terms of self-monitoring for features of haemolysis, and advised to
           attend if any of these occur. All patients will be advised to return if they experience
           any side-effects. The Patient Information Sheet explains this and specifically refers to
           the symptom of dark urine.

           The patient will re-attend for follow-up at day 2, day 7 and day 14 and the following
           information recorded

             -  Medical and medication history

             -  Physical examination including vital signs

             -  Capillary blood sample (finger prick)

                  -  Haemoglobin measurement

                  -  Dried blood spots (d7 and d14) for primaquine and carboxyprimaquine.

                  -  Day14 G6PD activity measured by the Biosensor (subset of patients)

             -  Adverse events assessment focussing on patients who require hospitalisation

        7. Haemolysis and stopping primaquine Based on the extensive work already undertaken on the
           G6PD RDT, and with appropriate care, primaquine-induced haemolysis should not be a
           significant problem in this study. However, it is important to stop primaquine in
           individuals with signs of haemolysis, whatever the result from the initial G6PD RDT.

      Haemolysis is likely to manifest itself as early as first 48 hours after commencement of
      primaquine. The main symptoms are dark urine (macroscopic haemoglobinuria) and weakness /
      tiredness due to an acute fall in haemoglobin.

      The following criteria will be used to define an episode of haemolysis that requires
      primaquine to be stopped (and not reintroduced):

        -  Either a drop in haemoglobin concentration by more than 2g/dl compared to baseline

        -  Or an absolute haemoglobin concentration of less than 7 g/dl at any time The healthcare
           worker may also stop primaquine administration for reasons outside these criteria. If
           necessary patients will be admitted for management, or referred / transferred elsewhere,
           as per local practice.
    
  