
    
      Iodine is an essential trace element for normal growth and development in animals and man
      (Hetzel, 1989). When iodine requirements are not met, thyroid hormone synthesis is impaired
      resulting in hypothyroidism and a series of functional and development abnormalities called
      iodine deficiency disorders or IDD develop (WHO, 2007).

      WHO estimated that two billion people worldwide, including 1/3 of school-age children (de
      Benoist et al. cited by Zimmerman, 2011) suffer from iodine deficiency. Evidence is lacking
      as to whether schoolchildren are good proxy for other groups such as young children
      (Sullivam, 2010). In the Philippines, no data exists on the iodine status of preschool
      children.

      One recent approach for improving the vitamin and mineral status of the population is the use
      of micronutrient powder which contains 15 vitamins and minerals including iodine (HF-TAG
      2011). While the MNP has been found effective to improve iron status, its effectiveness in
      improving iodine status has yet to be studied. Further, the provision of iodine through MNPs
      as well as the combined impact of salt iodization and use of MNPs, warrant investigation. It
      would also be of interest to generate data on the knowledge, attitude and practices of their
      parents or other caregiver who primarily take care of planning and provision of food for the
      family on iodine, iodized salt and MNP.

      Day care centers (DCC) are chosen as the site of the study considering their conduct of
      120-days supplementary feeding yearly and the organized structure presents a better
      compliance and easier monitoring of use. Further, the day care pupils, more or less,
      represent the preschoolers in the barangay and there may be commonality (homogeneity) of the
      children in age and other characteristics.

      In the absence of guidelines for MNP use among children 24 months or older, the existing
      guidelines such as 60 sachets in 6 months as stipulated in DOH AO 2011-0303 will be followed.
    
  