
    
      Aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage is a serious condition with a high morbidity and
      mortality. There are approximately 11 cases per 100,000 population per year, and
      approximately 40% of these cases are fatal. (Ingall) Among the fortunate subjects who survive
      the initial bleed, vasospasm and subsequent stroke are a major cause of morbidity. Vasospasm
      is defined as a prolonged severe, although reversible cause of arterial narrowing that occurs
      after bleeding into the subarachnoid space, most commonly after aneurismal rupture. (Youman)
      The reduced arterial diameter inhibits blood flow and deprives the brain of oxygen, which
      often results in a stroke.

      Vasospasm is a major problem when treating subjects with aneurismal subarachnoid hemorrhage.
      Up to 75% of subjects with aneurismal subarachnoid hemorrhage will develop vasospasm, and 30%
      of subarachnoid hemorrhage subjects will become clinically symptomatic, with muscle weakness
      as the primary symptom. (Dorsch) Even with intervention, 12% of patents with symptomatic
      vasospasm will develop permanent clinical deficits (after a ruptured aneurysm) including
      hemiplegia, aphasias, and visual loss. Less severe strokes may lead to modest loss of
      strength and sensation on one side of the body, and/or deterioration in higher brain
      functions, such as memory, speech comprehension, and planning.

      Continuous Neuro-monitoring has previously been used in the trauma ICU setting as a means to
      detect deterioration in brain function after closed head injury (Amantini, Daubin), ischemic
      encephalopathy (Hakimi) and in subjects with MCA stroke to determine function (Tzvetanov). It
      was also observed that monitoring changes occur prior to ICP elevations in critically ill
      subjects (Amantini). These studies have demonstrated the feasibility as well as the safety of
      monitoring in an ICU.

      No studies to date have attempted monitoring for vasospasm in subjects who suffered an
      aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Motor evoked potential have also not been trialed in the
      ICU, although MEP may be more useful to determine both cerebral ischemia, as well as
      functional outcome.
    
  