
    
      the investigators conduct a prospective non- randomized study at Department of Obstetrics and
      Gynecology, Benha University Hospital, since April 2014 till May 2016, after approval of the
      study protocol by the Local Ethical Committee. A written informed consent is obtained from
      eligible women before induction or at early stage of labour.

      Women with singleton pregnancies of more than 28 weeks' gestation who are admitted to
      hospital and candidates for vaginal delivery are eligible for the study .Gestational age more
      than 28 weeks the gestational age is determined based upon the date of the first day of last
      normal menstrual period and confirmed by ultrasound scan during the 1st trimester.

      The patients (520) are divided into two groups, Group A (260) receive bimanual uterine
      compression immediately after delivery of the placenta for 5 minutes while Group B (260)
      receive no intervention.

      The third stage of labour was managed as usual by clamping and cutting of umbilical cord,
      waiting for signs of placental separation and delivering the placenta by controlled cord
      traction.

      Duration of the 3rd stage of labour is calculated. Patients are kept in labor room under
      observation for a period of 1 h.

      Measurement of blood loss by a clean plastic lined absorbent drape placed under the woman's
      buttocks to collect all the blood lost after delivery of the baby and drainage of the
      amniotic fluid. The drape is changed as many times as needed. The woman stays on the drape or
      asked to wear a pad over the next 60 minutes. In the case of severe haemorrhage, the
      investigators follow the usual guidelines for management of postpartum haemorrhage, and the
      supplemental treatment registered. All drapes and pads are weighed on an electronic scale and
      the known dry weight of the linen is subtracted. As 1 ml of blood weighs close to 1 g, the
      balance in grams is assumed to be the total blood loss in ml.
    
  