
    
      This is a prospective, single-center, data collection research study for premature ELBW
      infants at high risk of developing brain injury. This study is being done to evaluate the
      changes in brain perfusion measured by the DCM using a comprehensive and innovative brain
      monitoring platform that encompasses direct and continuous measures of cerebral blood flow
      (CBF), cerebral oximetry, cerebral autoregulation, partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PCO2),
      and arterial blood pressure (ABP) in the hopes to both describe the physiology of brain
      injury and to correlate these findings to short- and long-term outcomes relevant to ELBW
      infants.

      About three hundred and ten (310) subjects are expected to be enrolled. Subjects' active
      participation in the study may last up to one week and the total time they will be followed
      after birth is approximately 24 months (2 years) or moew (+/- 2 Months) depending on their
      prematurity. Information from the subjects' medical records may be accessed, reviewed, and
      recorded for an additional year after their final study visit. This study consists of about 5
      study visits: Study Visit 1 (the enrollment visit - within first 12 hours of life), Study
      Visit 2 (occurs 2-7 days post visit 1), Study Visit 3 (occurs approximately 2-4 months +/- 2
      Months term equivalent age/corrected age of the subject ), Study Visit 4 (occurs
      approximately at 12 months +/- 2 Months corrected age of the subject), and Study Visit 5
      (occurs approximately at 18-24 months +/- 2 Months chronological age of the subject).

      STUDY ASSESSMENTS:

        -  Medical and Surgical History: The subjects' detailed history will be reviewed and
           recorded. The subjects' mothers will also be asked questions about their own medical
           history. The mothers' medical records may also be accessed.

        -  Continuous Physiologic Monitoring: Monitoring will be performed that includes the
           transcranial Doppler ultrasound, near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS), and partial pressure
           of carbon dioxide (PCO2) from birth to 7 days of life (visits 1 and 2).

        -  Ventilator: The highest daily ventilator settings and mean airway pressure (MAP) will be
           reviewed and recorded from birth to 7 days of life (visits 1 and 2).

        -  Head Ultrasound: A head ultrasound will be performed upon enrollment (visit 1) to assess
           for early and preexisting brain injury (IVH).

        -  Adverse Events: Any adverse events (AEs), special events of interest, or unanticipated
           problems (UPs) that subjects may have experienced after enrollment will be reviewed and
           recorded (visits 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5).

        -  Concomitant Medications: Review and record any medications of interest that subjects are
           taking from birth to 7 days of life (visits 1 and 2).

        -  Blood Transfusions: Review and record the transfusion of blood products that are
           performed on the subjects as part of standard of care from birth to 7 days of life
           (visits 1 and 2).

        -  Echocardiogram (ECG) and Head Ultrasound: Review and record ECG and head ultrasound
           results that are performed on the subjects as part of standard of care from birth to 7
           days of life (visits 1 and 2).

        -  Respiratory Interventions and Suctioning: Review and record any respiratory
           interventions and/or suctioning that are performed on the subjects as part of standard
           of care from birth to 7 days of life (visits 1 and 2).

        -  Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI): Perform a MRI exam at visit 3.

        -  Capute Scales and Neurologic Exam: Perform this assessment at visit 4 to assess the
           subjects' development and cognitive function and to provide an early evaluation for any
           neurologic abnormalities that may be related to brain injury.

        -  Bayley-III Motor Sub-Test Exam: Perform this assessment at visit 4 to assess the
           subjects' development and cognitive function and to provide an early evaluation for any
           neurologic abnormalities that may be related to brain injury.

        -  Complete Bayley-III Exam: Perform this assessment at visit 5 to assess the subjects'
           development and cognitive function and to provide an early evaluation for any neurologic
           abnormalities that may be related to brain injury.
    
  