
    
      Shoulder pain is one of the most common complications of stroke. In fact, it occurs up to 70%
      of stroke victims. Post-stroke shoulder pain impacts negatively on daily activities.
      Moreover, it interferes with the rehabilitation process, is related to poor quality of life
      and has been associated to a worse outcome and to prolonged hospitalization.The aetiology of
      post-stroke HSP is uncertain, although it has been associated with various factors: joint
      disorders, capsulitis adhesive, subluxation of the head of the humerus, rotator cuff tendons
      injuries and spasticity of surrounding muscles. Clinicians use a wide variety of approaches
      to treat post-stroke HSP, although none has yet been proven effective. Correct positioning
      and careful handling of the hemiplegic limb are believed to prevent HSP. Physiotherapy alone
      does not seem to be effective for this complication. Capsulitis adhesive can be successfully
      treated with corticosteroid injections in the shoulder. However, despite many randomized
      controlled trials of corticosteroid injections for shoulder pain, their effects remain
      controversial. The large number of interventions and the lack of consensus about their
      effectiveness suggest that the aetiology is poorly understood and hence its treatment remains
      to be established. Intramuscular injections of botulinum toxin type A (BT-A) have also been
      demonstrated to reduce HSP. The mechanism whereby intramuscular inoculation of BT-A reduces
      pain may include a muscle relaxant effect and inhibition of the release of neurotransmitters
      by sensory neurons. Nevertheless, this approach has some limitations: it is probably more
      effective in muscular than in articular pain and it may be influenced by the muscles affected
      and site of injection. Intra-articular injection of BT-A has recently proven safe and
      effective in the treatment of refractory joint shoulder pain caused by chronic arthritis. The
      mechanisms by which it exerts this effect are not known, but could include inhibition of the
      release of pain peptides from nerve terminals and sensory ganglia, and anti-inflammatory and
      anti-glutaminergic effects.
    
  