
    
      Purpose: To study the efficacy and safety of invitreal injection of bevacizumab (avastin) in
      all the following conditions.

        -  Age related macular degeneration with Juxtafoveal and Subfoveal CNVM: Recurrent CNVM
           following PDT and TTT with IVTA. Patient who could not afford PDT, Macugen or Lucentis
           which is FDA approved.

        -  Myopic CNVM, Idiopathic CNVM, Inflammatory CNVM and other conditions associated with
           CNVM.

        -  Refractory macular oedema due to vein occlusion, Pseudophakia, Clinically significant
           macular oedema (CSME) etc. that affects vision and does not respond adequately to usual
           treatment methods.

        -  Proliferative diabetic retinopathy, non-resolving vitreous haemorrhage with PDR

        -  Informed consent were taken from all the patients, based on the guidelines of OMIC
           (Ophthalmic mutual insurance company)Avastin: Risk management recommendations and
           consent form.

      American Academy of ophthalmology-Risk management recommendations for off-label ,
      Intravitreal use of Avastin.

      Included indications, exclusion criteria, possible complications and the off-label status of
      the drug.

      Best corrected visual acuity, Fundus Photography, anterior segment examination, Optical
      coherence tomography and in selected patients Electrophysiology, VEP and Fundus fluorescein
      angiography was done according to surgeons discretion.

      All the patients were examined on day 1, 1st week and subsequently depending on the surgeons
      discretion and tests were performed during follow ups.

      During follow up best-corrected visual acuity, anterior and posterior segment examination.
      Fundus photography, Intraocular pressure and OCT was repeated and in selected patients FFA,
      ERG,and VEP was done, physicians follow up was done.

      Preparation of the Drug:

      Bevacizumab Avastin (Avastin) comes in a sterile vial (100 mg in 4 ml) preservative free and
      ensure safety the vial injection was within a day.

      Injections were given with 30 gauge needle, tuberculin syringes single use. 0.05ml containing
      1.25 mg drug was given intravitreally under all aseptic precautions under topical
      anaesthesia,suggested by Flynn , Harry w.and scott, Ingrid u. -Evolving guidelines for
      intravitreous injections.

      Following the injection topical antibiotics was given for 1 week.

      Design: Prospective interventional non randomised case series.

      Informed consent process

      Informed consent was taken in English and the patients were explained in their local language
      by the treating surgeon.

      The Food and Drug Administration approved Avastin for the treatment of metastatic Colorectal
      cancer. It is the first humanized Anti-VEGF antibody, which prevents angiogenesis. Since the
      drug is FDA approved the off-label drug is used for Intravitreal usage. For other purposes if
      patients are well-informed about the product, base, its use on firm scientific method and
      sound medical evidence, and maintain records of its use and effects. Ophthalmologists are
      using Avastin "off-label" to treat AMD and similar conditions since research indicates that
      VEGF is one of the causes for the growth of the abnormal vessels that cause these conditions.
      All the patients were informed about the "off-label" status, which is not FDA approved.
      Similar to kenalog, which is FDA approved but the off-label drug is used as Intravitreal
      injection to treat eye conditions.
    
  