
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine if alpha-defensin and other proteins present in
      joint fluid may be able to rapidly diagnose bacterial joint infections. Patients with
      suspected joint infection typically undergo joint aspiration so that tests can be performed
      to help diagnose joint infection, including gram stain, cell count, and culture. Patients
      under 18 years old that are undergoing sampling of their joint fluid due to suspicion of
      infection or inflammation will be enrolled in this multi-center trial. Joint fluid will also
      be sampled from normative controls made up of patients who are undergoing an unrelated
      procedure without inflammation or infection. Joint fluid from patients with suspected
      inflammation/infection and from normative controls will be analysed for presence of
      alpha-defensin, leukocyte esterase, neutrophil elastase, synovial C-reactive protein, and
      synovial lactate. The alpha-defensin assay has shown high sensitivity and specificity for
      joint infection in other studies. Additionally a Staphylococcus spp antigen panel, Candida
      spp antigen panel, Enterococcus faecalis assay, BACTAlert culture, cell count plus
      differential, gram stain, and aerobic, anaerobic, and fungal cultures will be done using
      synovial fluid. A synovial fluid PCR for Kingella kingae will be performed if the patient is
      under eight years of age. Blood tests will include cell count and differential, erythrocyte
      sedimentation rate, C-reactive protein, procalcitonin, and D-dimer, as well as relevant
      inflammatory or rheumatologic marker tests. Results from these tests will be compared to
      joint fluid culture which the gold standard for diagnosing bacterial infection. The study
      includes 1 visit per patient, the standard of care visit in which the patient would be
      undergoing joint aspiration or arthroscopy. Once data has been collected, the sensitivity and
      specificity will be determined for these experimental tests both individually and in
      combination.
    
  