
    
      Given the fact that older adults are expected to live longer while maintaining their social
      and professional activities, the development of effective cognitive retraining methodologies
      designed to maximize independence has been of interest. In addition to changes caused by the
      normal aging process, older adults over 65 are at a high risk for developing dementia. About
      8-12% of the older adult population will demonstrate a pre-dementia syndrome referred to as
      Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) which is considered a prodrome to dementia. Consequently, it
      is important to identify variables that contribute to the development of MCI as well as
      neurocognitive therapy approaches to help patients improve their level of functioning.

      Categorization is one of the most fundamental cognitive processes. The ability to divide the
      world into discrete categories is a rudimentary process beginning early in life and continues
      to be developed and refined across the lifespan. This underlying process is crucial to a
      variety of neurocognitive abilities including attention and memory and can influence
      vocational and educational reintegration. Normal aging results in categorization deficits
      which in turn can interfere with the individual's ability to attend, remember, and organize
      information. This difficulty could hamper activities of daily living, social participation,
      and independence. This project implements an innovative treatment program based on current
      theoretical models of human cognition designed to improve neurocognitive abilities.

      One of the objectives of the project is to provide evidence on the effectiveness of a
      systematic and hierarchical neurocognitive therapy method, the Categorization Program (CP) in
      adults with MCI and in normal older adults. It is hypothesized that the CP will be an
      effective treatment approach to improve categorization abilities in both groups of subjects.

      The following activities have been taking place:

        1. Initially, a population-based sample of 500 older adults was tested using a battery of
           neuropsychological measures. Normal older adults are reassessed every two years.
           Currently, more than 800 healthy adults have been recruited in this project.

        2. Second, normal OA and adults with MCI have been randomly assigned into either the
           treated or untreated groups. The treated groups receive the CP training in order to test
           its effectiveness.

        3. Third, the long term effects of cognitive retraining up to 1 year post treatment will be
           assessed.

        4. Finally, the project examines the relationship between the categorization tasks,
           neuropsychological performance, functional outcome measures, and subject characteristics
           including health indices, education, and biomarkers. Theoretical constructs such as
           Cognitive Reserve have been explored as part of this project.

      The long-term objective of this research program is to determine variables that influence
      cognitive decline in older adults and develop effective neurocognitive therapy techniques.
    
  