
    
      Depression is a serious medical illness that affects all ages and populations. However, it
      has only been within the last 10 years that sufficient attention has been devoted to
      researching treatments for depression in children and adolescents. Symptoms of depression in
      this age group vary, but some common signs include pretending to be sick, refusing to go to
      school, clinging to a parent, or worrying that a parent may die. Older children may sulk, get
      into trouble at school, act in a negative or grouchy way, or feel misunderstood. Recent
      studies on selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), one class of antidepressant
      medications, have shown that SSRIs are effective in reducing depression symptoms. The optimal
      duration of treatment, however, has yet to be established. This study will determine the
      optimal length of continuation treatment with fluoxetine for children and adolescents with
      major depressive disorder, as well as the factors that may contribute to positive response
      during acute and continuation treatment.

      Participants in this study will first attend three study visits over a 2-week period to
      determine eligibility. All eligible individuals will be treated with fluoxetine for 12 weeks.
      Dosages will be determined by the study physician and will be based on clinical response to
      treatment. Study visits will occur weekly for the first 4 weeks and biweekly for the
      remaining 2 months. Depression symptoms, general changes, and adverse reactions will be
      assessed. Participants whose symptoms have improved will be eligible to enter the
      discontinuation phase of the study, which will entail random assignment to either fluoxetine
      or placebo for an additional 24 weeks. Study visits will occur biweekly for 3 months and
      monthly for the remaining 3 months. Depression symptoms and medication side effects will be
      assessed at these visits.
    
  