
    
      3600 patients are randomized 1:1 to a traditional rapid deflation technique (Group A) versus
      an oximetry guided rapid deflation technique (Group B).

      Before randomisation between the two deflation techniques French size of the sheath is
      chosen. If the operator has a preference for the size of the sheath then this size is used
      (5F/6F, estimated N=1200). If the operator has no preference for the size of the sheath then
      patients are randomized between 5 and 6 French sheath (N=2400).

      Randomization between traditional rapid deflation technique (Group A) versus oximetry guided
      rapid deflation technique (Group B) is then stratified according to French size of the sheath
      used (5 French, 6 French). Terumo Glidesheath Slender is routinely used in both arms.

      Assuming that the incidence of RAO (Barbeau type D, see below) can be reduced from 1.5% to
      0.5% a total of 1547 patients are needed in each group if using an alfa=0.05 and beta 0.80.
      Assuming that the incidence of RAO or subocclusion (Barbeau type C or D, see below) can be
      reduced from 4% to 2% a total of 1141 patients are needed in each group to document this
      difference if using an alfa=0.05 and beta 0.80. The investigators plan to randomize 1800 in
      each group comparing oximetry guided rapid deflation with traditional rapid deflation.
      Assuming that the time from sheath removal to transradial-band (TR-band) removal (hemostasis)
      is 125 minutes with the traditional rapid deflation technique, and 110 minutes with the
      oximetry guided deflation technique, and the standard deviation is 60 minutes, then a total
      number of 253 patients are needed in each group to document a possible difference.

      Data are analyzed by the intention-to-treat principle.

      4-5 centres are expected to include patients.

      Oral and written informed consent is collected at the ward or in the Cath.lab. The informed
      consent is signed before intervention.

      Included patient can withdraw their assignment from the study at any time without consequence
    
  