
    
      The objective of this study is to determine if a clinical measure of dynamic postural
      control, the star excursion balance test (SEBT), and a simple functional testing battery, the
      Functional Movement Screen (FMS), can be used effectively to predict ankle injury in high
      school and collegiate athletes across a variety of sports.

      Males and females between the ages of 14 and 24 enrolled at one of three designated high
      schools in Toledo, OH or at the University of Toledo will be recruited for this study.
      Eligible participants will be signed up and medically cleared to participate in football,
      basketball, baseball, softball, soccer, volleyball, and/or cross country during the 2012/2013
      academic year. Participants will be healthy and must be cleared by a physician for full
      participation at the time of enrollment in the study. All the enrolled student athletes will
      be made aware of the study and the requested prior to their pre-season physicals by the
      coaching staff and ATC prior to the beginning of the first day of practice. Consent and
      assent will be obtained using appropriate university approved forms. In this prospective
      study design, pre-season dynamic postural control data and previous injury history will be
      collected from the high school and collegiate athletes. These athletic facilities are all
      serviced by certified Athletic Trainers (ATC) and physicians associated with the University
      of Toledo and the University of Toledo Medical Center. Prior to the beginning of the
      2012/2013 competition seasons, athletes from the identified sites will, as part of their
      pre-season physical exam requirements, perform measures of the SEBT and the FMS before the
      first day of practice. The performance of the SEBT and the FMS are explained in detail in the
      attached protocol. During the competition season, the number of practice and competition
      person exposures, as well as the number of ankle injuries, will be recorded by the ATC at
      each school. Injury incidence is explained in detail in the attached protocol. At the end of
      the competition seasons, the rate of ankle injuries/exposure will be calculated and compared
      with the pre-season SEBT scores to create a simple and a complex prediction model for risk of
      ankle injury.
    
  