
    
      Background:

      Approximately 100,000 anterior cruciate ligament reconstructions (ACLR) are performed yearly,
      and rates of these surgeries in patients younger than 15 years increased by 924% between 1990
      and 2007.1 Persistent strength deficits in quadriceps musculature following ACLR are common,
      even several months after surgery and despite targeted physical therapy to address atrophy.2
      Quadriceps atrophy and weakness are associated with worse patient-reported outcomes (PROs),3
      as well as altered movement strategies and increased risk of reinjury.4,6 Approximately 20%
      of teenagers returning to sports will sustain a second ACL injury in the first two years
      following their ACLR.5 Regaining neuromuscular activation and strength of the quadriceps
      muscle safely and efficiently is vital to full recovery, and current post-operative physical
      therapy regimens have not sufficiently addressed this impairment.

      Strength training models recommend utilizing high resistance workloads to produce substantial
      strength gains,7 yet those recovering from orthopedic surgery are unable to tolerate heavy
      loads.8 Supplementing low-load resistance training with blood flow restriction (BFR-LLT)
      produces significant muscle hypertrophy and strength gains previously only thought to be
      achievable with high-load resistance training.9 BFR-LLT uses a tourniquet around the leg (see
      Appendix 4) to partially occlude venous return and decrease blood supply to the muscle being
      exercised. The generation of a low-oxygen environment and increases in plasma growth hormone
      levels has been shown to promote recruitment of motor units, improve neuromuscular
      activation, and result in muscular hypertrophy and growth.10-13 In adults and the elderly,
      improvements in quadriceps strength have been reported in up to 19%14 and increased
      quadriceps cross-sectional area in up to 6-7% compared to controls.15-16 To date there have
      only been four high-level studies investigating effects of BFR training in patients following
      ACLR17-20 and limited conclusions can be drawn from these studies due to lack of consistent
      methodology (variable cuff pressures and treatment frequency). More high-quality research is
      needed to determine treatment parameters that produce the most optimal results from this
      intervention in ACLR patients.

      Additionally, there are no published randomized controlled trials investigating the effects
      of BFR training on exclusively adolescent patients. All high-quality BFR training research in
      patients following knee surgery have been conducted in late adolescent, young adult and adult
      populations.17-21 Therefore, the purpose of this study is to assess the effect of BFR-LLT on
      quadriceps strength and outcomes in adolescents following ACLR.

      This study's adolescent-specific focus provides a significant contribution to ACLR research,
      as younger patients demonstrate higher risk of reinjury.22-24 The results from this
      preliminary study will ultimately provide data to guide clinicians in optimizing quadriceps
      strength and utilizing BFR-LLT in younger post-operative ACLR patients.

      Protocol:

      This randomized clinical trial is an interdisciplinary project between the CHOA Sports
      Medicine Physical Therapy department and Children's Physician Group (CPG) Orthopedics. As
      part of standard-of-care, all patients who plan to undergo ACLR by CPG Orthopedics surgeons
      are referred for at least one PT visit pre-surgery, at which time baseline strength
      measurements are obtained by the treating physical therapist. Pre-surgery collection of
      patient-reported outcomes (PROs) is also standard of care for all patients undergoing ACLR.

      Skeletally mature male and female adolescents with closed growth plates documented by
      radiograph who undergo ACLR with quadriceps tendon autograft will be screened by a physical
      therapist (the PI or co-investigators) using medical notes.

      If a patient meets criteria and consents, he/she will be enrolled into the study during the
      first routine-of-care post-surgery PT visit and randomized to undergo standard post-surgery
      rehabilitation (control group) or standard post-surgery rehabilitation with supplemental
      BFR-LLT (test group) as demonstrated in Figure 1 and Appendix 1. Participants will be
      randomized using a computer program that will generate random numbers to assign participants
      to the test group or the control group. Participants will be asked to complete four PROs
      throughout the study (Lysholm, Pedi-IKDC, ACL-RSI, and AMCaMP - see Appendix 5.1-5.4). All
      relevant demographic, physiological, and radiographic data will be collected at the time of
      enrollment via RedCap, through a secure link. Data will be stored in a password-protected
      file on a secure Children's server and only the PI, Co-investigators, and research
      coordinator will have access.

      Eight physical therapists (all CITI-trained) at four sports medicine PT sites will oversee
      all post-surgery PT sessions. Participants in the control group will follow a standard
      post-surgery rehabilitation protocol starting 2-5 days post-surgery and attend two PT visits
      per week until 16 weeks post-surgery. The test group will follow an identical schedule of PT
      visits but will have two to three exercises in each session supplemented with BFR treatment
      using the Delfi Personalized Tourniquet System (PTS). Requirements of BFR treatment are
      described below. For both groups, each session will last approximately 60 minutes. Each of
      the exercises performed with BFR will last 5-18 minutes, with total time under occlusion not
      exceeding 30 minutes per visit.

      Participants undergoing BFR treatment will wear limb protection sleeves designed to help
      protect the skin beneath the cuff while the cuff is pressurized. Skin integrity will be
      monitored pre- and post-treatment at each session. If a study participant reports intolerable
      pain levels during BFR, the physical therapist will fully deflate the cuff and BFR treatment
      will cease for that PT session. Any adverse events will be reported to the PI and Co-I's
      within 24 hours. All required medical assessments will be promptly performed.

      If a participant is assigned to the test group, BFR intervention will end after 16 weeks
      post-surgery. Both the test group (BFR-LLT) and the control group will follow standard of
      care treatment after week 16 post-surgery, including the standard post-intervention
      functional testing at 24 weeks post-surgery.

      Participants will be asked to complete PROs periodically throughout the study as listed below
      under data collection. All physical examination measures and testing listed are standard of
      care for ACLR rehabilitation patients. Details on the regimen followed by both cohorts during
      the full 6-month rehabilitation are outlined in Appendix 1.

      BFR-LLT Treatment Requirements:

      The BFR-LLT intervention requires participants to follow the two requirements listed below,
      as the treatment parameter of 80% LOP has been widely recommended as the ideal amount of
      blood flow occlusion throughout the literature. Participants who do not meet these criteria
      will be excluded from the study but will continue to receive standard of care for
      post-surgery ACLR rehabilitation.

        1. Tolerate a personalized pressure of 80% of the limb occlusion pressure (LOP) for 100% of
           all physical therapy visits in which BFR-LLT is utilized.

        2. Tolerate BFR-LLT for a minimum of 20 visits over 16 weeks.

      Data Collection:

        1. Demographic data (pre-surgery, which is standard of care) will include age, gender,
           race/ethnicity, height/weight, physeal status, and assessment of baseline activity level
           with the Tegner Activity Scale (see Appendix 6)

        2. Patient-reported outcomes (PROs) (see Appendix 5) will include the Pediatric Internal
           Knee Documentation Committee (Pedi-IKDC, Appendix 5.1), Lysholm Score (Appendix 5.2),
           ACL-Return to Sport after Injury (ACL-RSI) confidence assessment (Appendix 5.3) and
           Adolescent Measure of Confidence and Musculoskeletal Performance (AMCaMP,Appendix 5.4).
           These PROs are collected pre-surgery as standard of care, but further collection and
           reassessment of PROs as described in Figure 2 will be unique to study participants.
           Surveys will be collected and recorded on iPads with direct entry into REDCap and in
           each participant's confidential EHR on the treatment note from the day the data was
           collected. All responses will be stored on a secure RedCap server through a secure link
           and data will be stored in a password-protected file on a secure Children's server. Only
           the PI and Co-I's will have access to the data.
    
  