
    
      Background:

        -  Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) signal
           transduction pathways have synergistic effects on promoting angiogenesis and growth
           factor expression. Hypoxia caused by treatment with VEGF inhibitors results in the
           upregulation of c-MET, the receptor for HGF. In a mouse model, combined blockade of
           VEGFR and c-Met significantly prolonged survival compared with inhibition of either
           target alone.

        -  We hypothesize that co-administration of the MET inhibitor ARQ 197 will prevent the
           adaptive response to hypoxia resulting from treatment with the VEGFR inhibitor
           pazopanib, and conversely, that co-administration of pazopanib will prevent the effect
           of increased VEGF and reduced thrombospondin 1 in tumors after treatment with ARQ 197.
           Therefore, the combination of these agents may result in improved antitumor effects.

      Objectives:

        -  Establish the safety and tolerability of the combination of pazopanib with ARQ 197 in
           patients with refractory advanced solid tumors.

        -  Establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination of pazopanib with ARQ 197
           in patients with refractory advanced solid tumors.

        -  Evaluate changes in MET and phospho-MET following treatment with pazopanib and ARQ 197
           in patients with refractory advanced solid tumors.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics (PK) of pazopanib and ARQ 197.

        -  Determine and compare levels of total MET, phospho MET, HIF-1 , and
           epithelial-mesenchymal transition markers (e-cadherin, beta catenin) in tumor biopsy
           samples prior to and following administration of the study drugs.

        -  Determine and compare levels of circulating levels of HGF, soluble MET (sMET), VEGF-A,
           and soluble VEGFR2 (sVEGFR2) prior to and following administration of the study drugs.

        -  Determine polymorphisms in the CYP2C19 and correlate these with the observed toxicities,
           and the PK of ARQ 197.

        -  Evaluate antitumor activity of the combination of pazopanib and ARQ 197 in patients with
           refractory advanced solid tumors.

      Eligibility:

      -Adults with advanced, refractory solid tumors. Patients enrolling in the expansion cohorts
      must have advanced sarcoma, gastric cancer, and MET-expressing malignancies, have disease
      amenable to biopsy, and be willing to undergo pre-and post-treatment biopsies.

      Study Design:

        -  ARQ 197 will be administered orally twice daily and pazopanib orally once daily, in
           28-day cycles.

        -  Dose escalation will proceed using the traditional 3+3 design.

        -  Once the MTD is established, an additional cohort will be accrued for pharmacodynamic
           (PD) studies in tumor biopsies (required in the expansion phase). For the first week,
           patients will receive pazopanib alone to compare PK and PD results; combination therapy
           will be given from week 2 onwards.
    
  