
    
      Even though AD has been associated with specific hallmarks, multiple etiologies have been
      suggested to be prominent in the pathogenesis of the disease. Chronic inflammation, metabolic
      dysfunction, oxidative stress and mitochondrial damage have all been linked to the incidence
      and progression of neurodegeneration, negatively impacting overall prognosis of AD.
      Currently, only a handful of FDA approved Alzheimer's medications are on the market; yet,
      these medications are known to only treat symptoms associated with AD, not the underlying
      causes. There are currently no medications FDA approved for MCI and predicting who will
      progress onto AD is unknown. Unfortunately, in the last decade alone, several clinical trials
      in MCI and AD, have been terminated prior to study conclusion, due to lack of efficacy and/or
      poor study design. Even if an experimental drug is shown to be promising in early stages of
      testing, it could take up to another 10-15 years before it is FDA approved and made
      commercially available. Therefore, the need to find a therapy that could possibly prevent
      people with MCI from developing AD is imperative. Through studying different etiologies,
      providing a specialized diet based on each subject's individual physiological results and
      improving mitochondria through cell repair therapy, not only can be quickly implemented into
      the life of a person with cognitive impairment, but could possibly decrease the prevalence
      and slow disease progression of AD. Thus, the fundamental research of this study is to
      determine if such etiologies are measurable in patients with MCI and AD through body
      composition and cellular health testing that could lead to proper and novel treatments to
      combat the diseases. This study was conducted in hopes of determining that chronic
      inflammation and other risk factors for MCI and AD such as oxidative stress and metabolic
      dysfunction, can be ameliorated, improve cognitive function, and therefore prevent disease
      progression through effective, non-drug therapies.
    
  