
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the efficacy of standard cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride,
      vincristine sulfate, and prednisone (CHOP) and an oral chemotherapy regimen for acquired
      immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS)-related (AR)-non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) in sub-Saharan
      Africa with respect to overall survival (OS).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the objectives response rate (ORR) of persons randomized to CHOP and oral
      chemotherapy.

      II. To compare the progression free survival (PFS) of persons randomized to CHOP and oral
      chemotherapy.

      III. To compare the safety and tolerance of persons randomized to CHOP and oral chemotherapy.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the rates of completion of therapy of persons randomized to CHOP and oral
      chemotherapy.

      II. To describe adherence to chemotherapy of persons randomized to CHOP and oral
      chemotherapy.

      III. To describe adherence to antiretroviral therapy of persons randomized to CHOP and oral
      chemotherapy.

      IV. To describe the effects of therapy on HIV control, as measured by cluster of
      differentiation (CD)4 counts and HIV viral load.

      V. To investigate correlates of survival.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive CHOP chemotherapy comprising cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) on
      day 1, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV on day 1, vincristine sulfate IV on day 1, and prednisone
      orally (PO) on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive lomustine PO once daily (QD) on day 1 (courses 1 and 3 only),
      etoposide PO QD on days 1-3, cyclophosphamide PO QD on days 22-26, and procarbazine
      hydrochloride PO QD on days 22-26. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for up to 3 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months.
    
  