
    
      Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis (NSF) is a recently described, extremely debilitating and
      painful condition that affects individuals with renal failure. Recent reports suggest an
      association between gadolinium exposure during magnetic resonance (MR) studies and the
      subsequent development of NSF in patients with chronic renal failure. NSF is characterized by
      rapidly progressive skin hardening, tethering and hyperpigmentation, predominantly on the
      extremities. Visceral involvement is rare. Skin biopsies of early NSF lesions demonstrate
      thickened collagen bundles, mucin deposition, angiogenesis and numerous dermal spindle cells
      that stain with antibodies to cluster of differentiation 34 (CD34) and procollagen. Cutaneous
      changes of NSF are present in up to 13% of individuals receiving hemodialysis. Among those
      patients with clinical evidence of NSF, the principle investigator of this protocol has
      recently reported that NSF is associated with increased early mortality at 24-months.

      There is no proven therapy for this devastating disorder. Anecdotal reports have shown modest
      improvement in joint mobility and decreased skin thickening with extracorporeal photopheresis
      and pentoxyphylline.

      Increased transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) on
      immunostaining has been observed in skin, fascia and striated muscle. Imatinib mesylate, a
      tyrosine kinase inhibitor, prevents TGF-beta-induced stimulation of collagen and
      extracellular matrix protein synthesis as well as mRNA expression by normal fibroblasts. This
      observation led the principal investigator to evaluate imatinib mesylate 400 milligrams (mg)
      orally (p.o.) daily for 1 year in two participants with NSF. The result was significant
      softening of previously hardened skin with increased mobility of skin that previously had
      been tethered to the underlying fascia. After one month of imatinib mesylate, one of the two
      participants had a 20 degree reduction of his knee flexion contractures.
    
  