
    
      Intro: Delirium is a common postoperative complication within geriatric patients. It is
      described delirium as a very stressful experience for the patient which can lead to prolonged
      hospital stay, higher cost, additional morbidity and increased mortality.

      In 2013 the hospital pharmacy at the Zuyderland Medical Center developed the delirium risk
      prediction model to determine the chance of development of a delirium in patients aged 60 or
      older. Electronically available data such as age, polypharmacy, use of anti-dementia drugs,
      anti-depressants, anti-parkinsonian drugs, anti-diabetics, analgesics and/or sleeping
      medication were used in the study. The delirium risk prediction model was validated
      prospectively after retrospective development. The model will be used in this study to
      predict the risk of developing delirium postoperatively.

      We expect prophylactic haloperidol to be effective in patients with a high risk of developing
      a delirium according to the delirium risk prediction model.

      Aim: The PRODEO-study aims to reduce the incidence of postoperative delirium by administering
      prophylactic haloperidol to patients with a high risk of developing delirium according to the
      delirium risk prediction model.

      Methods: The study is a randomized and double blind single center study with two parallel
      groups. Subjects ≥60 years with increased risk of postoperative delirium according to the
      delirium risk prediction model undergoing elective chirurgical or elective orthopedic surgery
      are eligible. Subjects will be excluded if they already use anti-psychotic drugs, are not
      able to take oral medication or when there are contra-indications. Haloperidol (1mg) or
      placebo will be administered at set times postoperatively. Subjects receive haloperidol
      2dd1mg or a placebo 2dd during a maximum of five days during admission. On day 3 blood
      samples will be obtained in order to determine the true concentration levels of haloperidol.
      The primary endpoint is delirium incidence within 5 days after surgery. Secondary endpoints
      are costs of treatment, number of admission days, adverse events, true concentration levels
      of haloperidol and duration and severity of delirium.

      Results: The study will start in June 2017 with an inclusion rate of 20 patients per week. An
      incidence reduction of 30% in the intervention group is expected. To reach sufficient
      statistical power a study population of 1366 subjects is needed. Duration of the inclusion
      period is expected to be 18 months.
    
  