
    
      Introduction: The prevalence of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery is high in the
      veteran population. Saphenous veins are used as conduits in the majority of CABG operations.
      Compared to arterial conduits, saphenous vein grafts (SVGs) have a high rate of failure,
      requiring percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or repeat CABG. Bare metal stents are
      currently used in the majority of PCI in SVGs because they increase the procedural success
      rate and decrease restenosis. However, even with the use of bare metal stents, restenosis
      still occurs in 37-53% of the SVGs, often requiring repeat target vein graft
      revascularization.

      Drug-eluting stents (DES) have been a major breakthrough in percutaneous coronary
      intervention because they significantly reduce the incidence of in-stent restenosis in de
      novo lesions of native coronary arteries. Even though, no randomized controlled trials have
      compared DES with bare stents in SVG interventions, DES are increasingly being used off label
      in this setting, based on registry data. DES are expensive and may not provide benefit in
      SVGs since the atherosclerotic process is different in SVGs and in native coronary arteries.
      We propose to compare the 12-month angiographic restenosis rates after implantation of a
      polymer-based paclitaxel-eluting stent or the Express-2 bare metal stent (which is identical
      to the paclitaxel-eluting stent but has no drug coating) in saphenous vein graft lesions.

      Hypothesis: Compared to implantation of a bare metal stent, implantation of a similar
      paclitaxel-eluting stent (Taxus™, Boston Scientific, Nattick, Massachusetts) in saphenous
      vein graft lesion will reduce the incidence of angiographic in-stent restenosis after 12
      months.

      Specific objectives: We propose to randomize patients undergoing stenting of a saphenous vein
      graft lesion to a bare metal stent or an identical paclitaxel-eluting stent (Taxus™) in order
      to determine:

        1. whether the paclitaxel-eluting stent will reduce the incidence of binary angiographic
           in-stent restenosis, as assessed by 12-month follow-up quantitative coronary angiography
           (primary study endpoint), and

        2. whether the paclitaxel-eluting stent will reduce the 24-month incidence of
           ischemia-driven target vessel revascularization, target vessel failure, overall major
           adverse cardiac and cerebrovascular events, and intra-stent intimal hyperplasia
           accumulation, as measured by intravascular ultrasound (secondary endpoints).
    
  