
    
      The envisaged research aims to implement the most cost-effective part of the GRACE INTRO
      intervention (TRACE e-learning, www.acutecough.org), i.e. a web-based communication training
      and an interactive patient booklet for adults presenting to primary care with LRTI, at
      national level. For that purpose the investigators will perform a stepped wedge
      cluster-randomised trial. Stepped wedge randomised trial designs involve sequential roll-out
      of an intervention to participants (individuals or clusters) over a number of time periods.
      By the end of the study, all participants will have received the intervention, although the
      order in which participants receive the intervention is determined at random. Over a period
      of one year all practices in the 10 Belgian provinces and Brussels (n=11 clusters) will get
      access to the intervention. The order in which the clusters receive the intervention is
      determined at random. The general practitioners (GPs) in the intervention phase will be
      invited to take an educational web-based module, including communication training, to improve
      prescribing of antibiotics for LRTI and will receive patient booklets to be used
      interactively during the consultation. The clusters not yet exposed to the intervention will
      serve as control group. The effect on prescribing behavior will be assessed using monthly
      Intermutualistic Agency (IMA, www.nic-ima.be) data. Hence, the outcome measurement will have
      complete response, and will not interfere with the normal routine of the eligible GPs,
      allowing a more valid estimate of any intervention effect. Since the training will be
      assessed, and not the eligible practices or GPs, IMA has the legal authority (Art. 153 of the
      coordinated Law of 14 July 1994) to perform the required analyses. The estimates of the
      efficacy of the intervention will at the same time describe its effectiveness in daily
      practice, which is unconventional for a randomized trial (on a behavioural intervention).
      Given the large sample size, the proposed trial will also provide very precise estimates.
    
  