
    
      Endometrial cancer (EC) is the fifth most commonly diagnosed malignant neoplasm among women
      worldwide. The incidence of EC is higher in high-income countries, but it has been increasing
      in low- and middle-income countries.

      The main risk factors for EC include the presence of comorbidities, such as diabetes mellitus
      and hypertension, as well as conditions associated with prolonged exposure to estrogens.
      Obesity is recognized as a major risk factor for many cancers, including EC. Multiple
      mechanisms related to obesity are probably involved in the carcinogenesis of EC. Among obese
      women in the postmenopausal period, there is an increase of bioavailable circulating
      estrogens. These estrogens come from the aromatization of androgens in adipose tissue and
      from increased circulating estrogens secondary to the reduced synthesis of sex hormone
      binding globulin (SHBG) in the liver. Insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, increased
      secretion of adipocytokines and pro-inflammatory cytokines may also play a role in the
      carcinogenesis of EC.

      Although the incidence of EC is remarkable, insufficient data has addressed the impact of
      obesity on EC outcomes. Since about 70% of women diagnosed with endometriod EC are obese, the
      consequences of obesity-related diseases should be taken into account in order to implement
      strategies to improve survival outcomes among these women.

      Sedentary lifestyle and physical inactivity also seem to be relevant, and have been
      identified as predictors of poor prognosis in patients with different types of cancer.
      However, the role of lifestyle (including eating and social habits and physical activity) on
      endometrial cancer prognosis has not been assessed prospectively yet. Studies assessing
      nutritional status and lifestyle before and after EC diagnosis may elucidate whether and when
      these factors influence clinical outcomes, including long-term survival.
    
  