
    
      It is well recognised that diabetes is a factor of worse prognosis in acute coronary syndrome
      (ACS). Recently, the relationship between the glucidic metabolism and cardiac ischemia was
      highlighted whether patients have diabetes or not. Indeed, it was established that
      hyperglycemia occurring during hospitalization in non diabetic patients, is a powerful risk
      factor of death.

      Stress related hyperglycemia occurs during number of acute pathological situations (AMI,
      stroke, pancreatitis, hypothermia, hypoxia, cirrhosis, polytrauma, burn, sepsis…. It is due
      to an excess of hyperglycemia hormones (glucagon, growth hormone, catecholamines and
      glucosteroids) and of inflammatory mediators (cytokines…). Hyperglycemia has several
      deleterious effects on the cardiovascular system as it promotes microvascular inflammatory
      reaction, activation of the coagulation system, and free radical oxygen liberation.

      Currently, the idea of controlling glycemia in surgical and medical intensive care patients
      is widely accepted and maintaining blood sugar level closest to normal by intensive insulin
      therapy became largely recommended.

      Several decades ago, glucose-insulin-potassium infusion (GIK) was proposed to protect acute
      cardiac ischemia. GIK has been assessed in many previous studies.

      The results of these studies are contradictory. According to CREATE-ECLA study which is the
      largest (including 20201 patients), GIK didn't show a significant beneficial effect in ACS.
      However, in these trials using GIK alone glycemia was not strictly controlled.

      Recently, the importance of tight glycemic control has been highlighted in ICU patients and
      early post heart surgery. Our hypothesis is that GIK treatment associated to intensive
      insulin therapy in ACS would be beneficial and superior to GIK alone possibly because
      intensive insulin therapy would prevent potential deleterious effects of hyperglycemia
      induced by GIK.
    
  