
    
      The number of new cases of esophageal and gastric cancers in the United States in 2005 is
      14520 for esophageal cancer and 21860 for gastric cancer. Unfortunately, esophageal and
      gastric cancers will also account for 13570 and 11550 deaths, respectively, in 2005. The 5
      year survival rates for metastatic gastroesophageal, GE junctional, and gastric cancers are
      less than 5%. The major current treatment modality for patients with advanced esophageal, GE
      junctional, and gastric adenocarcinomas is systemic chemotherapy.

      We seek to investigate the efficacy of capecitabine and oxaliplatin in combination with
      bevacizumab as first line treatment for metastatic esophagogastric cancers. The choice of
      capecitabine and oxaliplatin is made to develop a user-friendly biologically-based regimen,
      offering patients oral capecitabine in place of continuous 5FU infusion pumps. Since
      capecitabine can be given crushed this regimen may both be active and user-friendly.
      Preliminary data in colorectal cancer suggest that the regimen of capecitabine, oxaliplatin,
      and bevacizumab has comparable activity to FOLFOX-bevacizumab. The goal of the proposed
      regimen is to define a capecitabine and oxaliplatin-based regimen that optimizes biological
      approaches over cytotoxic approaches. The addition of bevacizumab to chemotherapy regimens
      for metastatic colorectal cancer, metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, and metastatic
      breast cancer has shown to improve response rates and overall survival. If active, this
      regimen could serve as a first line comparator to the capecitabine, oxaliplatin, and
      epirubicin combination. This approach will also help to simplify regimen development across
      gastrointestinal cancers.

      In addition to the primary efficacy endpoint of this protocol, several correlative endpoints
      will also be examined in an exploratory manner. The importance of developing blood-based and
      tumor biomarkers has been extensively reviewed. However, the role of such predictive markers
      has not been well studied for XELOX-A. This information is important since it may help define
      which populations are most likely to benefit and most likely to suffer significant toxicity
      from this important GI cancer regimen. This biomarker approach may also help understand and
      define mechanisms of sensitivity, resistance, and toxicity that may be used to guide future
      hypothesis-driven studies designed to improve the efficacy and safety of this regimen. The
      correlative biomarker endpoints include serum, plasma and urine biomarkers (e.g. VEGF and
      bFGF), a wound healing model of angiogenesis, and tumor biopsy studies .
    
  