
    
      Registrap is a prospective, single-arm, multicenter, observational registry of the
      Embotrap®II Clot Retriever (NEURAVI) open to any Neurointerventional Department in Europe
      with experience in mechanical thrombectomy with the EmboTrap® II device Clot Retriever (5
      cases already done) and a number of stroke procedures/year greater than 30.

      The EmboTrap®II Clot Retriever (Neuravi) is CE-marked and represents one of the possible
      treatment devices, chosen by physicians according to their experience and practice, in acute
      ischemic stroke treatment.

      Being REGISTRAP an observational registry and considering that different approaches and
      devices are available on the market, the investigators are aware that operators' preferences
      could represent a selection bias. The Screening Log will collect all the stroke cases treated
      from each centre during the enrollment period to show the rate of EmboTrap®II Clot Retriever
      (Neuravi) use over the total cases treated and the reasons for choosing other devices. The
      registry will enroll at least 100 consecutive patients presenting within 12 hours from
      symptom onset with a Large Vessel Occlusion (LVO) on CTA or MRA in the Anterior or Posterior
      Proximal Cerebral Vasculature up to A1, M1, Dominant M2, P1 who will be treated using the
      EmboTrap®II Clot Retriever (Neuravi) as first intention and used according to the
      Instructions For Use. The registry objectives are to evaluate the efficacy/safety of the
      device Embotrap II Clot Retriever(Neuravi), as first line treatment in the restoration of
      cerebral blood flow in cases of acute ischemic stroke from Large Vessel Occlusion. Efficacy
      is considered when a "modified Treatment in Cerebral Infarction" (mTICI) score of 2b or
      greater is achieved in the vessel treated with the (Neuravi). Safety refers to the rate of
      procedure-related and device-related hemorrhages. Number and severity of hemorrhages will be
      evaluated considering site and size. The first follow-up control will occur at 1 to 10 days
      post-procedure, the second at 90 days+/-14 days. In addition to the sample, the patients
      meeting the inclusion criteria and treated using the EmboTrap®II Clot Retriever (Neuravi) as
      second intention, will also be included in the study and considered only for a specific
      secondary endpoint.
    
  