
    
      Methodology

      Sampling:

      Convenient sampling will be conducted to all in and out-patients with stroke referred
      consecutively to occupational therapy department in Kowloon Hospital during the data
      collection period. Patients who meet the following inclusion criteria are admitted for study.

      Inclusion criteria

        1. First or second stroke (haemorrhagic or ischaemic) confirmed by computer axial
           tomography scan or magnetic resonance imaging

        2. Neurological representation compatible with a unilateral right lesion involvement (i.e.
           left hemiplegic), exhibited left visual field inattention or neglect by following either
           one of below criteria:

             -  obtaining a total score of star cancellation subtest in the conventional battery of
                the Behavioral Inattention Test <51 (out of 54)

             -  obtaining a total score of line bisection subtest in the conventional battery of
                the Behavioral Inattention Test <7 (out of 9)

             -  Score of Catherine Bergego Scale ≥ 1

        3. Right handed

        4. Less than six months since onset of stroke at study entry

        5. Able to follow simple command

      Exclusion criteria

        1. Patients with severe dysphasia (either expressive or comprehensive) which restricts
           communication;

        2. History of other neurological disease, psychiatric disorder, or alcoholism;

        3. significant impairment in visual acuity caused by cataracts, diabetic retinopathy,
           glaucoma or hemianopia

        4. Any additional medical or psychological condition that would affect their ability to
           comply with the study protocol.

      Data Collection and Treatment Procedures Written consent is obtained from all subjects before
      the randomization. All patients in both the experimental and placebo groups undergo the same
      rehabilitation process. Subject's demographic data are collected; they include age, gender,
      lesion site, educational level, time after onset of stroke, and global cognitive status as
      defined by the Mini-mental State Examination - Chinese version (CMMSE). Repeated measurements
      are done at day 0 (date for initial assessment), day 10 (end of treatment) and post 4 weeks.
      Assessments including Behavioral Inattention Test (BIT) - Chinese version, Catherine Bergego
      Scale, Functional Test for the hemiplegic upper extremity (FTHUE-HK), Upper-extremity portion
      of the Fugl-Meyer Scale (UE-FM), Functional Independence Measure (FIM), Stroke Adapted 30
      item version of the Sickness Impact Profile (SA-SIP 30) score will be done at these intervals
      by a blind assessor.

      Treatment sessions for the experimental groups and control groups are conducted by trained
      investigator for transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and the case therapists. The
      conventional treatment would consist of 45 minutes of voluntary trunk rotation exercise using
      set-up equipment as well as 15 minutes of activities of daily living (ADL) training.
    
  