
    
      Type of the study The study was conducted as an intervention (randomized controlled,
      single-blind) one.

      Location and Time of the Study The study was carried out between January 2015 and March 2017
      in three districts of İzmir, a province in the western part of Turkey.

      The study population and sample While the patients with diabetes living in districts
      comprised the study population, the sample was selected from patients with type II diabetes
      registered to Family Health Centers.

      According to the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) recommended for
      randomized controlled studies, a randomization flow chart was established, and 2460 people
      with diabetes were assessed for compliance with diabetes. From the 1081 people with diabetes
      who met the inclusion criteria, the intervention, and control groups each to include 65
      individuals were constructed using the "Research Randomizer" computer program. The study was
      completed with 81 people with diabetes (42 in the intervention group and 39 in the control
      group). Post hoc power analysis was performed using the G-Power Data Analysis program and the
      power of the study was determined as 100% at the 95% confidence interval and p = .05
      significance level.

      The participants were not told to which group they were assigned. Thus, the study was
      conducted as a single-blind study.

      Training Booklet and Implementation Steps A booklet including information on nursing
      interventions for diabetes was prepared. The training booklet was based on the current
      literature and the results of the qualitative study conducted on the issue in the first step
      of the Ph.D. thesis. The booklet was revised in line with the opinions obtained from 5
      professors who were experts in the field. The International Standard Book Number
      (978-975-441-462-2 ISBN) for the booklet was obtained by the Presidency of Dokuz Eylül
      University and published in the Dokuz Eylül University Press.

      During the first home visit, the participants in the intervention group were applied the data
      collection tools, and then nursing interventions in accordance with the subscales of the
      Health Belief Model by taking into account the individual differences of the participants.
      The nursing interventions were performed within the scope of the basic dimensions of diabetes
      management such as nutrition, exercise, medication management, oral care, and foot care. In
      addition, the importance of annual monitoring of HBA1c, blood lipid, albumin/creatinine
      levels, fundus examination, blood pressure monitoring, sleep hygiene, avoidance of smoking
      and alcohol was also explained. Home visits were paid 3 times at 3-month intervals. After the
      home visits started, reminder messages supporting the home visit process were sent at
      two-week intervals.

      The participants in the control group were contacted 3 times at 3-month intervals through
      telephone calls and were applied the data collection tools. At the end of the study, the
      participants in the control group were given health training at the Dokuz Eylül University
      Faculty of Nursing and the training booklet was distributed to them.

      Analysis of the Data The study data were analyzed using numbers, percentages, the chi-square
      test, the test for the Signiﬁcance of the Difference Between Two Means, the Repeated Measures
      Multivariate Analysis of Variance, Bonferroni-adjusted t-test independent groups and multiple
      regression analysis in the Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) (23.0) program.
    
  