
    
      Hypertension is one of the most common world-wide chronic diseases, and it is showing a
      growing younger trend, which with mild blood pressure elevated would not be diagnose in time
      until blood pressure raises up or symptoms show up (Mild blood pressure indicates blood
      pressures ranging from 140 to 159 mmHg systolic and/or 90 to 99 mmHg diastolic). However,
      cumulative evidences prove that microvascular rarefaction exist in hypertensive patients with
      even primary hypertension stage 1. Exercise prescription is gathering great importance in
      preventive health. Aerobic exercise, especially, has the potential to diminish blood pressure
      values, and aerobic exercise can promote angiogenesis in coronary heart disease. Notch
      signaling plays an important role in vascular formation and maintenance. However, there is no
      prospective, randomized, controlled, clinic trial to investigate the effect of exercise on
      microcirculation rarefaction in hypertension. In summary, investigators propose a hypothesis
      that aerobic exercise might not only have a blood pressure lowing effect but also improve
      microcirculation rarefaction in Chinese male adults with primary mild hypertension. For that,
      subjects will be enrolled for one pre-intervention cardiopulmonary exercise test (CPET) and
      then randomized in aerobic exercise intervention group and control group (only health
      education), the intervention will be carried out by Cycle Ergometer, the protocol consists of
      3 sessions a day: 3 minutes Warm up, 45 minutes Resistance Exercise at 75% of HRmax; 10
      minutes Recovery. Thus 58 minutes a day and 5 days a week (about 2000kcal) and 12 weeks in
      total. Prior and after all intervention sessions (12 weeks), nail fold capillary microscopy
      and retinal capillary Optical Coherence Tomography(OCT) angiography will be assessed, as well
      as 24h blood pressure monitoring, echocardiography, forearm blood Flow Mediated Diastolic
      function(FMD), Plus Wave Velocity(PWV), Reactive Hyperemia Index(RHI) with Endopat, also the
      quantification of endothelial progenistor cells(EPCs) separated from peripheral blood.
    
  