
    
      Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is an increasingly common surgical technique for the treatment
      of Parkinson's disease and dystonia. The current technical approach to DBS implantation
      involves frame-based stereotaxy. In this method, a stereotactic frame is rigidly fixed to the
      patient's skull, an MRI is obtained, an anatomic target is identified, and the coordinates of
      the target in stereotactic space are calculated. Instruments are mounted on the stereotactic
      frame that point to the calculated coordinate. However, due to the inherent inaccuracies in
      standard frame-based stereotaxy, a complex 6-hour procedure then ensues to "map" the brain
      target with microelectrodes, place the lead, and return to the MR unit to confirm proper
      placement.

      The goal of this project is to gather observational data on the iMRI DBS implantation
      technique and clinical outcomes. This already FDA-approved implantation technique for DBS
      will take place entirely within the Phillips 1.5T and a Siemens 3T open magnet MRI machine.
      Prior to study initiation, instrumentation and MR protocols were tested using a phantom head.
      In the proposed project, subthalamic nucleus or globus pallidus DBS implantations will be
      performed bilaterally in patients with Parkinson's disease or dystonia. Patients will be
      under general anesthesia. Targeting and lead verification are performed with imaging alone,
      without physiologic mapping. Data is to be gathered on the following: operative time, degree
      of benefit with bilateral implantation (changes in standard rating scales of motor
      disability), DBS voltage requirements, complications), and electrode location by MR. These
      measures will be compared with our historical controls, previously entered into our research
      database, in which electrodes were placed by the standard methods. We expect that the use of
      near real time MR will improve the speed and accuracy of DBS implantation, and eliminate the
      need for invasive physiological monitoring.

      All of the study participants will be getting iMRI DBS implantation as a part of their
      standard of care and agree to have additional study data collected
    
  