
    
      Participants will be randomized to two treatment arms with 45 patients enrolled in each study
      arm: Toviaz and Premarin Vaginal Cream and Toviaz and Placebo Premarin Vaginal Cream. The
      Toviaz will be dosed at 4mg tablet given as a once daily dose. Premarin vaginal cream will be
      dosed at 1 gram per vagina twice weekly. Compliance will be assessed at the 4-week mark and
      again at completion of the study, 8 weeks after the commencement of treatment.

      The questionnaires chosen for this study have been designed and validated as effective tools
      to assess and evaluate OAB. Patients will be asked to complete three symptoms questionnaires
      and a 3-day voiding dairy. The questionnaires include Overactive Bladder Questionnaire
      (OAB-q), The Patient Perception of Bladder Condition, and Urgency Severity and Impact
      Questionnaire. The voiding diary and questionnaires will be filled out and collected at the
      initial visit and again at the end of the study which is defined as 8 weeks after the
      commencement of treatment.

      Additionally, patients will be asked to rate their symptoms associated with urogenital
      atrophy at the start of the study and then again at 8 weeks. The severity of each symptom
      will be graded based on a four-point scale (0=none, 1=mild, 2= moderate, 3=severe) and a
      composite score will then be generated. Examiners will also rate the severity of signs of
      urogenital atrophy at the first visit and at the conclusion of the study.

      An objective evaluation of the effectiveness of the estrogen cream treatment will be
      accomplished by a pathological evaluation of the vaginal cell samples at the beginning of
      treatment and then again at the 8 week point. These cells will be collected and analyzed by
      an independent pathologist to determine the percentage of parabasal, intermediate, and
      superficial cells and to document the change in these three categories of cells as a result
      of the vaginal estrogen treatment. A 3-Day voiding diary will be used to document changes
      from baseline for urinary urgency, frequency, and incontinence episodes. Based on previous
      studies we predict there will be a 45% improvement on urinary frequency from baseline when
      using both Toviaz and vaginal Premarin cream. Secondary outcomes will be measured using the
      following validated questionnaires given at the start of the study and again at completion:
      OAB-q, Patient Perception of Bladder Condition, Urgency Severity and Impact Questionnaire.
    
  