
    
      Paliperidone is being developed as a new therapeutic agent for the treatment of
      schizophrenia. The extended-release (ER) formulation of paliperidone was developed to deliver
      paliperidone at a relatively constant rate over a 24-hour period to improve the tolerability
      profile and decrease the potential for orthostatic hypotension. This study is designed to
      evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of 2 fixed dosages of paliperidone ER compared
      with placebo in adult patients with schizophrenia. This is a multicenter, double-blind
      (neither the patient nor the physician will know if placebo or drug is being given and at
      what dose), randomized (patients will be assigned to different treatment groups based solely
      on chance), placebo- and active-controlled, parallel-group, dose-response study. Patients
      will be randomized into 1 of 4 treatment groups to receive oral dosages of paliperidone ER 6
      mg or 12 mg, olanzapine 10 mg, or placebo once daily for a 6-week period. The study includes
      a screening period of up to 5 days, followed by 6-week double-blind treatment phase.
      Following the double-blind treatment phase, eligible patients (those who have completed the
      6-week double-blind phase or who discontinue due to lack of efficacy after a minimum of 21
      days) may enter a 52-week open-label extension phase with paliperidone ER monotherapy. While
      patients are hospitalized, efficacy will be assessed twice during the first week and at the
      end of the second week, and after patients are discharged from the hospital, they will return
      to have efficacy and safety assessments performed on a weekly basis through the end of the
      6-week double-blind phase. Efficacy will be evaluated throughout the 6-week double-blind
      phase by completion of the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), Clinical Global
      Impression Scale - Severity (CGI-S), Personal and Social Performance Scale (PSP),
      Schizophrenia Quality of Life Scale, Revision 4 (SQLS-R4), and Sleep Visual Analog Scale
      (VAS). The efficacy response will be measured by the change from baseline score to end of
      double-blind phase for PANSS, PSP, CGI-S, SQLS-R4, and Sleep VAS. Safety will be monitored
      throughout the study and includes assessments of the incidence of adverse events; measurement
      of extrapyramidal symptoms using 3 rating scales (Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale [AIMS],
      Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale [BARS], Simpson-Angus Rating Scale [SAS]); measurement of vital
      signs (laying down and standing blood pressure, pulse, temperature); electrocardiograms; and
      clinical laboratory tests. Double-blind: 6 mg or 12 mg fixed dose of paliperidone ER,
      olanzapine 10 mg or matching placebo taken orally once daily for 6 weeks.

      Open-label extension: start on paliperidone ER 9 mg taken orally once daily; maintained on a
      flexible dosage of paliperidone ER (3, 6, 9, or 12 mg/day) for 52 weeks.
    
  