
    
      Propofol is an intravenous anesthetic capable of providing a safe general anesthesia, free
      from many of the adverse effects associated with inhalation anesthetics (postoperative nausea
      and vomiting, agitation on awakening, seizures and trigger malignant hyperthermia crisis) and
      widely used in adults, but even less so in children. This is due to the fact that its
      pharmacological characteristics have not been clarified at all in the pediatric population.

      The physiological maturation of different systems in children, as well as changes in body
      composition and metabolism may determine significant changes in the pharmacokinetics
      (distribution volumes and clearance) of children. Moreover, within the same age group,
      variations across different individuals may make even less predictable the pharmacokinetic
      models currently in use. Indeed, previous work in our group based on these models have shown
      that propofol dosage required by children to induce general anesthesia is inversely
      proportional to the age, which could be explained by biases in these models, different
      sensitivity to propofol at different ages and sizes, etc.

      The effect of propofol in the brain is described by its pharmacodynamics, but in children
      this is still in debate. Using a brain activity monitor (BIS), the effect of propofol at the
      central nervous system can be analyzed under a model of nonlinear mixed effects (NONMEM) and
      establish the time to peak effect to characterize in detail the pharmacodynamics of this
      drug.

      Integrating pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data, a pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic
      (PK/PD) model for the pediatric population can be derived.

      The aim of this paper is to describe the first PK / PD model of propofol in children, valid
      for different ages and to analyze them in the context of different body composition
      parameters.

      The importance of this study is that its results will publish the missing link in the
      pediatric pharmacology of propofol, which will encourage more research and more widespread
      use of this technique in the pediatric population.
    
  