
    
      Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is the most common acquired neurological disease leading to
      disability, especially ambulatory, in young adults. To date, the correlation between the
      number or volume of white matter lesions seen on conventional MRI and the degree of
      disability of patients remains low to moderate. This phenomenon is known as the
      "clinical-radiological paradox".

      The impact of the precise localisation of focal MS lesions on certain circuits particularly
      involved in ambulation, such as pyramidal or proprioceptive beams, has however been little
      studied in imaging, mainly due to technical limitations. Indeed, such studies require the
      acquisition of brain and spinal cord MRI images of sufficient spatial resolution to allow the
      localisation of focal lesions and pathways. Several previous studies have shown encouraging
      results by separately studying damage to the brain or spinal cord portion of the
      corticospinal bundle and relating it to disability. To our knowledge, no studies have
      analysed the lesional involvement of the cortico-spinal bundle or the entire proprioceptive
      bundle from the motor cortex to the medullary cone in patients with MS.

      In a preliminary study, we studied the cerebral spinal cortex and cervical spinal cord bundle
      using data from the PHRC 2012 EMISEP and obtained encouraging results. In particular, we have
      shown that the cortico-spinal pathways are very frequently affected by focal lesions in the
      early years of the disease and that it is already correlated with the functional consequences
      in patients measured clinically and in electrophysiology.

      In this new project, we hypothesize that an evaluation of the corticospinal pathways
      including their thoracic medullary portion, as well as taking into account the severity of
      the lesions using quantitative MRI, will allow the investigators to refine the correlation
      with ambulatory disability in MS patients. We will complete the evaluation of motor pathways
      with those of the proprioceptive pathways also strongly involved in ambulation.
    
  