
    
      Rotator cuff repair and regeneration has become a focal point for scientists and surgeons in
      search for a biological treatment to improve tendon healing, especially in situations of
      unfavorable biological conditions. Recent literature supports harvesting and centrifuging
      bone marrow aspirate to produce bone marrow aspirate concentration (BMAC) in hopes that
      mesenchymal stem cells in the bone marrow aspirate can promote tendon healing and
      regeneration.

      This is a single blinded randomized clinical trial using labeled BMAC cells in adults
      diagnosed with medium to large, single tears of the rotator cuff. This is a single site study
      where at least 45 cases among eligible patients will be identified and randomly assigned to a
      either a control (arthroscopic repair without BMAC) group or experimental (arthroscopic
      repair with BMAC) group. A power analysis will be performed after enrolling 20 patients to
      determine the total number of patients required to reach adequate power.

      A patient will receive an infusion of Ferumoxytol 1 day prior to the surgical procedure. An
      infusion nurse will be present at all times during the infusion to monitor vitals. On the day
      of the surgical procedure patients in the both groups will undergo arthroscopic rotator cuff
      repair using a double-row technique. Patients in the experimental group will also undergo
      harvesting of bone marrow aspirate from the anterior inferior iliac crest, which will be
      centrifuged to about 3-4cc of BMAC and placed beneath the tendon at the bone interface. MRIs
      will be completed on days 1 and 7 post-operatively to track retention of the labeled
      mesenchymal cells. Ultrasound imaging will be performed at 6 months post-surgery to evaluate
      tendon healing. Final MRIs will be obtained at 1 year and 2 years post surgery. Patient
      related outcomes will be collected at the pre-operative visit, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year and
      2 years post surgery in the forms of ASES, UCLA and Constant scoring.
    
  