
    
      Scoliosis is a complex three-dimensional deformity of the spine, which occurs primarily in
      growing children and adolescents. In adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS), the cause is
      unknown. Children with severe and progressive scoliosis, if left untreated, are at risk of
      rapid and severe spinal deformity progression, which can result in a decrease of pulmonary
      function, poor cosmetic result and poor quality of life.

      Treatment options in AIS depend on curve severity and remaining growth potential, and include
      intensive brace treatment for smaller curvatures whereas surgical correction and spinal
      fusion is advocated for more severe curves. Growing rods are used for severe early infantile
      deformities or early onset scoliosis (EOS).

      Bracing, by using a rigid plastic orthosis, is currently the primary therapy to prevent curve
      progression in mild curves up to 45 degrees and skeletal immature patients. Most braces are
      recommended to be worn for 18-23 hours per day during several years (until skeletal maturity
      has been reached). This may cause a high level of physical discomfort and emotional and
      psychological stress in these patients, and failure of brace treatment therefore is common.

      Surgical therapy for AIS is recommended in severe progressive curvatures. Surgical treatment
      includes correction of the spinal curvature by using multisegmental screw fixation and
      posterior spinal fusion of the thoracolumbar spine. Complete posterior spinal fusion,
      however, lacks the possibilities for future adaptation of natural changes in spinal balance
      and posture.

      Currently, growing rods systems are used as a posterior spinal implant to allow growth of the
      spine and thorax and limit progression of the scoliosis in young patients with early onset
      scoliosis. Growing rods systems are distractible spinal implants, with bipolar anchorage
      fixations to the upper and lower part of the spine, using posterior spinal instrumentation
      such as hooks and pedicle screws.

      The Nemost growing system, developed by the EUROS Compagny, is a CE-marked commercial
      available medical device for the treatment of early onset neuromuscular or early onset
      idiopathic scoliosis. It is a non-fusion, growth enabling system with bipolar fixation
      intended to be used with a posterior spinal instrumentation.

      It is hypothesized that the use of a minimal invasive non-fusion bipolar posterior spinal
      implant (Nemost growing domino) can both correct and brace the spine internally and adapt
      balans and or distraction as the idiopathic scoliosis patient grows.
    
  