
    
      Weight loss is important to improve overall health and reduce risk of obesity-related
      comorbidities such as diabetes. Numerous studies performed on individuals with predisposed
      genetic propensity to obesity who are deemed to be metabolically 'thrifty', require further
      structured intensification of caloric restriction and change in physical activity in order to
      achieve weight loss. Whether greater weight loss is as a result of smaller reduction in
      energy expenditure with calorie restriction is not known. Resting energy expenditure and
      24-hour energy expenditure vary substantially between individuals. Obese individuals that
      lose weight experience a decrease in 24-h EE and resting energy expenditure that is lower
      than predicted based on changes in body composition. Most weight loss studies have found a
      large individual variation in the amount of weight change, and whether an individual's
      response to an intervention can be predicted is not clear. Measurements of 24-hour EE in
      response to fasting may help predict weight loss. The ECAL indirect calorimeter (ECAL) is a
      validated device purpose-built to provide the practitioner and patient with energy
      information that allows for more accurate, reliable method of establishing an obese
      individuals' metabolic profile. The ECAL device also measures the respiratory quotient (RQ)
      which is the ratio of the volume of carbon dioxide expired to that of oxygen consumed by the
      individual for every breath. Previous studies demonstrated variability in role of RQ in
      predicting weight loss, but individuals who demonstrated an RQ in the lower range (<0.72)
      were more likely to maintain the weight-loss achieved on a caloric restriction and avoid a
      weight loss rebound as compared to those with RQ in the higher range (>0.75). This suggests
      that RQ could prove useful in clinical practice as a prognostic marker for long-term
      effectiveness of low- and very-low-calorie diets used to induce weight loss. Baltimore
      Longitudinal Study on Aging shared a similar finding that fasting RQ or respiratory exchange
      ratio adjusted for age, BMI, and fat free mass was positively related to weight change. The
      aim of this study is to determine whether providing energy information from ECAL indirect
      calorimeter as an adjunct to the multicomponent weight management intervention in
      non-diabetic obese and severely obese individuals would help predict the response of weight
      loss.
    
  