
    
      Intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) is associated with important maternal and perinatal
      morbidity and mortality. IUGR is typically secondary to defective oxygenation, leading to
      placental insufficiency.

      Measurements made in the umbilical cord after puncture fetal blood showed that compared to
      normal fetuses, fetuses with IUGR are often hypoxic, hypercapnic and acidotic. Pathological
      placental and fetal oxygenation is considered as a main element of IUGR. To this day, there
      is no non-invasive exploration method of this oxygenation. The only ways to monitor IUGR are
      "indirect" ultrasonic analysis of fetal growth and uteroplacental Doppler spectra. Functional
      BOLD (Blood Oxygen Level dependent) MRI, already used to investigate cerebral, tumor, cardiac
      oxygenation, highlights local variations of oxygenation. The purpose of this study is to
      obtain non invasive data of fetoplacental oxygenation through functional BOLD MRI. Comparing
      data on eutrophic fetuses and IUGR fetuses will determine the potential contribution of this
      technique in the diagnosis, treatment and medical management of dysfunctional placentas
      associated with an increased risk of IUGR.

      a fetal MRI in the pediatric radiology department of Necker-Enfants Malades Hospital or
      Robert Debré Hospital, for fetal or placental indications as part of usual workup, will be
      invited to participate in this protocol. At the waning of the scheduled fetal MRI, patients
      will subsequently receive an additional BOLD and ASL sequence before and after maternal
      hyperoxygenation.

      Patients will be included in three centers : Necker Hospital, Robert Debré Hospital and Louis
      Mourier Hospital. Only at Necker Hospital: a subgroup of patients will be included at the
      beginning of the protocol for the adjustment of the settings of the MRI machine, for the
      determination of BOLD sequences' parameters, as well as the selection of the most adapted
      type of oxygenation mask.

      In the three centers, investigators will include patients with IUGR fetuses and patients with
      a eutrophic fetus.

      A total of two visits (selection visit and baseline) are scheduled for all patients in this
      trial. Patient selection will be done during a ultrasound visit. Patients can give their
      consent on the same day or on the MRI appointment day; in all cases the consent will be
      signed on the day of the appointment MRI.

      The flow and duration of the oxygenation of the initial group "test patients" will be
      determined before completion of the examination; for other patients, the flow rate will be
      determined based on the results of this first group.

      The duration of the BOLD sequence will be around 10 minutes. The sequences will focus on the
      feto-placental unit.

      A first BOLD sequence will be launched under ambient air. The second BOLD sequence will be
      repeated after 5 minutes of maternal hyperoxygenation.

      MRI data will be saved and analyzed at the Laboratory of Imaging Research of the team 2 of
      Paris Cardiovascular Research Center (INSERM U970).

      The data necessary for the statistical analysis of the study are collected from the medical
      file of patients included in the study. Data entry will be performed by a research technician
      on electronic media via an internet browser.

      The inclusion period will be of 57 months. Each woman's duration of participation will be 1
      hour. The maximum duration of the study will be 57 months.
    
  