
    
      The availability of interferon (IFN)-free HCV Direct Acting Antiviral (DAA) antiviral therapy
      such as Ledipasvir-Sofosbuvir (LPV-SOF) allows for broad provision of treatment for
      populations living with HIV-HCV. Co-infected persons frequently have competing co-morbidities
      and are at risk for progressive liver disease which makes adherence and combined management
      of HIV and HCV challenging. Simple, safe, well tolerated regimens with few drug-drug
      interactions could be highly beneficial in ensuring success of HCV therapy in this
      population. With this is mind, the optimal management of antiretroviral therapy prior to
      initiating LPV-SOF treatment remains unclear.

      E/C/F/TAF [elvitegravir-cobicistat-emtricitabine-tenofovir alafenamide fumerate (TAF)] will
      be assessed in this study because it is formulated as a single tablet which facilitates
      adherence by once daily dosing and reduced pill count. It is established to be affective at
      achieving and maintaining HIV virologic suppression. The safety profile of this HIV regimen
      is excellent. The E/C/F/TAF formulation assessed in this study will contain TAF. This
      formulation has been evaluated in HIV-infected populations and found to be of equivalent HIV
      antiviral activity and to have improved impact on renal and bone metabolism [ref: David Wohl,
      Anton Pozniak, Melanie Thompson, Edwin DeJesus, Daniel Podzamczer, Jean-Michel Molina, Gordon
      Crofoot, Christian Callebaut, Hal Martin, Scott McCallister. Tenofovir Alafenamide (TAF) in a
      Single-Tablet Regimen in Initial HIV-1 Therapy. Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic
      Infections. 113LB. February 23-26, 2015, Seattle, Washington.]. There is minimal safety data
      in HIV-HCV co-infection.

      Drug-drug interactions (DDI) between HIV antiretrovirals and HCV antivirals remain a key
      obstacle to the safe and effective delivery. The DDI between E/C/F/TAF and LPV-SOF have been
      well evaluated and no clinically significant interactions have been identified.

      A switch to E/C/F/TAF in the context of LPV-SOF HCV antiviral treatment preparation may be
      particularly beneficial because of its:

        1. favorable side effect profile

        2. once daily STR formulation

        3. known DDI profile with LPV-SOF

        4. neutral effect on liver fibrosis

        5. improved kidney and bone safety profile with the use of TAF

      Conduct of this study is justified as it:

        1. Assesses a minimal pill count and dosing frequency strategy of co-treatment of HIV and
           HCV using well tolerated medications with an excellent safety profile and known DDI
           profile (Complera followed by LPV-SOF). Polypharmacy in the co-infected population
           remains a significant challenge to therapeutic success.

        2. Provides additional safety data for TAF in the HIV-HCV co-infected population.

        3. Quantifies adherence and identifies obstacles to full adherence in this population.
           There is a paucity of data related to DAA adherence in licensing studies.

        4. Provides real-world safety and efficacy data to support the public funding for LPV-SOF
           DAA therapy in HIV-HCV co-infected populations.

        5. Provides preliminary data on the immunologic and metabolic consequences of HCV clearance
           in HIV-HCV co-infection

        6. As a pilot study, the information gathered will inform the feasibility of future
           clinical trials evaluating novel treatment strategies for HIV-HCV co-infected patients.
    
  