
    
      Glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) exerts a strong insulinotropic effect in
      healthy individuals following meal ingestion. Studies in patients with type 2 diabetes have
      shown that the insulinotropic effect of exogenous GIP is severely reduced and recent data
      from the investigators' group suggest that the insulinotropic effect of endogenous GIP is
      compromised too. Interestingly, after near-normalisation of plasma glucose in patients with
      type 2 diabetes (using intensive insulin treatment), the insulinotropic effect of exogenous
      GIP can be restored. The investigators have previously observed a similar restoration of the
      beta cell secretory response to exogenous GIP after therapy with DPP-4 inhibitors, the
      effects of which rely on preservation of incretins.

      The investigators hypothesise that the insulinotropic effect of endogenous GIP is improvable
      in patients with type 2 diabetes after three weeks of near-normalisation of plasma glucose.
      To test this hypothesis, a randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blinded, crossover study
      employing a GIP receptor antagonist, will be carried out.

      Fifteen overweight (body mass index (BMI) > 25 kg/m2) dysregulated (HbA1c > 59 mmol/mol)
      patients with type 2 diabetes will attend two experimental days followed by a three-week
      period of plasma glucose near-normalisation (achieved by standard treatment of type
      2-diabetes), followed by another two experimental days. On experimental days, patients will
      receive an infusion of GIP receptor antagonist or placebo during a 75 g oral glucose
      tolerance test. The primary endpoint is changes in levels of C-peptide divided by changes in
      levels of plasma glucose and secondary endpoints include changes in circulating levels of
      C-peptide, insulin, glucose, GIP, glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1), glucagon and markers of
      bone turnover as well as indices of beta cell function. Furthermore, gastric emptying rate
      will be assessed.

      Glucose-lowering drugs based on the effects of another incretin hormone, GLP-1, are
      successfully being used in the treatment of type 2 diabetes. However, due to the reduced
      insulinotropic effect of GIP in patients with inadequately controlled type 2 diabetes,
      treatments based on GIP receptor activation are not on the market. Recently however, a dual
      GLP-1/GIP receptor agonist has shown promising phase II results. The importance of GIP
      receptor engagement for the efficacy of these compounds remains to be shown. The present
      project will answer to what extent the insulinotropic effect of endogenous GIP in patients
      with type 2 diabetes can be restored following near-normalisation of plasma glucose and thus,
      provide important perspectives on how to further advance the development of GIP-based
      therapeutics.
    
  