
    
      Histiocytoses are rare diseases caused by an excess of cells called Histiocytes, which can
      infiltrate the skin, bones, lungs, liver, spleen and the central nervous system. These
      disorders can range from localized involvement that resolves spontaneously, to progressive
      disseminated forms that can be debilitating and sometimes life-threatening. The rare
      histiocytic disorders (RHD), or non-Langerhans cell disorders, are a diverse group of
      disorders defined by the accumulation of histiocytes that do not meet the criteria for
      Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) or hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH). They
      include: Juvenile xanthogranuloma family, Erdheim-Chester disease, Multifocal
      Reticulohistiocytosis, Rosai-Dorfman disease and the Malignant Histiocytoses. Since they are
      so rare, there is limited understanding of their causes and treatments. Physicians, patients
      and parents of children with rare histiocytoses frequently consult members of the Histiocyte
      Society on the management of these disorders. Very often, no specific recommendation about
      treatment can be made due to the lack of prospective outcome data for these rare entities.
      The creation of an International Rare Histiocytic Disorders Registry (IRHDR) will facilitate
      a uniform diagnosis of the RHD's, as well as the collection and analysis of the clinical,
      epidemiological, treatment and survival data of patients with RHD. The registry will also
      provide expert pathology reviews and may lead to future therapeutic recommendations.
      Furthermore, the IRHDR can provide a framework for future clinical trials, thus, creating
      excellent research opportunities. Lastly, a de-identified link between clinical data and
      companion biology studies can potentially be accomplished in the future through the IRHDR.
      This may further help in understanding the etiology of these rare diseases, as well as
      identifying potential therapeutic targets.
    
  