
    
      Background:

      The ideal airway stent has yet to be developed. Biodegradable (BD) stents are made of knitted
      polymer fibers that degrade when placed in the body; extraction of the device is, therefore,
      unnecessary. Several in vitro and in vivo studies of tracheal BD stents composed of various
      materials have been conducted.

      Polydioxanone is a biodegradable polymer in the polyester family, which has attracted a lot
      of interest due to its exquisite biocompatibility and is currently available on the market in
      the form of absorbable suture material. It is degraded by hydrolysis (of its ester bonds),
      which is accelerated under low potential of Hydrogen (pH) conditions, into harmless
      degradation products. Polydioxanone tracheal stents appear to be well tolerated by the
      tracheal mucosa, retain their mechanical strength for as long as 6 weeks, and, in animal
      models, completely degrade after approximately 15 weeks. They have been successfully used in
      humans as mechanical support for tracheal transplants, during treatment of obstructive airway
      complications after lung transplantation, and in children with airway stenosis.

      Hypotheses:

      Biodegradable stents can be used in adult patients as a temporary mechanical support of
      narrowed airways, they allow healing of the airways or secure the airways until another
      (anticancer, anti-inflammatory) therapy manages the cause of the narrowing. Biodegradable
      stents are expected to have advantages over classical stents, namely good biocompatibility,
      fair adaptation to the anatomy of the airways, they do not limit the transportation of
      secretions substantially.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective of this study is to show that BD stents can be safely used and are
      effective in the treatment of adult patients with tracheal narrowings.

      The secondary objectives are: to observe and analyze mucosa - BD stent interaction, to assess
      degradation of stents and its consequences.

      Design:

      Prospective interventional study conducted in three hospitals in the Czech Republic.

      Methods:

      The investigators intend to enroll adult participants suffering from significant large airway
      stenoses in which the stenting is generally considered to be effective. Every participant is
      reviewed by at least two interventional pulmonologists and a thoracic surgeon to determine
      the best therapeutic option. Bronchoscopy and computed tomography of the trachea is
      considered essential to confirm the diagnoses. All participants sign an informed consent form
      prior to undergoing the procedure.

      During the stent implantation, the trachea is intubated with a rigid bronchoscope,
      participants are placed under total intravenous anesthesia and jet ventilation. The
      investigators intend to use self-expandable, biodegradable, polydioxanone tracheal stents,
      the SX-ELLA Stent DV Tracheal (DV Stent), manufactured by ELLA-CS, s.r.o., Hradec Kralove,
      Czech Republic. Stent is standardly equipped with radiopaque markers at distal and proximal
      end. It is delivered in sterile packed, separately from original delivery system into which
      the stent immediately before implantation is placed. As mentioned, stent is made of synthetic
      polymer - braided polydioxanone fiber widely used for absorbable surgical suture. The suture
      has successfully been used in the surgery, orthopedics and dental surgery for more than 25
      years. It is known that the material is subjected to the bulk hydrolytic degradation in the
      body. No toxic substances arise within the degradation process. The ultimate degradation
      substance is 2-hydroxyacetic acid that is finally metabolized to water and carbon dioxide.
      The data about local reaction produced by polydioxanone implants, incl. buried sutures are
      contradictory. Majority of them report very low tissue reaction.

      The first bronchoscopy follow up is carried out during the first post-implantation week,
      additional follow-ups (including clinical evaluation, bronchoscopy, basic spirometry, and
      chest X-ray if needed) are performed on a monthly or as-needed basis. If the restenosis
      threatens, the participant can be given another polydioxanone stent, as well as, he or she
      can be treated using mechanical removal of obstacles, balloon dilation, laser therapy and
      electrocautery.

      Results are analyzed continuously, final evaluation is intended to be performed after
      reaching a sufficient number of participants. This includes statistical analysis of overall
      results in participants after complete stent degradation, assessment of major clinical signs
      and functional parameters, and especially, evaluations of endoscopic findings.
    
  