
    
      (1) Indication: Chronic Heart Failure. (2) Objectives: Primary objective is to evaluate the
      efficacy of the Hospital-Community-Family-Care Management Platform online compared with the
      regular clinic follow up in subjects with CHF (I-IV class by NYHA, of which class IV without
      strict bed rest).Secondary objectives is to assess the safety of the Management Platform
      online in subjects with CHF. (3) Study design: Prospective, randomized, controlled study with
      two follow up management groups: 1) the Hospital-Community-Family-Care Management Follow up
      Online; 2) the regular monthly clinic follow up. Study population: Totally 1000 male and
      female subjects with CHF (I-IV functional class according to NYHA classification). (4)
      Quality assurance plan that addresses data validation and registry procedures, including any
      plans for site monitoring and auditing. (5) Data checks to compare data entered into the
      registry against predefined rules for range or consistency with other data fields in the
      registry. (6) Source data verification to assess the accuracy, completeness, or
      representativeness of registry data by comparing the data to external data sources. (7)
      Standard Operating Procedures to address registry operations and analysis activities, such as
      patient recruitment, data collection, data management, data analysis, reporting for adverse
      events, and change management. (8) Duration of follow up: The total follow-up time shall be
      at least 12 months. (9) Safety Assessment: Safety of the study will be evaluated by the
      following assessments: 1) Subject and object examinations (during the follow up period and
      extending up to 2 week after the end of the study) consisting of a subject interview
      (including direct questioning about adverse events), physical examination, assessment of body
      weight, Electrocardiogram (ECG) and echocardiogram (UCG), Left ventricular ejection fraction
      (LVEF), assessed by echocardiography, The N-terminal prohormone of brain natriuretic peptide
      (NT-proBNP), a peptide hormone whose plasma concentration is inversely related to the
      severity of HF, NYHA functional status, assessed by subject interview, 6-minute walk distance
      (6MWD), Quality of life (QoL), assessed by the Minnesota Living with Heart Failure
      questionnaire (MLHFQ), a validated questionnaire assessing QoL in subjects with heart
      failure. 2) Evaluation of clinically relevant safety laboratory parameters, such as complete
      blood count, serum creatinine, electrolytes, and liver enzymes. Any Adverse Events (AE) or
      Serious Adverse Events (SAE) and its potential causal relationship with the study will be
      recorded and evaluated.
    
  