
    
      All patients will be randomized into 2 groups:

      Direct puncture - patients who underwent directive puncture under ultrasound or Rg control.
      The number of patients is 30 people.

      Non-direct puncture - patients who underwent a PCS puncture with retrograde contrast. The
      number of patients is 30 people.

      Patients will be assigned a randomization number that matches their treatment. Block
      randomization using 10 blocks will be performed by a central randomization organization
      (www.randomize.net) using a computerized algorithm.

      Primary assessed indicators:

        1. Gender

        2. Age

        3. Body mass index

        4. Localization of the stone (side, pelvis, upper anterior cup, upper posterior cup, middle
           anterior cup, middle posterior cup, lower anterior cup, lower posterior cup)

        5. Density of the stone

        6. The presence of hydronephrosis

      Indicators assessed during the operation - will be assessed by the physician-researcher:

        1. Installation of the ureteral catheter

        2. Duration of puncture

        3. Puncture method (ultrasound, X-ray)

        4. The success of the insertion of a flexible guidewire into the calyceal system

        5. Problems during dilation of the puncture course

        6. Visualization (Excellent, Moderate, Poor)

        7. Type of drainage (stent, nephrostomic tube) at the end of the operation Using the Visual
           Analogue Pain Scale (VAS), pain assessment is planned at 2 hours, 6 hours, 12 hours and
           24 hours after surgery.

      In the postoperative period, the patient independently controls the intake of analgesics from
      the NSAID group (ketorolac 100 mg) (Patient-controlled analgesia). If the patient requires
      analgesics, the time of taking the drug will be recorded (pain relief on demand).

      Secondary Assessment: Postoperative Assessment

        1. Complications (Clavien)

        2. Hemoglobin level 24 hours after surgery

        3. Creatinine level 24 hours after surgery

        4. Assessment of Stone-Free status after surgery by performing multislice computed
           tomography of the kidneys and urinary tract without intravenous contrast
    
  