
    
      Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) in childhood are chronic relapsing and remitting
      inflammatory condition that have a significant impact on growth and development.

      IBD involves a shift from a regulated intestinal immune response to one that is driven by
      unrestrained immune cell activation and pro-inflammatory cytokine production. (1) The cause
      of this increase in immune stimulation is of great interest and several studies indicate a
      role for commensal bacteria in the progression of disease. (2) A recent study compared the
      microbiota of patients with IBD with that of non-IBD controls and revealed a significant
      difference in their composition. The microbiota of IBD patients showed abnormal microbial
      composition characterized by depletion of Firmicutes and Bacteroides, which are represented
      in non-IBD controls. (3)

      Enhanced NF-κB activity is involved in the pathology of both forms of IBD. Crohn disease (CD)
      and ulcerative colitis (UC). The mechanism of proteasome-mediated NF-κB activation in CD and
      UC has been studied. Visekruna et al demonstrated that the subunit composition and the
      proteolytic function of proteasomes differ between UC and CD. High expression of the
      immunoproteasome subunits β1i and β2i is characteristic of the inflamed mucosa of CD (4). In
      line with this, they found enhanced processing of NF-κB precursor p105 and degradation of
      inhibitor of NF-κB, IκBα, by immunoproteasomes isolated from the mucosa of CD patients. In
      comparison with healthy controls and CD patients, UC patients exhibited an intermediate
      phenotype regarding the proteasome-mediated processing/degradation of NF-κB components (4)
      .Finally, increased expression of the NF-κB family member c-Rel in the inflamed mucosa of CD
      patients suggests that p50/c-Rel is important for IFN-γ-mediated induction of
      immunoproteasomes via IL-12-driven Th1 responses. These findings suggest that distinct
      proteasome subunits influence the intensity of NF-κB-mediated inflammation in IBD patients
      (4).

      In the study of Pagnini C et al., the authors report that the probiotic mixture VSL#3
      prevents the onset of intestinal inflammation in the SAMP mouse model of CD-ileitis. These
      effects were associated with a local effect on the intestinal epithelium (i.e., stimulation
      of TNF-α production and NF-κB activation in epithelial cells, coupled with restitution of
      normal intestinal epithelial barrier function).

      Analysis of bacterial DNA in the stool and ileal mucosa of treated mice demonstrated a
      significant increase of probiotic strains, suggesting that effective bacterial colonization
      is required for the beneficial effects of probiotic treatment. This study support the
      hypothesis that probiotics promote gut health through a mechanism involving stimulation of
      epithelial innate responses (i.e., stimulation of TNF-α expression), rather than suppression
      of inflammation. (5)

      Many individual or combinations of bacterial species have been shows to ameliorate the
      symptoms of IBD and to reduce intestinal inflammation in animal studies. Treatment of mice
      with colitis with the probiotic formulation VSL#3 increased the production of IL-10 and the
      percentage of TGFβ-expressing T-cells. Transfer of lamina propria mononuclear cells from
      VSL#3-treated mice prevented colitis in recipient mice, indicating that the VSL#3 can
      initiate the generation of a protective population of cells. (6)

      The recent identification of symbiotic bacteria with potent anti-inflammatory properties, and
      their correlative absence during disease, suggests that certain aspects of human health may
      depend on the status of microbiota. (7)

      In addition, the Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is a major component of the bacterial outer
      membrane that is largely responsible for mediating septic shock. Normally the body does not
      react to the high concentration of LPS that is present in the intestinal lumen. Intestinal
      alkaline phosphatase (IAP) seems to detoxify LPS by hydrolyzing it and maintaining intestinal
      homeostasis with the commensal flora. (8)

      Probiotics modulate the composition of the gut microbiota. Global microarray and
      bioinformatica analysis revealed augmentation of immune response, phagocytic, and
      inflammatory pathways dominated by elevation of Th1 transcription factors in IL10-KO mice.
      IL10-KO mice orally administered with the probiotic VSL#3 exhibited a site-specific
      downregulation of these inflammatory pathways including TLR signalling and related effector
      pathways such as T-cell, B-cell receptor signaling. More important, VSL#3 triggered an
      up-regulation in PPAR signaling, lipid, nitrogen, amino acid, and xenobiotic metabolism (9).

      Actually it is unclear how VSL#3-induced changes in microbial composition affect the status
      of intestinal inflammation. It is possible that VSL#3 promotes the presence of protective
      microorganisms, likely constituents of the probiotic itself that directly influence host
      innate responses. It has been reported that VSL#3 modulates barrier function, intestinal
      permeability, and innate host functions, which if altered, could have a profound impact on
      the state of colitis. VSL#3 has been shown to enhance barrier function through decreased
      epithelial permeability in IL10_/_ mice, correlating with a reduction in intestinal
      inflammation. Another recent study demonstrated that VSL#3 prevents the development of
      ileitis in SAMP1/YitFc mice by enhancing epithelial barrier function and activating innate
      signaling leading to NF-jB activation. These effects appear to be mediated by VSL#3 secreted
      products. This is consistent with reports showing that probiotic-derived factors are capable
      of modulating host responses and experimental colitis. Additionally, structural components
      present in probiotic bacteria could profoundly impact immune response and favor the
      production of immunosuppressive molecules such as IL-10 (10).

      Purpose:

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of a probiotic formulation, VSL#3, versus
      placebo, on metabolic profile, intestinal permeability, microbiota, cytokines and chemokines
      expression and other inflammatory markers in pediatric patients with Crohn's Disease (CD) in
      remission (11).

      Secondary objectives are:

        -  To determine the effect on Pediatric Crohn Disease Activity Index (PCDAI)

        -  to determine the time till flare of CD pediatric patients on VSL#3 compared to placebo

        -  to assess whether concurrent therapy with VSL#3 reduces the severity of a flare if it
           occurs

        -  to assess the safety and tolerability of therapy with VSL #3 at high dosage in pediatric
           patients with CD

      Study design

      This investigation will be a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over trial.
      The study will include 30 children with CD and will be articulated in 6 months as follows. A
      group of 10 volunteer healthy children, comparable in age and sex, will be used as reference
      group for the analysis of metabolic profile..

      These children will be randomised to a treatment group receiving for 2 months either 1-2
      packet containing 900 billion bacteria/day of VSL#3 according to their weight, and a group
      receiving the placebo drug. Assignment to therapy or placebo will be determined according to
      a computer-generated randomization scheme. The medications will be dispensed by the
      investigator at each visit; compliance will be assessed by counting returned bags and
      questioning the patients. Excellent compliance will be defined as no violation of the
      protocol with respect to the intake of the study medication. At the completion of the 8
      weeks, a "wash-out" period of 6 weeks will be done, when no preparation will be administered.
      Then each patient will be switched to the other group and followed likewise for further 8
      weeks.

      All patients will continue regular medications throughout the study period (azathioprine
      associated or not to 5-ASA).

      Patients will be assessed clinically at baseline and every 8 weeks until the completion of
      the study, at 24 weeks or at the time of relapse. At every visit data will be collected
      including patient questionnaires regarding disease activity (stool frequency, stool
      consistency, hematochezia, abdominal pain, extraintestinal manifestations of disease, and
      overall patient functioning). Additional information collected at the first visit included
      demographic data, family history, and symptom onset. Physical examination will be performed
      at each visit by a paediatrician and included an abdominal examination and examination for
      extraintestinal manifestations of CD. Routine blood tests for CD, cellobiose/mannitol small
      intestinal permeability study, stool cultures, stool calprotectin, will be performed at every
      visit and/or at the time of relapse. Urine will be collected for the analysis of metabolic
      profile with mono and bi-dimensional high resolution 1H NMR spectroscopy. In 10 healthy
      volunteer children and patients, bile acid, isoleucine, leucine, valine,
      2-oxo-3methyl-valeric acid, 2-oxo-isovaleric acid, 2-methyl-3-hydroxybutyric acid,
      3-hydroxybutyrate, 3-hydroxybutyrate, 3-hydroxyisovaleric acid, threonine, lactate,
      3-hydroximethylglutamic acid, alanine, N-acetyl asparagine + aspartyl glutamate + glutamil
      acid, acetic acid, carnitine, acetone, acetoacetate, 2-hydroxyglutarate, pyruvate, glutaric
      acid, N-Acetylglutamic acid, succinate, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglucaric acid, dimethylamine,
      sarcosine, N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate, dimethylglycine, citric acid, creatine, creatinine,
      choline, betaine, malonic acid, trimethylamineoxide, sarcosine, glycine, 1-methylhistidine,
      3-methylhistidine, benzoilglycine (hippuric acid) , N-methyl betaine (trigonellina),
      arabinosio, uracil, guanosine, tyrosine, phenylalanine, xanthine, hypoxanthine,
      3-methylhistidine will be evaluated. In addition, in children with CD, many other metabolites
      signals will be expected, resulting from drugs or other compounds taken as such or processed
      by the body's metabolism or intestinal microbial flora. the metabolomic analysis will allow
      the evaluation of the following organ specific and systemic processes based on low molecular
      weight compounds providing a profile of the metabolic system of the subjects: intermediary
      metabolism of sugar, mitochondrial citric acid cycle, amino acids metabolism, oxidative
      metabolism of fatty acid, break down and turnover of proteins, metabolism of purine and
      pyrimidine, pathway of trans-methylation and trans-sulphide, metabolism of intestinal
      bacteria; etc.

      PCDAI and a physician's global assessment were used to measure disease activity. No disease
      activity equals a score of 0-10, mild disease equals 11-30, moderate/severe disease equals 31
      or more. (10)

      At baseline and at 24 weeks the patients will undergo ileocolonoscopy to evaluate and
      endoscopic and histological activity of disease. Evaluation of microbiota on biopsies and
      stool samples will be performed at the time of ileocolonoscopies using FISH (Fluorescence In
      Situ Hybridization). A colon culture will be performed in order to evaluate all cytokines and
      chemokines by multiplex assay. In addition, the RNA analysis from biopsies will be performed
      for the study of proteasome subunits or other inflammatory markers

      Additional data will be collected during the study regarding the safety and tolerability of
      therapy with VSL #3.
    
  