
    
      The management of chronic HIV infection is increasingly dependent upon the management of long
      term toxicities of therapy. Toxicities are often metabolic and include hyperlipidemia,
      hyperglycemia, osteopenia and lipodystrophy. While more rare, lactic acidosis may present
      also, and is associated with mortality. The consequences of chronic hyperlactatemia are not
      well understood, but it is known that the cause is likely related to mitochondrial toxicity
      of nucleoside analogues, which are the cornerstone class of HIV therapies.

      No treatments for the syndrome of chronic lactic acidosis have been proven, but evidence
      exists which suggests that the utilization of cofactors such as thiamine, riboflavin and
      L-carnitine in the management of the acute syndrome; these factors may alleviate the
      mitochondrial compromise.

      The mechanism underlying lactic acidemia may be a result of both increased production (as a
      result of mitochondrial dysfunction), and poor clearance of lactate by the liver which is the
      primary organ for clearance. Some of this liver dysfunction could also be attributable to
      mitochondrial toxicity.

      In this study we propose to study lactate metabolism among persons with chronic HIV infection
      (both on treatment and treatment naive) and compare the results to uninfected control
      population. We will also study a subset of HIV infected persons with known underlying liver
      disease. Two methodologies will be used: a lactate challenge test and a forearm ischemia
      test. The effect of supplementation with cofactors which may have a positive effect on
      lactate metabolism by facilitating mitochondrial function will be studied as well. All
      persons enrolled for evaluation will have these tests repeated 4-6 weeks after
      supplementation with standardized doses of cofactors thiamine and L-carnitine between tests.
      Fat tissue samples and PBMC's will be collected and analyzed for quantity and function, and
      participants will have liver ultrasounds. Liver biopsies will be completed on those subjects
      where clinically indicated. The results of the study will provide important insights into the
      effects on lactate metabolism, nucleoside analogues, and HIV itself.

      Our primary hypothesis is that persons on D4T/ddI/ddC/AZT containing highly active
      antiretroviral therapy (HAART) will demonstrate increased lactate production compared to HIV
      negative controls; that lactate metabolism will be normalized after treatment with cofactors
      (riboflavin, thiamine, L-carnitine); that persons with liver disease on therapy will
      demonstrate prolonged lactate clearance; and that persons changed to a non-D4T/ddI/ddC/AZT
      containing regime will demonstrate a decrease in lactate production from baseline.
    
  