
    
      BACKGROUND:

      In 1974, a twin registry was established from members of the Kaiser Permanente Medical Care
      Program's Northern California region. In all, 9,821 twin pairs were enrolled. In 1978-1979,
      434 pairs of female twins were recruited from the registry for a clinical examination of
      coronary heart disease risk factors. The clinical examination included an extensive health
      questionnaire, measurements of plasma lipids and serum chemistries, analyses of genetic
      markers for determination of zygosity, measurement of expired air carbon monoxide and serum
      thiocyanate levels, and a complete physical examination. During the ten years since the first
      examination, several new or more specific coronary heart disease risk factors have been
      recognized, including low density lipoprotein and insulin levels, and the anatomic
      distribution of body fat.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      All women who participated in the first examination were invited to participate in the second
      examination. Medical records and/or death certificates were obtained to document coronary
      heart disease events. Questionnaires were used to collect information on health history,
      nutrition, and physical activity. A clinical examination assessed blood pressure, a variety
      of anthropometric measures and cardiovascular fitness. Blood specimens were collected for
      clinical chemistry and lipid/lipoprotein profiles. To assess genetic influence, the
      heritability of each of the risk factors was estimated. Blood was frozen for future studies
      of polymorphic DNA markers. Using the monozygotic co-twin control method, the effects of
      environmental or behavioral factors on these risk factors were assessed after controlling for
      genetic factors that could explain their association. Two hypotheses were examined that could
      be uniquely addressed using twin data. First, the association of body fat distribution with
      other coronary heart disease risk factors was mediated by serum insulin levels. Secondly,
      cardiovascular fitness explained in part the association of physical activity with coronary
      heart disease risk factors such as HDL-cholesterol and insulin levels. Lipoprotein analyses
      were conducted at Donner Laboratory at Berkeley.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  