
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival and progression-free survival of elderly patients with
           newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia, refractory anemia with excess blasts (RAEB) in
           transformation, or high-risk RAEB treated with daunorubicin and cytarabine with or
           without zosuquidar trihydrochloride.

        -  Compare the complete remission rate of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the systemic exposure of daunorubicin and cytarabine in patients treated with
           zosuquidar trihydrochloride vs placebo.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to age (60-69 years vs 70 years and over), disease (refractory
      anemia with excess blasts [RAEB] vs RAEB in transformation or acute myeloid leukemia [AML]),
      and disease type (de novo vs secondary). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Induction:

             -  Arm I: Patients receive daunorubicin via intravenous (IV) infusion over 10-15
                minutes and zosuquidar trihydrochloride IV over 6 hours on days 1-3. Patients also
                receive cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-7.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive daunorubicin and cytarabine as in arm I. Patients also
                receive placebo IV over 6 hours on days 1-3.

      Beginning on day 12, patients who achieve aplasia receive filgrastim (G-CSF) or sargramostim
      (GM-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) or IV daily until blood counts recover. Patients who have
      evidence of persistent AML are eligible to receive a second identical course of induction
      chemotherapy.

        -  Consolidation I (beginning within 8 weeks after documentation of complete remission [CR]
           or measurable remission [MR]): Patients who achieve a CR or MR receive cytarabine IV
           over 1 hour once or twice daily on days 1-6 and GM-CSF or G-CSF SC or IV beginning on
           day 7 and continuing until blood counts recover.

        -  Consolidation II: Patients who have maintained peripheral blood evidence of a remission
           receive daunorubicin, cytarabine, and zosuquidar trihydrochloride or placebo as in
           induction chemotherapy. Patients also receive GM-CSF or G-CSF SC or IV beginning on day
           8 or after last cytarabine dose and continuing until blood counts recover.

      Patients are followed monthly for 1 year, every 2 months for 1 year, every 3 months for 1
      year, and then every 6 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 450 patients (225 per treatment arm) accrued over 4.1 years.
    
  