
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the disease-free survival of premenopausal or early postmenopausal women with
           previously resected node positive or high-risk node negative stage I-IIIB breast cancer
           treated with cyclophosphamide, epirubicin, and fluorouracil vs cyclophosphamide,
           epirubicin, filgrastim (G-CSF), and epoetin alfa followed by paclitaxel vs
           cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin followed by paclitaxel.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the rate of toxic effects of these regimens in this patient population.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to number
      of positive nodes (0 vs 1-3 vs 4-10 vs more than 10), type of prior surgery (total vs partial
      mastectomy), and estrogen receptor status (positive vs negative). Patients are randomized to
      one of three treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive epirubicin IV and fluorouracil IV on days 1 and 8 and oral
           cyclophosphamide on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 6 courses.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive epirubicin IV and cyclophosphamide IV on day 1 and filgrastim
           (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) on days 2-13. Patients with a hemoglobin < 13.0 g/dL also
           receive epoetin alfa SC once weekly beginning within 1 week after the start of therapy
           and continuing as needed. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 6 courses. Beginning 21
           days after completion of epirubicin and cyclophosphamide, patients receive paclitaxel IV
           over 3 hours on day 1 and G-CSF and epoetin alfa as above. Treatment repeats every 21
           days for 4 courses.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive doxorubicin IV over 15 minutes and cyclophosphamide IV over 15
           minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses. Beginning 21 days after
           completion of doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide, patients receive paclitaxel as in arm
           II. Treatment in all arms continues in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      All receptor positive patients receive oral tamoxifen or anastrozole (if tamoxifen is
      contraindicated) for 5 years after completion of chemotherapy.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, day 1 of cycles 2, 3 4 and 6 (arm I), days 1 of
      cycles 3 and and day 1 of cycles 1 and 4 of paclitaxel (arm II), day 1 of cycles 2 and 3, day
      1 of cycles 1 and 4 of paclitaxel, (arm III), 9 months, 12 months, and then annually
      thereafter until 5 years

      Patients are followed at 9 months, 12 months, every 4 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 3
      years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 2,100 patients (700 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 4 years.
    
  