
    
      This clinical trial will be a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo- controlled,
      parallel-group study of vitamin E and donepezil in 720 subjects with mild cognitive
      impairment (MCI). Subjects will be randomized to one of three treatment groups (240 subjects
      per treatment group): 1) Placebo vitamin E and placebo donepezil plus a multivitamin daily.
      2) Vitamin E (2,000 I) and placebo donepezil plus a multivitamin daily.3) Donepezil (10 mg)
      and placebo vitamin E plus a multivitamin daily.

      The study will be conducted over three years, with clinical evaluations every 3 months for
      the first 6 months and then every 6 months. Subjects randomized to donepezil will start a
      dose of 5 mg daily. Donepezil will be increased to 10 mg after six weeks. Subjects randomized
      to vitamin E will start at 1,000 I daily. The dose of Vitamin E will be increased to 2,000 I
      after six weeks. There will be a 12-month recruitment period. The primary endpoint will be
      time to development of Probable or Possible AD according to NINCDS-ADRDA criteria. Upon
      determination of a clinical diagnosis of AD, documentation will be sent to the ADCS
      Coordinating Center and forwarded to the Central Review Committee for verification. Upon
      verification, of conversion to diagnosis of AD, subjects will stop taking the donepezil study
      medication or its corresponding placebo, without breaking the blind, and will be offered open
      label donepezil at a scheduled visit one month after the prior diagnostic visit. Donepezil
      will be offered to subjects who convert to AD until the subject completes three years from
      the baseline visit. Based on an estimated incidence of AD of 15% per year, the study has 85%
      power to detect a 33% or greater reduction in conversion to AD over 3 years. Secondary
      outcome measures will include change on the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale (ADAS-COG),
      the Neuropsychological Battery, the Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE), Clinical Dementia Rating
      Scale (CDR), the Global Deterioration Scale (GDS), ADCS- Activities of Daily Living Inventory
      (ADCS-ADL), a Pharmacoeconomics scale, and a Quality of Life scale. Compliance will be
      monitored through the measurement of alpha-tocopherol levels and pill counts at each visit.
    
  