
    
      Visit 1 -Screening: Subjects will be screened to the study at the screening visit, PAC-QOL
      questionnaire will be completed and subject will have a run-in time for a period of 2-3
      weeks, assuring 14 consecutive days of eDiary with an average of < 3 SBM per week.

      Visit 2 - Baseline: After the run-in period, the subjects will return and eligibility will be
      re-assessed. Subjects will be randomized to either Vibrant or Vibrant placebo for a treatment
      period of 8 weeks. Subjects, in both arms, will have their first administration of Vibrant
      capsule / Vibrant placebo on site at the day of baseline visit and will be instructed on
      their treatment administration at home and will be requested to ingest the capsules at a
      specific time of the day. At baseline, subjects will also be trained on how to use the base
      unit at home.

      Subjects will be instructed to complete a simple subject eDiary each day throughout the
      duration of the study (including the run-in period).

      The eDiary will include questions on:

        -  Daily BM, SBM, CSBM

        -  Change of their diet, if applicable (NOTE: the protocol will not ask/require the
           subjects to change anything in his/her diet)

        -  Change in sympotms as: brisol stool consistancy, straining, bloating, and the other
           questions in the eDiary

        -  Medication

        -  AE (including diarhrea)

      The first 2 weeks of treatment will be considered as a subjects' training period.

      Visit 3 -after 4 weeks of treatment - an on site visit will take place to evaluate subject's
      safety and treatment efficacy and additional capsule dispencing.

      Visit 4 Final visit -after another 4 weeks of treatment - an on site visit will take place to
      evaluate subject's safety and treatment efficacy and collect the base unites and remaning
      capsules. PAC-QOL, Ease of use and TSQM questionnaires will be completed.

      During the entire study period, data reporting will be done on an electronic Case Report Form
      (eCRF) and an eDiary.

      Subjects will be asked to refrain from taking any medication or supplement to relieve their
      constipation, during the entire study period.

      Subjects will receive phone calls at least once a week and subject compliance will be
      monitored throughout the 8 weeks of the study.

      Subjects will be authorized to use rescue medication after 3 consecutive days without a bowel
      movement.

      Data about time of activation of the capsules will be automatically registered and
      transmitted by the base unit for Vibrant capsules
    
  