
    
      ePAQ is a web-based interactive questionnaire (electronic pelvic floor assessment
      questionnaire) that provides a detailed evaluation of a woman's pelvic floor symptoms and
      their impact on her quality of life. Touch-screen technology has been combined with computer
      programming (Dot Net & SQL Server) and existing paper-based instruments to produce an
      interactive user-friendly system that facilitates immediate data entry, analysis and storage.
      The instrument has evolved during several years' collaborative work with colleagues in a
      range of disciplines, including Gynaecology, Medical Physics, Colorectal Surgery, Urology and
      General Practice, as well as involving a women's health user-group and regular surveys of
      patients' views.1 Research in primary and secondary care has established the psychometric
      properties of the instrument.2 The system has won a National award for innovation (HITEA) and
      was cited in Lord Warner's Annual Report on NHS Innovation.3 EPAQ Systems Ltd is one of the
      first NHS spin-out technology companies to be established in the UK (created jointly with
      Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust in November 2006).

      More recent development work has resulted in the creation of a website, where subjects can
      securely and anonymously access and use the ePAQ system via the Internet. This potentially
      allows subjects to use system in advance of clinic appointments (as opposed to the current
      practice of their completing it on arrival in clinic, immediately prior to their
      appointment). This study aims to evaluate the impact that using ePAQ in this way may have on
      the efficiency and quality of patient care. Initial survey data suggest that many women
      attending urogynaecology clinics do have access to the Internet and would be willing to use
      the system on-line & in advance of clinic appointments.4 The facility is also available in
      the Gynaecology Unit for women without Internet access to attend specifically for supervised
      use of the system. The in-depth assessment provided by the ePAQ may then be used to support
      an initial telephone consultation with a clinician, following which patients may be directed
      to the most appropriate clinic, as well as being provided with information and advice and
      have some forms of treatment initiated (such as behavioural therapy). The proposed randomised
      study aims to compare outcomes in women who use the ePAQ system in this way with women who
      undergo standard care in the Urogynaecology Unit.

      The major advantage of electronic systems, when compared with paper questionnaires, relate to
      the practicalities of clinical data capture. Electronic questionnaires are comparable in
      terms of reliability and can be superior in terms of efficiency and response rate. In
      addition, electronic touch-screen questionnaires have been shown to be acceptable to
      patients, regardless of their age or educational background. Data quality is high, even in
      disadvantaged and technophobic subjects and cost analysis has shown potential economic
      advantages.5,6,7,8,9 Pelvic floor disorders in women, such as incontinence and prolapse,
      share common aetiologies and commonly coexist. Estimates vary, though it is estimated that
      approximately 20% of adult women experience regular urinary incontinence, 5% have some
      incontinence of faeces and 11% suffer with prolapse.10,11,12 However, despite better
      understanding of these conditions, bowel, bladder, vaginal and sexual dysfunction remain
      understandably taboo subjects and many women still regard them as inevitable consequences of
      childbirth and ageing. The personal cost to individuals is high, however simple and effective
      treatments are increasingly available. Many disorders respond well to behavioural, physical
      or medical therapy and such conservative treatments are generally recommended prior to
      consideration of invasive investigations or surgery.13 In clinical practice, clinical
      assessment is central to diagnosis and management and the restoration of function, with a
      view to improving quality of life, is the principal aim of treatment. It is well recognised
      that clinical interview data may be unreliable, being based on clinicians' rather than
      patients' views of their condition. It seems appropriate therefore, to seek ways of improving
      clinical assessment in order to enhance the quality of care and reliably measure outcome.
      Many women with pelvic floor disorders are managed in the community by GPs, nurses,
      physiotherapists or continence nurse advisors. In secondary and tertiary care, urologists,
      gynaecologists, colorectal surgeons and geriatricians are likely to be involved. However, at
      all levels, inconsistencies in clinical assessments represent an impediment to effective
      communication and the multidisciplinary approach advocated by the DoH, who in 2000
      recommended the following:

        -  Full assessment leading to first line treatment in the primary care setting, with
           treatment & management plans agreed with individual patients.

        -  The provision of an integrated continence service, bringing together agreed protocols
           and procedures for primary, secondary and tertiary care.

        -  A comprehensive continence service, at home and in homes, bringing together all relevant
           health disciplines.

      The further development of ePAQ has the potential to substantially augment this process by
      using on-line assessments to support patients' initial management and triage. Using ePAQ in
      advance of clinic appointments may provide patients and clinicians with prompt and valuable
      information and assist in directing patients to the most appropriate clinics in primary and
      secondary care. However, such a development warrants scrutiny in terms of patient experience
      and cost.

      The ePAQ is now an established part of standard care and is in routine use in the Sheffield
      Urogynaecology Unit. All new patients are given the opportunity to complete the
      questionnaire, online, at home and their printed results are then used to inform the
      subsequent clinical consultation. The aims of this research are to measure the impact that
      using a virtual clinic (ePAQ-PF in advance of clinic appointments + a telephone consultation)
      has on patient care and cost compared to standard care (ePAQ-PF in advance of clinic
      appointments + a face to face consultation).
    
  