
    
      In the US, the HIV epidemic largely affects clusters of interconnected persons with high HIV
      prevalence and undiagnosed HIV infections that must be reached to reduce incidence. Latino
      men who have sex with men (LMSM) are overrepresented in these clusters. Following African
      Americans, LMSM have the highest HIV incidence rate and are the next most likely to be
      unaware of their HIV infection. Between 2005 and 2008, nearly one-quarter of the HIV positive
      LMSM were unaware of the infection.

      High HIV prevalence in LMSM networks and lack of strategies to promote regular HIV testing
      may explain why many LMSM are not benefiting from early diagnosis. Many LMSM face social and
      legal challenges that hinder their access to healthcare services and outreach. They often
      have little understanding of HIV treatments, experience discrimination, and hold mistaken
      assumptions about HIV risk, including beliefs that motivate them to seek sexual partners
      within their high prevalence in-group as a form of preventing infection.

      A social network approach can address the demands of engaging LMSM in regular HIV screening
      and reduce their collective risk. LMSM often rely on other LMSM who are sources of advice and
      referrals and who partially shield them from the double jeopardy of being a sexual and ethnic
      minority. Network interventions can capitalize on these relationships to promote access to
      resources and foster norms that reward regular testing and encourage collective safety. This
      project uses social networks to promote regular HIV testing and risk reduction among LMSM.
      Rather than delivering risk reduction messages and opportunities for HIV testing, the
      intervention will penetrate networks of LMSM through well positioned members. Unlike
      strategies that target personal networks or social groups within venues, the intervention
      will recruit three-ring networks of interconnected LMSM and isolate their ties. Three
      recruitment rings will help to find less visible LMSM; and isolating their ties will identify
      who can reach them. In addition to informing and motivating their peers to reduce risk, key
      network members will be trained to be links to prevention resources, deliver tailored prompts
      to HIV testing, and support peers' testing behaviors to encourage repetition.
    
  