
    
      Aim 1: Evaluation of cell-intrinsic mechanisms on BM.

        1. Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) and Whole Exome Sequencing (WES) will be performed on
           marker CD138+ purified cells to evaluate their genomic profile, and on buccal swab DNA
           to restrict the analysis to variants or structural abnormalities that have a clear
           somatic status, and are therefore specific to the tumor cells. In details:

           1.1 WGS: libraries will be prepared with TruSeq™(Kit Illumina) DNA Polymerase Chain
           Reaction (PCR)-Free Library Preparation Kit (Illumina, San Diego, CA) from 500ng of
           genomic DNA, aiming for an average target insert of 300bp. Sequencing will be performed
           on a 150bp-paired end protocol, at a target depth of 40x for tumor samples and 30x for
           normal samples.

           1.2 WES: libraries will be prepared with SureSelectXT Human All Exon V6 (Agilent
           technologies int., Santa Clara, CA) from 100ng of genomic DNA, aiming for an average
           target insert of 300bp. Sequencing will be performed on a 150bp-paired end protocol,
           aiming for a target depth of 200x for tumor samples and 100x for normal samples.

           1.3 Data analysis: next generation sequencing scoring system output format files
           (*.FASTQ files) will be aligned to the reference genome using Burrows-Wheeler Alignment
           Tool (BWAmem), and deduplicated aligned Binary Alignment Map (BAM) files will be
           analyzed using the following published tools available at the Wellcome Trust Sanger
           Institute (WTSI):

             1. accurate genome-wide allele-specific copy number (ASCAT) and Battenberg for clonal
                and subclonal copy number changes.

             2. BRASS for structural variations (large inversions and deletions, translocations,
                internal tandem duplication).

             3. Caveman and Pindel for Single Nucleotide Variants (SNVs) and small
                insertion-deletions (indels).

           The clonal composition of the sample and the genomic evolution of myeloma over time will
           be inferred from the adjusted cancer cell fraction of the variants identified, clustered
           and analyzed using a hierarchical bayesian Dirichlet process.

           The mutational processes operative at various phases of MM will be analyzed using a
           Non-Negative Matrix Factorization (NNMF) approach to extract mutational signatures from
           the array of substitutions in their 5' and 3' context.

           The possible driver mutation role of all extracted missense mutation will be evaluated
           by the recently published dN/dS algorithm.

        2. RNA-seq on marker CD138+ purified cells to evaluate transcriptomic profile will be
           performed using TruSeq Stranded Messanger RiboNucleic Acid (mRNA) Library Prep Kit
           (Illumina, San Diego, CA) on 500 ng total RNA, followed by sequencing, aiming for
           100x106 total reads per sample. DNA excision repair protein (ERCC) spike-in mix will be
           added to facilitate normalization of the expression levels between samples. Reads will
           be aligned with Tophat2 to call SNVs, indels, and detect gene fusions. Cufflinks2 will
           be used to profile gene expression and detect novel transcript isoforms. Overall gene
           transcript expression levels will be quantified using the Reads Per Kilobase Million
           (RPKM) metric based on uniquely mapping reads.

        3. Flow cytometry analysis will be performed on BM samples to examine potential
           determinants of immunotherapy sensitivity/resistance and the expression of specific
           targets including marker Cluster of Differentiation 38 (CD38), B-cell maturation antigen
           (BCMA), marker Cluster of Differentiation 33 (CD33), Programmed death-ligand 1 (PDL1),
           and marker Cluster of Differentiation 19 (CD19) prior to treatment, at response and at
           relapse. We will evaluate MM percent positive cells and Mean Fluorescence Intensity
           (MFI) in order to monitor the antigen expression during the evolution of the disease.
           Receptor density will also be performed. Moreover the European cytoflow consortium of
           International Myeloma Foundation (EuroFlow-IMF) MM minimal residual disease (MRD) panel
           will be applied to monitor MRD in particular by using a multiepitope (ME) antiCD38 to
           detect possible determinants of resistance. Moreover this panel will allow us to monitor
           the phenotype evolution of the clonal population, looking in particular at the shift
           towards more immature cells, which has been suggested as a mechanism of resistance to
           bortezomib.

        4. Storage of viable marker CD138-: we will evaluate distribution of marker CD38 also on
           marker CD138- cells and we will determine if genomic or immunophenotypic lesions
           responsible for resistance could be present also in the marker CD138- fraction.

      Aim 2: Evaluation of cell-extrinsic mechanism on BM and PB.

        1. Flow Cytometry analysis of lymphocyte subpopulations will be performed in the same BM
           and PB to evaluate T-cells population (marker CD38+, marker Cluster of Differentiation 4
           (CD4+), marker Cluster of Differentiation 8 (CD8+), Tregs cells) and other regulatory
           and suppressive immune populations like Myeloid-Derived Suppressor Cells (MDSCs). T
           cells will be measured at baseline, response and at relapse, and they could help in
           evaluating the interaction between B and T cell compartments in patients receiving
           immunotherapies. Moreover, evaluation of some immune checkpoints on T cells at baseline
           and post-treatment will be performed.

        2. RNA-seq of lymphocyte subpopulations will be performed to identify the frequencies of
           the various helper and effector lymphocyte populations, and correlate those with
           response to treatment or lack thereof. We will also perform RNA-seq on different marker
           CD4+ T-lymphocytic subpopulations in responsive and non-responsive MM to identify
           potential suppressive signatures in the latter group. The same lymphocyte subpopulations
           will be analyzed in BM samples from 10 healthy subjects (BM biopsy in lymphoma negative
           staging).

        3. Measurement of a broad spectrum of cytokines produced and secreted by MM and other cells
           within the BM microenvironment: cytokines and chemokines related to MM bone and
           microenvironment will be measured in BM and PB plasma from patients at each time-point.
           The laboratory assays will be performed by using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay
           (ELISA) kit.

        4. BM biopsy: bone biopsies from MM patients at baseline and after Monoclonal Antibody
           Therapy (mAbs therapy) will be evaluated for the expression of suppressive molecules
           such as, marker Cluster of Differentiation 80/86 (CD80/86), marker Cluster of
           Differentiation 40 (CD40) in the tumor cells and in the BM lymphoid population by
           immunohistochemistry.

      Aim 3: After comprehensively characterizing the genomic, transcriptomic and immunophenotypic
      features of CD138+ cells, and having a clear picture of the effector/suppressive immune
      population in MM, we will then correlate these features with clinical data. In detail, we
      will create a database including the following columns:

        -  Baseline clinical characteristics

        -  Prognostic factors: International Staging System (ISS), Revised International Staging
           System (R-ISS), Lactate Dehydrogenase (LDH), cytogenetic analysis by Fluorescence In
           Situ Hybridization test (FISH)

        -  Prior therapies and relevant clinical results

        -  Best response: responses will be defined according to the International Uniform Response
           Criteria. Responders are defined as subjects with at least a VGPR.

        -  Duration of Response (DOR), Progression Free Survival (PFS), Overall survival (OS) and
           Time to Progression (TTP) data In this aim, we will look for correlation between
           biological features and disease response or lack thereof, to understand which
           cell-intrinsic and cell-extrinsic features are better predictors of response. Because of
           the time needed before disease response can be assessed, this analysis will be performed
           after at least 1 year of treatment or at earlier progression. In a first analysis,
           biological features will be associated with best response to treatment, PFS and other
           baseline clinical, prognostic and treatment variables using linear models. Subsequently,
           starting from year 3, when enough follow-up will allow a meaningful analysis of PFS and
           OS, Kaplan-Meier and Coxregression models will be fitted to identify possible
           independent prognostic factors.

      Although the relatively small size of the cohort will limit statistical power and the
      possibility to perform subgroup analysis, this attempt to identify biomarkers could improve
      the clinical management of the patient, by prioritizing the vast array of salvage treatments
      in MM and thus decreasing costs.
    
  