
    
      We designed a prospective randomized controlled trial, with nursing blinded evaluation.

      We enrolled 52 patients scheduled for elective ambulatory TRA. 2 patients were excluded after
      randomization. Patients were randomized into two groups:

      A. Group A= no distal peripheral nerve blocks (no dPNBs group; n = 24 ): We performed usual
      anesthetic technique for surgery: an AXILLARY BRAQUIAL PLEXUS BLOCK using SHORT ACTING local
      anesthetic (mepivacaine 1%). Patients allocated in this group didn't received any additional
      intervention in the postoperative period.

      B. Group B (dPNBs group; n = 26): We performed the same anesthetic technique for surgery
      (AXILLARY BLOCK with 1% of mepivacaine) with an additional intervention. Patients allocated
      in this group received postoperatively dPNBs on target nerves. Based on surgical approached
      and technique we evaluated that radial and median nerves were responsible for the innervation
      of the surgical area, and therefore responsible for the postoperative pain. We performed
      dPNBs ON RADIAL AND MEDIAN NERVES (TARGET NERVES) WITH LONG ACTING AND LOW CONCENTRATION
      LOCAL ANESTHETIC (0,125% levobupivacaine 5ml/nerve).

      All blocks were performed under ultrasound guidance.

      Analgesic regime prescribed at discharge was the same in both groups: dexketoprofen with
      tramadol for rescue analgesia.

      The primary outcome was to evaluate the proportion of patients experienced moderate to severe
      pain during first and second day postoperatively, mesured using a numerical visual scale
      (NVS) of 0 to 10 (0= no pain and 10= worst pain imaginable). We defined mild pain (NVS 0-3),
      moderate pain (NVS 7-10) and severe pain (NVS 7-10).

      We considered dPNBs effective when patients experienced mild pain (NVS 0-3) for at least 6
      hours after dPNBs puncture.

      Secondary outcomes included:

        1. Maximum pain intensity during first and second day postoperatively.

        2. Duration of dPNBs, defined as the interval between dPNBs performance and the occurrence
           of first pain.

        3. Time to discharge, defined as the interval since patient arrived at postoperative care
           unit (PACU) until discharge home.

        4. Presence of distal hand motor block after dPNBs puncture.

        5. Needed for rescue analgesia and total consumption of tramadol during first and second
           day postoperatively

        6. Incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting during 1st and 2nd day postoperatively

        7. Needed for rescue antiemetic therapy, total consumption of ondansetron and effectiveness
           of treatment during 1st and 2nd day postoperatively.

      Patients were contacted by phone first and second day postoperatively from a blinded PACU
      nursing staff (all outcome data were collected by PACU nursing staff blinded to group
      allocation).
    
  