
    
      Specific Aims:

      This study is intended to investigate the utility, safety and efficacy of 5-aminolevulinic
      acid (5-ALA) induced brain tumor fluorescence during malignant brain tumor resection.
      Specifically this study is intended to:

        -  Establish a safe dose for oral 5-ALA administration.

        -  Determine the sensitivity and specificity of 5-ALA mediated fluorescence for malignant
           glioma tissue in the brain.

        -  Compare the neurosurgeon's intra-operative estimate of the extent of malignant glioma
           resection (as guided by tumor fluorescence) with the actual extent of resection
           determined by post-operative imaging.

        -  Compare time-to-progression and survival to that in comparable cases performed without
           the aid of 5-ALA.

      Background and Significance:

      There is a considerable body of literature that suggests that completeness of resection is a
      positive factor for longer term survival in individuals with malignant glioma. Unfortunately,
      it is often difficult to completely remove a malignant brain tumor because during surgery it
      is sometimes very difficult to distinguish tumor from normal brain. It would be very helpful
      if there would be some way to help the surgeon make this distinction. Malignant glioma tumor
      cells (more so than normal cells) contain the biosynthetic pathways to produce protoporphyrin
      from a naturally occurring amino acid, 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA). Protoporphyrin is the
      immediate precursor to hemoglobin (it is hemoglobin without the iron atom) and is fluorescent
      under blue light. When exogenous 5-ALA is provided at increased concentration, protoporphyrin
      concentration in the malignant cell increases at a rate far greater than normal brain cells
      and renders the malignant cell fluorescent red under blue light. This feature distinguishes
      the tumor cells from normal cells intraoperatively and facilitates complete resection.

      Recent studies in Germany have confirmed the utility of pre-operative oral 5-ALA and
      intraoperative brain tumor fluorescence in aiding the resection of brain tumors in
      individuals with malignant brain tumors. These studies have led to oral 5-ALA to be approved
      for this indication by the European Medicines Agency (The European Medicines Agency comments
      and approval can be found at:
      http://www.emea.europa.eu/humandocs/PDFs/EPAR/gliolan/H-744-en6.pdf), but oral 5-ALA has not
      been approved for this indication by the United States FDA. This proposal is a phase 1 and
      phase 2 trial that will hopefully lead to FDA approval of oral 5-ALA for intra-operative
      visualization of malignant brain tumors.

      Experimental Plan and Methods:

      In the phase 1 part of this proposed study, a minimum of 3 to a maximum of 18 patients will
      be administered oral 5-ALA 4 hours prior to surgery in cohorts of 3 at five escalating doses
      of 5-ALA (10, 20, 30, 40, or 50 mg/kg).

      The following data will be collected:

        -  Dose-limiting toxicity data.

        -  Tumor fluorescence assessed by neurosurgeon (0 to +++) in three distinct areas of
           fluorescence (Strong fluorescence, Weak fluorescence, No fluorescence).

        -  Tumor density from biopsies obtained by the neurosurgeon in the same three distinct
           areas of fluorescence and assessed by neuropathology (Solid tumor, Tumor mixed
           infiltrating normal brain, No tumor).

        -  Neurosurgeon's intra-operative estimate of residual tumor.

        -  Neuroradiologist's estimate of post-operative residual tumor on MRI.

        -  Time to progression by MRI.

        -  Survival (time to progression, one year survival rate and total survival.

      This trial will evaluate:

        -  The toxicity of a single dose of oral 5-ALA given pre-operatively.

        -  The sensitivity and specificity of 5-ALA - Protoporphyrin IX (Pp IX) as an
           intraoperative fluorescent detection agent and aid for resection of tumor tissue
           remaining in the walls of the resection cavity of primary and recurrent malignant brain
           tumors.

        -  The relationship of the neurosurgeon's estimate of the extent of malignant glioma
           resection (as guided by tumor fluorescence) to the actual extent of resection determined
           by post-operative imaging.

        -  The time-to-progression, one year survival rate and total survival as a function of the
           extent of resection.

      Following completion of the phase 1 portion of this trial, an additional 15 subjects will be
      entered at the recommended phase 2 dose level in order to further define the above parameters
      at the recommended phase 2 dose level.

      Discussions statisticians have led to the development of a number of 2x2 tables and 3x3
      tables of data analysis that will lead to establishment of the sensitivity and specificity of
      fluorescence-guided brain tumor resection compared to conventional brain tumor resection
      techniques.
    
  