
    
      Arterial hypotension during induction of general anesthesia is a risk factor for developing
      postoperative cardiovascular complications. After induction of general anesthesia patients
      have a high risk of developing arterial hypotension due to anesthetic drugs who can depress
      cardiac contractility and determine vasodilatation. Risk factors associated with increased
      incidence of arterial hypotension at induction of general anesthesia are age > 50 years, ASA
      risk class III or IV, using high doses of propofol or fetanyl at induction. Previous studies
      have shown that even short periods of hypotension with a mean arterial pressure of less than
      55 mmHg during surgery is associated with an increased incidence of cardiac injury and acute
      kidney injury in the postoperative period. Even if it is known that arterial hypotension is
      associated with increased incidence of postoperative complications, the inferior limit and
      duration of hypotension is not well defined. The volemic status of the patients in the
      preoperative period is very difficult to quantify and can vary due to comorbidities of the
      patient, chronic treatment, preoperative fasting. Bioimpedance is recognized by over 30 years
      as a simple and non invasive technique to determine the volemic status especially in the
      hemodialyzed patients. A new device BCM- Body Composition Monitoring (Fresenius Medical Care)
      offers a simple method to determine extracellular water and total body water. These volumes
      are determined by measuring impedance at 50 different frequencies thrue electrodes placed at
      the ankle and wrist. BCM can also determine lean tissue mass and adipose tissue mass.

      Increasing arterial stiffness is the main characteristic of arterial aging; this increase
      determines the increase of the afterload, left ventricular hypertrophy, the decrease of
      coronary and tissue perfusion. Increased arterial stiffness is associated with altered
      ability of maintaining a normal arterial pressure during stress conditions; it is known the
      risk of orthostatic hypotension in older patients wits increased arterial stiffness Arterial
      applanation tonometry is asimple, non-invasive technique that has been shown to reliably
      provide indices of arterial stiffness. Measuring carotid-femural pulse wave velocity thrue
      applanation tonometry is considered the "gold standard" for measuring arterial stiffness.In
      this study carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity will be determined by applanation tonometry
      using the Sphygmocor system by sequentially recording ECG-gated carotid and femoral artery
      waveforms. Pulse wave signals will be recorded by tonometers positioned at the base of the
      right common carotid artery and over the right femoral artery.

      In this study investigators wish to determine if there is a correlation between the hidric
      status determined by BCM, carotid-femural pulse wave velocity determined with SphygmoCor
      system and the development of hypotension during induction of general anesthesia. The
      measurements will be obtained before induction of general anesthesia in the pre-surgical
      area. During induction of general anesthesia with standard induction agents(fentanyl
      propofol, rocuronium) and Bispectral index monitoring, brachial blood pressure will be
      measured by a cuff every minute after the loss of verbal contact with the patient up to ten
      minutes after tracheal intubation. A hypotensive response to anesthesia will be defined as a
      drop in mean arterial pressure below 55mmHg or a drop in mean arterial pressure with more
      than 40% than the base line value of the patient before the surgery.

      Study population : patients who are going under surgery. Inclusion criteria: there will be
      two study populations. The first study population will represent patients scheduled for
      surgery for a new diagnosed cancer pathology. The second study population will represent
      patients scheduled for surgery not for cancer disease. Exclusion criteria: diabetes (on
      insulin therapy), renal insufficiency (creatinine>2.0mg/dl), history of arterial bypass),
      history of carotid endoarterectomy, atrial fibrillation/flutter, history of ischemic stroke,
      transient ischemic attack, myocardial infarction or coronary revascularization (any type)
      within 6 months, known left main or 3-vessel coronary disease positive myocardial perfusion
      study without subsequent revascularization, heart failure (>3 NYHA) class 3, known left
      ventricle ejection fraction <30%, pulmonary hypertension (PA systolic >50mmHg), right
      ventricle dysfunction, sepsis, pregnancy, limb amputation.
    
  