
    
      Outcomes for children with recurrent or progressive cerebellar malignant brain tumors are
      very poor, and there are a lack of effective salvage therapies once a patient fails standard
      treatments. G207 is an oncolytic herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV) that has been successfully
      engineered to introduce mutations in the virus that enable it to selectively replicate in and
      kill cancer cells, but not normal cells. Replication of G207 in the tumor not only kills the
      infected tumor cells, but causes the tumor cell to act as a factory to produce new virus.
      These virus particles are released as the tumor cell dies, and can then proceed to infect
      other tumor cells in the vicinity, and continue the process of tumor kill. In addition to
      this direct oncolytic activity, the virus engenders an anti-tumor immune response; the virus
      is immunogenic and produces a debris field which exposes cancer cell antigens to immune cells
      which can target other cancer cells. Thus, the oncolytic effect of the virus and the immune
      response that the virus stimulates provide a "one-two punch" at attacking cancer cells. In
      preclinical studies, a single 5 Gy dose of radiation within 24 hours of virus inoculation to
      the tumor increased virus replication and tumor cell killing.

      The safety of G207 has been demonstrated in 3 phase I clinical trials involving adults with
      supratentorial high-grade gliomas adults at the University of Alabama (UAB) and in an ongoing
      phase I clinical trial involving children with recurrent supratentorial brain tumors at
      Children's of Alabama. In the adult trials, high doses (up to 3 x 10^9 plaque-forming units)
      of virus were safely injected directly into the tumor or surrounding brain tissue without
      serious toxicities. Radiographic and neuropathologic evidence of anti-tumor responses have
      been seen. Preclinical laboratory studies have demonstrated that a variety of aggressive
      pediatric brain tumor types are sensitive to G207.

      This study is a phase I, open-label, single institution clinical trial of G207 alone or
      combined with a single low dose of radiation in children with recurrent or progressive
      cerebellar brain tumors.The primary goal is to determine safety. The secondary aims are to
      obtain preliminary information on the effectiveness of and immune response to G207. A
      traditional 3 + 3 design will be used with four patient cohorts. The first cohort will
      receive G207 alone, and the next cohorts will receive G207 at one of three doses followed by
      a 5 Gy dose of radiation to active areas of tumor.
    
  