
    
      Many patients with neuropathic pain exhibit hyperalgesia and allodynia. In various pain
      syndromes, neuropathic pain is among the most difficult to treat. Previous studies show that
      the development of secondary hyperalgesia results from abnormal processing of nociceptor
      input after injuries of the peripheral nervous system. However, the modulating effect on pain
      processing in brain by peripheral mechanisms remains elusive, and only few studies
      investigate the issue.

      Evidences suggest that lesions of the spinothalamocortical pathway may be necessary for
      developing the central pain, indicating indirect changes in excitability due to alterations
      of pain modulatory systems. Previous anatomical, physiological, and lesion studies have
      revealed an extensive cortical network associated with sensory, cognitive, and affective
      aspects of pain, including primary somatosensory cortex, secondary somatosensory cortex,
      insular cortex, and anterior cingulate cortex. Moreover, a recent study reported that
      neuropathic pain might influence brain organization. Therefore, it would be intriguing to
      know whether and how the brain processes pain in patients with neuropathic pain.

      We hypothesize that neuropathic pain elicited by the peripheral neuropathy results in
      hyperexcitability of the pain matrix (i.e. central sensitization) due to alterations of pain
      modulatory systems. Patients with peripheral neuropathy and healthy volunteers will be
      recruited in this study. Peripheral neuropathy is defined according to the neuropathic
      symptoms and signs. For healthy volunteers, clinical history will be evaluated by
      questionnaires and neurological examinations to exclude any neuropsychiatric disorder or pain
      condition.

      To assess the severity of different neuropathic symptoms,patients with neuropathic pain will
      fill out the Neuropathic Pain Symptom Inventory (NPSI). Each subject will receive detailed
      sensory examination to evaluate the integrity of small-diameter and large-diameter sensory
      fibers. To measure thresholds of thermal and vibratory sensations, we will perform
      quantitative sensory testing (QST) by the method of level using a Thermal Sensory Analyser
      and Vibratory Sensory Analyser (Medoc Advanced Medical System, Minneapolis, MN, USA)
      following an established protocol. Thermal thresholds will be recorded on the toe, and
      vibratory thresholds recorded on the lateral malleolus. These values will be compared with
      normative values for the age, which had been documented previously.

      Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) will be performed on a 3-T MR machine (Trio;
      Siemens, Erlangen, Germany). A high resolution T1 weighted scan of the entire brain in
      trans-axial orientation will be obtained to provide anatomical information for the
      superimposed functional activation maps. Echo Planar Imaging will be used for the acquisition
      of the functional data.

      We will use a CHEP stimulator (Medoc Ltd, Ramat Yishai, Israel) to deliver thermal
      stimulation. The 27 mm diameter thermode is comprised of a heating thermofoil (Minco
      Products, Inc., Minneapolis, MN) that is covered with a thermoconductive plastic. The
      stimulus temperatures given throughout this report will be referred to the temperature of the
      thermofoil. Cooling will begin immediately following attainment of the pre-fixed target
      temperature. Individual heat pain threshold (HPT) will be measured before fMRI scans. Noxious
      heat and innocuous heat will be applied within the distal leg, foot dorsum or forearm. The
      thermode will be remained at the same site during each block of functional MRI scans. Several
      pretests will be applied before CHEP recording to eliminate expectation effects. To avoid
      sensitization and desensitization, low intensity stimuli will precede high intensity stimuli
      at each block.

      Each imaging session will be consisted of one high-resolution anatomical scan and three
      functional scanning runs, with 5-min intersession interval. During the scanning, five thermal
      stimuli will be applied by CHEP stimulator to the right dorsal foot. To avoid sensitization,
      habituation and tissue damage, the stimulation temperature will be applied in a random
      fashion, and the stimulation site will be changed slightly after each stimulus. After 12-s
      stimulation, the temperature will be cooling, with a subsequent 36-s interstimulus interval.
      After each fMRI session, subjects will be asked to rate the intensity and unpleasantness of
      received pain stimulus. The average rating values will be indicated after the scan on a
      computer driven visual analogue scale (VAS) ranging from 0 to 10 (0, no sensation; 1, slight
      intense; 2, innocuous warmth; 3, innocuous heat; 4, slight pain; 5, mild pain; 7,
      moderate-strong pain; 9, severe pain; 10, unbearable pain), and the intensity and
      unpleasantness of received pain will be assessed using the Short-Form McGill Pain
      Questionnaire (SFMPQ).

      All data will be processed using the Statistical Parametric Mapping software (SPM2, Wellcome
      Department of Cognitive Neurology, London UK). fMRI data series will be realigned and
      resliced with sinc interpolation to correct for motion artifacts. Scans with sudden head
      movements of more than 2 mm will be omitted. To enable intersubject analysis, the functional
      data will be coregistered to the anatomical scan and transformed into a reference space
      according to the MNI template of SPM2 by normalization using sinc interpolation. This
      template has been determined from 305 MRI scans of healthy subjects at the Montreal
      Neurological Insitute. The resampled voxel volume of the normalized images is 2 x 2 x 2 mm.
      Subsequently, data will be smoothed with an isotropic Gaussian kernel of 8 mm full-width at
      half maximum to reduce high frequency noise and to account for anatomical variances.
      Condition-specific effects will be estimated with the general linear model using a boxcar
      approach convolved with the hemodynamic response function. High pass filtering will remove
      low frequency noise and low pass filtering will account for serial autocorrelations of the
      data.

      We will analyze the data on an individual (subject per subject) basis and across subjects
      (group analysis) using a cross-subjects variance (random effect analysis). We will compute
      different contrasts between cerebral responses during innocuous and noxious heat stimulation.
      Data from each stimulation will be pooled for group statistical comparisons. A group
      activation map will be constructed by performing a conjunction analysis to measure the
      spatial overlap of activation across subjects. A single design matrix, including 3 sessions
      of all subjects, will be generated due to the limited number of experiments representing a
      fixed-effects model analysis. Statistical parametric maps will be generated as t-contrasts
      and corrected for multiple comparisons according to the random field theory with P < 0.05.
      The threshold for the Z maps is 3.09 (P < 0.001) for individual subject analysis. Significant
      clusters have to show a minimum extension volume of 10 voxels. For group analysis, parametric
      maps will be constructed using the same contrast and spatial extent but we will use a
      corrected threshold of P < 0.05.
    
  