
    
      Sampling methods/Data collection

      Samples: Serum (1-2ml) from enrolled infants will be collected from cord blood (T0). Serial
      samples (0.5-1ml) will be collected at 3 other times: T1= 4-7 days, T2=10-14 days, T3= 20-30
      days. These can be drawn at initiation of any sepsis work-up, or prior to any transfusion of
      PRBC's or when any blood ≥0.5ml will be wasted. These collections are intended to analyze the
      immunologic milieu in infants at various stages of natal and post-natal immune adaptation:

        1. baseline levels from a relatively privileged environment (cord blood T0)

        2. peak of immunogenic response after prenatal exposure (T1)

        3. plateau of immunogenic response after perinatal exposure (T2)

        4. relative state of equilibrium with surrounding flora (T3)

      Data collection:

      Baseline statistics at enrollment: Birth weight, obstetrical assessment of gestational age,
      mode of delivery, presence of labor, presence of IAI, ROM, intrapartum antibiotics type and
      length, With each sampling, data will be gathered via chart review on each infant. We will
      also gather data at 60 DOL, discharge, or death on any infant enrolled.

      Measurements:

      Experimental laboratory:

      Cytokines- Each sample will have plasma analyzed by Luminex (Biorad) to determine profiles of
      cytokines: IL-2, IL-6, IL-8, IL-13, MIP1b, MCP1, IL-1b, IL-4, IL-5, IL-7, IL-10, IL-12p70,
      IL-17, GMCSF, IFN-gamma, and TNF-alpha. Standard curves for each cytokine measurement were
      run to determine upper and lower limits of detection.

      ASC- will be quantified by enzyme-linked immunospot assay (ELISPOT) for specific isotypes
      IgA, IgM, and IgG. They will also be linked to 3 particular immunogenic agents: GBS, Candida,
      and CoNS.

      Clinical laboratory:

      Total WBC and band ratio will be run in the routine course of care for these infants. This is
      not an additional sample.

      serious bacterial infections other than sepsis (meningitis, UTI)

        -  Course of Study- 0-30 days of life for sampling. 0-60 days of life for data collection.

        -  Enrollment- consecutive admissions of NICU under the following criteria

      Inclusion:

      Admitted to NICU at MHCH

        -  1500gm or ≤ 32 wk GA Birth to <31 days of life at time of enrollment

      Exclusion:

      Known or suspected immunodeficiency (including maternal HIV or other known congenital
      infection) Known major congenital anomaly

        -  Recruitment Will include each eligible infant by the primary investigator or
           co-investigators. Assuming an incidence of LOS of ~25% and EOS of ~1-3%, a power of 80%,
           we should enroll 50 infants. This coincides with prior studies evaluating ASC's response
           in neonates, and those evaluating cytokines in cord blood and post-natally.

        -  Known Risks There will be no additional blood draws. There will be collection of a
           greater volume of blood (additional 0.5ml-1.0ml depending on size of infant) during
           clinical indications for blood draws. No clinical decisions will be made based on the
           data obtained.
    
  