
    
      The facilitative gluteus medius application was applied from origin to insertion of the
      muscle, as specified by Dr. Kase (2013). The subject was positioned in side-lying with the
      dominant leg facing up. The CKTP cut a Y-strip of Kinesio® Tex Classic Tape the same distance
      from the participant's ASIS to the greater trochanter of the femur. The tape was anchored at
      the ASIS with no tension followed by the participant moving into approximately 90° hip
      flexion, adduction, and internal rotation. Then, each tail of the Y-strip was applied at 25%
      tension towards the greater trochanter where it was anchored again with no tension. Following
      application, the participant was instructed to remain in a position of comfort for 10 minutes
      before continuing with the study protocol.

      The second taping condition utilized is a spiral technique (ST), applied with Kinesio® Tex
      Performance Plus Tape. Participant positioning included standing in an open-packed,
      double-leg stance with feet approximately hip width apart. The CKTP anchored an I-strip of
      tape with no tension on the participant's medial aspect of the middle, tibia. With a
      stabilizing hand on the anchor, the practitioner pulled the tape with 75-100% tension and
      applied towards the lateral aspect of the tibiofemoral joint, Once the tape moved to the
      posterior side of the knee, the CKTP reduced the tension to 0% over the popliteal fossa so as
      to reduce skin tearing and provide another mechanism for pulling the knee out of valgum. When
      the tape crossed diagonally over the popliteal fossa, the CKTP again employed at 75-100%
      tension from the medial femoral condyle to the vastus lateralis. The tape was then secured to
      the posterior thigh with an anchor at 0% tension. Thus, the tape created a spiral shape up
      the participants' leg. Again, the subject was directed to rest comfortably in a non-weight
      bearing position for 10 minutes.
    
  