
    
      Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remains an almost uniformly lethal disease. Although
      there has been significant progress in understanding of the underlying molecular biology of
      pancreatic cancer, this progress has not translated into substantially better treatments.
      Alarmingly, the number of pancreatic cancer cases is constantly rising and pancreatic cancer
      will be the second most frequent cause of cancer related death by 2030.

      Accordingly, novel therapeutic strategies for patients with pancreatic cancer are desperately
      needed.

      Recently, the combination of gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel proofed to be superior when
      compared to single agent gemcitabine (overall survival [OS] 8.7 months in the
      nab-paclitaxel/gemcitabine group versus 6.6 months in the gemcitabine group; hazard ratio for
      death, 0.72; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.62 to 0.83; P<0.001). Consequently, this
      combination therapy is now regarded as a novel treatment option for patient with metastatic
      pancreatic cancer and should therefore serve as a backbone for future clinical studies.

      Preclinical studies suggest a significant role for ErbB signaling in the pathogenesis of
      pancreatic cancer. Accordingly, targeting the family of ErbB receptor tyrosine kinases seems
      to be a viable option to improve the outcome of patients with pancreatic cancer. Addition of
      the selective reversible EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor erlotinib to gemcitabine
      significantly improved progression-free survival and overall survival in metastatic
      pancreatic cancer patients. However, the effect on median survival time in absolute values
      between the two arms (erlotinib and gemcitabine versus gemcitabine alone) accounted for less
      than a half month.

      Afatinib is a selective, potent and irreversible ErbB family blocker. Unlike erlotinib,
      afatinib covalently binds to and irreversibly blocks signalling from all homo- and
      heterodimers formed by the ErbB family members EGFR (ErbB1), HER2 (ErbB2), ErbB3 and ErbB4.
      Afatinib is applied orally once daily. Preclinical studies suggest that application of
      afatinib should result in greater efficacy against tumor growth than application of
      erlotinib.

      Afatinib as monotherapy has a marketing authorization for the treatment of locally advanced
      or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with activating EGFR mutation/mutations for
      daily doses up to 50 mg once daily. In a Phase I trial for safety and tolerability of
      afatinib in combination with gemcitabine in patients with advanced solid tumors the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) was 40 mg afatinib (given continuously once daily) plus 1000 mg/m2
      gemcitabine on D1 and D8 of a 21-day cycle, with no dose-limiting toxicity in the respective
      cohort. Accordingly, in another current Phase II trial of the sponsor for treatment of
      metastatic pancreatic cancer the dose of 40 mg continuously orally once daily given afatinib
      in combination with 1000 mg/m2 gemcitabine given on Day1, Day 8, and Day 15 of a 28-day cycle
      against monotherapy with gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2 is used.

      The investigators hypothesize that addition of afatinib to gemcitabine/nab-paclitaxel might
      result in better anti-tumor activity.

      Accordingly, the aim of this trial is to establish the MTD for afatinib in combination with
      gemcitabine/nab-paclitaxel in order to proceed into Phase II trials.
    
  