
    
      Subjects：63 newly-diagnosed, steroid-naïve adult patients with chronic or subacute cough
      caused by NAEB.

      Grouping：ICS monotherapy (21 patients, BUD，400mcg mcg, twice daily+ placebo, 4 wks); Mon
      adjunct therapy (42 patients, Mon 10mg once daily + BUD 400mcg twice daily 4wks).

      Protocol Day 1: In the respiratory specialist clinic, the diagnosis of NAEB is established
      following the 2006 ACCP guideline (sputum eosinophilia >3%, negative chest radiography,
      spirometry and bronchial provocation test). After briefing, eligible subjects who have given
      informed written consents, are to be randomly allocated to different treatment groups.
      Patients' demographical data, course and nature of cough, accompanying symptoms and upper
      respiratory comorbidities, skin prick test to common aeroallergens1, baseline cough VAS
      (0-100 mm) 1, spirometry and induced sputum cell counts, will be recorded by the managing
      physician in case record file (CRF). Pulmicort Turbuhaler (AstraZeneca, budesonide 100
      mcg/dose X 200 doses) will be prescribed to each patient.

      Day 2: Before initiation of treatment, at the Office for Clinical Trials, staff members will
      instruct the patients on correct usage of ICS, disperse Mon tablets or placebo as well as
      daily record cards, and explain how to record daily use of ICS and Mon, and adverse events.
      Once the treatment is initiated, oral steroids, other ICS, anti-histamines, beta-2 agonists
      and theophyllines will not be prescribed and used throughout the study period.

      Day 8、15：Revisits: Patients' nature of cough, accompanying symptoms, cough VAS, induced
      sputum cell count will be reevaluated and recorded in CRF. Old daily record cards will be
      collected. New ones as well as Mon tablets or placebo will be given. Patients' skill of using
      ICS, compliance, systemic or local adverse events will be monitored.

      Day 29： Revisit: Patients' nature of cough, accompanying symptoms, cough VAS, spirometry,
      bronchial provocation test, induced sputum cell count will be reevaluated and recorded in
      CRF. Old daily record cards will be collected. Patients' skill of using ICS, compliance,
      systemic or local adverse events will be recorded.
    
  