
    
      Motor vehicle collisions (MVCs) remain a leading cause of death among children after the
      first year of life despite substantial improvements in passenger safety. Deaths and severe
      injuries from MVCs can be reduced significantly through the consistent use of
      size-appropriate child passenger restraints. Still, 10% of children ride completely
      unrestrained and roughly one-quarter do not use the recommended restraint for their size. New
      approaches are needed to motivate behavior change among parents who do not consistently use
      size-appropriate passenger restraints for their children from birth through age 10. Emergency
      department (ED) visits represent unique opportunities to reach vulnerable children and their
      parents who have difficulty accessing the primary care settings where childhood injury
      prevention information is commonly provided. Motivational interviewing (MI) in the ED has
      been used to encourage a variety of health behaviors among at-risk patients. However, MI has
      not been previously evaluated for child passenger safety promotion programs. This study will
      involve an ED-based intervention utilizing MI techniques and patient-centered (e.g.,
      tailored) print materials to promote the correct and consistent use of size-appropriate child
      passenger restraints. This study is designed as a randomized pilot trial of the intervention
      utilizing a 2x2 factorial design to examine the independent and additive effects of ED-based
      MI and tailored print materials on the consistent use of size-appropriate child passenger
      restraints. Aim 1) To assess the feasibility and acceptability of the ED-based intervention
      among parents of children from birth through age 10; Aim 2) To determine the impact of the
      intervention on child passenger restraint attitudes and practices at 6-month follow-up in
      comparison to baseline assessments.
    
  