
    
      Resistant hypertension is a clinical condition characterized by the presence of BP values
      above the recommended limits of the reference values(BP>140/90 mmHg in hypertensive
      patients), despite the adherence to appropriate life style changes and to a drug therapy of
      at least three classes of drugs, one of which is represented by a diuretic, in adequate
      doses. Several small-sample studies suggest the prevalence of resistant hypertension is about
      5-30% in Chinese population. Uncontrolled blood pressure elevation attributes to a higher
      incidence of stroke, heart failure, chronic renal disease, dementia and cardiovascular
      deaths. Improving the management of resistant hypertension is a constantly tricky problem in
      hypertension clinical practice.

      Compared with patients whose blood pressure level are more easily to get controlled, patients
      diagnosed with resistant hypertension presented a higher risk of adrenal anomaly when
      screened by imaging tools. Current clinical practice guidance recommend unilateral
      laparoscopic adrenalectomy as a preferable treatment merely for adrenal incidentalomas with
      over hormone secreting like cortisol or aldosterone, or a high likelihood of malignance.
      Among patients who meet above surgery indication, the ratio of cure for hypertension varies
      from approximately 30 to 80%. However, in recent years, there are growing evidence showed
      that hypertensive patients diagnosed with adrenal disease based on imaging tools also gain
      much benefit from adrenalectomy even if there is no evidently abnormal hormone secretion.
      Last year, a prospective cohort study published on <Ann Intern Med> suggested that
      "nonfunctional" adrenal tumors associate with increased diabetes risk. These studies prompt a
      re-assessment of the classification of benign adrenal tumors as "non-functional"and their
      potential damage.

      In a retrospective study conducted by our group in early period to evaluate the effect of
      surgery treatment in resistant hypertensive patients, we found one third of resistant
      hypertensive patients were cured as well as another one third get improved after unilateral
      laparoscopic adrenalectomy. Thus, we designed this study, expecting a further and more
      detailed perception of the relationship between resistant hypertension and adrenal anomaly.
    
  