
    
      An independent investigator who will not be involved in the study will instruct the patients
      preoperatively about the use of patient controlled analgesia and visual analogue scale to
      assess the severity of postoperative pain (0 mm for no pain and100 mm for worst imaginable
      pain).

      Anaesthetic management will be standardized. Oral ranitidine 150 mg and metoclopramide 10 mg
      will be given the night before and on the morning of surgery, with 0.3 mol/L sodium citrate
      30 mL given 15 min before induction.

      Ninety minutes before surgery, subjects will be allocated randomly into three groups by
      drawing sequentially numbered sealed opaque envelopes containing a software-generated
      randomization code to the placebo (n = 45), pregabalin 150 mg (n = 45) and the pregabalin 300
      mg (n = 45) groups. The placebo and pregabalin capsules look identical and will be prepared
      by a local pharmacy. An anaesthesiologist not otherwise involved in the study and who will be
      blinded to treatment regimen will provide perioperative care. An independent investigator
      will collect perioperative data. All staff in the operating room will be unaware of patient
      allocation group.

      Maternal monitoring will include electrocardiography, non-invasive blood pressure, and pulse
      oximetry. Left uterine displacement will be maintained.

      Spinal anesthesia will be performed in all cases in sitting position at L3-L4 or L4-L5 spaces
      with hyperbaric bupivacaine 0.5% (12.5 mg) and fentanyl 20 µg. After the umbilical cord is
      clamped, a 10 IU infusion of oxytocin in 500 mL of lactated Ringer's solution will be
      infused.

      A paediatrician blinded to study group allocation will record Apgar scores at 1 and 5 min,
      umbilical cord blood gas analysis and NACS at 15 min, 2h, 24 and 48 h after delivery. NACS
      gives a maximum of 40 with a score >35 denoting vigor.The percentage of infants scoring <35
      will be determined.

      Postoperative analgesic regime will be standardized in all patients with 12-hourly
      intramuscular diclofenac 75 mg started immediately at the end of surgery and morphine via
      patient-controlled analgesia (PCA): 1 mg bolus with an 8 minutes lockout. Postoperative
      nausea or vomiting will be treated with intravenous metoclopramide 10 mg as required.

      Statistical analysis:

      Based on a previous study,7 the mean postoperative cumulative morphine consumption at 24 h
      after caesarean delivery was 38 mg with a standard deviation of 14 mg. An a priori power
      analysis indicated that 45 subjects were required in each group to detect a 25% reduction in
      the cumulative morphine consumption at 24 h after caesarean delivery, that was assumed to
      have a clinically significant effect, with a type-I error of 0.0167 (0.05/3 possible
      comparisons) and a power of 90%. Additional patients (10%) were included for a final sample
      size of 150 patients to account for patient dropout during the course of the study.
    
  