
    
      Tobacco smoking leads to nicotine dependence and serious health consequences. Telephone
      counseling has been shown to improve smokers' chances of quitting and is the most accessible
      of the three evidence-based forms of counseling (individual face-to-face, group, and
      telephone). It is well established that offering free NRT can attract many more smokers to
      call a quitline. However, how much the offer of free NRT helps quitline callers quit
      successfully is less well documented. There is currently no consistent guideline for quitline
      practice. We want to determine whether two weeks' worth of starter kit nicotine patches is
      efficacious for smokers who don't have access to free nicotine patches or quitting aids. The
      study also will provide data regarding the impact of a barrier to obtaining quitting aids by
      contrasting a direct mailing condition with a voucher condition. Further, the study will help
      us determine the effect of telephone counseling in the context of nicotine patch distribution
      and if any interaction effects exist between counseling and patch conditions

      The study uses a randomized controlled design. Smokers who call the Helpline during the
      recruitment phase, who meet eligibility requirements for the trial and give consent will be
      randomly assigned to one of six groups along two factors (nicotine patch and telephone
      counseling), as described below.

      The 6 randomized groups are as follows: Group 1: Materials, Group 2: Voucher + Materials,
      Group 3: Patches + Materials, Group 4: Counseling, Group 5: Voucher + Counseling, Group 6:
      Patches + Counseling

      Two months and seven months after their initial contact with the Helpline, all participants
      will receive two Assessment Interviews by phone. The interview will cover, as appropriate,
      smoking status, use of nicotine patches and other quitting aids, history of quitting, and
      satisfaction with services provided. The Assessment Interview lasts from 5-10 minutes.
    
  