
    
      We propose to recruit 100 case probands with a diagnosis of SZ, 100 case probands with a
      diagnosis of BP Disorder I with history of psychosis; BPI-P) and 400 1st degree case
      relatives. All 1st degree family members who are willing to participate will provide clinical
      information and blood sample, only a proportion will be eligible for endophenotypic studies).
      Individuals with psychotic disorder not otherwise specified are also eligible for testing.
      Their data will be incorporated with the schizophrenia or bipolar data upon confirmation of
      diagnosis. Family members of individuals with psychotic disorder not otherwise specified will
      not be tested unless the individual has a later confirmed diagnosis of schizophrenia or
      bipolar disorder. Probands will not be tested during the acute phase of the illness as judged
      clinically e.g., significant increase in core symptoms from their stable baseline that
      requires a change in treatment such increased dose of medication, drug change, or
      hospitalization). As part of another existing protocol, we have collected most of the
      endophynotypic information in schizophrenia probands and 1st degree relatives other than
      brain imaging and few other tests. We will attempt to recruit these subjects to complete the
      imaging studies and the data will be used in the current study.

      We will recruit 100 healthy comparison subjects from the community in order to describe the
      distribution of normal values for our endophenotype procedures in a demographically matched
      sample. The SZ and BPI-P probands, and 50 healthy control subjects, will be frequency matched
      on age, sex ratio, and head of the household's socio-economic status (SES). Another group of
      50 healthy control subjects will be similarly matched to the relative groups recruited.

      Participants will undergo a number of clinical, electrophysiological, structural brain
      imaging, perceptual, and cognitive assessments. These data will be used to identify
      phenotypes likely to be associated with genetic risk for schizophrenia and/or bipolar
      disorder, and to determine how these phenotypes aggregate in families. Some of the analyses
      will focus on examining associations between candidate genes and these alternative
      phenotypes. Thus if we are not able to recruit relatives we may still collect these
      phenotypic data in probands and their genetic sample for future genotype/phenotype
      association studies. Family members may elect to participate only in the clinical and blood
      draw portions of the study. Testing procedures require a 12 -15 hour time commitment and
      testing will be completed over 2 or more days. Participants will be asked to give a blood (or
      saliva if difficult to obtain blood sample for instance because of fear of blood draws),
      which will be stored for future genetic analyses. Data from the previous family study will be
      combined with the data collected in this protocol for some of the analyses.
    
  