
    
      Within the CP-referencecentre, the gross motor (GMFCS), fine motor (MACS) and swallowing
      (EDACS) skills have of children witch cerebral palsy (CP) have long been classified. In the
      speech and language pathology field, the Communication Function Classification Scale (CFCS)
      and the Viking Speech Scale (VSS) were recently developed. The CFCS maps communication as a
      whole and is a five-point scale. The CFCS is analogous to the aforementioned scales. The VSS
      focuses on speech intelligibility and is a four-point scale.

      This research is based on determining the reliability and validity of the above scales for
      Flanders so that they can be implemented within the CP-referencecentre. In addition, the
      mutual relationship between the scales and the relationship between the CFCS-NL and the other
      classification scales for CP (GMFCS, MACS & EDACS) will be determined. The VSS will also be
      translated into Dutch beforehand, this is a collaboration with the VU University Amsterdam
      (dr. Joke Geytenbeek).

      The study is a cross-sectional study. The patients (n = 20) will be recruited during the
      consultations at the CP-referencecentre between February 1, 2019 and April 30, 2019. The
      selection criteria consist of: diagnosis of CP, age of 4 t.e.m. 10 years, single language
      education in Dutch, no diagnosis of ASD and a signed Informed Consent Form.

      A questionnaire bundle will be given to the parents of the participating patients (completion
      time approx. 30 to 45 minutes). This includes a few questionnaires about characteristics of
      the child / filler, two questionnaires about the social communication skills and the social
      interaction skills of the child, and the CFCS and VSS scales which the parents have to score.
      This questionnaire bundle (with the exception of the questionnaires concerning social
      communication skills and social interaction skills) will also be given to the child's teacher
      and a treating paramedic. In addition, an appointment will also be made at the patients house
      where a video recording (2x15min) will be made in which the child interacts with a trusted
      person and an untrusted person (the researcher) so that the CFCS- NL and the VSS-NL scores of
      the child can be determined by the student and the speech therapists of the
      CP-referencecentre. During that appointment one of the parents will also be interviewed using
      the subdomain "Social Functioning" of the PEDI-NL.

      After data collection, a quantitative data analysis is performed to obtain an answer to the
      research questions.
    
  