
    
      Background:

        -  CDDO is a novel synthetic triterpenoid which is a potent multifunctional molecule. It
           induces apoptosis in vitro in malignant cells through both intrinsic and extrinsic
           pathways, and it controls cellular differentiation, apoptosis, and growth inhibition by
           serving as a ligand for the transcription factor peroxisome proliferator activator
           receptor-gamma (PPAR gamma).

        -  Based on in vitro activity, it holds considerable promise as a novel anti-tumor agent
           against a wide range of malignancies by concurrently targeting multiple pathways leading
           to oncogenesis.

        -  In vivo data demonstrates that the drug is well tolerated in dogs, and has anti-tumor
           effects, dependent upon dose schedule.

      Objectives:

      Primary:

        -  To determine the dose limiting toxicities, toxicity profile, and maximum tolerated dose
           of CDDO when administered in adult patients with solid tumors and lymphomas.

        -  To characterize the pharmacokinetics of CDDO.

      Secondary:

        -  To obtain preliminary evidence of anti-tumor activity of CDDO in this population.

        -  To evaluate the in vivo molecular and biological effects of CDDO by assessing changes in
           biomarkers of apoptosis and cell cycle arrest.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients with advance, histological-confirmed malignancies refractory to standard
           therapy or for which no standard therapy exist.

        -  Patients should have adequate liver, renal and bone marrow function.

      Study Design:

        -  Accordingly with the accelerated titration design 4B, dose levels will initially be
           increased at 100% increments, and one new patient per dose level will be treated per
           4-week course.

        -  The accelerated phase ends when one patient experiences DLT during any course of
           treatment or when two different patients experience grade 2 toxicity during first course
           of treatment.

        -  When the first instance of grade 2 toxicity is observed two additional patients must
           have been treated at that dose, or a higher dose, (during any course) without
           experiencing moderate or worse toxicity, in order that the accelerated phase continue.

        -  When the accelerated phase ends, dose-escalation will revert to a more conservative
           modified Fibonacci scheme with 40% dose-step increments, with at least 3 patients
           treated per dose level.
    
  