
    
      Note: Public-facing information will not reveal that the study is specifically for people
      living with HIV; instead these documents refer to "people living with certain health
      conditions. This trial involves a highly stigmatized, vulnerable, and private group: people
      living with HIV. The team does not wish to make it known publicly that this trial is for
      people living with HIV, as that could lead to other people inadvertently learning someone's
      HIV-positive status, which would be a major privacy violation. For example, if a participant
      receives email or text from the Positively Quit Study, there is no easy way for another
      person to know the study is only for those living with HIV. However, if the website notes the
      inclusion requirement of living with HIV on clinicaltrials.gov, a boyfriend, roommate, family
      member, etc., could look up the Positively Quit Trial on clinicaltrials.gov and then
      determine that their boyfriend, roommate, family member, etc. is HIV-positive. Eligibility
      criteria are deliberately incomplete to protect the privacy of people living with HIV.
      Moreover, some details are left out of the eligibility criteria to prevent participants from
      qualifying for the study because they knew the "correct" answers to the eligibility
      screens--not because they actually met criteria.

      After completing eligibility screening, including a video-conferencing observed swab test to
      measure levels of cotinine (a marker of cigarette smoking chemicals), those eligible will be
      invited to complete the baseline assessment and enroll in the trial.

      Enrolled participants will then complete a baseline assessment (the first assessment for the
      trial, consisting of a secure online survey). Then they will be randomized to either the
      treatment condition or the AMC. Randomization is a fair way of selecting who will be in each
      condition. It is like flipping a coin. In this study, instead of actually flipping a coin, we
      will use a web-based randomization software that basically does the same thing. Once a
      participant learns their randomized condition, they will receive brief cessation counseling
      and an offer of nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) patches. For participants who would like
      NRT, study staff will help determine if the participant can get NRT through their insurance
      or related assistance program (e.g., ADAP); if it is possible, the study staff will
      facilitate that process. If getting NRT through insurance, etc. is not possible, NRT will be
      provided by the study.

      Participants will begin their group sessions within approximately 2 weeks of randomization.
      For both conditions, the group sessions will all be conducted using group-based
      video-conferencing via Zoom, a HIPAA compliant video-conferencing system that is easy to use,
      works well even at lower internet speeds, and is free to trial participants; this will be the
      same system participants used during eligibility screening. Participants will be required to
      join the group from a private space, with no others present, to ensure confidentiality for
      all participants. Those who violate this requirement will be asked to resolve the situation
      immediately or log out of the session. A second violation will lead to permanent removal from
      the group sessions, because confidentiality is critical. Groups for both conditions will
      consist of 8 sessions over 6 weeks, with subsequent booster sessions 2,4,8, and 12 weeks
      after the end of the main interventions.

      For each condition, one facilitator will be a master's level counselor and one will be a peer
      (person living with certain health condition). Facilitators will be trained for only one
      group type (there will be 1-2 sets of facilitators for treatment and a separate 1-2 sets of
      facilitators for AMC). All facilitators will undergo supervision with the PI and Co-I.

      Participants will complete assessments at days 0 (baseline), 42, 90, 180, and 360, to include
      questions about smoking, health, utilized cessation treatments, and potential mediators
      (variables that changed as a result of the program and subsequently led to smoking
      cessations). These assessments will involve a secure online survey. Smoking abstinence will
      be confirmed with a video-conferencing observed oral swab test for cotinine, a biological
      marker of cigarette smoking. Note that the initial swab test will be done at the end of
      eligibility screening instead of at baseline, as this is part of eligibility determination.
      Participants will be remunerated for their time via gift cards.

      In addition to the 5 major assessments, participants will receive "brief check-ins" to
      confirm/validate contact information approximately every 45 days, and again remunerated. This
      is important because the success of the trial is dependent upon keeping participants involved
      and reminding them about study activities to ensure retention and reduce attrition/missing
      data.

      In addition to the "brief check-ins", we have a robust plan for maintaining
      engagement/preventing attrition. 1) We will have a study website that serves as a portal for
      participants to track their involvement, update contact information, and communicate with the
      study staff. The website will also serve as a portal for study staff to track participant
      involvement. 2) Participants will receive physical reminders of the study (e.g., pens,
      magnets, etc.) bearing the study name and contact information, so they will retain our
      contact information and remember they are involved in the study. 3) assessments are
      incentivized and the compensation escalates over time to keep participants engaged. 4) We
      will maintain a social media presence and encourage participants who are comfortable doing so
      to "friend" us. 5) We will send birthday cards. 6) Participants will be reminded of scheduled
      assessments and sessions via text and/or email (user preference). 7) Additionally, because
      study staff will interact over video-conferencing during cotinine assessments, we will
      develop relationships with participants that may help to foster retention (e.g., they may
      look forward to talking with us or updating us about their lives).
    
  