
    
      Rationale:

      Seroma formation, a collection of serous fluid containing blood plasma and/or lymph fluid, is
      a common complication in breast cancer surgery and can lead to delayed wound healing,
      infection, skin flap necrosis, patient discomfort and repeated visits to the outpatient
      clinic and therefore extensive research has been done to further elucidate the
      pathophysiology and prevention of seroma formation. Promising results have resulted from
      studies focusing on flap fixation in order to reduce the incidence of seroma and seroma
      aspirations. Mastectomy with flap fixation is becoming standard practice and is currently
      combined with closed-suction drainage. Closed-suction drainage is considered gold standard
      for reducing seroma formation after breast cancer surgery. However, evidence shows that
      closed-suction drainage is insufficient in preventing seroma formation. One might wonder if
      there is still a place for closed-suction drainage after mastectomy if flap fixation is
      performed. The promising results in flap fixation could exclude drainage systems in breast
      cancer surgery. However, the available data consist of small case series and therefore a
      large randomized controlled trial is needed for it to be widely implemented.

      To our knowledge, no randomized controlled trial has been conducted comparing flap fixation
      with and without closed-suction drainage with seroma aspiration as the primary outcome.

      The investigators hypothesize that flap fixation with closed suction drainage does not cause
      a significant lower incidence of seroma aspirations, when compared to flap fixation alone.
      The investigators also expect that patients without drainage will experience significantly
      less discomfort and comparable rates of surgical site infections.

      Objective: To prove that omitting drains after mastectomy and flap fixation does not
      contribute to higher incidence of seroma formation and therefore reducing patient disutility
      such as seroma aspirations and visits to the outpatient clinic, as well as reducing seroma
      related wound complications.

      Study design: Prospective randomized controlled trial

      Study population: Female patients > 18 years diagnosed with invasive breast cancer or DCIS
      (ductal carcinoma in situ) with an indication to perform mastectomy

      Intervention (if applicable):

        1. Mastectomy with flap fixation using sutures with closed suction drainage

        2. Mastectomy with flap fixation using sutures without closed suction drainage

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      Patients undergoing seroma aspiration (clinically significant seroma (CSS)).

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      Patients will be informed about the study before inclusion in the outpatient clinic. Informed
      consent will be obtained in the outpatient clinic a week after patients were initially
      informed. Postoperative check-ups will be done more frequently. Standard postoperative
      check-ups are planned at 2 weeks and 3 months. Additional study postoperative check-ups: 6
      weeks, 6 months. Therefore, patients will be required to undergo two additional check-ups.

      During out patients' visits, patients will hand in a questionnaire scale regarding cosmesis,
      pain and quality of life.

      Patients will be clinically examined as they usually would be.
    
  