
    
      Objectives: Many of the existing mobile health (mHealth) apps designed in a reactive care
      approach, in which people do not receive individualized care until they consulted health care
      professionals through the apps. This proposal endeavors to develop a proactive mHealth
      application on promoting self-care ability and health among older adults to examine the
      differential benefits of adding nurse interaction supported by an integrated health-social
      partnership model in the use of mHealth.

      Hypothesis to be tested: There is no difference in self-management outcomes, individual and
      societal benefits between the subjects receiving mHealth+Interactivity, mHealth, and usual
      care.

      Design and subjects: This is a single-blinded, three-armed randomized controlled trial. The
      subjects are people who are aged 60 or above with chief complaints of either pain,
      hypertension, or diabetes mellitus.

      Instruments: mHealth application designed by the research team with the information
      technological support by Smartone.

      Interventions: mHealth with interactivity group receives both mHealth app and nurse case
      management supported by a social service team in community. mHealth group will have access to
      health content on mHealth platform only. Usual care group receives usual community services.

      Main outcome measures: Self-management outcomes (self-efficacy, pain score, blood pressure,
      capillary blood glucose), individual (quality of life, depression) and societal benefits
      (institutionalization and health service utilization).

      Data analysis: Generalized Estimating Equation (GEE) is used to determine the between-group
      effects, within-group effects, and the interaction effects.

      Expected results: Older adults would benefit from supported self-care equipping them with
      sufficient knowledge, skills and confidence to lead to relatively independent life at home.
    
  