
    
      Goal 1: How does sleep deprivation impact emotion perception and memory processing? The
      investigators are interested in how an acute loss of sleep impairs our ability to properly
      perceive, consolidate, and retrieve emotional information. There has been research on the
      effect of sleep deprivation on broad areas of cognition, such as attention, working memory,
      and reasoning ability, but the impact of sleep loss on emotional processing and regulation
      remains largely unexplored. The investigators aim to characterize how sleep deprivation
      compared to undisturbed sleep affects the ability to accurately perceive emotion, how it
      alters the intensity with which emotions are perceived, and the effect that these changes
      have on the subsequent consolidation and memory retrieval for emotional compared to neutral
      information.

      Goal 2: How are these changes reflected in the neural signal and with psychophysiological
      measures? The investigators will utilize fMRI and measures of autonomic reactivity (heart
      rate and skin conductance) to characterize the neural and psychophysiological mechanisms
      underlying these behavioral changes following sleep deprivation compared to a normal night of
      sleep. This will allow us to pinpoint the brain regions involved in changes following sleep
      deprivation, and associate these changes with effects on downstream physiological responses.

      Goal 3: Can a nap after sleep deprivation restore normal processing of emotional memory and
      rescue the neural and autonomic markers of sleep deprivation? The investigators are
      interested in determining if a brief period of recovery sleep is enough to combat the
      behavioral, neural, and autonomic effects of acute sleep loss, thus a portion of the
      sleep-deprived participants will be given a 2-hour nap opportunity to quantify its
      restorative effects. Such information would form the foundation for future research extending
      and translating these findings into effective sleep-based interventions for healthy and
      clinical populations alike.
    
  