
    
      Genetic and metabolic profiling has become an important means to evaluate various
      pathologies, their effects on patients, and their treatments. In regards to cerebrovascular
      disease and stroke, there are a number of hypotheses which have been proposed. The levels and
      types of various angiogenic factors in the blood and tissues have been proposed to be
      predictive of patient outcome after ischemic stroke and treatment for stroke. Likewise,
      genetic factors may predict outcome or response to various types of treatments.

      The role of biological samples in furthering our understandings about cerebrovascular disease
      and treatment are well documented. Muscle microdialysis samples have confirmed the presence
      of sublethal ischemia during the induction of remote ischemic preconditioning. The effects of
      remote ischemic preconditioning on the coagulation profile, DNA methylation, and cell cycle
      gene expression of patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage have also been
      elucidated. Blood samples collected in patients with intracranial arterial stenosis have
      produced many insights. Inflammatory cell profiles in patient who receive
      encephaloduroarteriosynangiosis (EDAS) surgery have been characterized. Angiogenic factor
      measurements have been shown to predict the degree of neovascularization in patients
      post-EDAS. In patients with intracranial atherosclerosis, angiogenic factor profiles were
      found to strongly correlate with failure of medical management and poor outcomes.

      It is clear that genetic and metabolic profiling are effective tools in evaluating the
      effects of cerebrovascular disease and their treatments. This study encompasses the
      maintenance and utilization of a repository of samples from patients with cerebrovascular
      disease and stroke. For every patient enrolled in the study, relevant patient information
      such as age, gender, diagnosis, medical history, family history, procedures/treatments
      received, radiological reports, and patient outcomes are recorded. This information is
      updated upon every follow-up during the study. The types of tissue taken are blood,
      cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), tissue, and microdialysis samples.

      Future analysis of these samples can potentially help investigators to better categorize
      groups of patients, understand the underlying etiology of these pathologies, identify markers
      that are associated with favorable or poor outcomes, and track changes that occur during the
      natural course of the disease or with treatment. This repository serves as the groundwork to
      explore these questions in the future.
    
  