
    
      As technologic innovations in medicine continue to advance, less intrusive operative
      procedures are being developed. Natural Orifice Transluminal Endoscopic Surgery (NOTES) may
      represent a less invasive approach to the abdominal cavity. The access to the abdominal
      cavity through natural orifices such as the vagina has the benefit of decreased
      somato-sensory innervation. This venue might confer less pain and operative stress to the
      patient. The transvaginal approach has been suggested as a new surgical approach to
      gallbladder surgery (cholecystectomy). Approximately 700 transvaginal cholecystectomy
      procedures have been performed in medical centers around the world so far. Anecdotal data
      suggest that the patients experience less pain postoperatively and half of them may not
      require any pain medication. Currently, introduction of this new operative approach outside
      of a research study is not supported by national nor international societies.

      We wish to demonstrate that the transvaginal approach is feasible for 10 patients with
      gallstone disease at Mayo Clinic Rochester (MCR).

      Methods: Female patients seen by consultants from the Division of General and
      Gastrointestinal Surgery, who have an appropriate indication for elective cholecystectomy,
      will be offered a cholecystectomy via the transvaginal approach. After patient enrollment,
      baseline demographics, questionnaires and blood draws will be obtained. The patient will
      undergo a laparoscopic assisted transvaginal cholecystectomy by a dedicated surgical team,
      consisting of a gynecologist, a minimally invasive surgeon and a gastroenterologist. This
      approach will utilize a 5-mm umbilical trocar and a posterior colpotomy. Standard
      laparoscopic and flexible endoscopic instrumentation will be utilized along with recently
      introduced long flexible-tip laparoscopic instrumentation to remove the gallbladder.
      Intraoperative parameters will be recorded. Postoperatively blood draws and questionnaires
      will be repeated at specific intervals.

      Data analysis will be mainly descriptive for this feasibility study. The collected material
      will serve as pilot data for a future comparative study of transvaginal cholecystectomy with
      standard laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
    
  