
    
      This is an interventional study in which patients with a history of habitual snoring use the
      Cloud9™ Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) device that delivers a low level of
      continuous nasal air pressure between 2 cm H2O and 4 cm H2O, for about four weeks at their
      home. This study is designed to document the adherence of the snorer, the acceptance and
      comfort of the therapy, and bed partners' subjective report of improvement in sleep quality,
      and/or reduction or elimination of snoring.

      Study Procedures

      Study Procedures

      Baseline Assessment: The study begins with a baseline assessment to determine whether each
      participant meets the entry criteria for the study. After consent, participant snorers will
      have a history and physical exam to confirm entry criteria and answer questionnaires: Epworth
      Sleepiness Scale (ESS), Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), Snore Outcomes Survey (SOS),
      and Stanford Sleepiness Scale (SSS) to assess their sleepiness and snoring. In a second step,
      snoring participants who initially meet the entry criteria will receive a full night Home
      Sleep Test (HST) to confirm snoring and to rule out sleep apnea or any other sleep related
      disorder. Participants who already performed a full night polysomnography (PSG) as a part of
      the earlier sleep lab study for the Cloud9 device (Treatment of Snoring NA_00073250) do not
      have to be re-screened, if the earlier PSG is not older than 36 months, and the participant's
      BMI remains within 3 kg/m2 of its original value. In parallel, the snorer's bed-partner will
      be asked to complete baseline questionnaires: ESS, PSQI, Spouse/Bed-partner Survey (SBPS),
      and supplement, SSS, and snore assessment according to Visual Analog Scale (VAS).

      Baseline Week: Snorers and bed-partners will be asked to wear Actigraphy watches for
      approximately one-week prior to the initiation of treatment at home with the study device.

      Home-Trial: At the end of the baseline week, snoring participants will be asked to use the
      device at home for 4 weeks. Usage data will be recorded by a power logger and read when
      returned to the study site at the end of study. Snoring participants will receive a study
      coordinator call on the day after night 1 of the home trial. Additionally, snoring
      participants will receive a coordinator call weekly thereafter, to assess the user experience
      with the device. Snorers and bed-partners will continue to wear Actigraphy monitors
      throughout the home-trial.

      Final Visit: At the end of the 4 weeks of home use, participants will return all study
      equipment to the sleep lab. Usage data from the data logger will be read for compliance
      rates. Snoring participants and their bed partners will also complete a final set of
      questionnaires as before (ESS, PSQI, SOS, SBPS and supplement. Bed partners will rate snoring
      using VAS. Snorers will also be asked to complete a Comfort and Acceptability Survey and the
      Sleep Apnea Quality of Life Index (SAQLI) Treatment related questions.
    
  