
    
      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study, which began in 1991, focuses on genes that influence the lipoprotein profile in
      members of randomly ascertained Mexican-American families, with particular emphasis on
      genetic effects on reverse cholesterol transport. An overall objective is to investigate the
      pleiotropic effects of these "lipoprotein genes" and their interactions with genes that
      affect non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) antecedents and body fat distribution.
      The interactions of lipoprotein genes with sex hormonal status and with environmental risk
      factors such as diet, exercise, and smoking are investigated. Genetic effects on standard
      lipoprotein variables are examined, e.g. plasma concentrations of lipoproteins and
      apolipoproteins. Several novel lipoprotein phenotypes also are analyzed, e.g. amounts of
      esterified and unesterified cholesterol and of specific apolipoproteins in lipoprotein
      subclasses. Molecular, biochemical, and statistical genetic approaches are used to detect,
      localize and characterize genes that influence quantitative phenotypes associated with
      lipoproteins, NIDDM, and obesity, and to quantify the effects of known candidate loci on
      these phenotypes.

      The study was renewed in 1997. The subprojects as described in the summary statement are as
      follows.

      In Project 1, gene mapping is performed on genes that influence quantitative phenotypes
      related to the development of atherosclerosis in Mexican American families in the San Antonio
      Family Heart Study. A genomic search using a 10 centimorgan map of 3 91 short tandem report
      markers distributed throughout the genome is used to determine the chromosomal location of
      six major genes influencing HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, apo A1, apob, SHBC, and DHEAS.
      Evidence for major gene effects is sought for lipoprotein phenotypes for which no major genes
      have yet been detected. Genetic effects on carotid and fibrinolysis phenotypes are quantified
      using data from a recall of 750 family members. Full pedigree variance component analysis as
      well as penetrance-based methods are used in a genomic search to determine the chromosomal
      locations of genes that influence these phenotypes. To improve genetic models, strengthen
      evidence for linkage, and reduce the number of false positives, GxE interactions and
      pleiotropic and epistatic effects of major genes are quantified.

      In Project 2, a genome-wide search is carried out to localize genes that contribute to
      quantitative variation in traits related to atherosclerosis, NIDDM, and obesity. The first,
      primary task is the genotyping of some 1,400 pedigree members for 391 short tandem repeat
      (STR) markers using semi-automated, fluorescence based genotyping on an ABI automatic
      sequencer. When statistical evidence of linkage has been evaluated in Projects 1 and 3 and
      confirmed, "additional STRs" will be typed in the region to further localize the gene. The
      initial map will have a 10 centimorgan resolution. Multipoint linkage analysis and gametic
      disequilibrium analysis will be used to further localize the region containing the gene of
      interest. The human gene map will then be consulted to identify candidate genes in the
      region, and these genes will be subjected to a more detailed molecular analysis to identify
      structural or functional differences that underlie the observed allelic effects.

      In Project 3, genetic determinants of NIDDM and obesity are determined and the effects of
      these genes are specified on lipoproteins, carotid wall thickness, and other phenotypes
      pertaining to cardiovascular risk.

      Core A, Field and Clinical Operations has five aims. The first is to reexamine 750 of the
      original study participants near the sixth anniversary of their baseline exam. The second is
      to update demographic information, medical history, physical activity and dietary habits. The
      third aim is to perform an oral glucose tolerance test with insulin measurement and to obtain
      fasting blood specimens for other projects and labs. The fourth is to perform B-mode
      ultrasonography exams of the internal carotid artery. The fifth is to construct a
      computerized data file containing these data.

      Core B, Computing and Data Management, provides database management for genotypic/phenotypic
      data, for clinical and interview data, and for pedigrees based on these data.

      Core C, Clinical Phenotypes and Resources, performs analyses to measure LDL particle sizes in
      the frozen samples from the original 1,588 samples, measures LP(A) concentrations and
      performs apo(a) phenotyping in the recall samples, measures plasma lipids and HDL cholesterol
      in the recall samples, and contracts for measurement of fibrinolytic endpoints in the recall
      sample.

      Core D is the Administation Core.
    
  