
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine whether cabozantinib alone, or the combination of nivolumab and cabozantinib,
      as compared to standard chemotherapy alone, extends progression-free survival (PFS) for this
      patient population with non squamous NSCLC.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the progression free survival (PFS) and best overall radiographic response
      rate of the targeted therapy arm of the trial.

      II. To determine the overall survival for each arm of the trial. III. To evaluate the best
      overall radiographic response rate for each arm of the trial.

      IV. To evaluate and describe the toxicity profile of monotherapy with cabozantinib, and the
      combination of nivolumab and cabozantinib in this patient population with non-squamous NSCLC.

      EXPLORATORY IMAGING OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe time point tumor response assessment, overall best response, progression-free
      survival and overall survival using the conventional Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
      Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria and the exploratory revised CHOI criteria with all measurements
      performed by the central review.

      II. To compare the progression-free survival using the RECIST1.1 imaging response assessment
      measurements by site study personnel to those performed by central review.

      EXPLORATORY CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVE:

      I. To perform correlative biomarker research on tissue and blood biospecimens collected
      within this trial.

      OUTLINE: Patients without known molecular alterations are randomly assigned to 1 of 3 arms.
      Patients with known molecular alterations are assigned to Arm B.

      ARM A: Patients receive cabozantinib S-malate orally (PO) once daily (QD). Cycles repeat
      every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may
      continue to receive therapy after investigator-assessed RECIST 1.1 defined progression,
      including stable clinical and performance status and have potential for continued clinical
      benefit.

      ARM B: Patients receive cabozantinib S-malate PO QD and nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30
      minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients may continue to receive therapy after investigator-assessed
      RECIST 1.1 defined progression, including stable clinical and performance status and have
      potential for continued clinical benefit.

      ARM C:

      STEP 1: Patients receive ramucirumab IV over 30-60 minutes and docetaxel IV over 1 hour on
      day 1, or docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1 or on days 1 and 8, or gemcitabine hydrochloride
      IV on days 1 and 8, or paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1, or nab-paclitaxel IV over 30
      minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity and at the discretion of the treating physician.
      Patients may continue to receive therapy after investigator-assessed RECIST 1.1 defined
      progression, including stable clinical and performance status and have potential for
      continued clinical benefit.

      STEP 2: Patients receive cabozantinib S-malate PO QD and nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day
      1. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients may continue to receive therapy after investigator-assessed RECIST 1.1
      defined progression, including stable clinical and performance status and have potential for
      continued clinical benefit.

      After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 3
      years.
    
  