
    
      Adequate nutrition is an important aspect of wound healing because it provides an anabolic
      environment necessary for tissue repair. Without proper nutrition support, healing can be
      prolonged and even inhibited. Provision of adequate energy is essential in patients with
      decubitus ulcers to maximize nitrogen retention and facilitate wound healing. (1,2) There are
      few published studies that measure energy needs in patients with decubitus ulcers. Spinal
      cord injured patients are one of the few populations where studies have utilized indirect
      calorimetry to measure energy expenditure. Individuals with spinal cord injuries are
      particularly at risk for developing pressure ulcers. Liu, et al. (3) measured energy
      expenditure in 16 individuals with quadriplegia and pressure ulcers and in 16 individuals
      with quadriplegia but no pressure ulcers. Measured energy expenditure was significantly
      higher in subjects with quadriplegia and pressure ulcers. Additionally, pressure ulcer
      surface area was significantly correlated with predicted resting energy expenditure. In a
      study of paraplegic individuals, Alexander, et al. (4) found resting metabolic rate was
      significantly higher in those individuals with pressure ulcers compared to those with
      paraplegia without pressure ulcers. Additional research is needed to confirm these findings.

      To determine nutrition requirements specific to each patient, energy needs must be estimated,
      taking into account weight, height, age, activity level as well as the size of the wound and
      the patient's co-morbidities. Although indirect calorimetry is the gold standard for
      measuring metabolic rate, it is impractical and time consuming to use this method to
      determine needs of every patient. Therefore, the clinician uses predictive formulas for
      estimating energy needs. The most commonly cited guideline for energy requirements for
      healing pressure ulcers is 30-35 kcal/kg (recommendation, National Pressure Ulcer Advisory
      Panel).(1) The European Pressure Ulcer Advisory Panel has also recommended a minimum of 30-35
      kcal/kg.(2) Several equations have been derived to predict metabolic rate based on age,
      height, weight, and sex. Two of these predictive equations are the Harris Benedict (5) and
      the Mifflin-St. Jeor. (6) These equations can be adjusted for injury factors, but it is
      unclear if they fully account for the size of wound in patients with decubiti.
    
  