
    
      Study design: a two-armed multi-faceted exercise intervention study with two phases: 12 weeks
      intensive phase followed by 12 weeks maintenance phase.

      Intensive phase

        -  Active condition (exercise + health-empowerment): twice-weekly exercise + 4
           health-empowerment sessions

        -  Comparison condition (health-empowerment) 8 health-empowerment sessions

      Maintenance phase

        -  Active condition (exercise + health-empowerment): 4 health-empowerment sessions

        -  Comparison condition (health-empowerment): 4 health-empowerment sessions

      Sampling method Danish home-dwelling older adults entitled to a nationally regulated
      preventive home-visit according to the Danish social act, living in three provincial
      municipalities in the Southern region of Denmark (Odense, Slagelse and Esbjerg) were invited
      to participate in the WIPP screening as an integrated part of the home-visit. The screening
      resulted in a risk-profile for functional loss and disability, on which eligibility for
      interventions was based. The interventions studied here were offered by the municipalities in
      line with existing services during the project period. In order to enable proper evaluations,
      citizens who volunteered to participate where randomly allocated to either of the two
      conditions by sealed randomization procedures. Citizens were informed about this prior to
      agreeing to participate. Towards the end of the project phase, exceptions from this procedure
      took place, to accommodate project interests. Tracking of allocation procedure is possible in
      the dataset. Subject recruitment and allocation, data collection and management as well as
      interventions were all run by the health care providers (i.e. municipalities).

      Registry procedures and other quality factors On-site data collection (self-report and
      objective assessments) was led by the municipalities. The raw-data was registered in either
      paper- or digital format depending on the technical prerequisites (access to portable digital
      equipment and internet connection) of each site.

      Paper-format data was subsequently digitalized by municipality staff.

      Quality assurance of the validation and registry procedures primarily consisted of three
      elements:

        1. Written instructions on how to fill out the individual parts of the data registration
           were available during the on-site registration, regardless of whether this was done
           electronically or in paper format. The information was also available during the final
           registration into the database.

        2. The written instructions were further qualified by a verbal introduction on how to use
           the data registry platform and how to fill out the individual parts correctly.

        3. To assure standardization and validation of data registry, as well the paper-format as
           the digital databases passed through consecutive cycles of: development (academia and
           engineer), pilot testing (municipalities), feedback/evaluation (municipalities and
           academia) and correction (municipalities and academia), until a final product was ready.

      The software platform REDCap Cloud (cloud-based data management platform) was used to setup
      and administer the databases ensuring the required level of data security (GDPR).

      The platform allowed the database to be set up with predefined rules of range as well as
      connections between related data fields. For continuous outcomes on scales that could in
      principle be infinite (ex. time to complete 10-meter walking distance), predefined rules in
      the database where based on pilot testing and or qualified by normative data on similar
      populations when possible. For ordinal and categorical outcomes as well as outcomes
      restricted to a given range (ex. self-rated health on a VAS scale) the predefined data-base
      rules were set according to these given restrictions.

      The team setting up the database consisted of:

        -  One primary coder (profession: Engineer)

        -  Five Testers/Data collector managers from the different data collector sites
           (municipalities)

        -  One scientific advisor The outcome data in this database is not routinely collected
           elsewhere. Therefore, only few items, and only of descriptive character (e.g. sex and
           age) exist to our knowledge in other databases. Due to GDPR-restrictions these items
           were not compared to external data sources.

      As external validation is not possible for this dataset, an internal verification procedure
      is developed and will be executed before running the analysis for this study.

        1. The dataset consists of multiple waves of data-collection. Descriptive items that are
           considered time constant (e.g. sex, age, group-allocation, subject identification
           number) will be compared for inconsistencies across waves.

        2. Initially, descriptive analysis to detect outlying data were performed on all outcome
           data for each wave separately. Each case will be investigated to identify potential
           erroneous data.

        3. Variables with delta-values (i.e. changes from one test-time to another) will be
           generated for each outcome, and the procedure from point 2 will be followed

        4. Spot checks will be done across related variables. For example, measured gait speed will
           be compared to a composite test-score in which gait speed is an important element. If
           gait speed is very high and the score of the composite test is very low the case will be
           investigated in order to identify which data is erroneous.

        5. The database has dedicated a section for comments to the data made by either the
           test-personnel or the person digitalizing the data. Data will be qualified against these
           comments before being included in the analysis

        6. If erroneous data is identified in step 1-5 or in case of doubt about data correctness,
           data will be marked as missing.

      The step-wise verification process will be registered in the database material as Stata .do
      and Stata .log files, to ensure back-tracking and replicability of the procedure.

      The main data dictionary was built in REDCap Cloud on the first language for the different
      sites (Danish or German).

      As the database was later converted into .dta file format, an expansion of the data
      dictionary was initiated with added information and renaming of certain variables. The main
      language of the .dta database was then changed to English. All information on both
      translation, conversion and expansion of the dictionary is stored and available from Stata
      .do and .log files.

      The REDCap Cloud database had a dedicated section for the recruitment pathway with a box to
      register time of data collection.

      All steps in data preparation (changes) and analysis activities are registered both by syntax
      (.do) and output (.log)

      Intervention instructors and the test-personnel were all instructed to identify and register
      adverse events. The registration was systematically done in all phases of the intervention.

      The project had a prespecified number of participants it aimed at recruiting according to the
      funding requirements.

      The database was fitted with options for registering reasons for missing data both for each
      individual section (i.e. self-report and objective data) and for each wave.

      If erroneous data is identified in step 1-5 or in case of doubt, the data will be marked as
      missing.

      Main intervention effects on the primary outcome SPPB and on secondary outcomes of muscle
      function, physical function, self-reported disability and quality of life as well as
      hypothesized effect modifiers: self-efficacy, outcome expectancies and barrier management
      will be estimated using repeated measures mixed models.

      To identify significant covariates, adjusted models will be fitted using a step-wise
      approach.
    
  