
    
      Newer techniques in interventional neuroradiology have allowed for a more selective delivery
      of catheters higher up into the arterial tree where agents such as chemotherapies, can be
      delivered without the risk of adverse affects such as blindness. In fact, studies here at
      Cornell have developed very new and exciting super selective intraarterial delivery treatment
      for Retinoblastoma and Malignant Glioma brain tumors with little toxicity. Therefore, this
      trial will ask one simple question: Is it safe to deliver a first dose of Avastin
      intraarterially using these super selective delivery techniques instead of the standard
      intravenous route of administration? This should not only increase the amount of drug that
      gets to the VS but also spare them of any adverse effects from a less selective delivery.
      During that single dose of intraarterial Avastin, they will also receive a dose of mannitol
      that opens up the blood brain barrier to improve delivery of the agent to the tumor. After
      that single dose of Mannitol and Avastin intraarterially, the patient will be evaluated for 4
      weeks to assess for toxicity. If no toxicity, then the will go on and get MRI of the brain
      every two months to assess for response up to 12 months. After this, the subject is done with
      the "experimental" aspects of the protocol. This is a Phase I trial that is designed to test
      the safety of the single dose intraarterial delivery of Avastin and Mannitol,.

      To summarize:

      Current Standard of Care: Surgery or radiosurgery: IV Avastin

      Experimental portion of this proposal:

      Day 0: Intraarterial Avastin single dose (starting at 2mg/kg and up to 10mg/kg) after
      Mannitol to open the blood brain barrier Day 28 (and every two months thereafter): MRI brain
      with contrast

      Therefore the experimental aspects of this treatment plan will include:

        1. Subjects will first be treated with Mannitol prior to chemotherapy infusion (Mannitol
           25%; 3-10 mL/s for 30seconds) in order to disrupt the blood brain barrier. This
           technique has been used in several thousand patients in previous studies for the IA
           delivery of chemotherapy for malignant glioma.

        2. To add a single intraarterial delivery (SIACI) of the Avastin with VS.

        3. The dose escalation algorithm is as follows: We will use a single intracranial
           superselective intraarterial infusion of Avastin, starting at a dose of 2mg/kg in the
           first three patients. Assuming no dose limiting toxicity during the first 28 days after
           IA infusion, an MRI of the brain will be performed. The doses will be escalated to 4,6,8
           and finally 10mg/kg in this Phase I trial.

      Inclusion criteria Include: Males or females, >=18 years of age, with documented Radiologic
      or histologic diagnosis of VS

      Both hematologic and non-hematologic toxicity will be determined and scored according to the
      NCI Common Toxicity Criteria (version 3.0). Monitoring will be conducted by post procedure
      history, neurological and physical examinations together with serial blood counts,
      prothrombin time (PT), partial thromboplastin time (PTT) and chemistries.

      Response will be evaluated after 4 weeks via a MRI with the injection of contrast. The
      following will be evaluated every cycle, and then during follow-up: neurological examination,
      physical examination, performance status, laboratory parameters and review of adverse
      reactions. Contrast enhanced MRI (MRI with gadolinium is the preferable imaging study. The
      following subjects will be taken off protocol: those with progressive disease; those who
      experience dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). Follow-up will continue until disease progression or
      death. Survival will be measured from the time of the first dose of IA Avastin® (given at the
      start of each treatment cycle).
    
  