
    
      Diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis is often difficult to achieve with certainty, as this
      requires direct evidence of invasive growth on histopathological examination. A probable
      diagnosis can be suspected based on both clinical and mycological evidence of the disease, in
      presence of a susceptible patient. The EORTC-MSG guidelines offer a widely accepted basis for
      this diagnosis. Under these guidelines, mycological evidence can consist of a positive
      culture of aspergillus spp, or of detection of galactomannan (GM) in a relevant body sample.
      GM is a part of the Aspergillus mould and can be detected using a commercially available
      immunoenzymatic sandwich microplate assay. However, like most biomarkers, galactomannan is
      far from a perfect biomarker. Several beta-lactam antibiotics are known to cause false
      positives, and anti-mould therapy has been reported to significantly lower the
      sensitivity[1]. Additional biomarkers that could circumvent these problems would therefore be
      beneficial.

      A potential new target is gliotoxin (GT), a secondary metabolite of several fungi, the most
      clinically important of which is Aspergillus[2]. GT is released during invasive growth, and
      can therefore be used as a biomarker of invasive fungal disease by GT-producing fungi.
      However, GT is quickly removed by red blood cells from circulation, making it an unreliable
      marker[3]. A degradation product of GT, bis(methylthio)gliotoxin (bmGT), appears to be more
      stable as it is not taken up by red blood cells. Serum bmGT or bmGT in bronchoalveolar lavage
      (BAL) fluid has already been shown in small studies to be a potential marker of invasive
      aspergillosis, especially when used in combination with GM[3-5].

      Recently, another highly specific test has become available, based on detection of an
      extracellular glycoprotein secreted during the growth of Aspergillus species, using a
      monoclonal antibody (JF5) in an immunochromatographic lateral-flow device (LFD)[6,7]. This
      test allows fast (<15 minutes) testing using a commercially available device.

      In this study, both the LFD and bmGT will be characterized and validated in a hematological
      population, and compared to GM.
    
  