
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate immune responses to vaccines in subjects (both
      children and adults) with known or suspected primary immune disorders. We intend to
      characterize immune responsiveness to standard, well characterized antigens (vaccines) in
      subjects with primary immune disorders, and/or in subjects who have received treatments to
      correct their primary immune disorders. This will be an open label, prospective study
      investigating the functional status of the adaptive immune system. Up to 50 subjects may be
      enrolled. It is anticipated that subjects will be referred by any investigators at NIH
      studying inherited disorders of the immune system under their own protocols.

      After giving standard vaccines, we will test specific antibody. The vaccines include licensed
      and universally mandated diphtheria and tetanus toxoid, two licensed pneumococcal vaccine
      formulations recommended for protection of children from pneumonia, and rabies vaccine
      licensed in 1997 (not the formerly available reaction-prone formulation). We will obtain
      peripheral blood samples from subjects before vaccination and at a specific time intervals
      after vaccination. Measurement of specific antibody titers will be conducted by the
      immunology laboratory at the Department of Laboratory Medicin at the NIH. Subjects may be
      offered one or more of the vaccines based on available information about their exposure
      history and their immune status, and the vaccines may be offered sequentially or in
      combination to shorten study time.

      While the vaccines used here are often medically indicated and given outside of research
      protocols both to provide protection and to assess immune responses, the investigators have
      elected to use a protocol for the following reasons:

        -  Enhancement of subject understanding of the use of vaccines for in vivo assessment of
           immune responses.

        -  Emphasis on the importance of obtaining pre- and post-immunization blood samples to
           monitor how well the body's immune system is working.

        -  Administration of rabies vaccine to subjects who would not ordinarily need it.

        -  Recognition that vaccine side effects have been widely publicized and may be of concern
           to potential enrollees.
    
  