
    
      Anxiety disorders are the most common mental health problems in the United States, occurring
      in about 18% of adults per year, and a lifetime prevalence of approximately 28% (25).
      Importantly, anxiety disorders are associated with increased risk for sudden cardiac death
      and non-fatal myocardial infarction (27, 46) independent of other mood disorders (13, 15).
      However, establishing a clear consensus on the mechanism(s) by which chronic anxiety confers
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk has proven difficult. Previous studies examining the
      potential role of vascular dysfunction in subjects with anxiety have been confounded by
      co-morbidities (e.g., hypertension, smoking, obesity) (31, 38) and added psychiatric
      disorders (63). Additionally, studies focusing on the relation between anxiety and robust
      predictors of CVD mortality, such as large elastic artery (e.g., aortic, carotid) stiffness,
      have been lacking.

      Anxiety is experienced as negative feelings of threat, restlessness, tension and
      irritability, and somatic symptoms, such as palpitations, sweating, trembling, and dry mouth
      (57). Patients with clinically diagnosed anxiety disorder demonstrate more than 2-fold
      increase in future CVD events (23). Despite the strong association between anxiety and CVD
      risk, there is currently a gap in knowledge describing potential mechanisms by which anxiety
      leads to CVD. Evidence suggests that chronically high levels of anxiety may be associated
      with the progression of subclinical atherosclerosis such as carotid artery intima-media
      thickness (38) and elevated inflammation (5, 44). Symptoms of anxiety may also lead to
      impairment in resistance vessel dilator function (53). However, few studies have examined
      large elastic artery stiffness in subjects with high levels of anxiety. This is clinically
      important because large elastic artery stiffness (i.e., carotid and aortic) is a robust
      independent risk factor for CVD events such as stroke and myocardial infarction (6, 19, 59,
      61). Interestingly, greater large elastic artery stiffness (aortic) is observed with higher
      resting muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) in healthy individuals even after adjusting
      for BP (9, 55). In this regard, numerous studies have shown that high MSNA independent of any
      increase in blood pressure can have deleterious vascular (7, 17, 32), metabolic (2, 20),
      cardiac (50, 52), and renal effects (1, 14, 54). Higher tonic MSNA is an independent
      determinant of aortic artery stiffness as assessed by the gold standard carotid-femoral pulse
      wave velocity (PWV) in healthy humans (55). Even acute increases in MSNA, such as during
      mental stress which is a potent stimulus for increases in MSNA (3), can lead to transiently
      greater large elastic artery stiffness (40). Furthermore, in healthy humans, acute mental
      stress induces transient endothelial dysfunction (16), an important modulator of arterial
      stiffness. Given findings from previous studies (22) showing that anxiety symptoms are
      associated with indices of elevated sympathetic nerve activity (e.g., elevated circulating
      norepinephrine), lead us to our overall hypothesis that anxiety-induced sympathetic
      overactivity leads to increased large elastic artery (carotid and aortic) stiffness in
      subjects with chronic anxiety.

      The purpose of this study is to 1) determine the extent to which measures of vascular and
      autonomic function (large elastic artery stiffness, vascular inflammation and baroreflex
      function) is impaired in subjects with moderate-to-high anxiety, and 2) test the magnitude by
      which short-term (4 weeks) sympathetic nerve activity blockade (clonidine) improves large
      elastic artery stiffness, vascular inflammation and baroreflex function in subjects with
      moderate-to-high levels of anxiety.

      In healthy subjects, chronic anxiety has been associated with increased risk of cardiac
      events (13, 15, 23). Interestingly, evidence suggests baroreflex function is reduced in
      subjects with anxiety (48, 60), thus adding additional cardiac risk burden to this
      population. Consistent with this, impairment in cardiac baroreflex sensivity (BRS) is a
      significant predictor of cardiac arrhythmias and myocardial infarction mortality (29, 56).
      Moreover, reduced cardiac BRS is a sensitive predictor of mortality after myocardial
      infarction (28, 30), particularly in subjects with anxiety (47). Reduced baroreflex
      activation can be attributed, in part, to reduced distensibility of baroreceptor regions
      within the elastic carotid and aortic arteries as a result of increased arterial stiffness
      (8). Given the associated risk of cardiac BRS impairment with anxiety, and the increase in
      large elastic artery stiffness in this population, there is a critical need to examine
      whether reductions in SNA and large elastic artery stiffness ameliorates cardiac BRS
      impairment in subjects with anxiety, thus providing experimental support for the novel idea
      that anxiety leads to increased CVD risk at least in part through elevated large artery
      stiffness.
    
  