
    
      Biomedical HIV prevention tools are very promising, but are not sufficiently reaching those
      in greatest need. BMSM have experienced elevated rates of HIV incidence and prevalence since
      the beginning of the US epidemic, and the CDC estimates that half of BMSM will be diagnosed
      with HIV in their lifetime. Although Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) is highly effective for
      preventing HIV, there is urgent need to improve efforts to deliver PrEP, in particular, for
      BMSM at-risk for HIV. Current strategies to increase PrEP interest, uptake, and adherence are
      not adequate and there are formidable barriers (e.g., stigma surrounding PrEP use, and
      adherence and retention concerns) to sufficient coverage of PrEP that must be addressed.
      Without considerable and targeted change to our current approach to PrEP delivery, public
      health initiatives will fail to adequately provide PrEP to those in greatest need. In our
      PrEP focused preliminary studies with BMSM, the investigators have identified two primary
      areas in need of critical focus and intervention - (1) stigma related to PrEP use, and (2)
      medication cognitions such as the perceived costs and benefits of taking PrEP, both of which
      can impede PrEP interest, uptake, and adherence. To address these areas the investigators
      have developed an intervention grounded in two novel cognitive/behavioral theories: the HIV
      Stigma Framework and the Medication Necessity-Concerns Framework. Our study includes:
      Conducting a pilot test that compares our (a) PrEP information only control (n=25), (b) PrEP
      counseling (n=50), (c) PrEP counseling with text messages (n=50), and (d) PrEP enhancement
      counseling with text messaging and on-demand counseling (n=50). Advances in biomedical HIV
      prevention, such as the availability of PrEP, will only impact the HIV epidemic if concurrent
      efforts are made to address the social and behavioral challenges that are associated with
      achieving sufficient coverage of PrEP among individuals at elevated risk for HIV.
      Low-resource burden, easily implemented, and effective social/behavioral interventions are
      urgently needed if the full benefits of PrEP are to be realized. If effective and
      disseminated, this intervention would meet current prevention needs and its potential impact
      on HIV infections averted could be substantial.
    
  