
    
      Although behavioral interventions are the recommended first-line treatment for preschool
      children with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), the majority of preschool
      children receiving treatment for ADHD are treated with medication only. Barriers to preschool
      children receiving behavioral treatments include financial limitations, family logistical
      challenges, and the paucity of trained providers. Web-based approaches may be one innovative
      way to address these obstacles. Thus, the goal of the proposed study is to pilot-test an
      on-line behavioral intervention that has been integrated into the evidence-based mehealth for
      ADHD software (mehealth.com) to determine feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary
      efficacy. The investigators will enroll a community-based sample of caregivers and
      teachers/childcare providers of 20 preschool children with ADHD recruited from two DBPNet
      sites (Cincinnati and Boston) who will utilize the on-line behavioral tools to create and
      implement child behavior plans. The investigators will track system usage over a 9-month
      period to determine feasibility for mehealth's integrated behavioral tools intervention.
      Standardized measures and open-ended questions will be used to determine the intervention's
      acceptability to parents and teachers/childcare providers. In addition, parent and
      teacher/childcare providers ratings of child ADHD symptoms and impairment collected at
      baseline and at the 3-month, 6-month, and 9-month time points will be examined to provide
      preliminary estimates of efficacy. Ultimately, development of the mehealth for ADHD.com
      integrated behavioral tools may provide a cost-effective and convenient means of implementing
      behavioral plans for young children, thereby increasing access to behavioral treatments for
      preschoolers with ADHD. This scalable and disseminatable approach has great potential for use
      not only in clinical settings, but also in national Developmental-Behavioral Pediatrics
      Research Network multi-site research studies which require standardized behavioral
      intervention packages for preschool ADHD.
    
  