
    
      Study Name: The CorNeat EverPatch - a First-In-Man Clinical Study for demonstrating the
      Safety of a Synthetic Tissue Substitute for concealment of artificial implants and glaucoma
      tube shunts

      Objective: The objective of this clinical trial is to demonstrate the Safety of the Corneat
      Everpatch for concealment of artificial implants and glaucoma tube shunts

      Study endpoints:

      Primary Safety Endpoint:

      The frequency of all Unanticipated Adverse Device-related Events (UADE) or treatment-related
      adverse events, during and following implantation and follow-up for up to 12 months will be
      10% or less.

      Effectiveness Endpoints:

      Primary: Conjunctival integrity at the implantation site will be 90% or more. Secondary:
      Stability in patch dimensions, less than 10% change (length, projected width and thickness)
      measured by OCT after 1-week and follow-up for up to 12 months post-implantation in 90% of
      the implanted patients.

      Intended uses: The CorNeat EverPatch intended use is concealment of artificial ophthalmic
      implants and glaucoma tube shunts.

      The clinical investigation of the CorNeat EverPatch device is essential to validate its
      safety and efficacy in its target implantation site and to substantiate regulatory clearance.
      Clinical investigation of a medical device must be in compliance with Good Clinical Practice
      as set forth in ISO 14155, which addresses good clinical practices for the design, conduct,
      recording and reporting of clinical investigations carried out in human subjects for the
      purpose of assessing the safety and performance of medical devices for regulatory purposes,
      as well as applicable local laws and regulations.

      Study Population: 10 subjects requiring concealment of artificial ophthalmic implants and
      glaucoma tube shunts. Unilateral and bi-lateral. The device can be implanted in patients'
      right or left eye (selection according to Principle Investigator's discretion).

      Study Duration: Subjects will be followed-up for 12 months from device implantation date.

      Visit Schedule:

      • Screening: Day 0-7, Subjects will sign an Informed Consent Form (ICF) on screening visit
      and baseline assessments for clinical condition, concomitant medication and medical history
      data will be performed.

      • Implantation: Implantation day will be recorded as day 0; enrollment day.

      • Follow up visits at 1 week, 1, 2, 3, 6, 9 & 12-month post-op (total of 7 follow up visits).

      At each follow up visit, subjects will be evaluated for: (i) conjunctival integrity; (ii)
      device dimensions, (iii) clinical evaluation; (iv) device retention and (v) any clinically
      necessary interim safety exam per PI decision. Additionally, at 6 & 12 months post-op,
      subjects will undergo an imaging evaluation of the device's dimensions (either by UBM or
      OCT).

      Safety Assessment: A record of UADE as well as incidence and nature of Serious Adverse Events
      (SAE) will be recorded. Incidence and nature of Adverse Events (AE) will be collected
      throughout the study starting from implantation. The following types of events are outside of
      this category:

      (i) Adverse events related to the disease such as glaucoma and not caused by implant
      concealment (ii) Adverse events related to the primary implant such as tube shunt blockage
      not related to implant concealment
    
  