
    
      Endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation are life-saving practices in patients with
      respiratory failure, and aspiration of secretions is often required to maintain airway
      patency. Although tracheal aspiration is an unavoidable requirement to maintain airway
      patency, it can bring many undesirable conditions. In the presence of complications, the
      duration of hospital stay is also prolonged. In the literature, endotracheal aspiration is
      defined as a painful and uncomfortable method for patients. However, pain is an undesirable
      sensation that cannot be adapted.

      It is thought that performing aspiration in accordance with the AARC guideline and listening
      to music during the procedure reduce the pain in edotracheal aspiration. The most reliable
      source for pain assessment is the patient himself. However, verbal communication with
      patients in the ICU is quite difficult due to reasons such as the presence of endotracheal
      tube and tracheostomy, confusion, mechanical ventilation, and sedative drug use. Therefore,
      intensive care patients may not be able to express their pain verbally. In this case, patient
      behavior becomes important in pain assessment. Scales were developed for pain assessment of
      patients who could not express their pain. The "Behavioral Pain Scale" (DAS) was developed by
      Payen et al. For this purpose and made available to intensive care patients. DAS consists of
      three parts, including facial expression, upper extremity movements, and compliance with
      mechanical ventilation, and a total of 12 items. Each section is given a score between 1 and
      4. The lowest pain score obtained from the scale is 3 and the highest pain score is 12.
      (Appendix 1) Patients with an unconscious communication can be established with a sign or
      writing method instead of verbal communication with patients with tracheostomy or tracheal
      tube. These patients can describe their pain without words. Visual pain scales can be used
      for this purpose. Visual Pain Scale (VAS) is one of these scales. VAS was first used in the
      1970s. The scale was defined by Selby et al. To evaluate the quality of life in patients with
      cancer in the 1980s. VAS has been used in many studies evaluating different parameters after
      the 1990s and has recently been used in the measurement of special conditions such as pain.
      The test has proven itself for a long time and is a accepted test in the world literature.
      Safe, easy to apply Is DAS an accurate pain descriptor for every application in intensive
      care unit?;. This question guides the study. This study was planned with the thought that the
      result may be misleading in applications such as eye care and aspiration that will trigger
      reflex movements in intensive care.

      6-Research protocol, materials and methods: METHOD In this study, when alpha 0.05, = 0.10,
      1-B 0.90 was taken, 32 patients were included in the study and the power of the test was
      found to be P = 0.9657.

      Time of Research: Research 01.07. It will be applied in the Anesthesia and Reanimation
      Intensive Care Unit (EIB) of a university hospital between 2020 - 31.12.2020.

      The Type and Purpose of the Study: This study was planned as a prospective observational
      study in order to examine whether conscious patients connected to mechanical ventilator in
      the Anesthesia Intensive Care Unit experience pain during the closed system aspiration
      procedure, and if pain is experienced, whether NAC is reliable in evaluating the pain
      occurring in endotracheal aspiration.

      The Population and Sample of the Study: The population of the study was the sample of all
      patients who were treated in the Anesthesia and Reanimation Intensive Care unit of a
      university hospital between the research dates, and the patients who were connected to the
      ventilator who agreed to participate in the study and underwent endotracheal aspiration.

      Research Application Patients who meet the inclusion criteria and agree to participate in the
      study when aspirating is required (Seeing pulmonary secretions in the endotracheal tube,
      tachypnea, tachycardia, hypertension, worsening of oxygen saturation and / or arterial blood
      gas, sawtooth pattern in the flow volume loop of the ventilator monitor and / or trachea
      Hearing of coarse breathing sounds, Ppeak inspiratory pressure increase in mechanical
      ventilator in volume-controlled mode, or tidal volume decrease in pressure-controlled mode,
      etc.) by a volunteer nurse, whether there is pain before, during and after aspiration, the
      severity and localization of the pain will be recorded by VAS and VAS. . The patient will be
      aspirated with the same aspiration technique in all patients by using a closed system
      aspiration catheter by the other volunteer nurse. Aspiration procedure will be applied to
      each patient according to the American association for respiratory care (AARC) aspiration
      guideline. The nurse evaluating the pain will record whether the patients have pain with DAS
      and VAS, the severity and localization of the pain.

      Evaluation of the Data: The data obtained from the study are SPSS v.22 (Statistical Package
      for Social Sciences) package program will be used. When parametric test assumptions are
      fulfilled, repeated measures variance analysis will be used in the analysis of more than two
      measurements from a group, and Friedman test will be used when parametric test assumptions
      are not fulfilled. The level of error will be considered as 0.05.
    
  