
    
      It is possible to utilize epidural anesthesia as the sole anesthetic technique for thoracic,
      abdominal, and lower extremity surgeries, as a method of postoperative pain management after
      surgery, and for pain relief during labor and delivery. However, despite the various benefits
      of epidural anesthesia, this procedure is not utilized to its maximum potential in the
      operating room. One reason for inadequate utilization of this procedure is the difficulty in
      properly identifying the epidural space. Current techniques for identifying the epidural
      space rely on the subjective perception of the operator on loss of resistance to air or
      saline as the needle passes from the ligamentum flavum into the epidural space. CompuFlo®'s
      pressure-sensing technology provides an objective measurement for proper placement of the
      epidural.

      Very little advancement has been made in improving training to identify the correct location
      of the epidural space. Epidural anesthesia has a relatively higher failure rate when
      performed by residents in training. The skills of trainees differ greatly, and there are no
      standard teaching methods to teach epidural anesthesia. Statistical analysis conducted by
      Naik et al. concluded that some residents may need as many as 75 attempts at epidural
      anesthesia to ensure proficiency.

      The CompuFlo® is a computerized syringe pump capable of volume and pressure-controlled
      infusion. It has a pressure sensor and a mathematical algorithm capable of determining the
      pressure at the needle tip. Pressures are continuously monitored and displayed, which are
      reflected by acoustic changes in tone. A dramatic pressure decrease and a high tissue
      compliance (pressure does not increase despite continuous infusion) signifies entrance into
      the epidural space. Combining a program with a low upper pressure limit and a high infusion
      rate mimics the technique used by the loss of resistance with saline proponents (constant
      pressure on the plunger). It combines the "feel" of inserting an epidural needle with the
      visualization of the pressure level, as well as a sound indicator to indicate proper
      placement.
    
  