
    
      The research population will include organ transplant recipients with NODAT who are followed
      up in Hamed AL-Essa organ transplant centre of Kuwait and who will meet the eligibility
      criteria. Two hundred and ten diabetic renal transplant recipients will be enrolled in this
      prospective randomised controlled study. Patients who fulfil the following criteria will be
      included in the study: 1) transplant duration more than 6 months; 2) being an outpatient; 3)
      not having any psychiatric history of illness; 4) written consent to participate in the
      research; and 5) age of diabetic patients more than 21 years . We will exclude paediatrics
      (bellow 21 years) and mentally abnormal patients. Ethical principles of the research Written
      permission will be received from the institutions where the research will be carried out.
      Information form including the aim and scope of the research will be submitted to Ethical
      Committees of both ministry of health (MOH) of Kuwait and Dasman Diabetes Institute.

      Data collection tools

      Patient identification form:

      This form will include information about the patient's identifying characteristics such as
      age, gender, education status and disease-related information such as duration of the disease
      and the treatments management of diabetes.

      Metabolic control parameters form:

      This form will include patient's metabolic control variables such as HbA1c, lipids (Total
      cholesterol, triglyceride, high-density lipoprotein (HDL), low-density lipoprotein (LDL),
      renal and liver function tests. Metabolic control parameters will be measured in Hamed
      Al-Essa organ transplantation center (OTC) outpatient clinic and will be sent with each
      patient to Dasman Diabetes Institute within one week of patient evaluation for starting
      educational program.

      Blood pressure, height, weight, body mass index and waist circumference of patients will be
      measured and recorded by the researcher each time by using the same measurement device and
      method. Patients' waist circumferences will be measured midway between costal margin and
      iliac crests by a measuring tape in standing position, over underwear and after slight
      expiration.

      Diabetes self-care scale (DSCS) The Arabic translated 24-items scale- developed in English by
      Lee and Fisher(41) which measures the self care of patients with diabetes -will be applied to
      patients before and after the education program.

      Data collection method In the pretest phase of the research, patients will be given a patient
      identification form, metabolic control parameters form and a DSCS. The forms will be
      completed within15-25 minutes by the patients in the presence of the researcher. Telephone
      numbers and addresses of patients will be taken for proper communication if needed.

      Patient education Group education sessions will be carried out in special halls in Dasman
      Diabetes Institute (DDI) after proper coordination with the randomly selected patients (group
      1) (6-10 patients in each education group). Patients of one to one education group (group 2)
      will receive education sessions individually in closed education clinics of DDI. The first
      session will last for 60 minutes then the next sessions will last for 30 minutes. The content
      of education will be repeated entirely or partly by the researcher according to each
      patient's needs. Mixed education techniques such as description, question and answer
      techniques will be used as an education method and feedback will be stimulated trying to
      enable patients to understand their self-care management independently. Refreshment education
      sessions will be delivered every 3 months later on till the end of the study.

      Regarding patients of the third group (control group), each patient will receive the
      conventional (non-structured) education program in their mother hospital (OTC).
    
  