
    
      Delirium is an acute confusional state defined by fluctuating mental status, inattention, and
      either disorganized thinking or an altered level of consciousness. Acute delirium is an
      increasingly recognized problem in intensive care units (ICUs) in the US and worldwide. ICU
      Delirium has been estimated to occur in as many as 50 to 80 percent of ICU patients. Delirium
      in the ICU has been associated with worsened clinical outcomes such as prolonged
      hospitalization and death [1-4]. Although noise has been shown to negatively influence sleep
      in the ICU, and sleep disturbance is a recognized contributor to ICU delirium[1-2, 4], there
      is no well-established link between ICU noise levels and the development of ICU delirium.
      Optimal strategies for the prevention and treatment of ICU delirium are yet to be defined,
      and this study will focus on a novel noise-reduction approach which has potential to impact
      both prevention and treatment [5-8]. Findings will be generalizable to other tertiary care
      medical intensive care units caring for adult patients.

      Objectives Our multidisciplinary team will evaluate the safety and feasibility of direct
      noise reduction in the Wake Forest University Baptist Medical Center (WFUBMC) Medical
      Intensive Care Unit (MICU), and any effect on the incidence of ICU delirium.

      Methods and Measures Design

        -  Forty-five (45) patients receiving mechanical ventilation will be randomized to receive
           either passive direct noise reduction (earplugs), both passive and active direct noise
           reduction (earplugs and noise-canceling headphones), or no direct noise reduction (usual
           practice).

        -  Ambient noise levels and the reduction in noise accomplished by direct noise reduction
           will be measured according to standardized audiometric techniques.

        -  Sleep structure, including amount of recovery sleep, will be measured over one night
           according to standardized polysomnographic (sleep study) techniques

        -  The incidence of delirium will be assessed as well as multiple other endpoints including
           but not limited to amount of psychoactive medication prescribed and amount of physical
           restraints required.
    
  