
    
      Controlled clinical trial, 100 children aged 10 to 15 years with obesity Body Mass Index
      (BMI> 2 SD) will be selected. Children and parents who agree to participate will be measured
      anthropometry (weight, height, BMI, body fat) and Tanner stage. Once the 100 children have
      been selected and registered, a determination will be made after 8 hours of fasting leptin,
      ghrelin, insulin, lipid profile, liver function tests, creatinine and cinnamic acid.
      Subsequently they will be randomly assigned to a group that receives the intervention with
      cinnamon 3000mg / day, or placebo; Both groups will receive diet and physical activity
      recommendations according to the World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines. They will be
      followed for 16 weeks. During this period, patients will be contacted weekly to confirm the
      consumption of the capsules and interrogation of adverse effects such as dyspepsia,
      gastrointestinal disturbances and headache. They will be scheduled monthly for capsule
      counting and interrogation of adverse effects. At the end of the 16-week follow-up,
      anthropometry, fasting after 8 hours of leptin, ghrelin, insulin lipid profile, liver
      function tests, creatinine and cinnamic acid will be performed.

      Statistical analysis: Shapiro Wilk test will be applied to the variables with quantitative
      measurement scale to identify the type of distribution; in the case of parametric
      distribution, the data with averages and standard deviation will be presented, in case of
      presenting non-parametric distribution, medium and minimum and maximum values will be used.
      In the case of qualitative variables, they will be expressed with percentages and simple
      frequencies. Baseline characteristics will be compared between the two groups with t-Student
      or U-Mann Whitney according to the type of distribution of the variables. To evaluate the
      effect of the intervention, body fat deltas and biochemical measurements will be calculated
      by subtracting the final value (after 16 weeks of intervention) from the initial (baseline)
      value and statistical significance will be evaluated using comparisons between groups with
      paired t- or Wilcoxon. Covariance analysis control of confounding variables (ANCOVA) will be
      carried out.
    
  