
    
      : This Personalized Trial will test the feasibility of employing technology to facilitate
      remote N-of-1 interventions to research participants with self-identified fatigue. Symptoms
      of fatigue will be defined using the PROMIS Fatigue measures. Following a 2 week baseline
      assessment period, participants will be randomized in a multiple crossover design to receive
      bright blue light therapy, dim blue light therapy, and usual care in 6 treatment periods 2
      weeks in length (12 weeks total). Participants will be randomly assigned to 2 groups
      receiving treatments in different order. Group 1 will receive treatments in the following
      order: bright light, dim light, usual care, usual care, dim light, bright light. Group 2 will
      receive treatments in the following order: usual care, dim light, bright light, bright light,
      dim light, usual care. Light therapy will be delivered using commercial available devices
      manufactured by AYO. The total duration of the study will be 14 weeks. During the baseline
      assessments and all treatment periods, participants will be assessed using daily survey
      measures, weekly survey measures, ecological momentary assessment (EMA) measures delivered
      via text message 3 times daily, and information collected via a Fitbit device. Survey
      measures will assess participant self-reported fatigue. EMA measures will ask participants to
      rate their fatigue, pain, concentration, confidence, mood, and stress in the moment.
      Participant daily steps and nightly sleep duration will be assessed using the Fitbit Charge
      3™ device. After at the end of the study, participants will receive a personalized report
      summarizing their data from the baseline assessment and from each treatment period.
      Participants will be asked to evaluate their experience with the Personalized N-of-1 Trial
      overall and each element of the trial using the System Usability Scale (SUS) as well as a
      satisfaction survey measure. Participant adherence to study intervention devices (e.g. AYO
      bright blue light and AYO dim blue light machines), survey measures, EMA measures, and Fitbit
      device usage will also be assessed.
    
  