
    
      Introduction:

      In recent years, commonly used Omics techniques, including genomics, proteomics,
      metabolomics, have been applied in the studies on the mechanism of acupuncture effect. In the
      previous study, "Immediate effects of proximal and distal acupoints on the Radial Pressure
      Pulse-wave in patients with knee osteoarthritis: a randomized controlled trial", significant
      changes in the spectral-energy of the pulse wave in the proximal-acupoint treatment group and
      the distal-acupoint treatment group infer pain relief and blood-flow improvement. The scores
      of the Visual Analog Scale were decreased, and the passive and active range of knee motions
      were increased. Both of the proximal and distant acupoints could be used for knee
      osteoarthritis treatment. To advance the previous work by becoming one treatment, this study
      will explore if there is any Omics difference resulting from the two acupoints, thus
      examining the mechanism of curative effect of acupuncture. Additionally, Chinese medical
      emphasizes the relationship between body constitution and diseases and the dynamic change of
      pulses and meridians during the disease development. These significances are in agreement
      with Omics features about organism integrity, dynamic, and complexity. The current study will
      adopt a Chinese medical body constitution survey, the spectral-energy (SE) changes of the
      pressure wave from the radial artery, and the pulse energy analysis of Ryodoraku to identify
      the differences in specific genes, protein, and metabolites of various body constitutions,
      pulses, changes of the pressure wave, aiming to set up the objectification of Chinese medical
      diagnosis.

      Method:

      The study will recruit 60 participants, which will be recruited when they meet the Clinical
      Classification Criteria for KOA, that is knee pain and three out of six symptoms can be found
      in clinical practices, as recommended by the American College of Rheumatology:(a) any gender
      aged 50 years or above;(b) have less than 30 minutes of morning stiffness; (c) crepitus on
      active motion; and (d) bony tenderness;(e) bony enlargement; and (f) no palpable warmth. They
      will be randomly assigned to two groups: the distal-acupoint treatment group (DG) (LI11, HT3
      and TE10 and the proximal-acupoint treatment group (PG) (GB34, SP9 and EX-LE2). The study
      will last for five weeks. Each week has two sessions, as a total of ten sessions. The
      participants will have blood tests in the following times: before the first acupuncture,
      after the fifth acupuncture and the tenth acupuncture, three weeks after the end of
      treatment. The study design is random and single-blind. The participants The primary outcome
      will come from the assessment: comparing the expressed differences of the genes, proteins,
      and metabolites of the two acupoints. The secondary outcome will be from the connection among
      1) the expressed differences of the specific genes, proteins, 2) the survey of Chinese
      medical body constitution, 3) the spectral-energy (SE) changes of the pressure wave from the
      radial artery, and 4) the Ryodoraku pulse energy.

      Expected outcome:

      The study will use the principle and techniques of Omics to explore the mechanism of the
      curative effect caused by acupuncture on different acupoints. It is expected to serve as a
      bridge to connect between contemporary medical and traditional medical.
    
  