
    
      This study will investigate the biological effects of inhaling different nanoparticles in
      healthy volunteers. We will compare 4 different types of nanoparticles: diesel exhaust
      nanoparticles (a nanoparticle with a complex mixture of chemicals), carbon black
      nanoparticles (a 'simple, clean' carbon nanoparticle) and two different sizes of graphene
      oxide (flat flakes of carbon), as well as inhalation of filtered air for comparison.
      Volunteers will be split randomly into 2 groups and each will be exposed to 3 nanoparticles,
      separately in a randomised order, with at least 2 weeks between the exposures (Cohort study
      with double blind randomised cross over design).

      Screening visit 30 healthy non-smoking volunteers will be recruited. The volunteer will
      attend a screening visit at the Clinical Research Facility (CRF) at the Royal Infirmary of
      Edinburgh (RIE). Eligibility will be confirmed and consent taken. Baseline measurements of
      lung function (FEV1, FVC), blood pressure and blood biochemistry will be made. The
      participant will be asked to perform a short exercise test on a stationary bicycle to
      determine the bicycle workload for the main study.

      Study visit On each visit, baseline measures will be taken at the CRF. The participant will
      be taken to a mobile facility to breathe in a set level of nanoparticles (target
      concentration of 200 micrograms per cubic metre) via a facemask for 2 hours while
      intermittently cycling. The mobile exposure chamber allows for volunteers to inhale specific
      air pollutants (typical of an urban environment), nanoparticles or gases at precise
      concentrations while exercising. Nanoparticles will be obtained as standard reference
      materials or by custom synthesis at the National Graphene Institute at the University of
      Manchester. All suspensions of nanoparticles are well characterised, free of contamination
      and have been extensively tested in preclinical models.

      After the exposure the participant will return to the CRF and lung function and blood
      pressure re-measured. Blood will be withdrawn through a cannula in a large vein in the arm at
      set times after the exposure (15 min, 2h, 4h) for measurement of eicosanoids and other
      indicators of a haematological response (e.g. an inflammatory response). Blood will be slowly
      withdrawn (10 mL/min for 5 min) through a tube into a small piece of equipment called a
      Badimon Chamber which gives a measure of how readily the blood clots. The responsiveness of
      blood vessels in the arm will then be measured by a technique called forearm plethysmography.
      Here cuffs are inflated around the wrist and top of the arm and the blood flow is measured by
      a sensitive gauge around the forearm. Two different vasodilator drugs (acetylcholine and
      sodium nitroprusside) will be infused into an artery in the arm to see how the nanoparticle
      exposure has altered the way the blood vessels of the arm respond to these drugs. Blood will
      also be taken after each drug to measure substances that are release from the wall of
      arteries to give further indication of the health of the artery. The cannula will be removed
      and lung function and blood pressure will be re-measured. The participant will be allowed to
      rest, provided with food and drink, before leaving the hospital.

      Biological samples (blood and urine) will be used to measure a range of cardiovascular
      parameters at the RIE and the University of Edinburgh. The primary endpoint for the study is
      the measurement of a panel of lipid mediators called eicosanoids, which will be performed by
      our collaborators at the University of Highlands and Islands who have specialised lipidomic
      facilities and experience in this area.

      Shortened protocol An additional 12 volunteers will be recruited to perform a shortened
      version of the main protocol. The protocol is identical to the above with the exception that
      the forearm blood flow, Badimon study and the t=4 time point have been removed. These studies
      will be used to allow additional monitoring of the effect of nanoparticles during initial
      visits.
    
  