
    
      Diastasis of the rectus abdominis muscles (DRAM) is a common condition after pregnancy and
      after great loss of weight. Distension of linea alba is a normal process during pregnancy
      caused by the growing fetus as well as from hormonal changes.

      In the majority of cases, DRAM regresses during the postpartum period and the abdomen resumes
      its normal function. I some cases, however, the DRAM persists for a long period. This may
      result in trunk instability, back pain and decreased abdominal muscle strength. Risk factors
      for persisting DRAM are multiparity, high maternal age and cesarean delivery.

      Little is known about how DRAM affects abdominal function. The lack of studies on the impact
      of DRAM on trunk instability and back pain has made it difficult to evaluate studies aiming
      at reducing the problems caused by DRAM.

      Conservative management, including training aiming at strengthening the abdominal muscles, is
      usually considered the first hand alternative. There are, however, few studies on the
      effectiveness of training programs for the purpose of preventing DRAM.

      The purpose of the present trial is to evaluate the effectiveness of a specific training
      program during a limited period of time postpartum in women with DRAM. The investigators also
      intend to study the changes in anatomy of linea alba during the postpartum period and explore
      whether the changes are affected by the training.

      The study will be conducted as a randomized single-blind controlled trial. Women with
      diastasis of > 3 cm will be invited. The aim is to include 70 women. Half of them will be
      randomized to a training program for 3 month and the other half will be followed as a control
      group.

      At the start of the study, the line alba is examined with ultrasound. The width of the
      diastasis is registered. The laxity and thickness of line alba are also evaluated. The
      abdominal circumference is measured at rest and under straining, in different postures.

      At the start of the study, the woman is request to rate her level of physical activity
      (Baecke questionnaire) pain, self-assessed functional level (DRI), back pain (Oswestry low
      back disability index), urinary incontinence (UDI-6, IID-7) and quality of life (EQ-5D). The
      Abdominal Trunk Function Protocol (ATFP) is also registered at the start.

      The assessors performing the ultrasound examination and physical examinations are blinded to
      the allocation. Women allocated to the training program perform exercises with a duration of
      ten minutes 6 days a week. They also perform 3 exercises with a duration of 60 seconds three
      times a day. The exercises are continued for three months. All women, those allocated to
      training as well as the control group, are invited to follow-up examinations 6 and 12 months
      after inclusion.

      At both follow-up examinations the abdominal wall is investigated with ultrasound, the
      abdominal circumference is measured and the woman is requested to respond to all the
      questionnaires that she received at the start of the study.

      Analyses will focus on the effect of the training program on the width and laxity of the
      linea alba as well as symptoms of back pain, trunk instability and incontinence.
    
  