
    
      Background

        -  Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common primary brain tumor. With optimal
           treatment,consisting of focal radiotherapy with concurrent chemotherapy, followed by
           adjuvant chemotherapy, median survival is 14.6 months. Most patients have evidence of
           tumor progression within one year of diagnosis despite treatment. At progression,
           treatment options are limited and mostly ineffective.

        -  Recently, bevacizumab was approved for recurrent GBM patients who fail bevacizumab
           indicate a short survival, on the order of 10 weeks, an approximate PFS 3 and 6 months
           of 0%.

        -  Pazopanib is an oral angiogenesis inhibitor targeting vascular endothelial growth factor
           (VEGFR), Platelet-derived growth factor receptors (PDGFR), and c-Kit, and was recently
           Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved for advanced renal cell carcinoma.

        -  Topotecan is an orally bioavailable topoisomerase I and Hypoxia-inducible factor 1
           (HIF-1) alpha inhibitor with reasonably high central nervous system (CNS)/cerebrospinal
           fluid (CSF) penetration

        -  Recent pre-clinical reports have begun to argue for the clinical testing of metronomic
           chemotherapy administration in various cancers. The theory of improved activity of
           Pazopanib + Topotecan administered metronomically is based on targeting tumor
           vasculature (both existing capillary endothelial cells and circulating bone marrow
           derived endothelial cell precursors), immune modulation, as well as tumor cell HIF-1
           alpha inhibition, and the induction of Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage. Further
           support for the combination comes from recent data tying drug-induced VEGF inhibition to
           the induction of HIF-1 alpha activity in GBM suggesting possible synergy between
           Pazopanib and Topotecan

        -  The combination of Topotecan and Pazopanib has been directly demonstrated as active in

      animal models

      Objectives

        -  6 month progression free survival rate for recurrent glioblastoma (rGBM) patients with
           no prior bevacizumab exposure treated with pazopanib and topotecan (Group A).

        -  3 month progression free survival rate for rGBM patients with prior bevacizumab exposure
           treated with pazopanib and topotecan (Group B).

      Eligibility

        -  Histologically proven intracranial glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) or gliosarcoma (GS)
           with evidence of progression on MRI or CT scan.

        -  Patient must have failed prior chemoradiation with temozolomide and any other therapies
           except Bevacizumab (BEV) (group A), or must have failed primary chemoradiation and a
           BEVincorporating treatment (group B).

        -  Patients must be greater than 12 weeks following completion of chemoradiation.

             -  Archived tumor tissue must be available for confirmation of the diagnosis

             -  Patients must be > 18 years old.

             -  Patients must have a Karnofsky performance status of > 60.

             -  Patients must have adequate organ function.

             -  No pregnancy or lactation.

             -  Patients must not have any significant medical illnesses that in the investigators
                opinion cannot be adequately controlled with appropriate therapy or would
                compromise the patients ability to tolerate this therapy.

             -  No history of any other cancer (except non-melanoma skin cancer or carcinoma
                in-situ of the cervix), unless in complete remission and off of all therapy for
                that disease for a minimum of 3 years are eligible.

             -  No clinically significant gastrointestinal abnormalities that may increase the risk
                for gastrointestinal bleeding including, or the absorption of the medications.

             -  No prior major surgery or trauma within 28 days and/or presence of any non-healing
                wound, fracture, or ulcer (procedures such as catheter placement not considered to
                be major).

             -  No evidence of active bleeding or bleeding diathesis.

             -  No known endobronchial lesions and/or lesions infiltrating major pulmonary vessels.

             -  No serious and/or unstable pre-existing medical, psychiatric, or other condition
                that could interfere with subjects safety, provision of informed consent, or
                compliance to study procedures.

             -  No ongoing toxicity from prior anti-cancer therapy that is > Grade 1 and/or that is
                progressing in severity, except alopecia.

             -  No ongoing use of enzyme-inducing anti-epileptic agents (EIAEDs), unless 2 week
                washout has elapsed form last dose of EIAED.

             -  No known hypersensitivity to pazopanib or topotecan or to their excipients.

             -  No total daily dose of dexamethasone greater than 16 mg/day.

             -  No prior therapy with topotecan, pazopanib, or related drugs such as tyrosine
                kinase inhibitors, VEGF inhibitors (except bevacizumab). Prior treatment with
                Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) that do not impact VEGFR -1, -2, or -3, Platelet
                Derived Growth Factor Receptor Alpha (PDGFRa) Platelet Derived Growth Factor
                Receptor Beta (-b) of cKIT could be allowed.

      Design

      This is a 2 arm phase II trial of the combination of topotecan and pazopanib in patients with
      recurrent GBM or GS. Patients will be enrolled into one of the following groups: (A)
      Glioblastoma or gliosarcoma with no prior bevacizumab exposure: (B) Glioblastoma or

      gliosarcoma with prior bevacizumab exposure. Topotecan and pazopanib are administered orally
      daily. The primary efficacy endpoint is progression free survival (PFS) at six months from
      patient registration for bevacizumab na(SqrRoot) ve patients and progression free survival
      (PFS) at 3 months for patients with prior bevacizumab treatment.
    
  