
    
      Background and aim: Sedentary behaviour has substantial impact on wellbeing and health, e.g.
      on the risk of cardiovascular disease and premature death. These associations seem to apply
      as well to people who carry out the recommended 30 minutes of physical activity per day.
      However, studies indicate that the harmful effects can be reduced through breaking prolonged
      periods of sitting by intervals of standing or walking.

      In total 46 % of Danes are working in occupations which are primarily sedentary and the
      workplace is thus a relevant setting to intervene against sedentary behaviour.

      The aim of the study is to test an intervention towards sitting time among office workers.
      The intervention will target both total sitting time, breaks from sitting and prolonged
      periods of sitting.

      Design: Cluster-randomized control study led at four different workplaces in Denmark and
      Greenland. Each workplace should consist of four independent sections (clusters) of about 25
      people. Those four sections are randomized to intervention or control. A cluster design is
      used because the intervention will target the workplace setting as a whole, thus individuals
      within the same office has to be randomized to the same arm of the intervention.

      Participants: 400 adults with sedentary office-based work. Subjects should understand Danish
      and be without disabilities or diseases affecting their ability to stand or walk.

      Intervention: Participating clusters are randomized to

        1. Intervention: The intervention consists of four parts: Information, local adaptions,
           structural changes and individual support.

        2. Control: The control group will receive the intervention after the last follow-up (about
           3 months later).

      Methods: Data on sedentary behaviour is collected objectively using ActiGraph. Waist
      circumference and body fat percentage is measured. Questionnaire data will be collected on
      background variables, physical activity level, workplace conditions and well-being.

      Data will be collected at baseline, and after 1 and 3 months.

      Analysis will be carried out following the intention-to-treat principle comparing the
      intervention and control group. We will use several outcomes and include baseline values as a
      covariate (ANCOVA). In addition we will use multilevel models to account for the hierarchical
      structure of data (workplace, cluster and participant).

      Process evaluation will be conducted by the use of qualitative interviews and questionnaire
      data and concern both adoptions, implementation and sustainability of the intervention.
    
  