
    
      This is a prospective, interventional study to evaluate efficacy and safety of flexible dose
      dapoxetine as Premature Ejaculation (PE) Therapy. The total study duration will be 16 weeks,
      composed of a 2-week pretreatment phase and a 12-week open-label treatment phase, followed by
      a telephone contact two weeks after Week 12 to follow-up adverse events. At Visit 1
      (Screening) standardized assessment tool or patient questionnaires will be used to determine
      which of those patients with erectile dysfunction/premature ejaculation are eligible to
      participate in this study. Once enrolled the patient and his partner are expected to attempt
      sexual intercourse a minimum of 2 times (at least 24 hours apart) and to complete a Baseline
      Event Log. Starting at Visit 2 (Baseline), the patient (and partner) will complete the
      Premature Ejaculation Profile (PEP) at the beginning of every treatment visit for the
      duration of the study. Patients will be started on study drug instructed to take 1 tablet of
      dapoxetine 30 mg, as needed, 1 to 3 hours prior to sexual activity. The need for adjustments
      in the dose of dapoxetine, as well as to assess the occurrence of adverse events and
      concomitant therapy use will be assessed approximately every 4 weeks. Patients will complete
      Treatment Event Logs during each dosing throughout the open-label treatment phase. Patients
      who have their dose increased to 60 mg, will be scheduled for a telephone consultation 1 week
      after to determine how the dose change is tolerated. At Visit 5 (Final Visit/Week 12/Early
      Termination), the patients and partners will complete several standardized assessment
      questionnaires have all final visit procedures performed and schedule a telephone follow up
      contact to evaluate any adverse events. The starting dose of dapoxetine is 30 mg (one 30-mg
      tablet), taken approximately 1 to 3 hours prior to sexual activity. The dose may be increased
      after 4 weeks to 60 mg taken. The maximum recommended dosing frequency is once every 24
      hours.
    
  