
    
      Introduction Dental caries is the most widespread of all diseases. It causes destruction of
      tooth structure by dissolving the enamel on the outside of the tooth first and then
      progressing into the inside of the tooth. While it is possible to use traditional dental
      fillings to replace diseased tooth structure, it is far better to slow down or reverse the
      disease process so that no fillings are needed. One of the most difficult places to use
      preventive or non-surgical treatment is the contact area between teeth. Recently there is
      evolving interest in using composites to infiltrate enamel and dentin areas that have just
      begun to be destroyed by caries. The infiltration technique arrests the lesion progression by
      sealing the porous surface and restores the damage avoiding ongoing acidic damage of tooth
      structure.

      Objective Assess the clinical efficacy s of using Icon to infiltrate initial lesions below
      the tooth surfaces that exist on the contact surfaces between posterior teeth as a means of
      stabilizing diseased tooth structure and arresting further lesion development.

      Materials and Methods One hundred fifty volunteers (19+ years) with two early lesions in
      posterior teeth will be enrolled into a clinical trial to evaluate the clinical efficacy of
      infiltrating the lesions as compared to current watch-and-wait approaches that are combined
      with good oral hygiene and fluoride application. Each subject will have a treated lesion and
      a control lesion. Only small early lesions without clinical signs of surface cavitation will
      be selected. The control lesions will be stabilized through a normal preventive regimen,
      while the treatment lesions will be infiltrated with a resin. Lesion status will be monitored
      every six months by clinical examination and as well using annual radiographs.

      Clinical Significance Infiltrating a caries lesion is a potential effective strategy to
      strengthen damaged tooth structure and to reduce caries progression without any surgical
      intervention.
    
  