
    
      The population of the study was created from the parents of pediatric patients who were
      scheduled for elective pediatric surgery under general anesthesia between December 2020 and
      February 2021 at Selcuk University Department of Anesthesiology and Reanimation. All patients
      were monitored with standard monitoring (ECG, non-invasive blood pressure, SpO2, ETCO2,
      Ppeak), after a minimum of 2 minutes of preoxygenation, mask ventilation was performed with
      6-7% sevoflurane at the beginning of general anesthesia induction. Intravenous vein access
      was provided, and according to standard procedures; propofol 3.5 mg.kg 1, fentanyl 1 mg.kg 1
      iv and remifentanil 0.1 mcg kg min 1 infusion was administered, but neuromuscular blocker was
      not used. The choice of the size of the I-Gel was selected according to the manufacturer's
      recommendations (size 1: 2-5 kg, size 1.5: 5 to 12 kg, size 2: 10 to 25 kg). Adequate
      anesthesia depth was confirmed by loss of eyelash reflex, symmetrical small pupils and
      absence of swallowing, and was guided gently along the hard palate by the 1st
      anesthesiologist until resistance was felt, with the I-Gel opening facing the applicator. If
      the patient did not tolerate the insertion of the I-Gel, an extra dose of fentanyl up to a
      maximum of 0.5 mcg / kg in total was administered. However, if the insertion attempt was
      still not tolerated, or if the capnography curve was not obtained and there was an audible
      leak, the technique was considered to be unsuccessful, and another SGA was then placed in the
      airway. If this change was not tolerated, endotracheal intubation was initiated by applying
      neuromuscular blocker and these were recorded.

      USG examination of the neck was performed by the second anesthesiologist using an 8-18 MHz
      linear probe Esaote Imaging was done in three planes (Transverse plane between hyoid bone and
      thyroid bone, Transverse plane of the lateral suprasternal notch and Parasagittal plane of
      pharynx and larynx) the USG score was assigned to the deployment view using a modification of
      the criteria proposed.

      The fiberoptic bronchoscope was passed through I-Gel until the glottis image was
      obtained.Optimal placement was defined as the end of the I-Gel behind the arytenoids, with a
      visible epiglottis, with or without folding to the airway, and the vocal cords are visible
      when the FOB is advanced under the epiglottis.
    
  