
    
      Background: Circle of Security-Parenting (COS-P) is a manual-based, psychoeducational
      parental support program that includes 8 group sessions of 90 minutes each. It provides basic
      knowledge about the emotional needs of children up to 6 years old and how parents can meet
      those needs to promote secure attachment in their child.

      COS-P is a parental support groupintervention that is regularly given in the Psychology units
      for Maternal and Child health care in Södra Älvsborg and Fyrbodal and has become an
      appreciated intervention by both the participants and the psychologists who lead the groups.
      The method is also increasingly used both in Sweden and internationally but the systematic
      evaluation of COS-P is at the same time very limited. It is also unclear what the inclusion
      criterias and outcome measures are for COS-P in the Psychology unit for Maternal and Child
      health care.

      Objective: The purpose of this pilot study is to provide knowledge of the inclusion criterias
      and outcome measures for COS-P within the Psychological units for Maternal and Child health
      care in Södra Älvsborg and Fyrbodal before more research subjects and activities are included
      in a randomized controlled study. The study also aims to examine change in the participating
      parents between baseline and posttest as well as the 6-month follow-up regarding
      self-assessed depression, anxiety and stress level, the parent's reflective ability and
      symptoms in the child estimated by the parent.

      Additionally, the study will describe whether there is a relationship between demographic
      data and self-assessed depression, anxiety, stress level, the parent's reflective ability and
      symptoms of the child estimated by the parent at baseline and posttest and at baseline and
      6-month follow-up.

      Method: The parents who are assessed suitable for COS-P and accept to participate in the
      pilot study during spring/autumn 2020 will fill in surveys before group start, after
      completion and at the 6-month follow-up. In total, 50 parents will be included in the study.

      Psychologists will fill in specially formulated questionnaires regarding their inclusion
      criterias.

      Expected result: This pilot study is expected to describe the group of parents receiving
      COS-P and the inclusion criterias for the intervention used by the psychologists in the
      Psychology units for Maternal and Child health care in Södra Älvsborg and Fyrbodal.
    
  