
    
      Metabolic syndrome occurs in approximately 30% of adults and is associated with increased
      risk of cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes. Circadian rhythm disruption due to
      lifestyle including erratic eating patterns may lead to metabolic and neuroendocrine
      dysfunction, inflammation, oxidative stress, and cardiometabolic diseases. Maintaining a
      daily rhythm of eating and fasting cycles sustains a robust circadian rhythm which improves
      cellular bioenergetics and metabolism. Recent studies support the notion that restricting a
      period of food intake to 8-12 hours a day (time-restricted eating, TRE) can prevent and
      reverse obesity and metabolic dysfunction.

      The main purpose of the clinical trial is to determine the health impact of TRE in patients
      with metabolic syndrome (defined as the presence of elevated fasting plasma glucose and two
      or more of the following criteria: increased waist circumference, elevated fasting plasma
      triglycerides, reduced high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol, elevated blood pressure) and
      self-reported dietary intake of ≥14 hours per day. Participants will reduce the amount of
      time they eat to 10 hours per day over a 12-week monitored intervention followed by a 12-week
      self-directed intervention and will log their dietary intake using a smartphone application
      (myCircadianClock (mCC) app, developed by the Salk Institute for Biological Studies). The
      participants will select a 10-h eating window that best suits their lifestyle. All
      food/beverages except water must be consumed within the time-interval. No further dietary
      restrictions will be applied. The participants will be provided with behavioral nutritional
      counseling by a dietician. Glucose homeostasis (blood glucose levels will be monitored
      continuously for 2 weeks at the baseline, at the end of the monitored intervention, and at
      the end of the self-directed intervention using a continuous glucose monitor), and other
      metabolic, neuroendocrine, inflammatory and oxidative stress/antioxidant defense biomarkers,
      body weight and composition, blood pressure, heart rate, sleep and activity (using mCC app),
      personal sense of wellness and dietary timing (using health questionnaires) will be evaluated
      at the baseline, at the end of the monitored intervention, and at the end of the
      self-directed intervention. The investigators will assess for compliance with TRE using mCC
      app.
    
  