
    
      Project: Efficacy of baclofen in reducing alcohol consumption in Veterans with HCV Principal
      Investigator: Peter Hauser, MD

      Keywords: Hepatitis C, Substance-Related Disorders, Alcoholism

      Abstract

      PLAN/METHODS: Two sites of the national VA Hepatitis C Resource Center, including Minneapolis
      and Portland VA Medical Centers (VAMCs), the Long Beach VAMC, and the San Diego VAMC (total 4
      sites) will recruit 180 men, women, and minority Veterans who are HCV positive and currently
      drinking alcohol. Participants will be assessed for current alcohol use and alcohol use
      disorders and enrolled in the study if they meet eligibility criteria, mainly that they are
      drinking more than 7 drinks a week or have one heavy drinking day a week for the preceding
      two weeks. Enrolled subjects will be randomly assigned to one of two groups: Experimental
      group (Baclofen) or control (placebo). Subjects will be followed for a total of 14 weeks, and
      follow-up data will be collected at a total of 11 visits (weeks 1,2,3,4,6,8,10,12, and 14).
      At each visit, interviews will be conducted by a blinded interviewer assessing current stage
      of change and current alcohol use along with any changes in mood and psychological or somatic
      symptoms. HCV viral titers will be obtained at baseline and again at week 12 to determine the
      effect of abstinence on this measure. Data will also be collected from participants' medical
      records regarding enrollment and attendance in substance abuse treatment or self-help
      programs (Alcoholics Anonymous). Data will be analyzed using repeated measure ANOVAs to
      compare the groups on alcohol use and stage of change.

      CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This study focuses on a current Veterans Health Administration (VHA)
      priority: treatment of Veterans with HCV. Alcohol use in this population is a major risk
      factor for progression of liver disease. The investigators anticipate that the Baclofen
      proposed in this study will result in reduced alcohol use, which is expected to result in a
      slowing of the progression of liver disease, improvement in physical health, and a reduction
      in long-term service utilization and mortality rates.

      POTENTIAL IMPACT ON VETERANS HEALTH CARE: Effectively addressing alcohol use disorders in a
      hepatitis clinic will contribute to a new standard of care for HCV patients within the VA.
      Co-located care for patients with comorbid medical and substance use disorders is likely to
      improve access to effective treatment, acceptance by patients and improve clinical
      efficiency.
    
  