
    
      This is a Phase II-III multi-center prospective randomized controlled clinical trial of
      incident adult renal transplant patients. Patients will be screened for eligibility (n≈485)
      and n≈420 will be enrolled and undergo post-transplant surveillance with urinary CXCL10. Two
      hundred and fifty patients deemed at high risk for rejection based on a confirmed elevated
      urine CXCL10 will undergo 1:1 randomization to the intervention and control arms, stratified
      by center. The total study duration is approximately 5 years; and there two main phases -
      screening and intervention.

      All eligible, enrolled patients will undergo the Screening Phase (n≈420). Routine urine
      CXCL10 screening will be done from 2 weeks - 9 months post-transplant. We have previously
      shown that urine CXCL10 is elevated in ischemia-reperfusion injury, so screening will
      commence at 2 weeks (+/- 4 days) to exclude this as a potential confounding factor (60).

      If patient develops a confirmed elevated urine CXCL10 level and is considered high risk for
      rejection, they will proceed to Randomization in the Intervention Phase, which can occur
      anytime between 2 weeks - 9 months post-transplant. Participants in the Intervention Arm will
      undergo renal biopsy to check for rejection. Biopsy-proven subclinical rejection will be
      treated per study protocol. Participants in the Control Arm will continue routine
      post-transplant surveillance with serum creatinine and proteinuria; serial urine samples will
      continue to be collected and analyzed (blinded), but not used to direct care. All randomized
      participants will undergo a 12-month study exit visit with protocol biopsy to determine
      primary, secondary and long-term outcomes.

      Enrolled patients with persistently low urine CXCL10 and low risk of rejection from 2 weeks -
      9 months post-transplant will be considered Off-Study (not randomized). They will undergo a
      12-month study exit visit (+/- 7 days) to determine secondary and long-term outcomes.
    
  