
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the complete remission (CR) rate, remission duration, leukemia-free survival,
      and survival in patients >= 70 years with previously untreated acute myeloid leukemia (AML)
      with 4 different guadecitabine (SGI-110) single agent and SGI-110 based combination regimens.

      II. To determine the safety profile and tolerability of the 4 SGI-110 single agent and
      SGI-110 based combination regimens in patients >= 70 years of age with previously untreated
      AML.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I:

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive guadecitabine subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-5. Courses
      repeat every 4-6 weeks for 2-3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients achieving a CR or CR with incomplete platelet recovery (CRp) continue on
      to Maintenance therapy; patients not achieving CR or complete remission with incomplete
      hematologic recovery (CRi) but deriving clinical benefit may continue to Maintenance therapy
      at the discretion of the Principal Investigator (PI).

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive guadecitabine as in Induction therapy. Courses repeat
      every 4-8 weeks for up to 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM II (CLOSED):

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive guadecitabine SC on days 1-10. Courses repeat every 4-6
      weeks for 2-3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients achieving a CR or CRp continue on to Maintenance therapy; patients not achieving CR
      or CRi but deriving clinical benefit may continue to Maintenance therapy at the discretion of
      the PI.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive guadecitabine SC on days 1-5 (days 1-10 of courses 1
      and 2). Courses repeat every 4-8 weeks for up to 24 months in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM III:

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive guadecitabine SC on days 1-5 and idarubicin intravenously
      (IV) over up to 1 hour on days 1-2. Courses repeat every 4-6 weeks for 2-3 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving a CR or CRp
      continue on to Maintenance therapy; patients not achieving CR or CRi but deriving clinical
      benefit may continue to Maintenance therapy at the discretion of the PI.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive guadecitabine SC on days 1-5 and idarubicin IV over up
      to 1 hour on day 1. Courses repeat every 4-8 weeks for up to 24 months in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM IV (CLOSED):

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive guadecitabine SC and cladribine IV over up to 1 hour on
      days 1-5. Courses repeat every 4-6 weeks for 2-3 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving a CR or CRp continue on to
      Maintenance therapy; patients not achieving CR or CRi but deriving clinical benefit may
      continue to Maintenance therapy at the discretion of the PI.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive guadecitabine SC and cladribine IV over up to 1 hour on
      days 1-5. Courses repeat every 4-8 weeks for up to 24 months in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every month.
    
  