
    
      STUDY PROTOCOL

      1.1. Introduction Leishmaniasis is a major neglected health problem frequently found in
      tropical and subtropical regions with the prevalence rate of 1.5 million per year globally.
      The disease is caused by protozoan parasite from genus Leishmania. Transmission occurred by
      sand fly of genus Phlebotomus in the (Old World) and Lutzomyia (New World). Cutaneous
      leishmaniasis is restricted to skin and around 185 million people at risk in 61 countries.
      Now it is endemic in Pakistan (different regions) and diffuses fastly, particularly in the
      refugee camps main causative agent found is L. major followed by L. tropica. Vigilant
      literature review revealed that besides the four provinces of Pakistan increased incidences
      of CL were found in Balochistan which is largest province (in area) followed by NWFP. In
      Sindh province (Dadu, Jacobabad, Larkana and Karachi) are commonly reported for cases while
      in Punjab (Multan and Dera Ghazi Khan) are mainly reported for the occurrence of disease.
      Diagnosis of this diseases is done by clinical picture usually dry lesions are caused by L.
      tropica while moist and early ulcerative lesions are caused by L. major, such lesions take
      months to years for healing eventually heal by own but satellite lesions and bacterial and
      fungal infections results in delayed and complicated healing process, but in non-endemic
      areas it is difficult to diagnose because of unclear form, along with this secondary
      infections, delay treatment as well as mistreatment sometimes can also cause changes in
      clinical picture. In such situations examination of smear from lesion is the diagnostic tool
      along with culture and histopathological examinations.

      1.2. Clinical trials against CL Methanolic bark extract of Casuarina equisetifolia L. showed
      good antileishmanial potential against L.major using in vitro analysis which directed us
      towards an innovative therapeutic concept for development of new herbal formulations against
      leishmaniasis through accelerated wound closures in clinical trials on human contestants.
      Ulcerative CL is because of defective wound healing depending on this hypothesis current
      study is planned to explored clinical efficacy of new protocol Gyburene 5% cream as
      anti-parasitic agent followed by Thuscare 5% ointment for speed up wounds closure. The
      primary objective of this study is to evaluate anti leishmanial outcome of Gyburene 5% cream
      at wound closure and after six months while secondary objective is to evaluate that incessant
      wound care along with anti-parasitic agent can results in valuable enhancement in treatment.

      1.3. Sample population and study design: This is a single-blind, randomized study. Seventy
      patients with confirmed with cutaneous leishmaniasis were recruited in the study.
      Participants were randomly allocated into two groups. Pilot group (did not receive any
      medication before) and resistant group (who already received medication either parental or
      topical). During trials 20 participants were dropped as a result of lack of follow up
      specially the affected people coming from rural areas.

      1.3.1. Ethical consideration: The research protocol was approved by ethical committee of the
      Board of Advanced Studies and Research University of Karachi Vide Resol No. 16. Informed
      consents forms were taken from each patient.

      1.3.2. Patient Assessment:

      Medical history of each patient (age, sex, co-morbidities, wound condition, site and size of
      lesion with Giemsa smear test report) was taken prior to treatment protocol on clinical
      Performa specially designed for this study and consisted of two parts, first for personnel
      information and second for medical history. Lesion size was calculated using Vernier caliper
      in two dimensions and each participant advised for weekly follow up till end of therapy,
      portrait photograph were taken before, throughout and after therapy using digital camera for
      assessment of healing percentage. Cured patients follow up was done for further six months to
      ensure no set back has been happened. Presence or absence of parasite was confirmed by smear
      test while healed area was calculated by percentage of healing by following formula (Baie and
      Sheikh, 2000):

      1.3.2.1. Inclusion criteria

        1. Patients who met the histological criteria for presence of parasite

        2. Age of older than 4 years and both gender.

        3. Lesions are less than 5 in number in each patient

        4. Size of lesion is less than 5cm2

        5. Participants who had stopped therapy greater than 4 weeks earlier and the lesions were
           not improving.

        6. Duration of disease for patients under trial was six months (acute) and more than one
           year (chronic).

      1.3.2.2. Exclusion criteria

        1. Patients who had taken any immuosuppressive drugs or anti leishmanial drugs in last
           month.

        2. Pregnant women and lactating mothers.

        3. Contestants with complications of renal, hepatic and pulmonary disease, Immune-o-
           compromised patients such as (HIV).

        4. Patients suffering from conditions like malaria, tuberculosis and treatment regimen is
           going on for such infections.

      1.3.3. Study treatment Prior to the initiate treatment protocol toxicological evaluation of
      herbal extracts was also done to ensure the safety of topical herbal pharmaceutical
      preparations. In case of more than one lesion any one targeted for biopsies although all
      received same treatment. Both groups of patient were treated with topical herbal formulations
      Gyburene 5% cream (for cure of CL) in morning and evening and Thuscare 5% ointment (for rapid
      wound healing and cure of super infections) only at night in two different directions at the
      angle of 90º to each other by leaving lesion uncovered.

      Before application of second formulation all contestant were advised to wash the lesion with
      normal saline. Weekly follow up was done till completion of the therapy in order to ensure
      the entire cure such as for negative smear skin test amastigotes in Giemsa strain and
      complete healing with re-epithelialization of the lesion. Each formulation was dispensed in
      10 g container (separately) enough for one week.

      1.4. Statistical Analysis T-test used for comparison rate of healing between two groups while
      Kaplan Meier test between pilot and resistant group while Kaplan Meier test used to calculate
      healed area per week for both resistant and pilot group at P<0.05 using SPSS version 21.

      Clinical evaluation Performa for Cutaneous Leishmaniasis (CL) Personal information Patient
      code: ------------------- Male/Female: ---------------------- Age: ---------- Address:
      --------------- Occupation: ------------------- Marital status: -------------

      Contact No: -------------------------- CNIC No: ------------------------Family history:

      Clinical information Morphology of lesion

        -  Ulcerated

        -  Crust

        -  Plaque

        -  Nodule Lesion condition

        -  Dry

        -  Wet Giemsa Smear test

        -  Positive

        -  Negative Duration of lesions

        -  ≥ 6 month

        -  Between 6-12 months

        -  ≤ 6 month No of lesions

        -  1

        -  2

        -  3

        -  4

        -  5

      Health condition

        -  Arthritis

        -  Allergy

        -  Diabetes

        -  Immune disorder

        -  Blood pressure Differential diagnosis for CL

        -  Bacterial and fungal skin infection

        -  Eczema

        -  Syphilis

        -  Sarcoidosis

        -  Blastomycosis

        -  Others Area of lesion/visit Visit I: Area=……………cm2 Visit II: Area= …………..cm2 Visit III:
           Area=…………. cm2 Visit IV: Area=………… cm2 Visit V: Area=…………. cm2

      Remarks of Dermatologist:

      Signature of Dermatologist
    
  