
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To compare the effectiveness of the Clinical Effort Against Secondhand Smoke (CEASE)
           intervention vs no intervention in increasing clinicians' delivery of evidence-based
           parental smoking cessation assistance in pediatric healthcare settings.

        -  To compare the effectiveness of this intervention vs no intervention on parental smoking
           behaviors.

        -  To test the level of systematic practice implementation of the intervention using
           existing validated measures in an Implementation Process Survey (IPS).

        -  To evaluate, in an exploratory fashion, additional key implementation step measures
           mapped from the five A's (Ask, Advise, Assess, Assist, Arrange) to see how well they
           predict tobacco control service delivery in pediatric healthcare settings.

        -  To use process results from the IPS (i.e., previously validated and exploratory
           measures) to improve the adoption, implementation, and maintenance of the intervention
           in this study.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Participants are stratified according to practice.
      Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 intervention arms.

        -  Arm I (Clinical Effort Against Secondhand Smoke [CEASE] intervention): The CEASE
           intervention incorporates a number of materials into the operations of the pediatric
           practice, including baseline questionnaires that screen for parental tobacco use and
           readiness to quit smoking, enroll in quitline counseling, or explore pharmacotherapy; a
           label that affixes to the child's problem list in the medical record, documenting
           parental smoking status and indicating the patient's secondhand exposure, thus
           encouraging continuity of cessation support in cross-coverage situations; and decision
           support for clinicians that prompts delivery of exposure-reduction counseling and
           distribution of motivational-messaging handouts (i.e., halflets) to parents for
           education, skills training, and psychosocial support. Parental messaging elements
           include strategies or methods for quitting, collaborative goal setting, identifying
           personal barriers to quitting, and focused strategies for reducing secondhand-smoke
           exposure of the patient. Additional intervention materials include a HIPAA-compliant
           form for enrolling the smoker in counseling through the telephone quitline; pre-printed,
           practice-embossed prescription pads for prescribing over-the-counter
           nicotine-replacement therapy when desired by the smoker; pharmacotherapy posters in
           pediatric patient examination rooms to inform parental smokers and assist clinicians in
           discussing tobacco dependence treatment; and a simple implementation guide to support
           integrating the parent, clinician, and practice levels of the intervention.

      The CEASE intervention also incorporates telephone counseling after the pediatric healthcare
      visit to ensure that parents receive professional, ongoing smoking-cessation counseling.
      Parental smokers undergo an exit interview survey and follow-up telephone surveys at 3 months
      and 12 months for evaluation of content of tobacco control delivered during the visit; use of
      messaging materials, medications, and telephone counseling sessions; current smoking status;
      and rules about smoking in the home and car. If the parent has had a 7-day quit at the
      12-month follow-up, the parent is also asked to provide a saliva sample for cotinine analysis
      to confirm nonsmoking status.

        -  Arm II (control): Participants complete a questionnaire at baseline and an exit
           interview survey. They also complete telephone interviews at 3 month and 12 months. If
           the parent has had a 7-day quit at the 12-month follow-up, the parent is also asked to
           provide a saliva sample for cotinine analysis to confirm nonsmoking status.

      In both arms, participating practitioners and key office staff complete Implementation
      Process Surveys at baseline and at 6 weeks and 6 months.
    
  