
    
      Background Worldwide, every year, an estimated 14 million girls aged under 18 are married
      with little or no say in the matter. Before age 15, girls are not physically or cognitively
      ready to make safe and consensual decisions about marriage, sexual relations, or
      reproduction. In middle adolescence (15 to 17 years), physical and cognitive readiness still
      varies widely, depending on the onset and pace of puberty, cognitive maturation, and the
      risks and responsibilities encountered at the time of marriage and childbearing . Marrying
      while physically and cognitively immature may limit a girl's educational opportunities, her
      social and emotional development, and her health and that of her children. Women who marry in
      childhood more often are underweight, report unintended pregnancy, experience obstetric
      complications and maternal death, have preterm or low birth weight births, and exhibit
      postnatal depression . These girls are more vulnerable to spousal physical violence. It is
      imperative to ensure human rights, development, health and well-being not only for the
      girls', but also for generations to come by addressing child marriage.

      In South Asia, child marriage rates vary considerably. The rate of child marriage is highest
      in Bangladesh followed by Nepal. The percentage of girls marrying before age 18 and before
      age 15 in Bangladesh were 598.6 and 22.4 respectively and in Nepal the percentages were
      4039.5 and 7.0 respectively . As elsewhere, the drivers include deeply entrenched cultural
      and religious beliefs, worries about family reputation and the opinion of others, dowry,
      poverty, parents' desires to secure economic well-being for their daughters and a perceived
      need to protect girls from harm, like sexual harassment and abuse. Pervasive fears of natural
      disasters also deepen communities' poverty and render them more vulnerable to practicing
      child marriage .

      Preventing child marriage has been a global agenda and one of the major goals of Millennium
      Development Goals (MDGs) and Sustainable Development goals (SDGs). In line with MDGs and SDGs
      Governments, Non-government organizations (NGOs) and research organizations in different
      countries have attempted to tackle child marriage through different programs. Most of the
      interventions included girls' education, livelihoods/conditional cash transfer, empowerment,
      and community mobilization . Unfortunately, the majority of these interventions have not been
      evaluated rigorously . This results in missed opportunity to learn what actually works in
      reducing child marriage and what does not.

      Although the body of evidence on how to prevent child marriage is growing, its rate did not
      decline at a desirable pace. Previous interventions targeted many of the root causes of child
      marriage. However, despite wide recognition of the need to change pro-child marriage social
      norms attempt to study the impact of social norms change in addressing child marriage was
      rarely investigated or investigated well. Lack of understanding of social norms and how to
      change them effectively impedes development of effective and sustainable child marriage
      prevention programs. Moreover, for most of the interventions, there was a not a rigorous
      evaluation . Again, the interventions that had strong evaluation design did not necessarily
      focus on social norms change .

      At this backdrop the current research proposes to conduct a cluster randomized controlled
      trial (CRCT) to evaluate Tipping Point (TP), an intervention to address child marriage in
      Bangladesh using intervention packages that differ only in terms of the intensity of the
      social norms change component.

      Objectives of the study While the main objective of this study is to measure the impact of TP
      intervention, the specific primary objectives are -

        1. To assess the impact of full package of TP intervention (including emphasized social
           norms change) on reducing child marriage among the adolescent girls participating in TP
           and within community; and increasing decision making capability of the adolescent girls'
           participating in TP intervention.

        2. To assess the impact of the light package of TP intervention (without emphasized social
           norms change) on reducing child marriage among the adolescent girls participating in TP
           and within community; and increasing decision making capability of the adolescent girls'
           participating in TP intervention.

        3. To assess the impact of the emphasized social norms change on child marriage. The
           secondary objectives of this study are to assess whether both full and light TP
           interventions -

        1. Increase adolescent girls' critical awareness regarding gender and rights

        2. Promote adolescent girls' positive aspiration and progressive choices

        3. Improve adolescent girls' communication and negotiation skills

        4. Increase adolescent girls' knowledge, attitude and practice regarding SRHR

        5. Bring positive change in social norms in terms of gender, rights and child marriage

        6. Improve group cohesion, solidarity and mobilization skills among adolescent girls The
           Tipping Point Intervention To the best of our knowledge, TP is one of the very few
           attempts to develop a comprehensive evidence-based and theoretically driven intervention
           for preventing child marriage. A Community Participatory Analysis (CPA) conducted in the
           first Phase of the project found that in these communities, child marriage is rooted in
           a complex dynamic of limited choices and material resources (economic insecurity, lack
           of livelihood options, household labor) and prevailing social norms about family honor,
           control of sexuality, and the low social status of girls. Based on the findings of the
           CPA , Prevention of Child Marriage in Bangladesh is rested on two major approaches, the
           sexual rights approach and the social norms approach. A Rights based approach explicitly
           defines the sexual and reproductive rights in the overarching women's rights framework.
           CARE's Social Norms Approach focuses on not just generating awareness but also breaking
           from the psycho-social barriers created by normative and empirical expectations. These
           approaches frame the outcomes and the intervention strategies to be used.

      The TP Theory of Change (TOC) focuses on four key areas for strategic intervention in order
      to reduce the incidence of child marriage:

        1. Awareness generation

           o Adolescent Girls experience increased power over major life decision areas (marriage,
           education, engagement in livelihoods activities, bodies/sexuality)

             -  girls' increased knowledge about equality, rights, SRHR, livelihood options, social
                norms;

             -  girls' increased communication and negotiation skills

        2. Developing and sustaining open channels of communication and discussion o Increased
           dialogue skills by all

           o Parents' increased knowledge of adolescents' aspirations

           o Fathers' increased awareness of how gender inequalities affect daughters, wives, sons

           o Mothers' increased skills to advocate for daughters

        3. Breaking Gender Norms o Weakening of gendered social norms that limit adolescent girls'
           lives, particularly norms regarding girls' playing sports, interacting with boys, moving
           across and outside of their village, and individually and collectively asserting their
           rights to equality and to take major life decisions

           o girls, boys, mothers, fathers have increased awareness of the social norms affecting
           girls' lives and increased critical thinking about gender equality aspects of social
           norms

           o boys and men are aware of the role that hegemonic masculinities play in limiting their
           lives.

        4. Developing Girl's Leadership capacity - Shift in dynamics of Power o Girls and parents'
           and other activist groups have increased skills for planning, implementing and
           evaluating collective action

           o Girls' increased cohesion and solidarity within the Girls' Groups

             -  Girls in Activist training have increased leadership and mobilization skills

      The overall Tipping Point intervention package will span 18 months and will involve:

        1. Sessions with girls' and boys' groups: 60 weekly sessions, each of 90 minutes. Themes
           (and topics) will cover Gender and life skills (Mobility, knowing our communities,
           equity, gender roles and stereotypes, setting life goals, negotiation); ASRHR (Bodies,
           puberty, consent, pleasure and pain, healthy boundaries, family planning, technology and
           consent, gender based violence (GBV), life goals, etc.; Alternative livelihoods for
           girls (Financial literacy, discussions of non-stereotype income-generation
           opportunities, life goals, budgeting, saving, gendered division of labor); Girl-centred
           movement-building (Leadership, planning the social norms public activities, rights-based
           information, equity, mobility); and Social norms (Understanding social norms, planning
           for social norms change, menstruation norms, dowry, girls' voices and choices and
           aspirations, family honor.).

        2. Facilitated sessions with mothers' and fathers' group: 18 monthly sessions, each of 90
           minutes

        3. Dialogue sessions jointly with girls' groups and fathers' groups, and girls' groups and
           boys' groups: 6 sessions. Typical example includes i) Dialogue between girls and fathers
           about girls' dreams and aspirations for their lives (as many fathers had never thought
           of their daughters' hopes for her future) and ii) Dialogue between girls' groups and
           boys' groups about boys' sexual harassment of girls and its impact on girls or reasons
           for boys why they may engage in this behavior.

        4. Facilitated sessions with girls' activist group: 12 monthly sessions, starting in month
           7. The theme (and topics) include trainings on running a campaign on a selected theme
           (choosing tactics and actions, and planning and budgeting for events). Village savings
           and loans associations (VSLAs) will be started and enrolment will be open to members of
           the girls' groups. VSLA includes training on basic financial literacy, promotes
           leadership skill and provides a low-risk opportunity for very poor households.

        5. Facilitated sessions with boys'/parents' action group: 12 monthly sessions, starting in
           month 7. The theme (and topics) will include Knowledge and skills for activism
           (Leadership, community organizing principles, information on rights and citizen
           involvement).

        6. Intensive facilitated workshop with selected religious leaders/influential people: 6
           quarterly, each of 2 days. The topics will cover facilitated discussion and activities,
           with some individual follow up by frontline workers.

        7. Community and Social Norms Change Component: there will be six "planning for a public
           social norms change activity" sessions with the girls' groups. In line with CARE's
           "Social Norms Design Principles" the Girls and Boys Groups will be motivated to design
           public activities and dialogues that challenge gendered social norms (e.g. girls' soccer
           and boat racing competitions, public dramas about girls' mobility or girls' speaking out
           for equal rights, boys cooking competition, fathers braiding their daughters' hair
           competition). Ultimately the girls' groups, with support from boys' and mothers' and
           fathers' groups, will organize at least six public social norms change activities of
           their choosing.

           The sessions/ activities/ manuals are synchronized. Most of the sessions will run
           parallel across groups- e.g. when the girls' groups are discussing gender-based
           violence, consent, sexual harassment, the boys' groups will also be discussing these
           topics from a masculinities/boys' perspective. Where possible, this will be followed by
           a cross-group dialogue session or planning session for a public activity.

           Tipping Point overall takes a SAA (Social Analysis and Action) approach , which includes
           an extensive Gender, Equity and Diversity (GED) training for staff as a basis for all
           the work. GED trainings are trainings in which staff reflect upon their own lives and
           their relationships with gender, power, diversity and equity. As the second step of the
           SAA approach, the staff will be fostering reflective analysis with the groups in the
           communities on the various topics, encouraging the groups to identify situations which
           they would like to change in their communities, then supporting them to plan actions
           related to specific topics, and later to evaluate their actions.

           As a minimum standard for facilitation, facilitators must have passed through GED and
           SAA training, as well as on trainings for facilitating the specific sessions. Boys'
           sessions will be facilitated by male facilitators and girls' sessions by female
           facilitators; parents' sessions will have at least two co-facilitators.

           Research Design and Methods

           This study will be implemented in one upazila (sub-district) at Rangpur district of
           Bangladesh. Rangpur has been selected as the median age at marriage is 15 years among
           women aged 20-49, which is the lowest in the country. It employs a three arm Cluster
           Randomized Controlled Trial (CRCT) design and uses both quantitative and qualitative
           methods for evaluating TP. The arms are as follows:

           Arm 1: Full TP intervention including emphasized social norms change Arm 2: Light TP
           intervention without emphasized social norms change Arm 3: Pure control

           This 3-arm design will enable the investigators to measure the effect of the light TP
           intervention as well as the effect of social norms change on TP outcomes. The effects
           will be determined by comparing the three arms as follows:

           Arm 1 - Arm 3 = Effect of full TP intervention Arm 2 - Arm 3 = Effect of light TP
           intervention Arm 1 - Arm 2 = Effect of emphasized social norms change The villages from
           the selected upazila will be treated as clusters or the primary sampling units in this
           study. The first cluster will be selected randomly from the list of villages under the
           upazila. The villages sharing borders with the first selected village will be considered
           as buffers. The next selected village will be the one located in the north-eastern
           direction from the first selected village dropping the buffer villages. This will
           continue until the required number of clusters has been chosen from the upazila. Then
           each cluster will be randomly assigned to one of the three arms.

           Qualitative study The qualitative study consisting of both baseline and endline will be
           carried out in four villages (two villages in each arm; village A and B in Arm 1 and
           village C and D in Arm 2) in two intervention arms of TP. Data in each arm will be
           collected using 4 Key Informant Interviews (KII) (2 men and 2 women); 10 In-depth
           Interviews (IDI) with adolescent girls and 5 IDIs with adolescent boys; 2 Focus Group
           Discussions (FGD) with adolescent girls, boys, adult women and men each. Use of 3
           different techniques of data collection will allow data triangulation. While KIIs and
           FGDs will provide data on social norms and general practices IDIs will give access to
           in-depth data on individual perceptions, practices and experiences.

           The qualitative data collectors will receive a 7-day training on gender, rights,
           empowerment, child marriage, qualitative research methods, and research ethics.
           Interviewers will be gender matched with the informants. The endline will follow the
           same strategy enabling the investigators to assess changes over time in the cohort of
           group members and in the community over time in each of the arms.

           Quantitative evaluation Villages will be treated as clusters or the primary sampling
           units in this study. Each cluster will have one adolescent girls' group consisting of 22
           girls. The rates of child marriage and the decision making ability among the target
           group (girls aged 12 to below 16) are unknown. So, the investigators assumed the
           prevalence rates as 50% for each outcome among this group. A life skills intervention in
           Maharashtra, achieved a 19% reduction in child marriage in the community . Based on this
           literature 15% effect size was considered along with 5% level of significance and 80%
           power. As it is a cluster randomized controlled trial, intra-cluster correlation (ICC)
           needs to be taken into account while calculating the sample size. The ICC differs for
           different outcomes. ICC for child marriage was found to be 0.05 using data from a
           icddr,b conducted nationally representative study. As information on ICC for decision
           making is unavailable, ICC value for child marriage was used for calculating the sample
           size. Considering 5% significance level and 80% power, the required number of clusters
           was 17 per arm making the total number of clusters 51. Considering a 15%
           non-response/dropout rate the group size will be increased to 25 and total sample size
           will be 1,275 girls.

           For the community survey for assessing social norms change, the assumptions included 50%
           prevalence of child marriage related norms (as it is unknown for the target group), 15%
           effect size 5% significance level, 80% power and 5% non-response rate. Thus, the
           required sample size was 90 adult females and 90 adult males aged 25 and above in each
           arm making the total sample size 540.

           Once the clusters are formed, enumeration of the households in each cluster will be
           conducted for collecting information on the household members' sex, age, marital status,
           age at marriage, and occupation. A properly trained team of data collectors will conduct
           this enumeration. Special care will be taken to train them on how to collect and check
           information on age and age at marriage. The enumeration data will provide the
           investigators with an estimation of child marriage in each cluster and with a list of
           eligible adolescent girls for group formation. The girls aged between 12 and under 16
           years and currently living in the study village will be considered as eligible. The
           group members will be selected randomly from the list of eligible girls. All the group
           member adolescent girls will be included in the survey. These enumeration data will also
           serve as the sampling frame for the baseline and endline community surveys. Adult male
           and female community members who are currently living in the study village will be
           considered as eligible. Two separate surveys will be carried out: (1) girls survey among
           selected girls to collect information on all study outcomes; and (2) community survey
           among adult male and female community members to capture social norms around child
           marriage. The baseline survey of the adolescent girls will start once group formation is
           completed in each cluster. This cohort will also be interviewed at endline. For the
           social norms surveys in the communities, random samples of eligible adults from
           community will be selected and interviewed at baseline and endline. The surveys will use
           face-to-face interviews conducted by gender-matched interviewers. The survey team will
           receive a 12-day participatory training on gender, violence against women and girls,
           ethics, survey methods, the questionnaire, and use of tablets.

           The interviews will be conducted in private in a location convenient for the respondents
           upon their assent and consent of the parents in case of minors. The data will be
           collected using Personalized Digital Assistants (PDAs). Offline-based survey software
           will be developed. One programmer will be available during the survey period for
           necessary trouble shooting and data uploading. The data collected will be uploaded on a
           designated server at the end of the business day, which would allow the researchers to
           instantly review the data from the internet. Confidentiality will be maintained by
           keeping the identification information in separate files. Data will be password
           protected to avoid unauthorised access to data in case of unavoidable circumstances and
           will be used only for the purpose of research. All data will be anonymous during the
           time of analysis.

           Monitoring of TP Monitoring qualitative aspects of the intervention is of utmost
           importance. Data collection for qualitative monitoring may occur every 4 months during
           the intervention. Techniques for monitoring will include observation of group sessions
           of the adolescent girls', boys and parents (12 in each round); observations of public
           events (2 events, twice in whole intervention period); FGDs with the group session
           facilitators (4 in each round) and short interviews with the group members (8 in each
           round). Instant feedback to the facilitators after observation will help the facilitator
           in understanding their weaknesses and strengths and create an opportunity to improve
           performance. Observation reports will also be shared at higher levels making these
           levels aware of the weaknesses and strengths of the facilitators and the challenges they
           face. This will enable timely support to the facilitators. FGDs with the facilitators
           will help in identifying the challenges they face and in coming up with solutions
           collectively. Short interviews with the group members will enable the investigators to
           understand the challenges the group members face in attending, understanding and
           participating in the sessions.

           Quantitative data analysis Descriptive analyses will be performed to report frequencies
           and percentages of different outcomes of interest. Chi-square, ANOVA and t-tests will be
           performed to check whether the study arms are covariate balanced. The impact will be
           assessed using risk ratios derived from binary regression analyses for measuring change
           in outcomes in the intervention arms relative to change in the control arm. Mixed
           effects models will be constructed with cluster as random effects and time point,
           intervention group, and time point x intervention interaction as fixed effects.
           Adjusting for the dependent variables at baseline survey, it will provide a measure of
           the relative change in intervention group that took place between baseline and endline
           compared to the change in the control group.

           Qualitative data analysis With the informants' permission, all interviews and FGDs will
           be digitally recorded. All recorded interviews will be transcribed verbatim. Data
           analysis will be iterative. To explore research questions, the intense will be combined,
           within-case focus of Narrative Analysis with the across-case approach of Grounded
           Theory, a robust analytic strategy for qualitative data.

           Narrative analysis will be used with the IDIs to examine each transcript for a core
           narrative or 'story' of each adolescent girl and boys about how they experience and view
           gender; restrictions and barriers in fulfilling their aspirations; privileges and
           discrimination; agency and/or the lack of it; social norms and practices around child
           and forced marriage, drivers and triggers of child and forced marriage, etc. Core
           narratives across participants will then be compared to identify distinct and shared
           features of the narratives. Narrative analysis will identify, for example, the baseline
           status of the adolescent girls and boys in the mentioned areas. A comparison of the IDIs
           of the same girls and boys at baseline and endline will provide with insights into
           change that relates to TP. Grounded Theory (GT) is well suited 1) to identify
           cross-cutting themes and normative constructs related to our areas of investigation and
           2) to link these themes into an explanatory framework to understand more fully the
           context of child and forced marriage.

           Recommended steps for GT analysis will be followed: 1) Identify themes and develop a
           codebook. The investigators will systematically read, memo, and discuss themes raised in
           the IDIs, KIIs and FGDs. Core themes will be developed into a codebook, listing each
           theme and how to label data for each theme. The codebook will include inductive themes
           emerging from the data and deductive themes developed a priori from theoretical domains
           in the interview guides. 2) Code data. Using themes from the codebook, the coders will
           code the full dataset using textual data analytic software that permits
           cross-classification and retrieval of transcripts and segments of text by theme. Key
           personnel will review the coding regularly to monitor quality. 3) Conduct descriptive
           and comparative analysis. Descriptive analysis will be conducted to identify the types,
           contexts, and nuances in the areas of investigation. The investigators will try to
           reveal patterns in the data, with issues mentioned repeatedly across interviews, and by
           certain sub-groups, suggesting normative perceptions or behaviour. 4) Develop conceptual
           framework of findings. Findings from the descriptive and comparative analysis will be
           developed into a conceptual framework that explains local constructs, the context and
           triggers of child and forced marriage and the conditions when they are accepted,
           normalized or justified. Both supporting evidence and counter-evidence will be used to
           test the conceptual model, which will be used to contextualize and interpret survey
           findings. 5) The data will be triangulated from all qualitative and quantitative data
           sources.

           Ethical considerations This study will be guided by the WHO recommendations for ethical
           considerations in researching violence against women and the CIOMS International
           Guidelines for Ethical Review of Epidemiological Studies (2002). Specifics of this have
           been presented below.

           The selected sample will be contacted physically using information collected during
           enumeration. The participant will be interviewed in private and will be informed orally
           of the purpose and nature of the study, its expected benefits, and voluntary nature of
           participation. As part of the consent procedure, the participant will be informed that
           the data collected will be held in strict confidence. To ensure that the participant is
           aware that the survey includes questions on highly personal and sensitive topics, the
           interviewer will forewarn the participant that some of the topics are difficult to talk
           about. The respondent will be free to terminate the interview at any point, and to skip
           any questions that she does not wish to respond to. Because of the low levels of
           literacy and concerns regarding confidentiality the interviewer will request verbal
           consent of the participant to conduct the interview. In order to interview minors (aged
           below 18) assent from guardians would be sought. Oral consent from a guardian will be
           sought first introducing the study as a study of health and life experiences of
           adolescent girls. Then the full consent procedure will be followed with the selected
           girls in question. The interviewer will then record on the consent form that the consent
           procedure has been administered, and note whether permission to conduct the interview
           has been granted.

           Participation in the study will be on a voluntary basis. No inducements will be made.
           The participant will be told that s/he is free not to participate in the study; to
           terminate the interview at any point, and to skip any questions that s/he does not wish
           to respond to.

           All interviewers will receive strict instructions about the importance of maintaining
           confidentiality. No interviewer will conduct an interview in their own community. No
           names will be recorded on the PDAs. Instead, all the study participants will be given a
           unique code and all the identifying information will be kept in a separate file. The
           file will exclusively be accessed by the researchers and will only be used for
           identifying the participants during endline. The de-identified data will be analyzed and
           care will be taken to present the research findings in sufficiently aggregated form to
           ensure that no study participant can be identified.

           During data collection and at the group level the intervention and the study will thus
           be introduced as activities focused on addressing adolescent girls' health and life
           experience to increase the acceptability of the study.

           However, in order to conduct the interview smoothly and for ensuring support for it the
           survey team/interviewers will explain the survey to any family member who is positioned
           higher in relationship hierarchy (if present) without revealing main focus of the study.

           Interviews will only be conducted in a private setting of participants' choice. If
           confidentiality cannot be maintained for any reason the interview will be rescheduled
           (or relocate) at a time (or place) that may be more safe or convenient for the
           respondent.

           Interviewers will be trained to terminate or quickly change the subject of discussion if
           an interview is interrupted by anyone. During the interview, the interviewer will
           forewarn the respondent that she will terminate or change the topic of conversation if
           the interview is interrupted, and will be able to skip to these questions at any point
           if needed. To ensure that interviewers gain experience about how to handle interrupted
           interviews, their training will include a number of role play exercises simulating
           different situations that they may encounter.

           Interviewers will be trained to be aware of any adverse effect and, if necessary, will
           terminate the interview if the effect seems too negative.

           Care will be taken when designing the questionnaire to try to carefully and sensitively
           introduce and enquire about different sections of the questionnaire, starting from the
           less sensitive one to more sensitive sections.

           Each interview will aim to end in a positive manner , which provides the participant
           with a positive outlook and reinforces her coping strategies. The questionnaire will
           include scripted conclusion for the interview stressing the importance of the
           information that she has provided, making comment on the respondent's strengths, and
           highlighting the unacceptability of her adverse experiences.

           Extensive training will be provided to the survey team. The training will not only
           discuss survey techniques, but also ethical issues, how to respond to, and if necessary,
           provide support to the participants.

           Mechanisms to attend to researchers' and field workers' needs A number of mechanisms
           will be adopted to attend to the needs of researchers and field workers. During the
           training process these issues will be openly presented, and participants will be given
           the option of withdrawing from the project without prejudice. During the research
           regular debriefing meetings will be scheduled to enable the research team to discuss
           what they are hearing, their feelings about the situation, and how it is affecting them.
           These meetings will aim to reduce the stress of the field work, and avert any negative
           consequences. This strategy proved effective in the Bangladesh component of the WHO
           multi-country study conducted by icddr,b.

           Despite these measures, some field workers may need to be given less emotionally taxing
           tasks, be given a break from the study or to withdraw from the research altogether. To
           account for these possibilities, sufficient numbers of field workers will be recruited
           to allow for a 10% attrition rate of interviewers over the study.

           The survey findings will be disseminated in a scientifically rigorous manner. Particular
           attention will be paid to ensuring that the findings are not used as a means to describe
           one setting or group as being "worse" than another.
    
  