
    
      Surgical correction of refractive errors is becoming increasingly popular. In the 1990s, the
      excimer laser revolutionized the field of corneal refractive surgery with PRK and LASIK,
      refractive lenticule extraction (ReLEx) of intracorneal tissue using only a femtosecond
      laser, and lately ReLEx smile (SMILE). The term LASIK (Laser in situ keratomileusis) was
      first used in 1990 by Pallikaris, in which a microkeratome was used to cut a hinged corneal
      flap, followed by excimer ablation of the stromal bed and flap repositioning . LASIK is known
      to be a safe refractive surgical procedure, with good refractive efficacy and predictability
      and is associated with rapid visual recovery with minimal risk of complications.

      Most of complications are flap related and include a free cap, a button hole, an incomplete
      cut, flap striae, interface debris, diffuse lamellar keratitis (DLK), and epithelial
      ingrowth. Other complications include undercorrection, overcorrection, decentered ablation,
      irregular ablation, and ectasia.

      Corneal ectasia is a sight-threatening complication of laser refractive surgery characterized
      by progressive steepening and thinning of the cornea.It is defined as progressive stromal
      thinning and steepening of the cornea, resulting in refractive aberrations and visual
      deterioration. The incidence of post- LASIK ectasia is estimated to be between 0.04% and
      0.6%.Corneal ectasia has been observed to occur as early as 1 week and as late as several
      years after LASIK.

      The main purpose of assessing risk is to determine what group or groups of people present a
      higher chance to develop post-LASIK ectasia. The development of postoperative ectasia varies
      between LASIK centers and depends on the screening tools used to screen candidates, the
      experience and technical skill of the surgeon, and the tools used during the surgery. Risk
      factors for the development of post-LASIK ectasia include young age, a personal or family
      history of keratoconus, forme fruste keratoconus (FFKC), high myopia, low-residual stromal
      bed (RSB), and deep primary keratotomy resulting in a thick flap.

      Although several risk factors have been identified for the likelihood of ectasia development
      after keratorefractive surgeries, some cases have been reported to develop in an enigmatic
      way, without the prescence of any of these risk factors.
    
  