
    
      Infertility affects up to 15% of couples trying to conceive with the male factor contributing
      in about 50% of cases. Oxidative stress (OS) has been found as one of the many factors
      causing male infertility, by inducing sperm damage. OS causes cell damage due to the raised
      production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), that overcome the antioxidant mechanisms of the
      human body. ROS are oxidizing agents that are produced as a by-product of oxygen metabolism,
      having at least one free electron. Due to this free electrone in their outer layer, the form
      very active or unstable substances. While small amounts of ROS are necessary for the proper
      function of sperm, increased amounts have a negative effect on sperm quality and can harm its
      fertility potential, thus inducing male infertility.

      Spermatozoa were the first cells found to be sensitive to OS, as they lack the necessary
      repair cytoplasmic enzyme systems, thus being unable to repair damage. In addition, their
      cytoplasmic membranes are rich in polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), making them highly
      susceptible to oxygen-induced damage, such as lipid peroxidation (LPO). Rapid loss of
      intracellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP) by LPO, is responsible for axial damage,
      morphological damage to the sperm neck and reduced sperm motility; these events contribute to
      reduced sperm motility.

      OS has also been associated with reduced fertilization, delayed intrauterine growth,
      miscarriages, birth defects (including autism) and childhood cancer. ROS found in semen come
      from a variety of endogenous and exogenous factors. Human sperm includes mature and immature
      sperm cells, leukocytes, and white blood cells. The leukocytes (mainly neutrophils and
      macrophages) and the immature spermatozoa are considered the major endogenous sources of ROS,
      whereas lifestyle, such as smoking, excessive alcohol consumption and other environmental
      factors such as radiation and toxins may contribute to the production of exogenous ROS.

      As oxidative stress (OS) results from the imbalance of ROS overproduction and the reduced
      capacity of sperm antioxidant systems, many studies have aimed to improve sperm quality by
      administering antioxidant therapeutic regimens. In general, antioxidant therapy involves the
      administration of oral antioxidants, and the in vitro addition of antioxidants to culture
      media that are used for sample preparation in assisted reproduction techniques (ART). Many
      different antioxidants combinations have been studied. More and more studies have shown the
      beneficial effect of antioxidants on reducing sperm fragmentation and improving sperm
      quality. Agarwal & Sekhon's study showed a positive correlation between antioxidant therapy
      and various semen parameters. However, no firm conclusion regarding the beneficial effect of
      oral antioxidants can be made, as the majority of available studies had small sample size,
      used different antioxidant combinations, and the techniques that were used for the detection
      of ROS and DNA fragmentation index (DFI) were not standardized.

      AIM OF THE STUDY The purpose of this randomized clinical trial is to assess the effect of
      oral antioxidant administration to infertile men, by evaluating semen variables, sperm DFI
      and levels of ROS.Oral antioxidants or placebo will be given for 3 consecutive months.

      This study will take place at the Unit of Reproductive Endocrinology at the 1st Ob/Gyn Dept,
      Medical School, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki in collaboration with the private
      andrology diagnostic center of Mr Th. Zeginiadou.

      PATIENTS The study will recruit infertile men, who have one previous abnormal spermiogram,
      with at least one pathological variable (concentration, motility, morphology), according to
      WHO 2010 criteria.

      OUTCOMES

      Main Outcome:

      WHO Sperm analysis variables: concentration, motility, morphology.

      Secondary outcomes:

      Concentration of ROS in sperm and sperm DFI

      STUDY DESIGN

      Type of study:

      Randomized clinical trial

      The study will recruit infertile men, who have one previous abnormal spermiogram, with at
      least one pathological variable (concentration, motility, morphology), according to WHO 2010
      criteria. Participants will be recruited in the outpatient clinic of the Unit of Human
      Reproduction and of the Unit of Reproductive Endocrinology at the 1st Ob/Gyn Dept. Selected
      participants will sign the consent form and will be asked to sample sperm at the private
      andrology diagnostic center of Mr Th. Zeginiadou. The sperm samples will be evaluated
      regarding the concentration, motility, morphology and vitality of spermatozoa, as well as the
      concentration of ROS, and DFI. Oral antioxidants or placebo will be given for 3 consecutive
      months. At the end of the 3 months period participants will be asked to re-sample their sperm
      in order to evaluate the same variables.

      Sample size calculation Estimated sample size for two-sample means test, assuming and common
      standard deviation of 15 and a mean motility of 20 in the control group and 30 in the
      antioxidant group results in calculated sample size of 74. To allow for dropouts 80 patients
      will be recruited.
    
  