
    
      Eight consecutive patients ready for a full-arch rehabilitation on previously osseointegrated
      implants, and who had received an immediately loaded prosthesis, were selected. All implants
      had multiunit abutments placed on top. Cases from 4 to 6 implants were accepted, either upper
      or lower arches. Three sets of impressions were taken to each patient:

      Conventional impression:

      Open tray impression copings were screwed on top of all implants in the arch using a torque
      wrench set at 10 N/cm. Impression copings were splinted by means of Triad Gel clear resin,
      with an at least 3mm diameter in the resin connectors. Once the resin was photo-polymerized a
      cut was done in the centre of each connection with a 0.3 mm bur, to eliminate possible stress
      in the structure, and then it was splinted again with a drop of Triad Gel in each cut. A
      polyether impression was taken by means of a perforated plastic tray, and a master model was
      fabricated following the manufacturer's instructions. A plaster verification jig was
      fabricated on the model. After one week the patient came to the dental clinic where vertical
      dimension of occlusion was determined and the plaster key was screwed in the patient mouth to
      check passivity. In case the key had been fractured, a new impression would have been taken,
      and if not, final prosthesis could be processed.

      Optical impression:

      An impression of the antagonist and an impression of the edentulous arch with the healing
      abutments in place were taken by means of an optical scanner following the manufacturers
      protocol. The position of the implants was marked in the working standard tessellation
      language (STL) model, and the software cut a circle on top of those areas. The files were
      copied, and two datasets were obtained.

      Scan-bodies were placed on top of each multiunit abutment, the first STL dataset was open and
      a second impression was taken, so that the scan-bodies were positioned on the working file.

      Scan-bodies were then removed from the patient mouth, and temporary copings were placed on
      top of each multiunit abutment. A MedicalFit device was selected, and holes were drilled in
      the position of the implants until it fitted on top of all the cylinders. Cylinders were then
      splinted to MedicalFit device by means of Triad Gel clear. The device was then removed from
      the patient mouth and scan implant replicas were placed at the bottom of the metal cylinders.
      Finally, the device with the scan implant replicas was scanned with an intraoral optical
      scanner.

      The following set of pictures were taken: Rest position, maximum smile (with the scan bodies
      placed in the mouth), front with retractors (with the scan bodies), and 45ยบ with retractors
      (also with the scan bodies in place).

      All pictures and STL datasets were sent to the dental technician to produce a temporary
      structure. The STL dataset from the scanning of Medicalfit device used was adjusted to the
      original STL dataset of the device in the library, and then superimposed to the dataset of
      the scan-bodies received from us, to allow repositioning of the scan-bodies and to correct
      possible discrepancies during the intraoral scanning process.

      A temporary polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) framework was delivered by the dental lab and tried
      in the patient mouth. Corrections were done to adjust occlusion, gingival contour and
      esthetic parameters where needed. Once esthetic parameters and occlusal scheme were
      considered correct, a new intraoral scanning was taken with the temporary framework in place.
      In case changes were done in the gingival contour, scanning of the gingival aspect of the
      PMMA framework was also done. The PMMA temporary was then left in the patient mouth.

      Three pictures were taken with the PMMA framework placed in the mouth: Front full face at
      rest, front full-face smiling, front full face with separators and full face smiling at 45ยบ.

      Clinical adjustment assessment:

      After one week two sets of the final prosthesis in full-zirconia were sent from the dental
      lab, one processed with conventional models and the second fully digital. Both sets were
      tested in the patient mouth by two calibrated blinded independent operators.

      Misfit should be ideally measured in terms smaller than 10 microns, but clinical adjustment
      is difficult to assess using conventional or quantitative methods. In this research
      adjustment was assessed following four criteria: passivity in the insertion of the screws,
      tactile sensation, radiographs and screwing torque:

        1. A Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) was used to assess the perception of passivity in the
           insertion of the prosthodontic screws. A ten centimeters line will be shown to the
           observer. One side of the line represents "perfect passivity", and the other "no passive
           at all". The observer will mark his passivity perception on the line between the two
           endpoints. The distance between "no passivity at all" and the mark will defines the
           passivity perception.

        2. Examination of the marginal fit with an exploratory probe (#23/3 explorer) under 3,8x
           magnification. Three possible scores were possible: 0 (no gap perceived when probing), 1
           (perception of the gap without entering it) and 2 (the tip of the explorer clearly
           entered the gap).

        3. Periapical radiographs were taken with a positioning system to evaluate possible gaps.
           Five possible scores were possible from 1 to 5, being 1 no gap and increasing 0.15 mm
           each score until reaching 0.60 mm in score 5.

        4. Digital photographs were taken with a 105 mm macro lens. The pictures were calibrated
           with the known height of the framework and the gap was measured. Four possible scores
           were possible, being 1 no gap and increasing 0.25 mm each score until reaching 0.75 mm
           in score 5.

        5. Screwing torque on each abutment was measured with the app software from Ichiropro motor
           (BienAir, Bienne, Switzerland). All screws were hand screwed and then all but the most
           distal right were unscrewed. Torque was set at 15 N/cm and speed at 5 rpm. The most
           right distal screw was tightened first, and then the rest of the screws were tightened
           starting at the most mesial left, following to the most distal left, and from that to
           the next neighbor implant until all screws were tightened. The torque-time signature was
           studied in every screw to determine if the torque started to grow just at the end of the
           tightening or throughout the process. Three scores were possible: 1 for linear value
           with a fast increase at end of the tightening, 2 for soft continuous growth with a
           steeper increase at the end, 3 for steep increase at the beginning of tightening.

      Once the assessment of the two frameworks was completed, the framework with better adjustment
      will be placed in the patient, after assessing the presence of correct occlusion, phonetics
      and esthetic parameters. The second set will be packed and delivered to the patient as a
      possible replacement in case of problems in the future.
    
  