
    
      Dry eye disease (DED) is a chronic inflammatory disease. In severe cases, it may cause
      corneal ulcers, blurred vision, and even blindness. The prevalence of DED is about 30% in
      Taiwan. With the popularity of technological products and prolonged average life expectancy,
      the incidence of dry eye disease is increasing at a rate of 10% per year in Taiwan. However,
      treatment of DED mainly focuses on symptom relief in modern medicine. It is a difficult
      problem to improve the pathological state of patients with DED. Hence, there is an urgent
      need for a more effective and safe method of treating this disease.

      Chi-Ju-Di-Huang-Wan (CJDHW) is commonly used in traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) for eye
      diseases. However, current research shows that use CJDHW alone to treat dry eye is less
      effective for tear secretion, which may be related to the unimproved inflammation state.
      Ligustilide and ferulic acid, which own significant anti-inflammatory effects, are the
      effective ingredients of Jia-Wei-Xiao-Yao-San (JWXYS). Many studies have demonstrated that
      JWXYS can reduce serum TNF-α and IFN-γ levels in patients with DED. Therefore, the
      investigators choose to use CJDHW plus JWXYS for treatment in this study.

      This is a single center, randomized, single-blind, controlled pilot study of CJDHW plus JWXYS
      as a complementary therapy to treat dry eye disease during a 12-week period. The
      investigators intend to enroll 60 subjects aged between 20 and 75 years old (treatment
      group(N=30); controlled group(N=30)). Treatment group will be treated with artificial tears
      combined with TCM, while control group will use artificial tears only. The evaluation will be
      conducted on 1st, 4th, 8th,12th week. Primary endpoints include Schirmer's test and
      non-invasive tear film breakup time(NiBUT); secondary endpoints include tear meniscus height,
      meibomian gland loss rate, tear cytokines and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) levels and
      Ocular Surface Disease Index (OSDI).

      The aim of this study is to explore the efficacy and possible mechanism of TCM for DED.
    
  