
    
      Intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN) is a cystic pancreatic neoplasm that is a
      precursor to invasive pancreatic cancer. Differentiating whether an IPMN lesion is benign or
      malignant is critical, as the prognosis and management differs drastically, varying from
      surgical resection to observation. However, despite attempts to characterize features
      concerning for malignancy, it is difficult to determine the likelihood of malignancy with
      conventional imaging techniques, including CT, MRI, and EUS. An accurate, non-invasive test
      to identify malignant IPMN is needed.

      The investigators' hypothesis is that [18F]-FDG PET may be a superior modality for
      differentiating between benign and malignant IPMN lesions. We are planning a prospective
      pilot study of ten consecutive patients with IPMN from the Columbia University Pancreas
      Center who are undergoing surgical resection for their disease. These patients will undergo
      [18F]-FDG PET imaging, as well as CT, MRI, and EUS as clinically indicated. All scans will be
      reviewed by two experienced nuclear medicine radiologists who will be blinded to the clinical
      characteristics of study patients and who will reach a consensus. Areas of focally increased
      [18F]-FDG intake will be identified. Side-by-side reading with CT scan will be performed to
      evaluate whether the increased [18F]-FDG uptake corresponds to a pancreatic lesion. Mean and
      maximal standardized uptake value (SUV) values, as well as differences in intensity between
      the region of interest and the remaining pancreas, will be calculated.Surgical pathology will
      be utilized as the gold standard for histological determination. Standard post-operative
      histological interpretation of each IPMN lesion will be recorded, including size, duct
      involvement (main, side, or mixed), ductal dilatation, lesion location (head, neck, body,
      tail), and histologic grade (adenoma, borderline, carcinoma in situ, invasive carcinoma). In
      addition, any associated pancreatitis or any other non-IPMN neoplastic change will also be
      noted.

      Using PET scan results and surgical pathology information, we will evaluate the positive and
      negative predictive values of [18F]-FDG PET for malignancy within IPMN lesions.
    
  