
    
      Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is an autoimmune connective tissue disease primarily affecting young
      to middle-aged women. The pathogenesis of SSc is complex involving interplay of three
      seemingly diverse processes: autoimmunity, vasculopathy, and fibrosis. Patients experience
      varying degrees of disabling skin thickening and potentially life-threatening internal organ
      fibrosis and vasculopathy, but there is no way to accurately predict disease subtype and risk
      for severity and progression. Current experimental treatments for SSc include oral and
      intravenous cyclophosphamide and mycophenolate mofetil that blunt the immune response,
      autologous stem cell transplant that may reset the immune system, and imatinib mesylate that
      may reduce fibrosis.

      Recent exciting genomics research from our lab and our collaborator suggests that skin biopsy
      samples obtained from patients with SSc have robust alterations in gene expression profiles
      compared to controls. Changes in expression of genes known to be involved in profibrotic
      pathways were prominent. The present proposal describes novel experiments to evaluate genomic
      approaches coupled with clinical data to identify patient subsets, predict response to
      treatment, and to better understand the molecular basis for disease pathogenesis, and
      treatment response.

      The Northwestern Scleroderma Program (NSP) is a novel multidisciplinary program to accelerate
      SSc research and provide comprehensive care to >400 SSc patients. Standardized clinical
      information including demographic, laboratory, and diagnostic data (echocardiography, high
      resolution chest computerized tomography, and pulmonary function testing) as well as DNA is
      currently collected on all patients and entered into a clinical database. NSP patients will
      be offered the option to donate dermal tissue for genomic analysis using a previously
      established, optimized approach to extract RNA from tissue samples.

      We hypothesize that our DNA microarray technique will permit analysis of changes in gene
      expression from the skin of patients undergoing dermal biopsies before and after treatment
      and will identify unrecognized profibrotic pathways in addition to providing new, important
      information regarding known fibrotic pathways. The knowledge gained will not only deepen our
      understanding of the molecular pathways involved in fibrosis, but also provide a means to
      reliably predict which patients are likely to respond to various treatments.

      Relevance:

      SSc is a devastating orphan connective tissue disease with no known cure. There are no
      disease biomarkers that can accurately predict disease subtype or risk for internal organ
      involvement and progression at present. Using well-established genomic techniques, the
      current proposal will investigate if changes in gene expression of profibrotic pathways in
      dermal biopsies before and after various treatments correlates with clinical response. If so,
      genonic analysis of dermal tissue may be useful to better understand the molecular
      pathogenesis of SSc and as a disease biomarker.
    
  