
    
      Background: Diet high in total dietary fiber content has been recommended for individuals
      with diabetes mellitus. However, the effect of supplementing diet with viscous fiber such as
      guar gum, beta glucan, psyllium, konjac, or other viscous fibers on glycemic and insulinemic
      outcomes in individuals with diabetes mellitus is still controversial.

      Objective: To improve the evidence-based guidelines/ recommendations for diabetes mellitus,
      we will conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis on the effect of viscous fiber
      supplementation on glycemic control endpoints in individuals with diabetes mellitus.

      Design: Cochrane handbook for systematic review of interventions will be used for planning
      and conducting this meta-analysis. The reporting will follow the Preferred Reporting Items
      for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analyses (PRISMA) guidelines.

      Data sources: MEDLINE, EMBASE, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials will be
      searched using appropriate pre-determined search terms.

      Study selection: All the included trials must be randomized, controlled, with duration of ≥ 3
      weeks investigating the effect of supplementing diet with viscous fiber on glycemic control
      outcomes in individuals with diabetes mellitus. Acute studies, non-randomized, not
      appropriately controlled studies will be excluded. Both isocaloric and non-isocaloric will be
      included.

      Data extraction: Two independent reviewers will extract information about fiber type, sample
      size, subject characteristics, dose, follow-up, composition of the background diets, and
      statistical analyses. Mean±SEM values will be extracted for all outcomes. Standard
      computation and imputation will be used to derive all missing variance data. Risk of bias and
      study quality will be assessed using the Cochrane Risk of Bias Tool and the Grading of
      Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE), respectively.

      Outcome: This meta-analysis will assess a set of outcomes related to glycemic control in
      individuals with diabetes mellitus. These outcomes are: (1) glycated hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c),
      (2) fasting glucose (FG), (3) fasting insulin (FI), (4) fructosmine, and (5) Homeostasis
      model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR).

      Data synthesis: Pooled analysis will be conducted using the Generic Inverse Variance method.
      Rand-effects models will be used even in the absence of statistical significant between-study
      heterogeneity because they yield more conservative summary effect estimates in the presence
      of residual heterogeneity. Heterogeneity will be assessed using Cochran's Q test and
      quantified by the I2 statistic. Sensitivity and subgroup analyses will be used to explore
      sources of heterogeneity. A prioir subgroup analyses include study design, does, fiber type,
      follow-up (duration), baseline values, study quality, food matrix, and composition of the
      background diet. The significance of subgroup analyses will be assessed using meta-regression
      analyses. Publication bias will be assessed using the inspection of funnel plots and
      application of Egger's and Begg's tests.

      Knowledge translation plan: Results will be shared through traditional, national, and
      international scientific meetings and they will be submitted to high impact factor journals
      for publication.

      Significance: We hope the results of this study will play a role in improving the guidelines/
      recommendations for individuals with diabetes mellitus by raising the awareness towards
      viscous fiber consumption among health providers, patients, and industry. Hopefully, this
      study will aid in guiding future research in the dietary fiber field.
    
  