
    
      In March 2014, the French Health Authorities edited new guidelines about early discharge
      after delivery. Early discharge is defined as a discharge during the 72 hours following
      vaginal delivery of low-risk mothers and their healthy newborn. These guidelines defined the
      conditions of eligibility for early discharge for mothers and babies, and the different
      criteria of their follow-up at home by midwives .

      The average length of stay following normal delivery is higher in France than in other
      European countries: eg : 4.3 days in France vs 2.2 days in Sweden (OECD indicators 2011) On
      the other hand, according to an investigation conducted by a patients association, 38% women
      declared that they felt that their hospitalization was too long after their baby's birth, but
      their request for a shorter stay had not been taken into account by hospital caregivers. The
      investigators hypothesis is that the rate of early discharge could be increased by a
      multi-pronged program coordinated in a perinatal network, and could improve quality of
      postpartum care, and women's satisfaction.

      The "Réseau Périnatal Alpes Isère" is a perinatal network located in French Alps region. Its
      purpose is to coordinate 5 maternity services an organization of midwives providing pre and
      postnatal home care, for about 10000 births annually. In 2010, according to the hospital
      database provided by the Medical Information Systems Program, early discharge concerned only
      4.1% of mothers between 0 and 48 hours after delivery . At the same time, 65% of women could
      be considered as at low risk, considering they gave birth to a healthy singleton, born after
      38 weeks of gestation by vaginal delivery. This rate is not precise, in view of the lack of
      availability of documented rate of non-eligibility for early discharge such as non- eutrophic
      babies, or adverse events during postpartum and the neonatal period.
    
  