
    
      Patients will be recruited by through orthopedic surgery clinics or contacted by after
      pre-screening via chart review and given an information brochure. If they are interested in
      the trial will be emailed or given a paper copy of the consent form and scheduled for a
      single additional visit in the Integrative Medicine Center at Hoover Pavilion approximately 1
      week before surgery. At the single study visit, participants would be consented, then a
      mini-mental state test would be performed to determine if participants are eligible by a
      score of 25 or above. If eligible, participants would be asked to fill out surveys relating
      to demographics, attitudes and experience with hypnosis, and detailed pain medication usage.
      Then, participants would be randomized to hypnosis vs. no hypnosis. The hypnosis group will
      undergo a Hypnotic Induction Profile to score hypnotizability, then be lead through a
      hypnosis induction and read a perioperative symptom management script, then re-alerted from
      hypnosis. Patients in this group would then be asked to listen to the same hypnosis script on
      a telephone recording twice per day until after the surgery when participants feel they don't
      need it anymore.

      The control group will fill out the surveys and the study visit will end. Participants will
      be asked not to use any hypnosis until the trial period is over. Data regarding pain,
      activity, and satisfaction is already collected by email survey or by Ipad in orthopedic
      clinic at or before the pre-op visit, and 3 months post-op.

      Patients in the knee study will be asked to fill out the same surveys around the two week and
      six week post-op orthopedic clinic visits as well. One additional survey will be added at the
      2 week post-op visit to reassess attitudes and experience with hypnosis, and detailed pain
      medication usage. Those participants who do not fill out the survey will be called and/or
      emailed to remind them to fill it out.
    
  