
    
      This is a prospective double-blind randomized trial to evaluate the optimal timing of IV
      dexamethasone. All patients undergoing isolated hand or forearm surgery under anesthetic will
      be approached to participate. The patients will be consented on the day of surgery; all
      patients will be fully informed of the procedures involved in the study. Once the patient has
      consented to the study, they will be randomized to receive dexamethasone at one of four
      different times: 1 hour before the block, during the block, 1 hour after the block and 2
      hours after the block.

      In accordance with routine pre-block management, non-invasive blood pressure,
      electrocardiogram and pulse oximetry will be applied and intravenous access secured on the
      non-operative side for infusion of a 0.9% saline solution. Prior to block performance all
      patients will receive intravenous midazolam 1 - 4mg IV and / or fentanyl 25mcg IV for
      anxiolysis and analgesia, respectively, as needed. The US-guided SCB will be performed under
      sterile conditions by a staff regional anesthetist, regional anesthesia fellow or a directly
      supervised resident with experience of at least 10 US-guided SCB performed for each approach.
      Ultrasound examination above the clavicle will be performed using a high frequency linear
      probe (5 - 12 MHz range) with either a Philips, Sonosite or GE ultrasound machine. The
      brachial plexus, subclavian artery, first rib and pleura will be identified in the
      supraclavicular fossa. A 22 - gauge insulated 50mm needle (Stimuplex, Braun Medical,
      Bethlehem, PA) will be introduced in plane with the US and advanced to puncture the brachial
      plexus sheath. Typically this is accompanied by a palpable 'fascial click'. A small amount
      (0.5-1ml) of local anesthetic will be incrementally injected for needle tip hydro-location
      and/or hydro-dissection at the discretion of the operator. After placing the needle tip near
      the intersection of the first rib and the lateral aspect of the subclavian artery ('corner
      pocket') 30mls of 0.5% bupivacaine will be injected incrementally in 5ml aliquots with
      intermittent aspiration for blood.

      A blinded research associate will evaluate sensory loss and motor blockade every 5 minutes
      until surgery starts.

      Supplemental mask oxygen IV fluid replacement and full monitoring will be continued
      intraoperatively. Intravenous sedation will be used at the discretion of the attending
      anesthetist and according to the patient's wishes as is the standard of care at our
      institution. The dose of sedative and / or analgesic drugs will be recorded. Attendants will
      be asked to avoid any intraoperative steroid therapy. Surgical duration will be recorded for
      comparative analysis and exclusion of cases <30 or >180 minutes.

      Following surgery, patients will be transferred to the post-operative care unit (PACU) or
      fast-tracked for discharge directly from the day case unit. The onset time of surgical pain
      (if applicable) and first analgesic request will be recorded. Once oral intake is
      established, patients will receive one of two analgesic preparations as needed; Tylenol#3速
      (acetaminophen 300mg/codeine 30mg/caffeine 15mg per tablet) or Percocet速 (acetaminophen
      325mg/oxycodone HCl 5mg) if intolerant to codeine. Patients will be evaluated at 1 and 2
      hours postoperatively noting pain scores, analgesics received, block density and recovery
      criteria.

      On discharge from hospital, patients will receive a prescription of Tylenol#3速 as needed or
      Percocet速 if intolerant to codeine. Patients will be given a home diary to complete. Patients
      will be requested to record the time at which they first experience pain at the surgical
      site, the time of first analgesic use and the time when they regain normal (or baseline
      equivalent) strength in their fingers. Patients will be asked to complete diary entries at 8
      hrs, 24hrs, 48hrs and 7 days post operatively. They will be asked to document their visual
      analogue (VAS) pain score, cumulative analgesic consumption, side effects (numbness /
      tingling in the operative arm, weakness in the operative arm, pain around the injection site,
      bruising around the injection site, nausea and vomiting) and current VAS for satisfaction
      pertaining to the analgesia received. Patients will be telephoned at the aforementioned times
      to collect data from the diary, which was found the most reliable method of data collection
      during a previous study. Finally, patients will be phoned at 3 months to ensure no long -
      term numbness or weakness related to the nerve block.

      The doses of oral codeine or oxycodone consumed by each patient will be converted into
      equi-analgesic doses of oral morphine sulphate in order to facilitate comparison between
      groups.
    
  