
    
      Background on Condition, Disease, or Other Primary Study Focus: The population afflicted with
      Alzheimer's disease and other dementias will expand from 5 to 16 million by 2050, increasing
      dementia care costs from $259 billion to $1.1 trillion. Of today's 1.4 million nursing home
      (NH) residents, 61% have moderate to severe dementia, and up to 90% of them exhibit
      behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) such as physical and verbal
      aggression, agitation, and wandering. These behaviors are associated with depression as well
      as reduced quality of life and lower survival rates in persons with dementia (PWD). BPSD also
      stress family caregivers and precipitate NH placement. In the NH, BPSD increase time to
      provide care, and NH staff, primarily Certified Nursing Assistants (CNAs) who provide most
      direct care, report that BPSD represent the most stressful aspect of their job. Considering
      additional costs for CNA burnout and turnover, It is estimated that BPSD increase costs of
      dementia care by 25 to 35%. With national NH rates for a semi-private room of $82,200 per
      year, reducing BPSD may save up to $20,000 per resident annually.

      As cognitive and communication abilities decline due to dementia, NH residents become unable
      to convey care preferences and needs and staff communication becomes infantilizing,
      impersonal, and task-oriented resulting in BPSD. As verified in the investigator's past
      research using behavioral coding and sequential analyses of video-recorded care, staff
      elderspeak (communication that sounds like baby talk) is linked to resident resistiveness to
      care (RTC), a subset of BPSD that disrupt nursing care. NH residents were more than twice as
      likely to be resistive to care when staff used elderspeak compared to normal communication.
      Thus, improving communication has great potential as a nonpharmacological intervention to
      reduce BPSD in NH care.

      Study Rationale: The Communication Predicament of Aging theory establishes the link between
      elderspeak and BPSD. Elderspeak derives from stereotypical views of older adults as less
      competent than younger persons. When younger people talk with older adults, they modify their
      speech by simplifying, clarifying, and altering the underlying affective quality of messages.
      The resulting implicit message of incompetence begins a negative feedback loop for older
      persons, who react with depression, withdrawal, and dependency. Elderspeak is especially
      threatening to self-concept and personhood, critical to the wellbeing of PWD who are likely
      to respond with BPSD. The Need-driven Dementia-compromised Behavior model recognizes BPSD as
      the expression of unmet needs of PWD. Communication, that staff can modify to prevent BPSD,
      is an essential constant part of the environment connecting PWD to others and affirming their
      self-concept.

      Psychotropic medications are often used inappropriately to control BPSD in NH residents with
      dementia. Alarmingly high rates persist, despite negative outcomes, an FDA black box warning
      of increased mortality for older adults with dementia, and a recent Centers for Medicare and
      Medicaid Services (CMS) mandate to reduce off-label prescribing of antipsychotics. CMS and
      the National Partnership to Improve Dementia Care target reductions in psychotropic drug use
      as top priority. Despite reductions in antipsychotic rates (one type of psychotropic
      medication) ranging from 3 to 12% from 2011-2016, up to 20% of NH residents received
      inappropriate antipsychotic medication in 2017. Research demonstrates that educating direct
      care providers in behavioral interventions to control BPSD also reduces psychotropic drug use
      (antipsychotics, hypnotics, antidepressants, antianxiety, sedative, anticonvulsant and mood
      stabilizers), although evidence is limited by lack of rigorous clinical trials that also
      evaluate approaches that influence intervention effects.

      The recently completed R01 clinical trial that tested Changing Talk (CHAT) communication
      training (NR011455) provides preliminary data for this CHATO pilot. CHAT decreased staff
      elderspeak that reduced resident RTC and increased staff awareness of elderspeak's negative
      effects. CHAT NHs also saw a significant reduction in psychotropic medication use after the
      training versus averaged state rates. Despite the success of CHAT in reducing elderspeak and
      RTC, investigators found challenges to educating NH staff that limited participation in CHAT
      including turnover, absenteeism, heavy workloads, and personal conflicts. Each CHAT session
      was held multiple days and times. Still, as few as 44% of staff in one NH completed at least
      two of the three sessions, although this rate is higher than that noted for other NH staff
      training programs. Although successful in reducing RTC, the classroom format limits staff
      access and participation and feasibility for widespread dissemination. Creative, efficient
      approaches are needed to overcome NH staff education barriers. An online web conference
      training with multiple NHs as an alternative format was first evaluated for increasing access
      and dissemination. However, engagement of individual staff was limited with this approach. To
      facilitate dissemination, online CHAT modules (CHATO) were developed to provide the same CHAT
      content with asynchronous and independent access for busy NH staff.

      The PI worked with an instructional designer, item writer, and media team to transition CHAT
      content, including 20 video clips of NH staff-resident interactions, to the online CHATO
      modules. Scripts from the original CHAT were narrated to maintain content, integrating adult
      learning theories and principles for online learning, and eliminating a need for advanced
      literacy skills. Interactive scenario and game-based activities engage staff. For example,
      participants watch a video clip, select problem communication in the transcript, type their
      improved communication, and compare it to suggested corrections. Moderated online discussions
      are included in the modules that are supported on Training-Source.org, a free and publicly
      available learning portal. IT functionality and content equivalency of the newly developed
      CHATO online modules was demonstrated by a convenient university-affiliated sample of nurses,
      CNAs, and students with NH experience. Although the group testing CHATO may not represent all
      NH staff, findings confirm that CHATO is feasible and comparable in content and effects.

      While CHAT effectively reduced RTC, the in-person classroom format required an onsite
      interventionist, which limits accessibility and feasibility for dissemination. A pilot test
      of acceptability and preliminary efficacy of online CHATO modules is the next logical step.
      The pilot will prepare for a pragmatic clinical trial that will test the effects of improved
      staff communication (from CHATO) on resident BPSD and effects on psychotropic medication use.
      This research will address the gap in rigorous trials testing nonpharmacological
      interventions to decrease BPSD that also identify strategies to improve intervention
      dissemination. The goal is to increase access to CHATO training, as a tool to reduce BPSD and
      inappropriate psychotropic medication use to improve dementia care.

      STUDY DESIGN

      The R61 will prepare for the R01 pragmatic trial by establishing feasibility of online
      modules and preliminary efficacy of CHATO with NH staff. The research design is a randomized
      clinical trial. One NH will provide initial feasibility testing. Any modifications to the
      modules will be made. Then 6 nursing homes (estimated N=150 staff) will be randomly assigned
      to intervention or wait-list control groups. The primary outcome will be knowledge gain for
      staff completing CHATO training. Additional outcomes include resident quality measures
      related to behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) on both resident and
      facility levels and facility level data related to inappropriate use of psychotropic
      medications to control BPSD.

      Staff Knowledge Gain. At time 1, nursing home staff in both groups will complete baseline
      pre-tests of knowledge and rating of communication. The immediate intervention group will
      then complete the online CHATO modules within a one-month period. This includes assessments
      of post-test knowledge, communication rating, program evaluation, and diffusion of innovation
      surveys at Time 2. Also, at Time 2, the wait-list control group will repeat the pre-tests of
      knowledge and communication rating and will then complete the CHATO online module training
      over a one-month period, followed by Time 3 collection of post-test knowledge, communication
      rating, program evaluation, and diffusion of innovation surveys. Knowledge gain and
      communication rating data will be compared between the intervention and wait-list control
      groups and within nursing homes before and after the CHATO training. The immediate and
      wait-list groups will be compared at baseline to identify important covariates for analyses
      of changes in outcomes. Changes in knowledge from Time 1 (baseline) to Time 2 will be
      compared between immediate and wait-list groups using model estimates obtained with a linear
      mixed model (LMM) approach to account for repeated measures and clustering within nursing
      homes. Next, pre- to post-training changes in knowledge will be combined for immediate and
      wait-list groups and also tested using LMM approach.

      Resident Quality Measure Outcomes. In addition, nursing homes in both groups will provide
      monthly summary reports for behavioral symptom occurrence for the facility (in aggregate as
      well as for individual residents [deidentified]). A nursing home aggregate antipsychotic
      medication use report will also be collected and analyzed. The BPSD and medication reports
      will be provided for the one-month period before baseline data collection and for each month
      thereafter until the post-training assessment of the wait-listed nursing homes is completed
      (a total of seven months for both groups). Resident outcomes data will be compared between
      the intervention and wait-list control groups and within nursing homes before and after the
      CHATO training. Initially, seven months of data will be plotted to examine changes in nursing
      homes and resident outcomes. Pre- to post-training differences will be compared between
      immediate and wait-listed groups with a LMM approach.

      Implementation Strategies and Process Evaluation. An Implementation Toolkit for NHs and a
      CHATO Training Manual have been created to provide support and implementation suggestions to
      pilot nursing homes. Several consultants provided feedback and additional resources to be
      included in these materials. Each NH will be given a three-month period to complete the CHATO
      training. One month for orientation, team development, and planning, one month to complete
      the three-week training, and one month for staff recognition and follow up. The CHATO
      Research Team will meet with the NH leadership at the beginning and end of this three-month
      period, manage CHATO training virtual discussion board, and provide technical assistance as
      necessary. The process evaluation includes an online implementation survey which identifies
      the strategies NHs used to implement the training and includes the Artifacts of Culture
      survey. The survey uses the Diffusion of Innovation framework and mirrors the Implementation
      Toolkit. Additional process evaluation activities include: Leadership phone interviews
      completed by the consultants and external evaluators at LeadingAge and open-ended questions
      asked of direct care staff in the CHATO virtual discussion.
    
  