
    
      Introduction The most common goal of functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS) is to improve
      quality of life (QOL). Changes in QOL or treatment effect can be measured using validated
      instruments completed by patients. One's perception of QOL is often a dynamic experience and
      has been shown to be affected by current medical and emotional state. This phenomenon is
      known as response shift in QOL research and can be measured by using the Then-test. This test
      asks patients to complete the same pre-operative survey of their symptoms during the
      post-operative period. This test aims to characterize any changes in one's perception of the
      pre-operative condition. The aim of this study is to assess the significance of response
      shift on sinus surgery outcomes measured using the sino-nasal outcome test (SNOT-20), a
      validated questionnaire used to assess the severity of symptoms related to chronic
      rhinosinusitis.

      Methods This was a prospective cohort study approved by the University of Washington IRB. We
      approached all patients who underwent FESS for chronic rhinosinusitis from 2010-2012 who
      completed a pre-operative SNOT-20. We aimed to recruit 30 patients. Patients were mailed 2
      SNOT-20 forms and a transition QOL scale at least 6 months after surgery. Patients were
      instructed to complete 1 SNOT-20 according to their pre-operative symptoms (then-test) and
      the other according to their post-operative symptoms. The difference between the pre- and
      post-operative SNOT-20 was calculated which represents the treatment effect, while the
      difference between the pre-operative SNOT-20 and then-test represents the response shift. A
      student t-test was used to compare these differences.

      Results A total of 32 complete responses were obtained. Using a 0 to 5 SNOT-20 scale, the
      average treatment effect was -0.96 (p=0.00) and the average response shift was +0.42
      (p=0.01). The negative treatment effect signifies an improvement in QOL. The positive
      response shift signifies that on average, patients thought they were even more symptomatic
      prior to surgery. The actual treatment effect is the sum of treatment effect and response
      shift which was -1.38.

      Discussion Response shift exists and can be quantified in FESS outcomes. The actual treatment
      effect was more profound when taking into account response shift, therefore future studies
      should account for this often unmeasured, potential change in QOL.
    
  