
    
      Introduction

      Community-based stroke studies can answer important questions regarding incidence, case
      fatality, recurrence, disability, assessment of risk factors and quality of stroke services.

      Brazil had the highest age-adjusted stroke death rate of all Latin-American countries and the
      risk of premature death due to stroke is one of the highest in the world. Although, a decline
      in Brazilian stroke incidence and mortality has been observed in last years, stroke still has
      an important social burden in the country.

      The purpose of this study is to observe trends in stroke incidence, types and sub-types of
      stroke, risk factors, prognosis, 30 days and one case-fatality during a follow-up of ten
      years.

      Objectives

      The objectives of this project is to analyze:

      The incidence of first-ever-in-a-lifetime stroke and incidence of pathological types,
      subtypes, and rare causes Case fatalities Prognosis Early and long-term case-fatality rates
      Poststroke morbidity Disability and handicap pos-stroke Risk factors Complications after
      stroke Recurrent stroke Other vascular events Trends in stroke incidence

      Subjects and Methods

      Study Design A prospective population-based study is being performed since August, 1, 2015

      Site of Investigation

      Matão is a city located in São Paulo state, in the Brazilian southwest, 300 km northwest of
      the state capital. Matão population was 78.690 in 2015 and estimated population in 2025 is
      80791 inhabitants. There is only 1 hospital in the city, which serves the whole city and 2
      other small towns. This is a general secondary level public hospital, with 190 beds,
      including 18 beds in the intensive care unit and a radiology service with CT scan, the only
      one in the city. The emergency department attends to 5000 to 6000 people monthly; including
      emergency and urgency cases. The emergency department and intensive care unit take care of
      acute stroke patients according to a written protocol that includes hospitalization and a
      brain CT scan applied as soon as possible to all patients with suspected stroke.

      Case Ascertainment All the physicians in the city are instructed to refer suspected acute
      stroke patients to the research team or to the hospital emergency department. The
      neurologists of the research team check all radiology records in suspected cases of stroke.
      The hospital admission and discharge lists are checked weekly, searching for any suspected
      case. All death certificates from the study period are checked monthly to search for stroke
      patients who died in their homes and are not been referred to the hospital.

      Inclusion criteria All suspected stroke patients living in Matão at an address belonging to
      the city are included, regardless of age. The stroke criteria is rapidly developing clinical
      symptoms and/or signs of focal and at time global loss of cerebral function, with symptoms
      lasting more than 24 hours or leading to death, with no apparent cause other than that of
      vascular origin. Only the first-ever-in-a-lifetime stroke is being included in the analysis.

      Exclusion criteria Patients not living in Matão, who did not fulfill the clinical criteria
      for stroke, with CT scan findings incompatible with a clinical suspicion of stroke and with
      clinical evidence of a previous stroke event.

      Follow-Up All included cases are being followed-up prospectively by the research team during
      the first, third, sixth, months and 1 year after the stroke event with hospital visits.
      Patients unable to attend the scheduled visits or who had moved to another city are being
      contacted by telephone.

      Classifications and Definitions The subtypes of stroke are being classified as ischemic
      stroke and intracerebral hemorrhage on the basis of CT scan findings and subarachnoid
      hemorrhage on the basis of CT scan and cerebrospinal fluid findings. Ischemic stroke is
      subdivided into four subtypes according to the Oxfordshire Community Stroke Project
      classification. For prognosis, is considered independence in activities of daily living if
      patient reaches 100 points on the Barthel scale, independent gait if the patient reached 15
      points in the mobility subsection of the Barthel scale, recurrent stroke if any new episode
      of focal cerebral dysfunction persisting 24 hours during the follow-up period.

      Data Analysis The age- and sex-specific annual incidence of first-ever-stroke per 100 000
      inhabitants it is being estimated according to the official system of the Brazilian Ministry
      of Health stratification and is presented as 10-year age bands as follows: younger than 45,
      45 to 54, 55 to 64, 65 to 74, and 75 years or older. The incidence rate will be calculated as
      the number of cases divided by the population at risk in the specific age bands, according
      the respective year population. Inferential analyses will be performed by the 2-sided Fischer
      exact test, with the level of significance set at 5%.

      Discussion

      Population-based studies can identify all types and sub-types of stroke in a community.
      Studies including just data from hospitals, may not include mild stroke that are not
      hospitalized and also severe stroke that die at home and do not have hospitals admission.

      Additionally, it is fundamental that this studies should be prospective and in a long
      follow-up. As diagnostic of stroke is basically clinical, prospective studies allow more
      specific methods to define the type of stroke, risk factors, impairments and handicaps over
      time.

      The paucity of data regarding incidence on long follow-up and the distinct etiologies as
      cause of stroke are being responsible as the main causes of the high incidence and case
      fatality in the world. This study in Matão offers the opportunity to conduct an epidemiologic
      study of high quality, which will be able to obtain data to formulate public politics to
      reduce the social and economic impact of stroke in Brazil.
    
  