
    
      1.0 Hypothesis: The direct thrombin inhibitor Pradaxa positively affects bone turnover
      markers and increases bone mineral density in women and men at risk for osteoporosis.

      2.0 Goal: The goal of this study is to establish if the direct thrombin inhibitor Pradaxa
      positively affects bone turnover markers and increases bone mineral density in women and men
      at risk for osteoporosis.

      3.0 Specific Aims.

      3.1 To determine the effect of Pradaxa on bone mineral density in patients after 6 and 12
      months of daily use.

      3.2 To determine the effect of the direct thrombin inhibitor Pradaxa on bone turnover markers
      for osteoclastic resorption (measured as serum levels of C-terminal peptide, and
      N-telopeptide) and osteoblastic formation (measured as serum levels of bone-specific alkaline
      phosphatase, osteocalcin and P1NP) in subjects after 6 and 12 months of daily use.

      3.3 To evaluate any correlation among the hemoclot, thrombin inhibitor test, changes in
      markers of bone turnover and changes in bone mineral density in patients on Pradaxa.

      3.4 To determine the effect of Pradaxa on change in serum levels of receptor activator of NF
      B-ligand (RANKL), osteoprotegerin (OPG), RANKL/OPG ratio, inflammatory markers (IL-1b, IL-6,
      TNF-alpha and FGF-23) and inhibitors of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway including
      sclerostin and DKK1 at baseline, 6 and 12 months, to understand the mechanisms for the effect
      of Pradaxa on bone.

      4.0 Study design and procedures.

      4.1 Study Design:

      This will be a prospective, Phase IV age-matched cohort study in men and women who are being
      started on long-term treatment with Pradaxa for nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. This is a
      proof of concept study evaluating the effect of Pradaxa, a direct thrombin inhibitor on bone
      density and bone turnover markers in comparison to warfarin.

      4.2 Subject Population:

      The investigators will be recruiting patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation who are
      being prescribed Pradaxa by their cardiologists or primary care providers for long-term
      anticoagulant treatment for participation in the study. The patients taking Pradaxa will be
      the study group, and will be compared to an age-matched cohort of men and women with
      nonvalvular atrial fibrillation who are being started on long-term warfarin by their
      cardiologists or primary care providers (control group). The investigators will be evaluating
      20 men and 20 women in the Pradaxa cohort and another age-matched 20 men and 20 women in the
      warfarin cohort (Pradaxa cohort: N = 40, 20 men, 20 women; Warfarin cohort: N = 40, 20 men,
      20 women). The two groups will be determined based on treatment assigned to them by their
      cardiologists or primary care providers. As age can influence the risk for osteoporosis, the
      warfarin group will be age-matched to the Pradaxa group for optimal comparison. This will be
      achieved by offering participation to patients taking warfarin who are similar in age to the
      patients being recruited for the Pradaxa group. As women are more likely to develop
      osteoporosis and the effects of Pradaxa may be gender-based as a result of differences in the
      levels of sex hormones, the investigators are evaluating a cohort of men and women in this
      pilot study for comparison.

      The investigators expect to see an older cohort of subjects with atrial fibrillation, who are
      also likely to have an increased risk of osteoporosis.
    
  