
    
      Digestive complications following cardiac surgery, such as paralytic ileus and Ogilvie
      syndrome, are frequent and worsen the prognosis of patients. They pose a real problem of care
      in intensive care, inducing morbidity and mortality, extended hospital stay and a significant
      post-operative cost.

      Few treatments are effective to reduce transit recovery time, except the neostigmine which
      has a serious side effects including cardiac ones.

      During cardiac surgery, opioid treatments are frequently used to relieve the pain like
      sternotomy pain.

      The pharmacologic effect of opioid induces the postoperative uleus. Opioid receptors are
      distributed in the central nervous system, where they are involved in the perception of pain,
      and in the peripheral nervous system, especially in the mesenteric nervous system, where they
      regulate intestinal peristalsis.

      Morphine receptors antagonist are a target for prevention and treatment of post operative
      ileus syndrome such as alvimopan and naloxone.

      A therapeutic trial demonstrates a decrease in the rate of pneumonia in intensive care
      patient mechanically ventilated who received naloxone.

      Naloxegol is a peripheral antagonist of opioid receptor, from the alvimopan family. It has
      been designed to antagonize the peripheral, but not central, effects of opioids at
      therapeutic doses. Naloxegol is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP 3A4). Following oral
      administration, naloxegol is absorbed rapidly, with peak concentrations achieved at less than
      2 hours.

      After once daily administration, plasma concentration equilibrium is reached within 2-3 days
      with minimal accumulation.

      The main route of elimination for naloxegol is hepatic. Naloxegol has been shown to be
      effective in randomized trials of chronic opioid induced constipation, but there is no data
      on its use in the postoperative ileus.

      Research hypothesis: the addition of naloxegol in pre and postoperative cardiac surgery could
      reduce the time to transit recovery and the rate of digestive and respiratory complications.
    
  