
    
      The p53 is a vital human tumor suppressor gene. Loss of p53 suppressor function is present in
      the majority of human cancers. The p53 protein has a diverse range of functions including
      regulation of cell cycle checkpoints, cell death (apoptosis), senescence, DNA repair,
      maintenance of genomic integrity, and control of angiogenesis. Abnormalities of the p53 gene
      may impact the efficacy of standard anticancer treatments such as radiation and chemotherapy.
      P53 mutation and pathway dysfunction are associated with poor clinical outcomes and the
      presence of the p53 mutation correlates with resistance to chemotherapy and radiation. The
      development of somatic gene therapy has created the potential to restore wild type function
      of p53. SGT-53 is a complex of cationic liposome encapsulating a normal human wild type p53
      DNA sequence in a plasmid backbone. This complex has been shown to efficiently and
      specifically deliver the p53 cDNA to the tumor cells. Introduction of the p53 cDNA sequence
      is expected to restore wtp53 function in the apoptotic pathway. P53 restoration has been
      shown most effective in enhancing cytotoxicity in combination with an agent which results in
      DNA damage or initiates apoptosis. Though mutated p53 is uncommon in childhood cancer,
      children with adrenocortical tumor and rhabdomyosarcoma have been found to have p53
      mutations. Additionally, wild type p53 may be suppressed in tumors through pathway crosstalk.
      For example, in sarcomas, a common childhood solid tumor, activation of MDM2 effectively
      inactivates p53. Thus, the treatment proposed in this trial to reintroduce p53 may offer
      benefit even in patients with p53 wild-type tumors. Moreover, the SGT-53 treatment can
      significantly sensitize pediatric cancer cell lines to the killing effect of the standard
      chemotherapeutic agents, topotecan and cyclophosphamide. Thus, we propose to assess the
      efficacy of this combination therapy in pediatric patients with refractory or recurrent solid
      tumors. This phase I clinical trial is to determine the dose limiting toxicities (DLT),
      recommended phase 2 dose, and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of SGT-53 (if reached) alone and
      in combination with conventional chemotherapy in pediatric patients with recurrent or
      refractory solid tumors. In addition, pharmacokinetics of escalating doses of SGT-53 is
      studied.
    
  