
    
      Reduced muscle strength from illness or injuries often leads to loss of function and
      independence in the elderly. The recovery of muscle strength and function in disabled elderly
      individuals is a major challenge in rehabilitation. The etiology of the muscle weakness with
      injury or age is not fully elucidated. Training programs designed to maximize strength gains
      in young individuals may not be optimal in the elderly because the cause of the weakness and
      the morphology of the muscle may be different for young vs. old people. The overall goal of
      this work is to determine if physiologically and morphologically based rehabilitation
      programs are more effective than traditional rehabilitation to counter changes in muscle
      strength and function in older individuals. Neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) may
      be used to improve strength and function following injury or surgery. This study provides
      motivation for exploring the use of NMES with the elderly. We posit that using NMES to
      augment a traditional rehabilitation program for elderly patients with osteoarthritis
      following total knee arthroplasties (TKA) will result in greater strength and functional
      gains than using only traditional rehabilitation. Elderly patients with osteoarthritis who
      undergo TKAs serve as ideal subjects for testing the effectiveness of rehabilitation programs
      become those patients almost always exhibit marked quadriceps weakness that is resistant to
      traditional physical rehabilitation. More than 300,000 TKAs are performed each year in the
      United States to treat osteoarthritis of the knee in older individuals. So, the successful
      rehabilitation of elder patients following TKA is an important and challenging problem. The
      specific aims of this proposal are: 1) To assess the effectiveness of high-level
      neuromuscular electrical stimulation is an adjunct to ongoing intensive, early rehabilitation
      in restoring quadriceps strength and improving the functional outcome after primary TKA, and
      2) To identify the physiological and morphological bases for improvements in quadriceps
      strength and functional outcome

      A total of 200 subjects will participate in this study. Functional and strength testing
      provides information for the patients' clinical treatment and allow us to monitor their
      progress. This information will also help in the design of a training program for individuals
      following a total knee replacement that optimizes the return to full level of function after
      surgery. MRI screening will provide information regarding the size of the thigh muscle at
      various periods throughout rehabilitation. It will enable us to assess the impact of
      post-operative treatment on increasing the size of the thigh muscle. Patients will be asked
      to participate in functional and strength testing sessions, lasting about 1½ hours, at the
      following times: 0-2 weeks before surgery, 3-4 weeks, 6-7 weeks, 10-12 weeks, 6 months, 1
      year, and 2 years after surgery. MRI testing will last about 30 minutes per session and will
      be performed 0-2 weeks before surgery, and 3-4 weeks, 10-12 weeks, and 1 year after surgery.

      Functional testing will include 5 parts: a timed walking test, a timed stair climbing test, a
      timed balance test, a timed step test, and a six-minute walk test. A strength test will be
      used to assess the strength of the thigh muscles.

      The second part of this study involves treatment. Patients participate in 6 weeks of physical
      therapy, 3 times per week. They are randomly assigned to one of 2 groups. One group will
      participate in a traditional rehabilitation program. The other group will receive electrical
      stimulation for strengthening of the thigh muscle in addition to the traditional
      rehabilitation program.
    
  