
    
      Describe the objective(s) of the proposed research including purpose, research question and
      design, anticipated length of the entire study, hypothesis and relevant background
      information.

      There has been substantial progress in developing evidence-based prevention programs (EBPPs)
      for preventing risky behaviors and promoting positive outcomes for youth. Unfortunately,
      their adoption, quality implementation, long-term sustainability, and scalability in real
      world service settings, continues to lag far behind resulting in an inability to achieve the
      intended broad scale public impact. This SBIR Phase II project will build on the findings and
      feedback gathered from stakeholders in the Phase I project to fully develop and test the
      Impact implementation support system. Impact will provide an easy to use, cost- and
      time-efficient technology platform that is capable of (a) gathering relevant process and
      outcomes data in a feasible way within real-world service settings; (b) producing real-time
      analytics (e.g., graphical displays) and meaningful reports at the provider, service setting,
      and broader levels (e.g., state-wide); and (c) linking data analytics to continuous quality
      improvement (CQI) feedback to help providers achieve best practices and targeted youth
      outcomes.

      For this Phase II project, 3C will create three instantiations (or 'instances') of Impact,
      i.e., one instance for each of three EBPPs. These EBPPs explicitly target one or more mental
      health outcomes for youth, and provide a test of the application of Impact to a variety of
      service delivery models, including small group-based, universal classroom, and parent
      training:

        1. Cognitive Behavioral Intervention for Trauma in Schools (CBITS) is an evidence-based
           program delivered by mental health providers in the school setting. CBITS has been shown
           to reduce posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms, depression, and anxiety for
           youth in grades 5-12 as well as improve psychosocial functioning. The 10-session program
           teaches cognitive behavioral skills using a mixture of didactic presentations,
           relaxation training, and strategies to combat negative thoughts, reduce avoidance,
           develop a trauma narrative, and build social problem solving skills. CBITS also includes
           1-3 individual child sessions and 2 optional parent sessions.

        2. Social Skills Group Intervention K-2 (S.S. GRIN K-2) is an evidence-based program
           delivered by mental health providers in the school setting to kindergarten through 2nd
           grade children. S.S. GRIN has been shown to improve self-esteem and self-efficacy, as
           well as reduce social anxiety and, in aggressive children, reduce aggression and
           bullying behavior. The intervention includes 10 small group sessions, delivered in an
           in-person format.

        3. The third EBP that will be developed and tested for this Phase II research is
           Strengthening Families, which has been shown to improve youth outcomes related to
           substance use, aggressive and hostile behaviors, and risky sexual behaviors, as well as
           parent protective factors such as affective quality and general child management. The
           program includes 10-14 sessions, each of which consists of a separate parent and child
           meeting followed by a family meeting, designed to help families improve communication,
           conflict resolution, appropriate disciplinary factors, and child involvement in the
           family. Strengthening Families is implemented in schools, community centers, and mental
           health facilities by two to four mental health providers.

      The proposed three-year project will accomplish three specific aims: (1) fully develop the
      Impact software platform for the three Blueprints-supported EBPPs listed above, (2) conduct a
      pilot field study to test whether and in what ways Impact is superior to currently used
      process and outcomes tracking methods for each EBPP, and (3) prepare Impact for
      commercialization.

      Impact's technology infrastructure will be able to accommodate a wide array of EBPPs,
      providing a much needed cost-effective mechanism to support broad-scale dissemination and use
      in service settings. In addition, administrators will be able to track implementation, thus
      enhancing accountability and providing on-going quality assurance, while also providing data
      analytics to quickly and effectively monitor impact and cost-effectiveness, thereby
      increasing the likelihood a program's core features are adhered to over time and maximizing
      treatment benefits for youth.
    
  