
    
      There is a consensus on nonsurgical approach is a priority for paediatric condylar fractures,
      but a recognized nonsurgical method for treating children with condylar fractures is still a
      highly debated theme. The purpose of this study is to investigate the effect of a new
      nonsurgical method simply using a mandibular manipulation technique and mouth opening
      training in managing children with condylar fractures.

      Spiral computed tomography (CT) or Cone beam computed tomography (CBCT) will be taken before
      treatment when the patients present to the department. Condylar fracture classification is
      defined according to SPIESSL & SCHROLL.

      These patients are then treated termly with a mandibular manipulation technique reported by
      Farrar, which is an effective treatment method to reset the physiological positional
      relationship between condyle and disc. Neither intermaxillary fixation nor guiding elastics
      will be used after hand manipulation. Then patients are told to persist in mouth opening
      training at home everyday. The mouth opening training is performed as follow: patients are
      told to try to close his mouth in intercuspal position at first, then open their mouth as
      wide as possible(the reference maximal mouth opening is as wide as the mouth opening after
      treatment in last time), then closed back to the intercuspal position again. Patients are
      recommended to follow up at every week at first two months, then every 2 weeks at third
      months, 6th months, 1 year after first treatment, then yearly afterward. The mandibular
      manipulation is performed at every follow-up. Meanwhile, the maximal mouth opening (MMO) is
      recorded before and after hand manipulation treatment. So do the occlusion status, deviation
      during opening, as well as subjective symptoms of temporomandibular joints. At first moth,
      3rd month, 6th month, 1 year, then every year after first treatment, CBCT is performed.
    
  