
    
      All patients suspected to have bladder cancer were subjected to imaging or cystoscopy and
      with confirmation of the diagnosis; they were randomized into two arms of TURBT. Spinal
      anesthesia was used in all cases.

      To overcome the potential confounding effect on our primary end point, obturator jerk, nerve
      block was not used.

      Cystoscopy was done first and the findings were noted before proceeding to TURBT.

      Monopolar resection was done using 1.5% Glycine solution at 110 watt cutting, and 70 watt
      coagulation power (Covidien Valley-lab Force Fx TM) with Karl Storz 26f resectoscope and loop
      (8mm width and 5mm depth) with 300 telescope. Bipolar resection was done with 0.9% Normal
      Saline with digital impedence dependent cutting (power range 150-250 watt) and 80 watt
      coagulation power (Bowa Arc 400) with Karl Storz 26f resectoscope and loop (6mm width and 5mm
      depth) with 300 telescope.

      Tumors were resected in block from periphery to center with the stalk resected last. An
      additional sample of deep muscle was obtained from the tumor base and sent for
      histopathological examination in different containers. All study variables were recorded in
      Per forma during the operation and in post operative period. Hemoglobin and sodium level was
      determined in immediate post operative period.

      Postoperative irrigation was done with normal saline in both the resection groups and
      continued till the urine was clear. The catheter was removed after 48 hours in uncomplicated
      cases and patients were discharged. Patients were followed up in Out Patient Department at 2
      weeks with the histopathological report for or when necessary.

      Study outcome:

      The incidence of obturator jerk, bladder perforation, resection time, decrease in hemoglobin
      and serum sodium, clot retention, need for blood transfusion, need for recoagulation and TUR
      syndrome were recorded for the cases in both arms. All resected specimen were evaluated by
      pathologist for quality by determining the presence of deep muscle in the sample and
      comparing the degree of cautery artifact. Severe artifact was defined as more than 50%
      cautery artifact in most chips.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Sample size (n) was calculated using 80% power and a 95% significance level for obturator
      jerk, assuming a 30% incidence for the monopolar system and a 5% incidence for the bipolar
      system. These values were arrived at after a comprehensive literature review. The sample size
      was determined with the formula n= K {P1(1-P1) x P2(1-P2)}/ )P1-P2)2, Where:

      N= sample size P1= prevalence of obturator jerk in Monopolar TURBT P2= prevalence of
      obturator jerk in Bipolar TURBT K= constant (7.9 for 80% power of study and 0.05 level of
      significance)

      A sample size of 33 in each arm was calculated using above formula. Estimating a drop out of
      10%, we decided to include at least 37 patients in each arm. A computer generated random
      number was used to allocate eligible patients in to monopolar or bipolar resection arm. Data
      analysis was done using Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) version 21.
      Significance was determined using the independent sample t-test for quantitative variables
      and the chi-square test for qualitative data. P value of <0.05 was considered statistically
      significant.
    
  