
    
      Mindfulness interventions customized for prehypertensive/hypertensive patients have never
      been investigated. Until methodologically rigorous studies to evaluate customized
      interventions for hypertension are performed, we will not know if the observed preliminary
      effects of general mindfulness interventions on blood pressure reduction could be much more
      effective with a tailored approach. Consequently, we propose to conduct a behavioral
      intervention study to evaluate whether Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) customized
      to prehypertensive and hypertensive patients has the potential to provide clinically relevant
      reductions in blood pressure. This customized intervention is called Mindfulness-Based Blood
      Pressure Reduction (MB-BP). This study follows the NIH Stage Model for Behavioral
      Intervention Development, where targets likely proximally affected by the intervention are
      identified, that should also have effect on the longer-term outcomes (e.g. blood pressure,
      mortality). The selected targets, consistent with theoretical frameworks and early evidence
      how mindfulness interventions could influence mental and physical health outcomes, are
      measures of self-regulation including (1) attention control (specifically the Sustained
      Attention Response Task), (2) emotion regulation (specifically the Difficulty in Emotion
      Regulation Scale), and (3) self-awareness (specifically the Multidimensional Assessment of
      Interoceptive Awareness). Based on the degree of target engagement, MB-BP can be further
      customized to better engage with the targets as needed. The grant funding this study is
      performing a concurrent systematic review of impacts of mindfulness interventions on
      self-regulation outcomes. Based on the findings from the systematic review, other
      self-regulation measures will be explored as secondary outcomes.

      Specific aims are:

        1. To outline and evaluate key active elements of MB-BP. This aim will be achieved using
           (a) focus groups of participants undergoing the MB-BP intervention, (b) discussion with
           experts (including cardiologists, epidemiologists, mindfulness experts, mindfulness
           intervention instructors) prior to, and following pilot testing of MBHT in participants,
           and (c) clinical judgment of the investigators performing the intervention.

        2. To evaluate impacts of MB-BP on target engagement (pre-post change in effect size) and
           longevity of target engagement (follow-up time-points). Follow-up time periods include
           10 weeks, 6 months and 1 year.

      This study is a prospective single-arm trial during the intervention development phase.
      Following this phase, after the intervention has been further developed, a subsequent study
      (with a different clinicaltrials.gov ID #) will utilize a randomized control trial design to
      further evaluate causation and effect size.
    
  