
    
      Malnutrition or "undernutrition" in adults (≥18 years of age) is the deficiency of nutrients
      (energy, protein and micronutrients) which causes adverse effects on bodily composition,
      clinical and functional outcomes. Malnutrition can occur as a result of a number of factors
      including inadequate calorie intake, impaired nutrient absorption
      (malabsorption/maldigestion) or increased energy requirements usually associated with
      disease/illness e.g. cancer, inflammatory bowel disease and pancreatitis, and its management,
      e.g. chemotherapy and surgery. Patients who have or are at risk of malnutrition can be
      managed with a range of nutrition support strategies, including the use of oral nutritional
      supplements and enteral feeds (administered by feeding tubes such as nasogastric tubes,
      gastrostomies or jejunostomies). These feeds may provide either a sole source of nutrition or
      in combination with the diet.

      A small group of patients requiring nutritional support experience severe malabsorption and
      maldigestion of nutrients (particularly protein and fat), resulting in them having an
      inadequate energy and nutrient supply. This may be due to inadequate functioning of the
      gastro-intestinal tract due to inflammation, reduced concentration of digestive enzymes
      and/or reduced surface area for nutrient absorption associated with some diseases and
      treatments. These may include patients with pancreatic enzyme deficiency (pancreatitis,
      pancreatic cancer, cystic fibrosis), inflammatory bowel disease, radiation enteritis and
      chemotherapy, short bowel syndrome, HIV-related gastrointestinal disorders, enteric fistulae
      or intolerance/allergy of unknown cause. Some of these patients will not be able to tolerate
      a standard feed containing whole protein and fat. In these cases oral nutritional supplements
      and enteral tube feeds known as 'extensively hydrolysed', 'semi-elemental' or 'peptide-based'
      with extensively digested protein (containing peptides and small proteins) and containing
      more easily absorbed types of fat (medium chain triglycerides (MCTs)), can help improve
      digestion and absorption.

      Peptide-based feeds have been used effectively in the dietary management of patients with
      Crohn's disease, pancreatitis, pancreatectomy, radiation enteritis and chemotherapy,
      HIV-related GI disorders and short bowel syndrome. The use of MCTs in patients with fat (long
      chain triglyceride (LCT)) malabsorption has been shown to decrease steatorrhoea, decrease
      dyspepsia and improve nutritional status. Feed formulations with a mixture of MCTs and LCTs
      are also thought to provide beneficial effects.

      Such specialised, ready to use feeds have been commonly used in clinical practice for many
      years. However, the energy density (1kcal/ml) and the protein content (4g/100ml) of some such
      feeds have meant that patients are often unable to tolerate the required volumes of feed
      either orally or via tube to meet their nutritional requirements, which are often elevated by
      their disease. Therefore, in order to meet the nutritional requirements of patients with poor
      feed tolerance, a more energy dense (1.5kcal/ml), higher protein (7.5g protein/100ml),
      nutritionally complete peptide-based feed for oral and tube feeding may be required.

      The study feed is a high energy (1.5kcal/ml), high protein (7.5g protein/100ml) peptide-based
      feed, available as a 500ml enteral tube feed, and a 200ml Vanilla-flavour oral nutritional
      supplement. However, the tolerance, compliance and acceptability of this feed is unknown in
      this patient group who have complex clinical conditions. Therefore this study is required to
      assess gastrointestinal tolerance, compliance and acceptability of this high energy density
      (1.5kcal/ml), high protein (7.5g/100ml), peptide-based feed in community patients requiring
      nutrition support in clinical practice.

      60 adult patients requiring a peptide-based feed will be recruited from several NHS sites
      across England. Patients will be asked to take the study feed for 4 weeks (28 days), in a
      quantity advised by their Dietitian. Data will be recorded at baseline, Week 4 and throughout
      the study using questionnaires with no invasive measures.

      The primary outcome is gastrointestinal tolerance with secondary outcomes of compliance to
      prescribed study feed volumes, acceptability of the study feed, nutrient intake and
      anthropometry.
    
  