
    
      The design is a prospective, multicenter, non-interventional, observational study for
      patients with RA who are newly prescribed MTX, a biologic DMARD, or a JAK inhibitor at the
      time of enrollment into the registry. The drug is prescribed per the physician's decision
      which precedes the decision to enroll the patient into the registry. Longitudinal follow-up
      data is obtained via Corrona Questionnaires completed by both patients and their treating
      rheumatologists during routine clinical practice. The Enrollment and Follow-Up Questionnaires
      capture data on patient demographics, targeted medical history including a history of all
      prior treatments for RA, smoking history, disease duration, disease severity, disease
      activity, laboratory results, comorbidities, hospitalizations and other targeted safety
      events.

      The study will also monitor a range of clinical effectiveness, patient reported outcomes
      (PROs), health economic, and safety outcomes, including infections, malignancies and
      cardiovascular events, among other safety outcomes. Standard components of the European
      League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) (Disease Activity Score -28 joint count) and American
      College of Rheumatology (ACR) response criteria, including tender and swollen 28 joint
      counts, physician and patient global assessment, morning stiffness and pain will be collected
      at all study visits to enable comparisons of composite disease activity scores (e.g.
      remission) and response criteria. disease activity score (DAS)-28 erythrocyte sedimentation
      rates (ESR) will be calculated where possible, as Japanese physicians routinely collect ESR
      on a more regular basis than U.S. physicians. Composite indices of disease activity, clinical
      disease activity index (CDAI), DAS, and ACR scores may be calculated from the elements in the
      Corrona Questionnaire for publication. In addition, PROs will be collected via instruments
      including the EuroQol (EQ)-5D, health assessment questionnaire (HAQ)-DI, and work
      productivity activity impairment instrument (WPAI) questionnaire.

      A primary objective of the registry is analysis of comparative safety. The registry may be
      linked to other registries for the purposes including comparative safety or outcome studies.
      The program-specific subject identifier number (ID) will be collected for subjects that
      participate or have participated in a post-market surveillance study. The ID will be used for
      to ensure the accuracy of safety reporting to regulators by reducing duplicate reports Note
      that this study has not been submitted to a United States institutional review board. It has
      been approved by Japanese Authorities.
    
  