
    
      Using a computer-generated randomization schedule, fifty patients will be randomly assigned
      into two equal groups: group A (bupivacaine only; n=25) and group B (bupivacaine plus
      dexmedetomidine; n=25).

      All participants, investigators, care providers and outcome assessors will be blinded to the
      study group allocation.

      The day Prior to surgery, all patients will have pre anesthesia check-up with routine and
      subjective investigations and explained about the Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) ranging from
      0-10 (0 indicating no pain and 10 for severe intractable pain) The patients will be pre
      medicated by 40mg oral pantoprazole at night and in the morning of the surgery.

      On arrival to the operating room, patients will be monitored by peripheral pulse oximetry,
      five-lead electrocardiogram and non-invasive blood pressure monitor. Two 18-gauge intravenous
      cannulae will be inserted in the nondominant arm and 1500 ml crystalloid will be infused as
      acoload plus ephedrine infusion 4mg/min. to prevent post spinal hypotension.

      Random allocation of patients into one of two groups using concealed closed envelope method,
      the patients' envelope which contain the number of group will be opened and recorded in the
      data collection sheet as a number of group because the data collector will be blinded to the
      intervention on the patient, only the anesthetist knows each number is referring to which
      intervention.

      Spinal anesthesia will be performed with the patient in the sitting position at the level of
      L2 to 3 or L3 to 4 intervertebral spaces using a 25-gauge Quincke Bevel type needle
      (Spinocan®, Braun Melsungen AG,Germany) with 10 mg of hyperbaric bupivacaine(AstraZeneca
      Pharmaceuticals, UK) and 25μ g of fentanyl. Patients will be placed in the supine position
      with left uterine displacement and a face-mask will be applied to deliver oxygen at rate of 6
      L/minute.

      Five minutes after spinal injection, Spinal anesthesia level will be assessed by loss of cold
      (ice cube) and touch (blunt pin) discrimination and will be considered successful if a
      bilateral sensory blockade to T4-T6 is established. Anesthesia and surgical management will
      be performed in the usual manner.

      At the end of surgery, all patients will receive 1 gm of intravenous paracetamol. After the
      abdomen will be cleaned with surgical solution, covering the wound and while the patient is
      still fully monitored, the patient will be placed in the lateral decubitus position and the
      QLB will be performed.

      A convex (5-8 MHz) ultrasound probe (Shenzhen Mindray BIO-Medical Electronics, Model: DP-20,
      China) with a protective sheath will be used after imaging depth and gain is adjusted. The
      procedure will be done under complete aseptic condition (facemask, gown, and gloves) after
      cleaning of the abdominal skin with antiseptic solution.

      The probe will be placed in the mid axillary line cranially to the iliac crest to identify
      the three muscles of the anterior abdominal wall (transversus abdominis, internal oblique,
      and external oblique). Then, scan dorsally keeping the transverse orientation until observing
      that the transversus abdominus muscle became aponeurotic, and this aponeurosis will be
      followed until the QL muscle is clearly visualized with its attachment to the lateral edge of
      the transverse process of the L2 vertebral body and visualize the thoracolumbar fascia at the
      lateral edge of the QL muscle , followed by recognition of Shamrock pattern by viewing psoas
      major muscle (PM) anteriorly, the erector spinae muscle (ESM) posteriorly and the QL muscle
      adherent to the apex of the transverse process (trifoliate).

      Stimuplex® A 21G 100-mm needle (B. BRAUN, Melsungen AG, Germany) will be inserted in plane
      under real time US guidance from anterolateral to posteromedial direction via the abdominal
      wall. Two milliliters of 0.9% saline will be injected to visualize the solution spread (hydro
      dissection) to determine the optimal point of injection over the lumbar interfacial triangle.

      Group A will be injected with 20 ml of 0. 25% bupivacaine in each side. (14) Group B will be
      injected with 20 ml of 0. 25% bupivacaine in each side added to it dexmedetomidine 0.5 μg/kg;
      (Precedex 100 μg/ml (Hospira, inc, lake forest, USA).

      Patients will be transferred to the post anesthesia care unit (PACU) and discharged from PACU
      when fully conscious, hemodynamically stable and pain free.

      All patients will receive IV paracetamol 1gm every 8 hours. As a rescue analgesic, IV
      morphine (0.05 mg/kg) will be given when Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) > 3, maximum dose of
      morphine will be given 30 mg per day.

      the following data will be recorded:

        -  Total morphine consumption at predetermined time intervals (4, 8, 12, and 24) hrs. after
           surgery

        -  Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) ranging from 0-10 (0 indicating no pain and 10 for severe
           intractable pain) will be recorded and compared at 4,8,12, and 24h after surgery.

        -  Incidence of post-operative complications as nausea, vomiting or abdominal distension
           will also be recorded.
    
  