
    
      This is an open-label, safety study designed to assess the multiple-dose pharmacokinetics and
      potential for adrenal suppression following topical treatment with halobetasol propionate
      0.05% spray applied twice-daily in adult patients with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis.
      At least 40 eligible patients with atopic dermatitis that satisfy all eligibility criteria
      will be enrolled into the study. Patients must be overall in good health and should have a
      current diagnosis of moderate to severe atopic dermatitis with Investigator Global Assessment
      (IGA) score of at least 3 or 4. Patients will be stratified by age with:

      Cohort 1: At least 20 patients 18 years of age and older with ≥ 25% BSA affected.

      Cohort 2: At least 20 patients 12-16 years and 11 months of age with ≥ 25% BSA affected.

      Cohort 2 will initiate enrollment once all enrolled patients in Cohort 1 have completed the
      study and a safety analysis has been reviewed by the Medical Monitor and approved by the
      Novum Independent Institutional Review Board (NIIRB). Sites will not begin enrollment of
      patients in Cohort 2 until the site is notified by email that the safety analysis for Cohort
      1 has been reviewed and approved. Each cohort will be enrolled based on the availability of
      patients. Each cohort will be reviewed for the potential of HPA axis suppression. The Medical
      Monitor or NIIRB may discontinue the study at any time if safety concerns are found. If 6 or
      more patients in Cohort 1 experience HPA axis suppression, then enrollment for Cohort 1 will
      be stopped. Cohort 2 will not be initiated if 6 or more patients enrolled in Cohort 1
      experience HPA axis suppression or 30% or more of the final enrolled number of patients in
      Cohort 1 experience HPA axis suppression. If 6 or more patients in Cohort 2 experience HPA
      axis suppression, then enrollment for Cohort 2 will be stopped. If the study is stopped at
      any time, patients currently enrolled will be contacted via phone and instructed to
      discontinue study product immediately. Patients will be instructed to return for their next
      scheduled visit for cortisol response testing. Sites will follow up with patients and monitor
      for HPA axis suppression. All patients will be followed until cortisol levels are normal, as
      defined in study protocol. Patients enrolled in the study will apply the study product twice
      daily onto the affected skin areas for 14 days (Days 1-14), according to provided
      instructions. .Patients will be instructed not to rub over the affected area after
      application of spray. Each patient is expected to receive 28 doses of study product. All
      patients will attend the clinic for the following 8 scheduled visits. Patients will apply the
      morning dose of the study product in the clinic at each clinic visit (and evening dose on Day
      4) and at home during non-clinic visits. A phone call will be made approximately 14 days
      after the patient has completed dosing to follow-up on any new adverse events that may have
      occurred. All patients will have a cortisol response test performed at screening and on Day
      17 (at least 48 hours after last dose of study product).

      The safety profile of the test product will be evaluated by analysis of reported adverse
      events.
    
  