
    
      This study will examine the potential efficacy of thalidomide-dexamethasone in the treatment
      of patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma.

        -  Thalidomide is supplied as 50 mg capsules to be taken by mouth.

        -  Thalidomide 200 mg daily each evening at bedtime increasing by 100-200 mg increments
           (according to patient tolerability) every 4 weeks.

      For elderly patients, or those with poor performance status or comorbid conditions which may
      affect tolerance of the thalidomide-dexamethasone combination, the initial dose may be
      reduced by 50-100 mg decrements and escalated weekly by 50-100 mg increments to tolerance.
      For patients who experience significant toxicity (> grade 2) or are otherwise unable to
      tolerate this drug combination, the dose will be reduced by 50-100 mg decrements. For some
      patients with > grade 2 toxicity, it may be necessary to hold the thalidomide dose until
      improvement of the side effect with subsequent resumption of the dose after dose reduction as
      outlined above.

      Dexamethasone 20mg/m2 each morning after breakfast on days 1-4, 9-12, 17-20, with a repeat
      cycle after a 1-2 week rest period. In case of partial remission, maintenance treatment with
      thalidomide alone will be continued for as long as remission is sustained at a dose free of
      side effects.

      For patients achieving CR, consolidation with thalidomide-dexamethasone for 4-6 months
      followed by follow-up without maintenance treatment. No maximum trial period is planned.

      At relapse patients may be reinitiated on the original thalidomide-pulse dexamethasone
      program and responding patients may be maintained on thalidomide alone (CR) or daily
      thalidomide and dexamethasone (days 1-4) until relapse.

      Patients who experience significant toxicity (grade 2 or more) at any time during therapy
      will receive a lower dose after treatment is interrupted.

      In an attempt to avoid deep venous thrombosis, all patients for whom anticoagulation is not
      contraindicated will be offered therapeutic anticoagulation (INR 1.5-2.5) with coumadin or
      therapeutic doses of low molecular weight heparin.

      Patients must be willing to return for evaluation every 4 weeks since thalidomide may only be
      prescribed for 28 day intervals.
    
  