
    
      Background:

      Often, treatment resistant schizophrenia patients are treated with high doses of, or
      polypharmacy with, antipsychotics, or both. There is a lack of systematic evidence for either
      practice, and this is not recommended by most treatment guidelines. Often polypharmacy
      results in dosages well above the recommended upper limit of dosage. Recent studies of
      antipsychotic utilization, have reported that approximately 10-60% of patients are prescribed
      at least two antipsychotics.

      Moreover, antipsychotic treatment carries substantial risks, including the potential
      development of tardive dyskinesia or metabolic syndrome. Higher doses may expose patients to
      more adverse events or consequences without any additional therapeutic benefit. Clear
      benefits of long-term treatment with antipsychotic polypharmacy have rarely been reported,
      and there is a void of long term double blind, placebo controlled trials.

      Antipsychotic polypharmacy remains common, including patients receiving atypical
      antipsychotics. To our knowledge, no one has published a study of a systematic, randomized
      controlled conversion to antipsychotic monotherapy for patients with chronic schizophrenia or
      schizoaffective disorder receiving atypical antipsychotic polypharmacy.

      Design:

      Hospitalized patients with DSM-IV-TR schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder meeting the
      following criteria: (1) at least two antipsychotics, (2) stable dosages for at least one
      month prior to baseline, (3) baseline dosages of at least one of the antipsychotics are at
      least olanzapine 15 mg, ziprasidone 120 mg, quetiapine 500 mg, risperidone 4 mg, aripiprazole
      10 mg, paliperidone 6 mg, any dose of clozapine, or any first generation antipsychotic >300
      chlorpromazine equivalents.

      After a baseline assessment, patients will be randomized to conversion to antipsychotic
      monotherapy of one of their two antipsychotics or continued on their combination
      antipsychotic treatment. Other psychotropics will be left unchanged from baseline, and the
      prescription of a new psychotropic will not be permitted, excepting lorazepam and benztropine
      as detailed below.

      If a patient is randomized to conversion to monotherapy, then the decision of which of the
      two baseline antipsychotics to continue will occur as follows:

        1. If one is clozapine, then clozapine will be continued.

        2. In all other cases:

             1. If only one of the antipsychotics is at a dose greater than the above noted doses,
                then that is one that will be continued.

             2. If both doses are greater than the above noted doses, then there will be a flip of
                a coin to determine which to continue, with heads equal the one with the higher
                alphabetic letter and tails equal to the lower.
    
  