
    
      This international, multi-centre, double-blind vaccine study will be a three-arm prospective
      1:1:1 randomisation comparing each of two experimental combination vaccine regimens with
      placebo control.

      Pre-screening for risk and HIV status will take place as part of a Registration Cohort which
      will precede and continue in parallel to the PrEPVacc trial enrolments. This will give HIV
      negative volunteers time to learn about the PrEPVacc trial and facilitate timely enrolment.

      Clinical screening for the vaccine trial will take place during the 8 weeks prior to
      randomisation from local communities in Mozambique, South Africa, Tanzania and Uganda where
      the clinical research centres are located. Eligible participants who are HIV-uninfected
      adults aged 18-40 years at high risk of HIV infection will be enrolled at week 0 and
      randomised to one of three vaccine arms:

        1. Vaccine group A: DNA-HIV-PT123 and AIDSVAX® B/E (weeks 0,4,24,48)

        2. Vaccine group B: DNA-HIV-PT123 and CN54gp140 in MPLA-L (wks 0,4), then MVA-CMDR and
           CN54gp140 in MPLA-L (wks 24,48)

        3. Vaccine group C: Saline Placebo (wks 0,4,24,48)

      There will be a concurrent open-label 1:1 randomisation to one of two PrEP regimens:

        1. Control PrEP: Daily TDF/FTC (week 0-26)

        2. Experimental PrEP: Daily TAF/FTC (week 0-26)

      Participants will be randomised at each clinical centre through web randomisation after
      entering the quantifiable eligibility criteria. Randomisation will be stratified by centre
      and by gender for vaccines and for PrEP. Clinic staff and participants will be blind to
      allocation of active or placebo vaccines, but the pharmacist preparing the vaccines will
      know. As the volume of gp140 in MPLA-L is 0.4ml and given at the same timepoints as products
      with a volume of 1ml, clinic staff will be able to identify participants allocated to the
      CN54gp140 in MPLA-L or matched placebo.

      Clinic staff and participants will know which PrEP agent each participant is allocated to.
      Participants will continue to receive study PrEP through to week 26 after which access to
      PrEP will revert to local supply of generic drug.

      The target accrual is around 1668 HIV uninfected adults, but this is an endpoint driven
      multi-arm, multi-stage (MAMS) trial design, and therefore the target may be adjusted
      following a recommendation from the IDMC. In addition, participants who do not complete the
      third immunisation will be replaced whilst this is feasible. Participants will be followed up
      for a minimum of 74 weeks after enrolment.

      The primary efficacy outcome measure for the vaccine analysis is HIV acquisition by a
      participant who completed three immunisations and was HIV negative at week 26.

      The primary efficacy outcome for the PrEP analysis is HIV acquisition at or before week 26 by
      a participant who was HIV negative at enrolment.

      The primary safety outcome for both analyses is a clinical decision to discontinue the
      vaccine or PrEP regimen for an adverse event that is considered related to product.

      This trial is designed to detect a reduction in HIV incidence that has public health
      relevance sufficient to justify implementation of the combination vaccine regimen. In light
      of the high level of effectiveness demonstrated in the PrEP trials (up to 86% reduction in
      HIV), this trial is powered to detect a protective vaccine efficacy of 70% at the final
      analysis.

      The PrEP component of the trial aims to show the effectiveness of TAF/FTC is not unacceptably
      lower than the effectiveness of TDF/FTC, assessed from the observed lower confidence limit
      for the Averted Infections Ratio (AIR).

      The Independent Data Monitoring Committee will review an interim analysis of vaccine efficacy
      in order to determine whether each active vaccine arm has demonstrated sufficient efficacy to
      warrant further investigation. This analysis will only consider new infections arising after
      the week 26 visit and only those in individuals who have completed the first three
      immunisations. The analysis will take place after approximately 7 of these infections have
      occurred in the placebo group. The investigators will not be informed of the timing of the
      interim analysis, unless there is a recommendation to modify the protocol.

      The PrEP analysis will consider new infections up to the week 26 visit in individuals who
      were HIV negative at enrolment.
    
  