
    
      This research directly meets the goals of the NIH Cognitive and Emotional Health Project and
      the Healthy Brain Initiative which seek to "maintain or improve the cognitive performance of
      all adults," especially for "populations experiencing the greatest disparities and risks in
      cognitive health."

      Significance: Using the Frascati criteria, 52% - 59% of people with HIV experience some form
      of HIV-Associated Neurocognitive Disorder (HAND) which affects medication adherence,
      instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs), and even mood maintenance and quality of
      life. By 2020, 70% of adults with HIV in the United States will be 50 and older; thus,
      cognitive aging in this group represents a major concern. In a prior study (R03MH076642-01A2)
      conducted in the HAART era, when comparing cognitive functioning between older and younger
      HIV-positive and HIV-negative adults, older adults with HIV performed the worst. In the HAART
      era, these cognitive impairments continue to be observed in several cognitive domains
      including memory, learning, executive functioning, and speed of processing.

      Regrettably, few behavioral interventions aimed at improving cognition in this
      pharmacologically-burdened population have been attempted. Pharmacological interventions have
      short-lived effects, if any, and can produce adverse side effects in a population prone to
      multiple comorbidities. Fortunately, computerized cognitive training interventions have been
      shown to improve cognition without adverse side-effects. Yet, only two types of computerized
      cognitive training interventions have been studied in adults with HIV. Becker and colleagues
      partially randomized 60 adults with HIV and without HIV to engage in 14 computerized targeted
      modules (e.g., knowledge, memory) over 24 weeks. No significant effects were found; however,
      adherence was poor. In a prior study, investigators randomized 46 adults to either a speed of
      processing training (10 hrs of training) group or a no-contact control group. Adherence was
      excellent and improvements were observed on this cognitive domain which transferred to an
      everyday functioning task.

      Despite this lack of cognitive training studies in HIV, studies in older adults have shown
      their efficacy in improving specific cognitive abilities, some as much as 1-1.5 standard
      deviations (SD) above baseline performance or age/education-based norms. Using Frascati
      criteria, HAND is diagnosed when a person performs at least 1 to 2 SD below their normative
      mean on measures of two or more cognitive domains (e.g., verbal memory, speed of processing,
      executive functioning); yet many individuals may be only a fraction of a SD below the cut
      off. A meta-analysis of 52 cognitive training studies indicated the average cognitive
      improvement following cognitive training was 0.22 SD. Although this seems to be a small to
      moderate effect size, such cognitive training programs can change the diagnosis of HAND for
      some by improving cognitive performance to within acceptable performance norms. In this
      study, older adults (50+) with HAND will be enrolled to determine which cognitive domains are
      attributable to their diagnosis. Then those cognitive domains in which they have impairments
      will be targeted for training with the corresponding cognitive program. Such a tailored
      approach to standard cognitive training programs may offer hope and symptom relief to those
      individuals diagnosed with HAND. Furthermore, these changes may result in improved everyday
      functioning and quality of life. This approach also represents a paradigm shift in changing
      the way clinicians and researchers look at HAND in that this is not a static "progressive"
      diagnosis; Antinori et al. observed a 20% fluctuation of HAND over as little as 1 year, with
      some improving or declining in their cognitive performance. Such fluctuations, at least
      partially, reflect positive neuroplasticity that can be manipulated with cognitive training
      to improve cognition which can improve medication adherence and other IADLs. This study will
      use a basic two group pre-post experimental design of 146 adults with HAND.
    
  