
    
      Specific Aims:

      Aim 1: To identify specific gut microbiome characteristics of patients who are prone to
      clinically significant or high burden of ventricular arrhythmias compared with patients with
      similar conventional risk factors and low burden of ventricular arrhythmias.

      Aim 2: To examine changes that occur in the gut microbiome composition after treatment of
      ventricular arrhythmias.

      Research Plan:

      This study will enroll 30 subjects recruited from the electrophysiology device clinic at the
      VA medical center, who are individuals with underlying cardiomyopathy and prone to
      ventricular arrhythmias.

      Out of this cohort, we will identify 2 groups who have different ventricular arrhythmia
      burden despite similar conventional clinical factors.

      This information regarding ventricular arrhythmia burden will be obtained from device
      interrogation at the time of recruitment. Our proposal is study and compare the fecal
      microbial composition of these groups to analyze association with ventricular arrhythmia
      burden. Patients will provide a fecal sample for analysis at the time of enrollment.

      After clinically indicated treatment in the high ventricular arrhythmia group, we will retest
      fecal samples to assess for changes in characteristics after treatment. This will be done to
      study changes in the gut microbiome with ventricular arrhythmia in the same individual.

      After initial testing of the high burden group, they will undergo treatment aimed at
      decreasing their burden of arrhythmia, with some combination of anti-arrhythmic drugs,
      sympathetic blockade, or ventricular tachycardia ablation. After demonstrating a period of 3
      months without sustained VT/VF on device interrogation, their fecal samples will be
      re-analyzed. If a patient continues to have VT/VF requiring intermittent device therapies
      despite a 6 month period of intensification of therapy, their fecal sample will be
      re-analyzed after that 6 month timeframe.
    
  