
    
      Dementia is an illness that causes memory problems; changes in behavior; and difficulty with
      thinking, making decisions, and carrying out daily activities. Many people with dementia also
      have anxiety, and yet very little is known about effective treatment strategies for anxiety
      in this population. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a type of psychotherapy that is
      commonly used to treat anxiety. CBT involves teaching patients skills to help them manage
      their anxiety, such as relaxation, changing their thoughts, and problem-solving. This study
      will evaluate the effectiveness of CBT in treating anxiety in older adults with dementia. In
      addition, the study will determine the effect of the treatment on patients' families and
      friends, and how families and friends may be able to help patients manage their anxiety. All
      study participants will name a family member or friend who will also participate in the
      study.

      All participants in this study will answer a preliminary set of questions about anxiety and
      memory and will then complete a number of activities that involve learning and memory. These
      evaluations will take approximately 45 minutes. Participants who are selected to continue in
      the study will answer a second set of questions about mood, memory, concentration, and how
      they are doing in certain areas of life. These interview questions will take place during 2
      sessions and will last a total of approximately 3 hours. Participants will then be randomly
      assigned to receive either enhanced usual care (EUC) or 8 to 10 sessions of CBT over a period
      of 10 to 12 weeks. Each CBT session will last about 1 hour and will include meeting with a
      study staff member to discuss anxiety and how to cope with it. Participants will also
      complete practice activities at home for about 20 minutes per day. EUC will consist of
      regular ongoing care from healthcare providers and phone assessments at 1-month and 2-month.
      Following the 6 month assessment, participants in EUC will be offered a Cognitive Behavior
      Workshop. Following in-person meetings, CBT participants will receive weekly phone calls for
      3 months, followed by biweekly phone calls for the next 3 months. Some of the pretreatment
      questions will be asked again at 3 months and again 6 months after baseline.
    
  