
    
      Background: The investigators are proposing to examine the effectiveness of a peer support
      program, the aim of which is to assist individuals with early inflammatory arthritis (EIA) to
      receive the education and support they need to make decisions to manage their disease. Peer
      support (including informational, emotional, appraisal support) has been shown to assist
      persons with chronic conditions and may address challenges with receiving timely and proper
      treatment in persons with EIA.

      Purpose: The goal of this pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) is to evaluate the
      effectiveness of peer support to improve the health and quality of life of individuals with
      EIA. The investigators hypothesize that early peer support will result in improved use of
      treatment, self-efficacy, coping efficacy, social support, health-related quality of life,
      self-management, and disease activity score, as well as reduced anxiety for individuals with
      EIA within two years of their diagnosis.

      Methods: This proposal builds on a pilot study, currently underway, to develop and evaluate
      the acceptability and feasibility of a peer support intervention for persons with EIA. The
      proposed effectiveness study will employ a RCT design with a wait list control group.
      Individuals with IA (diagnosis 2 or more years) will be trained as peer mentors using the
      revised pilot study training program. Peer mentors will be matched with a person newly
      diagnosed with IA to provide one-on-one support (face-to-face or telephone) over a 12-week
      period. Individuals with EIA will be recruited from rheumatology clinics at Sunnybrook Health
      Sciences Centre and Mount Sinai Hospital. Individuals with EIA will be randomized to either
      "intervention" or "standard care" (wait list). All "standard care" participants with EIA will
      receive the peer mentoring program at the end of study period; their outcomes will be also be
      evaluated. Both "intervention" and "standard care" participants will complete clinical
      assessments and self-administered questionnaires before and after (immediate post-program and
      3-month follow-up) study completion to evaluate use of treatment, self-efficacy, coping
      efficacy, social support, health-related quality of life, anxiety, self-management, and
      disease activity count.

      Implication: The study aims to improve the education and support for patients with EIA. The
      data from this study will be used to further refine the intervention and study design to be
      subsequently submitted for further effectiveness testing in a larger scale RCT.
    
  