
    
      Families affected by HIV and AIDS require access to a comprehensive continuum of services.
      Findings from our own and other recently completed federally sponsored intervention trials
      and other studies could be used to help expand and enhance these services. However, a number
      of fundamental questions must first be answered about the feasibility of "technology
      transfer." This study will address this issue by conducting individual interviews and focus
      groups with providers from 64 medical care and social service settings. Data will also be
      obtained through a comprehensive assessment of providers' capacities to serve families and to
      participate in technology transfer, including dimensions of organizational mission and
      leadership, availability of resources, and connections in the community. Thirty
      patients/clients served by each setting along with approximately twenty of their family
      members will also be individually interviewed to assess their needs for services, factors
      that affect their desire for family-oriented services, and their willingness to take part in
      psychosocial intervention studies. Data analysis will determine how initial setting readiness
      and setting capacities, and feedback about patient and family needs and willingness to
      participate in research, influence change in readiness, interest in capacity building and
      participation in research partnership activities. We will also conduct hierarchical data
      analyses to better understand how providers' readiness and capacities are related to
      clients'and families' service needs, barriers to participation, and willingness to
      participate in research. Study findings will guide efforts to implement family-oriented
      intervention research in frontline community service settings, and will help to establish a
      scientific framework for studying the process of technology transfer. Additionally, this
      project will lay the groundwork for sustained research collaboration with the network of
      community providers participating in this study to further explore ways to address the needs
      of families affected by HIV/AIDS.
    
  