
    
      Background:

        -  The poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) family of enzymes is critical for maintaining
           genomic stability by regulating a variety of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage repair
           mechanisms.

        -  Talazoparib (BMN 673) is a PARP inhibitor with greater in vitro activity than any other
           PARP inhibitor currently in development. Talazoparib (BMN 673) has been shown to cause
           single-agent synthetic lethality in breast cancer 1 and breast cancer 2 (BRCA1/2)- and
           phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN)-deficient cell lines, and has potent antitumor
           activity in animal models of tumors harboring mutations in DNA repair pathways.

        -  Talazoparib (BMN 673) is showing promising single-agent activity in patients with
           advanced ovarian and breast cancer harboring deleterious BRCA mutations.

        -  This pilot study will evaluate the pharmacodynamic effects of talazoparib (BMN 673) on
           DNA damage and apoptosis markers in tumor biopsy tissue.

      Primary Objective:

      -Determine the pharmacodynamic effect of talazoparib (BMN 673) in tumor biopsies from
      patients with advanced ovarian, breast, or other solid tumor and deleterious BRCA mutations.

      Secondary Objectives:

      -Determine the response rate (Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR) of treatment
      with talazoparib (BMN 673) in patients with deleterious BRCA mutations.

      Eligibility:

        -  Adult patients with documented deleterious BRCA 1 or 2 mutations with histologically
           confirmed ovarian, primary peritoneal, breast, prostate, pancreas, gastric or other
           solid tumor whose disease has progressed following at least one standard therapy or who
           have no acceptable standard treatment options.

        -  No major surgery, radiation, or chemotherapy within 4 weeks prior to study enrollment,
           and recovered from toxicities of prior therapies to at least eligibility levels.

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years of age; Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG)
           performance status less than equal to 2

        -  Adequate organ function.

        -  Willingness to undergo tumor biopsies.

      Study Design:

        -  Talazoparib (BMN 673) will be administered orally each day in 28-day cycles.

        -  Dosing will be at the established recommended Phase II dose of 1000 microgram/day each
           day for 28 days.

        -  To meet the primary, pharmacodynamic endpoint of the trial, we plan to accrue a total of
           12 patients with matched, evaluable baseline and day 8 biopsies. To allow for some
           patients whose biopsies will not be evaluable (i.e., will contain <5% tumor content),
           the accrual ceiling is 24 patients. The number of patients evaluable for objective
           response, while relevant to the secondary objective of the trial, will not be considered
           in determining completion of accrual.

        -  Tumor biopsies will be mandatory at baseline (pre-dose), and then approximately 3-6
           hours post talazoparib (BMN 673) on day 8. One optional tumor biopsy may also be
           collected either on day 1 (+/- 2 days) of the cycle following any restaging at which a
           10-19% increase in tumor volume is observed (according to Response Evaluation Criteria
           in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria) if the patient has been on study for at least 4
           cycles, or at time of disease progression.
    
  