
    
      Nighttime eating, and specifically eating after dinner, has attracted significant attention
      in recent years, particularly for the onslaught of media claiming the negative implications
      on body weight and overall health. Some studies have indeed indicated that chronically eating
      high-energy, mixed-meals rich in carbohydrates (CHO) and fats at night contributes to weight
      gain and abdominal obesity. However, research to support these negative claims is scant.
      Conversely, the practice of nighttime eating of small protein (PRO) snacks has been widely
      utilized anecdotally in populations such as bodybuilders in an attempt to avoid catabolism of
      muscle mass during the sleeping hours.

      It has been shown that nighttime consumption of small portions (<200 kcals) of PRO elicits
      beneficial effects on metabolism such as increased next-morning resting metabolic rate (RMR).
      Likewise, the combination of nighttime PRO consumption and RT improves factors that
      contribute to fat loss such as elevated muscle mass due to an increase in muscle protein
      synthesis and energy expenditure. Further, there is emerging research suggesting the benefits
      of nighttime PRO consumption on fat metabolism (specifically the subcutaneous abdominal
      adipose tissue [SCAAT]). The SCAAT is of particular interest in metabolism research, as the
      upper body subcutaneous tissue (i.e. SCAAT) supplies most of the circulating free fatty acids
      (FFA) during the overnight hours in lean individuals. Therefore, if one can optimize the
      timing of dietary PRO during a window at which SCAAT is elevated (nighttime), theoretically,
      mobilization and oxidation of fats could be optimized.

      Research regarding nighttime eating, specifically regarding fat metabolism, is in its
      infancy, and thus, many gaps in the literature require elucidation. First, and certainly most
      importantly, the limited research studies examining the effects of nighttime PRO consumption
      have not methodologically matched for timing of PRO intake. Therefore, it is unclear whether
      any reported benefits of the published nighttime PRO studies were a consequence of the
      addition of PRO calories or specifically due to the consumption of PRO at night. Thus, in
      order to make optimal comparisons and conclusions, it is imperative to study the metabolic
      effects of dietary PRO consumed at night versus other times of day.

      Therefore, the purpose of this project is to: 1) determine the effects of RT on post-exercise
      lipolytic rate in resistance-trained women; and 2) determine the effects of timing of acute
      protein PRO ingestion (nighttime PRO consumption [NP] and daytime PRO consumption [DP]
      trials) after a RT bout on SCAAT lipolytic rate, metabolic rate, and serum hormones (glucose,
      insulin, growth hormone, adiponectin, glycerol) throughout the day, overnight and into the
      next morning.
    
  