
    
      Patient's safety is considered a very important medical protocol which aims at improving
      quality of patient's care, minimizing treatment mistakes and improving safety to the maximum
      extent that can be reached. On this approach infection is one of the most critical issues in
      healthcare service worldwide, where it can be transmitted during dental procedures through
      direct and indirect contact , in addition to high risk blood borne infections , and nowadays
      we are facing global emergence and re-emergence of many communicable diseases that can also
      be transmitted during dental practice.

      As a result of the high risk of transmission of the above infections, high standard
      precautions must be implemented for all patients attending dental clinics regardless of their
      infection status , because those patients could be in the prodromal phase or carriers without
      even knowing. In addition, some infectious diseases have prolonged incubation periods during
      which antibodies can't be detected , So in order to avoid infection transmission hazards and
      to achieve patient's safety, infection prevention and control of cross-contamination are our
      goal in providing a secure environment for patients and healthcare workers within healthcare
      settings in general and more specifically in dental practices.

      Transmission of infectious agents among patients and dental health care personnel (DHCP) in
      dental settings is rare. However, transmissions in dental settings, including
      patient-to-patient transmissions, have been documented. In most cases, investigators failed
      to link a specific lapse of infection prevention and control with a particular transmission.
      However, reported breakdowns in basic infection prevention procedures included unsafe
      injection practices, failure to heat sterilize dental handpieces between patients, and
      failure to monitor autoclaves by conducting spore tests.

      Generally, Concerns have increased considerably by a report about the transmission of human
      immunodeficiency virus (HIV) from an American dentist to five of his patients. With the
      presence of people infected with hepatitis B and C and the HIV viruses, cross infection has
      become a major concern for dentists, dental personnel and patients. On the other hand,
      developing countries including Egypt showed the increased prevalence of transmission of
      infection among dental clinics.

      Therefore, Universal precautions should be followed considering all patients as infectious.
      However, Most hospitals have no infection control programs due to the lack of awareness of
      the problem or absence of properly trained personnel. This highlight the need for training to
      improve understanding of principles, practices, and implementation, in addition to the
      conditions that cause disease transmission, So all dental settings, regardless of the level
      of care provided, must make infection prevention a priority and should be equipped to observe
      Standard Precautions and other infection prevention recommendations contained in CDC's
      Guidelines for Infection Control in Dental Health-Care Settings - 2003.

      POS format:

      P (population): Interns in pediatric dental clinics.

      O (outcome): Knowledge, attitude, and practice of infection control in pediatric dental
      clinics.

        -  Outcome measuring tool: A Questionnaire.

        -  Outcome measuring unit: Closed- ended questions (dichotomous, multiple choice questions,
           Likert, and matrix questions).

      S (study design): Cross-sectional survey (Observational type of study).

      Research question:

      What is the level of knowledge, attitude, and practice of intern pediatric dentists in
      pediatric dental clinics in Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo University towards infection control
      protocols and guidelines in pediatric dentistry?
    
  