
    
      Enzalutamide is an effective and well-tolerated treatment for advanced prostate cancer.
      Unfortunately however, enzalutamide can sometimes interact with other medicines that the
      patient is taking, altering their concentration in the blood-stream. Enzalutamide can do this
      in two ways: either by increasing the breakdown of a medicine, or by blocking a special
      protein, called p-glycoprotein, that pumps it out of the body. An example of a medicine whose
      breakdown is increased by enzalutamide is warfarin. Warfarin is used to prevent, and treat
      blood clots that have formed in the deep veins of the legs (deep vein thrombosis or DVT) or
      have become lodged in blood vessels in the lungs (pulmonary embolism or PE). As enzalutamide
      is known to reduce the effect of warfarin, the manufacturer advises avoiding using the two
      medicines together. Instead,we can use a new class of medicines called the direct oral
      anticoagulants, or DOACs.

      DOACs have an additional advantage over warfarin in that they do not require regular
      monitoring with blood tests. We, and other experts in the field believe that there may be a
      problem using DOACs and enzalutamide together, however scientific evidence suggests that
      enzalutamide may stop the p-glycoprotein pump from working properly, and alter its ability to
      pump out a range of medicines. Other evidence suggests that under certain conditions,
      enzalutamide may actually increase the activity of P-glycoprotein, and reduce the
      concentration of other medicines in the bloodstream. However, there is no scientific
      evidence, or evidence from patients, that has looked directly at thecombination of
      enzalutamide and DOACs together. Because no routine monitoring is carried out with DOACs, we
      are not sure of the extent of this problem, but the consequences of over or underdosing could
      be serious.

      We have recently generated some preliminary data in our laboratory which has the measured the
      extent of this interaction, but we need to repeat these experiments before we can draw any
      firm conclusions from them. In this pilot study, we will explore the potential interaction
      between enzalutamide and DOACs. First, we will measure the activity of DOACs in patients who
      are due to start treatment with enzalutamide using a simple, well established blood test. We
      will then repeat this blood test after the first month of treatment, along with regular blood
      tests, to determine if there has been a change in the effectiveness of the DOAC. Second, we
      aim to build uponour laboratory data, and examine whether brief, or prolonged exposure to
      enzalutamide affects the ability of p-glycoproteinto pump out DOACs.

      Our aims are to

        1. determine if enzalutamide interacts with DOACs in patients recruited from an advanced
           prostatecancer clinic

        2. understand in greater detail the nature of any interaction between enzalutamide and
           DOACs in the laboratory

        3. assess the feasibility of expanding this study to generate sufficient evidence to make
           recommendations for clinical practice.
    
  