
    
      The principal aim of this study is to identify immunological correlates of naturally acquired
      immunity to malaria in young children in the process of acquiring clinical immunity. As a
      secondary aim, the investigators will study whether allele specific immune responses provide
      only allele-specific protection against symptomatic infection. Finally, the investigators
      will assess the baseline immune responses and the extent to which they are boosted during the
      malaria transmission season in a population likely to be involved in malaria vaccine trials
      in the near future. The overall study design is to enroll 300 healthy children, aged 1-5
      years, located in the northern section of the Kassena-Nankana district and to follow them for
      twelve months, including the entire high malaria transmission season. They will be evaluated
      upon enrollment, bimonthly, and at the close of the study by physical examination, malaria
      smear, hemoglobin determination, and analysis of levels of specific antibody directed against
      a panel of candidate malaria vaccine antigens. Throughout the course of the study the
      children will be followed with passive case detection. In between the scheduled visits,
      parents will be encouraged to bring their children to the Paga Health Centre or Navrongo War
      Memorial Hospital or to a field worker anytime that they believe the child is not well. At
      such visits, the child will be evaluated with a morbidity questionnaire including a physical
      examination. A blood smear will be taken and a rapid malaria diagnostic test (DiaMed Optimal
      Rapid Malaria test) and hemoglobin measurement will be performed at the time of the visit.
      Treatment decisions will be based on clinical assessment and the result of the rapid malaria
      test. The smear result will not be available at the time initial treatment decisions are
      made. Children diagnosed with malaria will be treated with standard therapy per Ghana
      Ministry of Health policy by Ghana Health Service personnel. Children suffering from severe
      anemia or from any form of severe malaria will be referred to the Navrongo War Memorial
      Hospital for definitive treatment, including intravenous anti-malarial therapy and
      transfusion, if indicated, at no cost to the subject. At the time of discharge the subject
      will be evaluated by a study physician with a history and physical, malaria smear and
      hemoglobin determination. If in the clinical judgment of the study physician no further
      treatment is required, the subject will resume participation in the study.
    
  