
    
      Currently there's no non-invasive, objective method for measuring nasal airflow. The current
      standard, the NOSE score is an inaccurate measure of physiology (it is subjective). There is
      a considerable amount of data that demonstrates that the nasopharyngeal airway is the
      preferred ventilatory pathway for breathing at rest and during sleep. Finding a reliable
      measurement modality is important in light of this. The primary goal of this study is to
      evaluate a novel approach to measuring nasal airflow in thermal imaging. Previous studies
      show that higher temperatures of the nasal mucosa are related to decreased patency. The
      investigators hypothesize that reduced or obstructed airflow leads to the loss of the cooling
      oscillatory cycle present in normal nasal respiration. The investigators believe this
      diminished or absent cycle may be detectable via thermal imaging due to predicted elevation
      of mucosal temperatures (or loss of the cooling gradient). Other methods in the past aimed at
      measuring temperature changes introduced error due to their invasiveness (irritation of the
      mucosa lead to higher baseline oscillatory cycles). This is no longer an issue as the thermal
      imager requires no physical contact with the patient to function.

      There are several methods for measuring nasal patency that have been described throughout the
      literature. These include objective measurements such as acoustic rhinometry and
      rhinomanometry, as well as subjective measurements such as the Sino-Nasal Outcome Test and
      Nasal Obstruction Symptom Evaluation (NOSE) questionnaires. More recently, snap-on thermal
      imaging devices that take advantage of the processing power and high resolution of modern
      phones have surfaced leading to lower costs for highly-sensitive devices that we aim to use
      for measuring nasal airflow. The non-invasive nature of using thermal devices may lead to
      more accurate, objective measurements of nasal airflow as a previous study demonstrated that
      tactile irritation from other devices increase the mucosal temperature impeding measurement.
      (Bailey et al.). Other studies documented that improved sensation of nasal airflow is
      associated with cooler mucosal temperatures and that increased patency of the nasal passage
      is related to lower temperatures as well (and the opposite, decreased patency to increased
      temperatures). (Willatt et al.) We hypothesize that nasal airflow obstruction (NAO) leads to
      the loss of the cooling oscillatory cycle present in normal nasal respiration which we can
      detect via thermal imaging due to predicted elevation of mucosal temperatures.
    
  