
    
      DESIGN Single blinded randomized control trial STUDY GROUPS Women diagnosed with preeclampsia
      by their treating physicians (BP>140/90 and proteinuria> 300mg in 24 hours) who are being
      managed either as inpatients or out-patients. They will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to
      receive active CPAP or no CPAP either in hospital (if they are inpatients) or at home
      (outpatients).

      NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS A total of 30 women will be recruited. NUMBER OF CENTRES This study
      will be conducted at 2 centres- Royal Hospital for Women, Randwick and Royal Prince Alfred
      Hospital, Camperdown. The aim will be to recruit 15 participants from each site.

      INTERVENTIONS The intervention is nasal CPAP. The intervention group will be fitted with
      nasal CPAP on night 2, set to deliver positive pressure airway ventilation. The control group
      will not receive CPAP on night 2. The CPAP devices to be used are the ResMed S9 and the
      Philips Respironics REMstar Pro, both of which are automatically setting machines that
      respond to the presence of snoring, partial airway obstruction and complete apneas and
      increase airway pressure to a therapeutic level. These systems are commercially available and
      in widespread everyday routine clinical use in Australia. Nasal CPAP has been used for over
      30 years including in pregnant women and has been found to be very safe therapy.

      DURATION Participants will be required to undertake 2 overnight sleep studies/BP monitors/CO2
      monitors and complete a 10 minute questionnaire in the first 6 weeks post-partum. The study
      will be undertaken between 1/6/14 to 1/6/16.

      INVESTIGATION PLAN Following informed consent participants will be enrolled to undergo the
      following investigational plan.

      Baseline demographic data: all enrolled participants will be asked to provide the following
      information:

        -  age,

        -  gestation

        -  height

        -  current weight and pre-pregnancy weight

        -  medical history

        -  medications

        -  family history

        -  snoring history

        -  smoking and illicit drug taking history

      They will then be asked to complete a Modified Epworth Sleepiness Scale questionnaire.

      Overnight Sleep Study/ BP monitor and Fetal Monitor:

      Inpatients will undertake a Sleep Study with accompanying 24 BP monitor, CO2 monitor and
      fetal movement/HR monitor in their hospital bed on the day of recruitment. Outpatients will
      be given the equipment and a brief lesson on its use by investigators on the day of
      recruitment, and asked to perform the study in their own homes. They will be asked to then
      return the equipment to the hospital the following day for analysis.

      Second Night- Intervention On the subsequent day, the active group will be fitted with a
      nasal CPAP device and given a brief lesson on its use (Intervention group- CPAP, Controls- no
      CPAP). Inpatients will then complete a Sleep study, 24 hour BP monitor, CO2 monitor and fetal
      movements/HR monitor whilst on nasal CPAP. Outpatients will complete the same tests with
      nasal CPAP in their own homes. Outpatients will then return the equipment to the hospital for
      analysis the following day.

      Sleep Study- Sonomat HST The Sonomat is a portable mat that is placed on top of the
      participant's mattress (underneath the sheets). It contains a microphone and four vibration
      sensors to detect breath sounds, breathing movements and body movement. It will assess
      snoring, the number of apneas, the number of hypopneas, the number of arousals, and hourly
      blood oxygen saturation (%) throughout the night. It also measures the total number of fetal
      movements throughout the night, and will be used to calculate average hourly fetal movements.

      The Sonomat HST (ARTG number: Sleep Assessment Device 179807, software 179908) is registered
      with the Therapeutic Goods Administration and is routine use to perform ambulatory sleep
      assessments.

      24 Hour BP monitor and CO2 monitor A blood pressure cuff will be applied to the left upper
      arm for 24 hours. It will inflate hourly to measure the participant's systolic and diastolic
      blood pressure (mmHg) and will record all values. From this average nocturnal and daytime BPs
      will be calculated. The device to be used is a Spacelabs portable oscillometric system ABP
      20217.

      The CO2 monitor is a transcutaneous monitor applied to the patient's earlobe which
      continuously measures CO2, O2 and HR. From this, we can monitor alterations in CO2 and O2
      such as desaturations, complete apnoeas and hypercapnic episodes.

      Nasal CPAP (Continuous positive airway pressure) The CPAP devices used are ResMed S9 or
      Philips-Respironics REMstar Pro, which are automatically setting machines that respond to the
      presence of upper airway obstruction and complete apneas and increase airway pressure to a
      therapeutic level.

      The CPAP system is a small machine that sits at the bedside with a mask attached to the
      machine via a tube. The mask fits comfortably over the nose and delivers a steady stream of
      air under slight pressure (auto-set). It is to be worn throughout the night whilst the
      participant sleeps. Modern nasal CPAP masks and nasal pillow are very comfortable, and
      provided there is a gentle background flow of air, they are very easy to use and allow normal
      sleep.

      Post-partum questionnaire All participants will be asked to complete a brief questionnaire,
      which will be sent to them via email or conventional mail, in the first 6 weeks post-partum.
      This will ask questions regarding their gestation at delivery, fetal birth weight, maternal
      and fetal health and current signs/symptoms of sleep-disordered breathing.
    
  