
    
      Optimally designed exercise protocols for weight training are are based on scientiﬁc
      principles which manipulate essential training variables, including the order of the
      exercise, frequency, volume, intensity, rest intervals between sets, and others. The distance
      covered by the repetition that is carried out within a restricted part of a repetition is
      defined as a partial repetition (PR). The starting range of motion or range which is close to
      full range of the repetition are most commonly focused in most cases of sports training's. It
      is because of the muscle length-tension relationship, activation of the muscle and total mass
      of muscle, the muscle strength which is produced by full range of the movement of any
      particular joint will vary. In resistance training, the training range is most beneficial and
      effective if the repetition is stopped right before the full contraction is achieved, as this
      stopping prevents the load being always applied to the working muscle. For some of the
      exercises, the risk of a muscle tear is increased by the point of total contraction on the
      negative movement because muscle fibers are stretched way beyond the control point. Partial
      range of motion (PROM) is a mode of training which is not a recent finding and has projected
      some beneficial effects and efﬁciency in improving the outcomes in addition of improving the
      isometric strength. When the shoulder is elevated beyond 90°, the medial head of the triceps
      is activated the most. During basketball shooting, the medial head of triceps is important as
      the shoulder elevation is more than 90° when performing a jump shooting. According to this
      analysis of muscle force and activation of each head of triceps in relation to motion of
      shoulder elevation and elbow angle, it shows that medial head is most activated at 180° of
      shoulder elevation and between 60° to 110° of elbow extension. Thus, it can be suggested that
      when performing a jump shooting with shoulder elevation more than 90°, the medial head of
      triceps helps in forceful extension of arm to throw the basketball. PROM resistance training
      is proven to have positive effects in strength gain in various ranges and isokinetic strength
      of triceps that are correlated with shooting accuracy. This study will investigate the
      effectiveness of FROM and PROM training in improving shooting accuracy as there is dearth in
      current literature on triceps isotonic strength of different range of motion on shooting
      accuracy. This will be a single blinded randomized control trial study and a total of male 30
      participants would be recruited using purposive sampling method. Participants will be
      assigned into three groups; FROM, PROM and control group (CON). Using the cable machine,
      shoulders will be flexed to 180° for both groups throughout the training; FROM will train
      with full elbow extension (complete elbow flexion to extension) whereas PROM would train with
      partial elbow extension from 60° to 110°. Both groups will perform at 67% of 1 repetition
      maximum with 10 repetition in one set, and a total of 4 sets will be carried out by each
      group. A rest period of 2 minutes will be permitted between sets. A total of 8 sessions, 2
      sessions/week (muscle soreness is reduced greatly after 72 hours of rest after exercise will
      be carried out by both groups. CON group will not participate in training protocol. All the
      participants will be tested as baseline and at the end of four weeks training using three
      point shooting (S3P). The shooting accuracy will be measured using S3P method. The subjects
      will be required to perform 3 sets of the test to get an average score. There will be 5
      positions marked on the basketball court, each point at a distance of 6.25m away from the
      hoop. The first point will be set at the right wing of the court, which is at 0° to the hoop,
      the second point will be set 45° away from the first point, and also 6.25 m from the hoop,
      third point at 90°, facing the board and the hoop, also marked 6.25 m away from the hoop. The
      4th and 5th point will be similar to 1st and 2nd point, just that the points will be marked
      to the left side of the court. Each player will shot for 10 points in one set, 2 points from
      each point.
    
  