
    
      Football is an intermittent sport that includes actions of variable intensities and combines
      elements of physical fitness with technical and tactical skills. The game is characterized by
      a combination of several short-term movements such as jumps and change of direction.
      Typically, a player in a soccer game changes his kinetic situation every 4-6 seconds. The
      mean and maximum heart rate during the fight is approximately 85% and 98% of the maximum
      heart rate, respectively, while the average oxygen uptake is 70% of the maximum, proving that
      the aerobic system contributes significantly during the game. In addition, the lactic acid
      value in the blood ranges from 2 to 14 mM, which proves that also the anaerobic energy system
      contributes significantly during a game. Based on the above, the training of soccer players
      must meet the physiological and physiological requirements of the game.

      There are two approaches to developing fitness. In the first, there is a distinction between
      fitness training technical skills and tactics, while the second attempts to achieve all of
      them at the same time, and for that purpose, the sided games are used. The first approach
      refers to the literature as a traditional form of physical fitness training and contains the
      ball and run exercises. It is part of the training unit and separates the physical
      conditioning from the technique and tactics, resulting in longer training time. Moreover,
      although this training achieves the necessary physiological adaptations, the piece of game
      specialization is missing. For this reason, coaches have been interested in the sided games
      with restrictions, combining physical, technical, and tactical elements. The coach can modify
      these games to achieve the training goal each time. During training with racing blocks, a
      similar or even higher heart rate has been observed on soccer players compared with the
      short-term intermittent exercise. The intensity of the exercise on the sided games is
      controlled by several variables that the coach can modify according to the training goal.
      Many variables can affect the training load such as pitch area, the number of players, and
      other restrictions (e.g., goalkeepers, contact limitation, etc.). In the application of sided
      games with large dimension and a small number of players, the maximum heart rate can reach
      84-90% while with a large number of players it can reach 84-88%. There is a lack of
      references regarding rehabilitation after the implementation of sided games, and especially
      after the execution of large-dimension pitch area with a small and large number of athletes.
      The aim of the proposed study is, therefore, to examine the speed of recovery after training
      with a large-dimension pitch area with a small and large number of athletes in football.
    
  