
    
      Background:

      Community acquired methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (CA-MRSA) is an emerging
      pathogen of the 21st century whose incidence as a cause of local and invasive infections has
      significantly increased, especially in previously healthy term and near term neonates where
      it may be associated with high morbidity and mortality(1, 2, 3). The etiology for this
      increase remains unclear, but may be a consequence of perinatal or postnatal acquisition via
      maternal transmission through skin, breast milk, or vaginal colonization(4).

      The major goals of our study are: to determine the incidence of pregnant women who are
      colonized with CA-MRSA, gain a better understanding of the transmission dynamics of this
      organism between the mother and the newborn infant, and to develop strategies for the
      prevention of transmission, spread and infection with this organism in both these
      populations.

      This staged study is a collaborative effort between investigators from the Children's
      Memorial Hospital Division of Infectious Diseases, Northwestern Memorial Hospital Department
      of Obstetrics and Gynecology, and the Northwestern Memorial Hospital Division of Infectious
      Diseases. Collaboration across multiple specialties provides strength to the study by
      allowing the investigators to address multiple issues that are pertinent to both the care of
      pregnant mothers and newborn infants in the inpatient and outpatient setting.

      Hypothesis:

      1. The incidence of previously healthy term and near-term neonates infected with CA-MRSA skin
      & soft tissue (SSTI) and invasive infections is higher in those born to mothers vaginally
      and/or nasally colonized with CA-MRSA and, 2. Pregnant women vaginally and/or nasally
      colonized with CA-MRSA are at higher risk for post-partum infection with this organism.

      Specific Aims:

        1. To determine the incidence of nasal and vaginal colonization with CA-MRSA in pregnant
           women and determine the clonality of these strains.

        2. To study CA-MRSA transmission dynamics and evaluate the incidence of SSTI and invasive
           infections in term and near-term newborns born to S. aureus vaginal and/or nasal
           colonized mothers.

        3. To study the efficacy of attempted decolonization in CA-MRSA colonized mothers in
           decreasing the incidence of transmission and development of SSTI and invasive infections
           in their infants during the first month of life.

      Methods:

        1. Vaginal and anterior nasal cultures will be obtained prospectively over several months
           from pregnant women who obtain their prenatal care through Obstetrical practices at
           Prentice Women's Hospital and Maternity Center of Northwestern Memorial Hospital during
           the time of GBS screening at 34-36 weeks gestation. Together, these practices account
           for 300-500 deliveries per month.

        2. Cultures will be plated on blood agar and incubated at 37oC for 48 hours. S. aureus
           strains will be identified by colony morphology and latex agglutination. MRSA isolates
           will be identified by PCR or latex agglutination for penicillin binding protein 2a by
           detecting the mecA gene and clonality by PFGE. PCR testing will then be used to identify
           strains carrying the Panton-Valentine Leukocidin gene as a marker of virulence.

        3. In a prospective case-control cohort study, newborns born to CA-MRSA colonized mothers
           will have anterior nares cultures for S. aureus obtained at birth and followed for the
           development of SSTI and invasive infections for one month. Samples positive for MRSA
           will be tested for similarities to maternal isolates through methods described above.
           The newborn incidence of MRSA infection will be compared between those born to
           non-colonized mothers and those born to colonized mothers.

        4. In further stages of this study, women found to be nasally and/or vaginally colonized
           with CA-MRSA will be randomized to receive postpartum, either: 1) attempted
           decolonization with intranasal mupirocin with or without diluted chlorhexidine or Clorox
           baths or, 2) no intervention.

      Potential Impact:

      Understanding the epidemiology of the transmission dynamics of CA-MRSA in previously healthy
      neonates will provide important information to support the development of strategies aimed at
      the interruption of transmission and prevention of infection caused by CA-MRSA in this
      patient population, as well as in pregnant women. This will also allow for the development of
      infection control strategies in the hospital setting to prevent the spread of this organism
      among post-partum units and nurseries.
    
  