
    
      DESCRIPTION OF THE STUDY

      This is an open-label, Phase I/II study of intravitreally administered ranibizumab in
      subjects with nonproliferative Idiopathic Parafoveal Telangiectasia (IPT).

      Consented, enrolled subjects will be randomized into two groups: observation and treatment.
      The observation group will be monitored monthly while the treatment group will receive three
      open-label intravitreal injections of 1.0 mg ranibizumab administered every 30 days for 3
      months and then as needed monthly, based on defined criteria. NOTE: The original protocol had
      the treatment group dosed at 2.0 mg/0.05mL. However, the 2.0mg dose will become unavailable
      beginning January 31, 2012. Therefore, the protocol amendment submitted in December 2011
      changed the 2.0mg arm to a 1.0mg/ 0.10mL arm. Please note that three patients were already
      treated with 2.0mg before the amendment was submitted, so they will be switched to 1.0mg if
      they have not completed the study when the 2.0 dose is no longer available in January 2012.

      Protocol: FVF4875s Final 6/P

      29MAR2010

      3.2

      RATIONALE FOR STUDY DESIGN

      As IPT is a chronically progressive condition, the purpose of this study is to see if
      high-dose ranibizumab can slow or stop the leakage and growth of existing, dilated, macular
      vessels in cases where no co-existing neovascularization exists as defined by fluorescein
      angiography and Ocular Coherence Tomography (OCT). Other outcomes include stabilization of
      visual acuity compared to observation group (defined by best corrected Early Treatment
      Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) measurements), and changes in ultrastructural features, as
      defined by OCT,

      3.3

      OUTCOME MEASURES

      3.3.1 Primary Outcome Measures

      To compare the change in visual acuity from baseline to one year in patients with
      nonproliferative IPT who are either treated with high-dose (1.0mg) ranibizumab or observed.

      3.3.2 Secondary Outcome Measures

      i. To compare the change in visual acuity from baseline to 6 months and 9 months in patients
      with nonproliferative IPT who are either treated with high- dose (1.0mg) ranibizumab or
      observed.

      ii. To assess OCT changes in standard Central Subfield Thickness (CST) from baseline to 6
      months, 9 months and 12 months.

      iii. To assess safety of administering 1.0mg ranibizumab (Lucentis) in patients with
      nonproliferative IPT at 6 months, 9 months and 12 months.

      iv. To assess changes in angiographic leakage from baseline at 6 and 12 months.
    
  