
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea is a prevalent disorder that affect 2-4% adults in general
      population. Cardiovascular and Neurocognitive complication were the most common and severe
      consequence noted in patients of OSA. Endothelial dysfunction is the early pathologic changes
      in the vascular wall that precede to the clinical cardiovascular events. Endothelial
      dysfunction with the deficit of vascular relaxation will induce the development of
      hypertension. Endothelial dysfunction predict the occurrence of ischemic heart disease and
      cardiovascular events as stroke. The development of endothelial dysfunction significantly
      remark the early sign of the development of cardiovascular diseases.

      Inflammation trigger by oxygen radical in the vascular system were the major pathogenesis of
      the endothelial dysfunction. Intermittent hypoxia in the patients of OSA during repeated
      apnea at night will increase the oxygen radicals therefore trigger the cascade of
      inflammation process. The inflammatory process could be mediated by the activation of the
      transcription factors such as NF-KB, AP-1 or from the pathway of HIF-1 cascade. Inflammatory
      cytokine such as HsCRP inducted by the activation of NF-KB and AP-1 will induce the
      interaction of monocytes and lymphocytes to further injury to the endothelium of vascular
      wall. TGF-B secreted by lymphocyte will create the remodeling by fibroblast which result in
      the thickening of vascular wall. Another pathway by VEGF, endothelin 1, or other protein
      modulated by HIF-1 is also proposed directly injure to the endothelium that cause the
      following cardiovascular events.

      CPAP treatment for OSA were shown to lowering the severity of blood pressure and
      cardiovascular events in some reports. Although the effect for blood pressure lowering is
      still controversial, Most reports actually showed marginal effect on reducing BP to 2 mmHg by
      CPAP. There is still part of OSA patients with hypertension not responding to CPAP
      treatment.Besides of the effect of CPAP treatment, the compliance of CPAP is still a major
      concerning in the treatment of OSA. 60% of patients were reported to continue used CPAP in
      the well-supported sleep center in USA. Even the CPAP is covered by reimbursement in USA, the
      low compliance of CPAP impede the treatment of cardiovascular complication of OSA. To improve
      the control of the cardiovascular consequence of OSA, a convenient and well-tolerated
      intervention is mandatory. Statin, a powerful lipid-lowering medication, is found to have a
      significant anti-inflammatory effect in several reports. Statin is even suggested in the
      population of normal cholesterol to prevent the development of cardiovascular event. Statins
      exert cholesterol-independent, anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory effects. Pleiotropic
      effects are typically mediated by HMG-CoA reductase inhibition, are dose dependent and occur
      rapidly after initiation of statin treatment. In order to evaluate and explore a safe and
      convenient method in the control of the cardiovascular complication of OSA, we conduct this
      study.
    
  