
    
      Cardiovascular disease affects 5% of the population and almost 20% of those meet the criteria
      for insomnia; twice as many as in the general population. Patients with cardiovascular
      disease and insomnia have been found to have elevated rates of anxiety and depression, which
      in turn places individuals at further cardiovascular risk via physiological pathways like
      increased blood pressure and/or vascular inflammation. Further, insomnia has been linked with
      negative health outcomes that exacerbate risk, including obesity, hypertension, and future
      acute myocardial infarction. Given the negative impact of poor sleep on cardiac health, some
      have argued that insomnia should now be included in the top 10 modifiable risk factors for
      cardiovascular disease.

      Currently the best treatment for insomnia is a group-based cognitive behavioural therapy
      intervention (CBT-I); this intervention is more effective than pharmacotherapy. Evidence
      shows that CBT-I produces significant improvements after 6 weeks of intervention and
      improvements continue over the long term. This intervention program includes specific
      cognitive therapy exercises aimed at maladaptive thoughts about sleep, behaviour change
      techniques, and relaxation strategies (e.g., mindfulness, deep breathing); it also provides a
      supportive environment for individuals to discuss their sleep difficulties, allowing them to
      feel normalized and less isolated. For most people with insomnia however, their disorder goes
      untreated, leaving individuals at higher risk for affective disorders (e.g., depression),
      cardiovascular disease, and poorer quality of life. This lack of treatment is widespread and
      systemic; patients who want help with insomnia face a dearth of information about treatment,
      actual access to treatment and affordable services.

      The proposed study is the first evaluation of a comprehensive CBT-I intervention designed for
      cardiac patients. Of note, the proposed study will be the first to evaluate the impact of
      this intervention on cardiovascular outcomes.
    
  