
    
      Fifty four percent of Colorectal cancer (CRC) cases are thought to be preventable, showing it
      has a strong correlation with lifestyle factors. A recent report by the World Cancer Research
      Fund and American Institute of Cancer Research (WCRF/AICR) on diet, physical activity (PA)
      and CRC reported numerous findings linking lifestyle with primary prevention of CRC.
      Approximately six out of ten people diagnosed with bowel cancer in England and Wales survive
      for 10-years or more and rates of survival have more than doubled in the last 40-years.

      The term 'cancer survivors' denotes all people who are living with a diagnosis of cancer, and
      those who have recovered from the disease. The term is not universally accepted and survivors
      are increasingly being referred to as people 'living with and beyond cancer. This covers a
      wide variety of circumstances including people at diagnosis, during and post treatment, and
      those with recurrence therefore including people with potentially differing nutritional
      needs. People can be struggling with a poor nutritional intake due to treatment side effects
      or may need to optimise their nutritional status preoperatively or require advice post
      treatment for optimum recovery and rehabilitation. However, compared to the vast amount of
      research with respect to CRC incidence there is a paucity of research on diet and lifestyle
      factors influencing CRC recurrence and survival.

      The second WCRF and AICR expert report in 2007 undertook a systematic literature review to
      assess the role of food, nutrition and PA in people diagnosed with cancer. The report
      included randomized control trials (RCTs) evaluating dietary interventions, however, there
      were no conclusions drawn. This was attributed to poor quality designs and varying
      intervention duration of the studies. The third WCRF and AICR expert report, in 2018, stated
      new evidence had accrued since the second report but primarily within breast cancer therefore
      a review of the evidence was undertaken in this group leaving a gap in the evidence base with
      regard to CRC.

      The design of secondary prevention studies are based on expert conclusion with the third WCRF
      recommending survivors who have completed treatment should follow the general advice for
      cancer prevention. The current strongest primary prevention evidence is that CRC risk is
      decreased by being physically active in addition to a higher consumption of wholegrains,
      dietary fibre and dairy products. Risk is increased by the consumption of red and processed
      meat, more than two alcoholic drinks per day and being overweight or obese.

      A recent review of the literature of lifestyle interventions in RCTs in people with CRC has
      identified 6 published studies (in preparation). The review identified that all current
      studies used a variety of dietary and physical activity interventions, data collection tools
      and inconsistent timing of interventions commencing from 6 months to 5 years post diagnosis.
      None of the published RCTs achieved changes in dietary intake and any small changes that
      occurred were not sustainable with participants reverting to their usual dietary habits.

      One conclusion from the review was that no studies used appropriate methods to support
      behaviour change such as healthcare professionals trained in behaviour change techniques and
      methods of support, for example, digital technology. It has been demonstrated that such
      techniques would help support people to make lifestyle changes and from a research
      perspective can eliminate administration-intensive tasks, variation in interpretation and
      recording errors

      Discussion with the PPI group of The Royal Marsden Hospital (NHS Foundation Trust) and
      Institute of Cancer Research provided a valuable insight into the variance in opinion as to
      when and how people could be asked to make lifestyle changes. The support provided by family
      members and / or carers was identified as a critical factor in supporting people to make
      lifestyle changes.

      There has recently been an increased interest in the use of digital behaviour change
      interventions (DBCIs) and smartphone applications in the healthcare setting, including in the
      management of diet, PA and weight.

      A recent systematic review of DBCIs amongst cancer survivors identified fifteen studies and
      concluded DBCIs can improve PA and Body Mass Index (BMI), in this patient group, with mixed
      results for improved dietary behaviours.
    
  