
    
      Introduction

      How time is managed is of great importance for daily life, including participation and
      well-being (Christiansen, 2005). Time management behaviors relate positively to perceived
      control of time, satisfaction and health, and negatively to stress (Claessens, van Eerde,
      Rutte, & Roe, 2007). Prenda and Lachman (2001) demonstrated that planning predicted life
      satisfaction in older people, while Ouwehand et al. (2006) found that future time orientation
      was important for their well-being. The capacity for concrete planning has also been shown to
      predict well-being in older people over a one-year period (Tovel & Carmel, 2014). More
      broadly, the capacity to orient in time and plan is essential in goal-setting, the benefits
      of which have been extensively documented in older people (Frazier, Newman, & Jaccard, 2007).

      Sweden, like most countries, is undergoing population ageing and an epidemiologic transition,
      which is leading to a greater number of people than ever before affected by dementia. Caused
      by a variety of brain illnesses, dementia affects thinking, memory, behavior and ability to
      perform everyday activities, including daily time management. Time perception and time
      orientation are essential functions that are compromised in dementia (El Haj, Gandolphe,
      Wawrziczny, & Antoine, 2016; Grewal, 1995; Iwamoto & Hoshiyama, 2012).Temporal relationships,
      and the coherence of past, present and future become unclear and vague; past time disappears
      and planning for the future seems less important or impossible. People with dementia may
      experience difficulties with regard to knowing, remembering and planning "when", and knowing
      "how long" different activities or situations would last. This causes problems to plan and
      keep appointments. Moreover, not being able to judge the length of time intervals can make
      them feel lonely when their spouse or informal caregiver is away due to a failure to gauge
      the length of the absence, which can cause stress and worry for both the person with dementia
      (PwD) and the caregiver (Nygard & Johansson, 2001)

      Appropriate and effective assistive products can offer PwD and their relatives the
      opportunity to develop a more mutually satisfactory care relationship and enhance the person
      with dementia's capacity for self-management. Then, the time spent with the family caregiver
      is not reduced to a succession of required care tasks but can encompass more meaningful
      social and emotional engagements.

      A review of technology for older people with cognitive or other impairments concluded that
      the cost-benefit was generally high or very high (Dahlberg, 2014). Despite this, the uptake
      of assistive products is quite low because of lack of competence, awareness, organization,
      user training and reliability of technical solutions. Family caregivers played a significant
      role in whether or not assistive products were absorbed into the everyday life practice
      (Arntzen, Holthe, & Jentoft, 2014). Moreover, it is important that assistive products are
      easy to maintain and fit into the context of use in order to increase the sense of control of
      the products by users with dementia, and thereby promote the goal achievement and usability
      of the products (Lindqvist, Larsson, & Borell, 2015). Research has also highlighted the
      necessity of adaptation of the products to individual users, regardless whether they are
      mainstream or specially-designed products (Boman, Nygård, & Rosenberg, 2014; Boman, Persson,
      & Bartfai, 2016).

      To facilitate daily time management of people with cognitive impairments, time assistive
      products have been developed and evaluated (Gillespie, Best, & O'Neill, 2012). Enhanced time
      management in a PwD, with improved time keeping, planning capacity and goal-setting, could
      increase the potential for social interaction and participation, while reducing the negative
      impact and increasing the positive value of caregiving for relatives as identified in
      Balducci et al. (2008). It has been reported that assistive products can support people with
      dementia to orientate to dates, weekdays and time; to go back to sleep at night; to feel
      calmer, in control and more secure; and to cope and manage more effectively and to carry out
      daily routines. The products can increase the ability of people with dementia to retain
      roles, reduce the need for them to ask others about day and time, and reduce the number of
      times they wake up others at night. This helps caregivers to have better sleep and feel
      relieved, and to have a less stressful relation with the primary user of the product
      (Forsenäs et al. 2011; Hagen 2006)(Holthe, Hagen, Bjørneby, & Vollgate, 1998; Topo et al.,
      2007). Assistive products can provide users with an overview of the day, and remind them
      about activities (e.g., meals, medicine, visits and training). They can also give them time
      to do other things between scheduled activities, and inform about time and date (Bakken
      2014). It has also been reported that assistive products can save time and effort, decrease
      worries and stress, and increase a sense of safety, which enabled users with dementia to
      perform their valued activities (Lindqvist, Nygård, & Borell, 2013). Still, although daily
      time management is such a significant difficulty in dementia, the evidence from populations
      with dementia is limited in both quantity and quality.

      It is of vital importance to implement a research project that creates knowledge for
      developing effective time-related interventions for improving the well-being of people with
      dementia and informal caregivers.

      Purposes

      In order to contribute to the development and use of affordable and appropriate innovative
      assistive technology for daily time management among older people with dementia, the purposes
      of this project are:

        -  to investigate and model the relationship between the use of time assistive products by
           older people with mild to moderate dementia, their daily time management and their
           well-being, and

        -  to devise strategies for the acceptance and use of such products by older people with
           dementia and informal caregivers.

      The purposes of this project are relevant in the field of ageing and health. The first
      purpose will explore how supportive technologies for functional abilities (in the form of
      time assistive products) affect older people's daily time management and well-being
      (including, activities, participation and independence). In addition to providing evidence of
      the effects of the products, the first purpose will result in an empirically based
      theoretical model to better understand their role. This model will offer a basis for the
      development of new and improved products and services.

      The second purpose will contribute knowledge of experiences in PwD directly and via their
      informal caregiver, about their use of time assistive products and their perceptions of
      learning how to use them. This includes identifying features that need to be integrated in
      the design of products and services in order to effectively address the needs of older PwD
      and their informal caregivers. This purpose will also contribute to the development of new
      and improved products and services by devising strategies that consider current barriers to
      and facilitators of the acceptance and use of such products.

      The project will investigate time assistive devices for people with dementia from three
      perspectives - occupational therapists, PwDs and their informal caregivers. This is done in
      three phases with the following research questions:

      Research questions

      Phase I - The perspective of occupational therapists:

      1. What are the occupational therapist's experiences of prescribing time assistive products
      for persons with mild or moderate dementia, focusing on facilitating and hindering factors?

      Phase II - Intervention with focus on persons with mild or moderate dementia and their
      informal caregivers:

      2a) To what degree can time assistive products support persons with mild or moderate dementia
      in reaching their personal activity goals, in performance of daily activities and in
      satisfaction with the performance? 2b) What is the relation between time-processing ability,
      daily time management, and well-being of people with mild or moderate dementia within
      differing socioeconomic and care contexts? 2c) How can intervention with time assistive
      products affect time-processing ability, daily time management and well-being of people with
      dementia and the well-being of their informal caregivers? 2d) Are there differences in
      results of research questions 2a - 2c between different cultures (Sweden, India and Japan)?

      Phase III - Deepening of the perspective of the informal caregivers:

      3a) What experiences do informal caregivers have of people with dementia's use of time
      assistive products in daily situations? 3b) How does this use affect the situation of
      informal caregivers?

      Procedure and data Collection

      As the primary outcome measures Kit for Time-processing ability (KaTid), Self-rating of daily
      time management (Time-S) and Time-Proxy scale for rating daily time management (Time-P) have
      not been used for the target group, the instruments and the procedure of the assessments have
      been evaluated by experienced occupational therapists working with persons with dementia. The
      instruments and the procedure of the assessments have been adapted for different cultural
      contexts in Sweden, India and Japan".

      The recruited PwDs will be randomly allocated to an intervention group or a control group.

      All PwD, both randomized to intervention group and to waiting/control group, will have an
      information brochure about daily time management, frequent problems, and suggested strategies
      to manage them.

      Main assessment points will be at baseline, three months post-baseline and six months
      post-baseline.

      The intervention group will receive a time assistive product as support in daily time
      management. The time assistive product will be prescribed and introduced by the occupational
      therapist that identified the participant. The control group will receive a time assistive
      product after 3 months.

      The assessments and interviews with persons with dementia and an informal caregiver will be
      conducted in the memory clinic, or in the participants' homes, depending on what the persons
      with dementia and their informal caregivers prefer. Assessments and interviews will be
      performed first with PwD and then with their informal caregiver.

      Data Analysis

      Quantitative data will be analyzed using SPSS (Version 23 or later) for Windows, with
      descriptive, bivariate and multivariable analyses as appropriate performed in order to
      determine both significant differences between intervention and control group in primary
      outcomes (daily time management, well-being, COPE Index), significant changes over time
      within the intervention group, and within/between group interaction effects. Analyses will
      also be conducted to explore the strength and directions of the relationships between
      variables in figure 1 in order to arrive at an empirically based model.

      Qualitative analysis of data from focus group interviews (I) and individual interviews (Phase
      III) will be performed using qualitative content analysis inspired by Graneheim and Lundman
      (2004). The material will be processed by a verbatim transcription, and thoroughly analysed
      in relation to the research questions posed.

      This protocol for registration will focus only on the Phase II, Intervention with focus on
      persons with dementia and their informal caregivers, the randomized and controlled study,
      research questions 2a-2d.
    
  