
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare response-based therapy to standard therapy for intermediate risk Hodgkin
      disease.

      II. To determine whether involved field radiation therapy (IFRT) can be eliminated based upon
      early and complete response to multiagent chemotherapy.

      III. To determine whether the addition of an additional two cycles of chemotherapy (DECA) can
      improve outcome in those with a slow early response to standard chemotherapy.

      IV. To prospectively collect information on the individual prognostic significance of the
      following presenting factors: erythrocyte sedimentation rate, circulating levels of IL-10,
      each of the "B" symptoms - fever, night sweats, weight loss, nodal aggregate > 6 cm, large
      mediastinal mass > 1/3 thoracic diameter and number of involved nodal sites, histology,
      albumin, blood counts, sex and age.

      V. To study the reliability and utility of [18F] -Fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) Imaging (PET
      scans) as an imaging modality in Hodgkin disease.

      VI. To determine the frequency and severity of late effects of therapy including thyroid
      dysfunction, infertility, cardiotoxicity, pulmonary toxicity and second malignant neoplasms.

      VII. To serve as the therapeutic companion to biology studies in Hodgkin disease and
      correlate those results with response to therapy, event free-survival and overall survival.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study.

      ARM I (ALL PATIENTS-OFF THERAPY BEFORE CALLBACK-INDUCTION CHEMOTHERAPY [ABVE-PC]): Patients
      receive doxorubicin intravenously (IV) over 10-30 minutes on days 1-2, bleomycin sulfate IV
      over 10-20 minutes or subcutaneously (SC) and vincristine IV on days 1 and 8, etoposide IV
      over 1 hour on days 1-3, oral prednisone 2 or 3 times daily on days 1-7, and cyclophosphamide
      IV over 1 hour on day 1. Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) SC beginning on day 2 and
      continuing until blood counts recover (G-CSF is held on day 8). Treatment repeats every 21
      days for 2 courses in the absence of progressive disease. At the end of initial chemotherapy,
      patients undergo evaluation for response. Patients with less than 60% disease reduction are
      considered to have slow early response (SER). Patients with 60% or more disease reduction are
      considered to have rapid early response (RER).

      RER: Patients receive 2 additional courses of ABVE-PC chemotherapy. After completion of
      treatment, patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

      ARM II: Patients with sustained complete response (CR) undergo involved field radiation
      therapy (IFRT) approximately 3 weeks after the last day of ABVE-PC course 4 for 5 days a
      week.

      ARM III: Patients with sustained CR receive no further treatment.

      ARM IV: Patients with very good partial response (VGPR), partial response (PR) or stable
      disease (SD) undergo IFRT approximately 3 weeks after the last day of ABVE-PC course 4 for 5
      days a week.

      ARM V: Patients with progressive disease are taken off therapy and treated their physician's
      discretion.

      SER: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM VI: Patients receive dexamethasone IV over 15 minutes, etoposide IV over 3 hours,
      cytarabine IV over 3 hours on days 1-2, and receive 2 drops of dexamethasone ophthalmic
      solution every 6 hours on days 1, 2 and 3. Patients also receive cisplatin PO or IV over 12
      hours as pre-hydration followed by continuous IV over 6 hours on day 1 and G-CSF SC beginning
      on day 3 and continuing until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After these 2
      courses, patients then receive 2 additional courses of ABVE-PC chemotherapy.

      ARM VII: Patients receive 2 courses of ABVE-PC chemotherapy.

      In both SER arms, patients with sustained CR or PR undergo IFRT approximately 3 weeks after
      the last course of chemotherapy.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually thereafter.
    
  