
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Recurrent glioma patients have very limited treatment options. A major cause of gliomarelated
      morbidity and mortality is the extensive infiltrative and invasive nature of glioma cells.
      Thus, inhibition of glioma invasion is a potentially promising strategy.

      Work in the Neuro-Oncology Branch laboratory of Dr. Howard Fine has identified TrkA as an
      important signaling receptor for mediating glioma cell invasion. Both genetic and
      pharmacological inhibition of Trk potently inhibits glioma invasion and tumor progression in
      vitro and in vivo. AZD7451 is a first in-class inhibitor of Trk.

      OBJECTIVES:

      To establish the maximally tolerated dose (MTD) of continuous twice a day AZD7451 dosing in
      patients with recurrent glioblastoma not on enzyme-inducing anti-epileptic drugs (EIAED).

      To generate pharmacokinetic data on continuous twice a day AZD7451 dosing.

      ELIGIBILITY:

      Patients with histologically proven glioblastoma are eligible for this study. Patients should
      have failed prior standard treatment with radiotherapy.

      DESIGN:

      This study will accrue up to 60 evaluable patients. Cohorts of 3 to 6 patients will receive
      continuous AZD7451 twice a day orally for 28 days. The MTD will be based on the tolerability
      observed during the first 4 weeks of treatment only. Up to three patients may be enrolled
      simultaneously at each dose level. The dose of AZD7451 can be progressively escalated if only
      0/3 or 1/6 patients experience a dose limiting toxicity at the prior dose level.

      At the end of Cycle 1, patients may choose to continue to receive AZD7451 until disease
      progression or until they experience unmanageable drug related toxicity, as long as they are
      continuing to derive clinical benefit and do not fulfill any of the criteria for removal from
      protocol therapy. Each cycle during this extension period will last 28 days.
    
  