
    
      Data from laboratory studies, epidemiologic research, and randomized clinical trials
      conducted in the pre-COVID era strongly suggest that vitamin D is active in pathways relevant
      to immune function and may reduce the risk of acute respiratory infections. More recently,
      some observational studies have shown a significant association between low vitamin D status
      and worse clinical outcomes among COVID-19 patients. Whether vitamin D supplementation can
      reduce the risk of adverse clinical outcomes in recently diagnosed COVID-19 patients and/or
      reduce risk of infection with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV- 2)
      in those likely to have been exposed to the virus (post-exposure prophylaxis) is unknown.

      The Vitamin D and COVID-19 Trial (VIVID) is a nationwide, pragmatic, cluster-randomized
      clinical trial in 2700 U.S. men and women investigating whether taking a daily dietary
      supplement of vitamin D3 for 4 weeks reduces the rate of seeking healthcare visits (including
      hospitalizations, emergency room visits, or ambulatory or virtual clinician visits) for
      symptoms or concerns related to COVID-19 or deaths in people newly diagnosed with COVID-19,
      and reduces the risk of SARS-CoV-2 infection and/or disease severity in household contacts of
      individuals newly diagnosed with COVID-19.

      The trial will enroll 1500 individuals aged 18 or older who are newly diagnosed with COVID-19
      ("index cases") and 1200 household contacts aged 18 or older.

      Following receipt of informed consent, participants will be randomized -- i.e., assigned by
      chance (like a coin toss) -- to one of two groups: (1) daily vitamin D3 (9600 IU/day on days
      1-2; 3200 IU/day on days 3-28) or (2) daily vitamin D placebo. Index cases and household
      contacts of an index case (limited to at most one contact per household), if any, will be
      assigned to the same group (cluster randomization). Participants will take three oral softgel
      capsules on day 1, three capsules on day 2, and one capsule each day on days 3 through 28.
      Participants will receive a 4-week supply of study capsules via overnight courier service.

      Participants will fill out a short (15-20 minute) questionnaire each week during the 4-week
      pill-taking period, as well as a follow-up questionnaire at 8 weeks after randomization.
      These questionnaires ask about symptoms, general health, and use of medications and dietary
      supplements. Questionnaires will be completed online using a secure Internet-based system
      known as the Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap) system. Participants must have an
      e-mail address to enroll in the study. Occasionally, participants (or their delegates) may
      receive a telephone call from study staff to collect information or to clarify answers on the
      questionnaire. Participants will be able to contact investigators or staff using a toll-free
      number, if they have any questions or need assistance.

      Participants (or their delegates) who indicate on a study questionnaire that they have been
      hospitalized will be sent a medical release form to be signed and returned. The release form
      will be used to get medical records from the participant's physician or hospital to confirm
      the specific reason for the hospitalization. In the event of a participant's death, the
      participant's delegate will be sent a medical release form to be signed and returned. The
      release form will be used to get medical records from the participant's physician or hospital
      to confirm the specific cause of death.

      Participants will provide dried blood spot samples at baseline and week 4. Participants will
      provide these samples using a sample collection kit mailed to their homes. Blood samples will
      be collected through a finger prick onto a filter paper. Blood samples will be stored and
      used to measure vitamin D (25(OH)D) levels. In participants who are not diagnosed with
      COVID-19 during the study, blood samples will be also be tested for COVID-19 antibodies.

      Support for VIVID is provided by Harvard University and private philanthropy. Tishcon
      Corporation (Salisbury, Maryland, USA) is donating the study capsules. The Karolinska
      Institute (Stockholm, Sweden) is donating the serology assessment, and Quest Diagnostics (San
      Juan Capistrano, California, USA) is donating biomarker measurements.
    
  