
    
      In the recently published guideline of the Dutch Association of Plastic Surgeons it is
      advised that assessment and improvement of the nutritional status should be part of
      pre-operative work-up of all post-bariatric patients who undergo body contouring surgery
      (BCS). The assessment should consist of consultation of a dietician and measurement of the
      nutritional parameters associated with wound healing. It is advised to assess the following
      parameters:

        -  albumin

        -  hemoglobin

        -  vitamin D (25-hydroxy vitamin D)

        -  ferritin

        -  folic acid

        -  vitamin B12

      Standard treatment in this study will consist of the pre-operative work-up as advised by the
      guideline. Participants will have a consultation with the dietician to assess (protein)
      intake. In addition the first blood sample, which is part of standard treatment according to
      the new protocol, will be obtained to assess foregoing parameters. If there are nutritional
      deficiencies they will be treated according to the protocol of the department of Bariatric
      Surgery of the treating hospital.

      To evaluate the effect of the treatment of deficiencies and to be sure that there are no
      deficiencies present during the BCS a second blood sample will be drawn during the body
      contouring procedure. For study purposes this second sample will be collected in all
      patients, even if a deficiency was not present at the first blood sample.

      The dietician will assess current intake of the patients, with special attention the protein
      intake. Based on guidelines on protein-intake in post-bariatric patients and after
      consultation of experts (Dieticians of Maastricht University) investigators decided that the
      aim of the minimum protein intake is 1.5 gram per kilogram bodyweight (calculated with BMI
      27kg/m2) per day. The first consultation at the dietician will be eight weeks prior to
      surgery. Patients will be advised to start with the extra protein-intake four weeks prior to
      surgery and continue this until the wounds are completely healed.

      Six weeks after surgery a questionnaire will be handed-out to the patients, to assess the
      compliance to the treatment regime.
    
  