
    
      (T1D) Type 1 diabetes afflicts nearly 2 million people in the United States, most of them
      children or young adults. Untreated, it is a fatal disease. Exogenous insulin, administered
      by multiple injections or by a continuous subcutaneous (SC) infusion from a wearable pump,
      allow long term survival in those who develop the disease, and most who are treated in this
      way will have a very good health-related quality of life. However, insulin therapy does not
      provide normal glycemic control, and long term survivors commonly develop vascular
      complications such as diabetic retinopathy (the most common cause of adult blindness) and
      diabetic nephropathy (the most common indication for adult kidney transplantation). The
      Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) established that these microvascular
      complications of diabetes can be prevented by maintaining near-normal glucose control in
      patients with T1D. However, this degree of control is not always achievable despite modern
      insulin analogs and delivery systems, and when achieved, it is invariably associated with
      episodes of insulin-induced hypoglycemia that can be life-threatening. A small minority of
      individuals with T1D develop hypoglycemia unawareness, a condition that is life-threatening,
      is associated with severe deterioration in quality of life and activity restriction, and is
      not amenable to medical therapy.

      The hope of achieving near-normal glucose control without hypoglycemia in T1D has provided
      the impetus for developing effective strategies for β-cell replacement via pancreas or
      isolated islet transplantation. When successful, pancreas transplantation can normalize blood
      glucose(BG) in diabetic recipients, with associated stabilization and even reversal of
      microvascular complications. However, the risks of the procedure (an almost 10% early failure
      rate due to technical complications, anastomotic leak, bleeding, and infection) and the need
      for lifelong immunosuppression have in most centers limited the target population of this
      therapy to diabetics <50 years of age with minimal or no coronary artery disease, and at some
      centers pancreas transplant is offered only with concomitant kidney transplant. As a result,
      T1D patients in need of β-cell replacement are often excluded from whole pancreas
      transplantation. Islet transplantation, in contrast, is accomplished by a much simpler
      procedure in which the islets are infused into the portal vein. While this procedure is not
      without risk, the procedural morbidity is much less than that of whole pancreas
      transplantation.

      On the other hand, whereas about 80% of whole pancreas transplant recipients will be insulin
      independent at one year after their transplant, <10% of 447 islet recipients transplanted
      between 1990 and 1999 achieved one year insulin independence. This was attributed to low
      engrafted islet mass combined with high metabolic demand imposed by glucocorticoids used to
      prevent rejection. In the year 2000, the group from Edmonton reported a series of 7
      consecutive islet transplant recipients treated with islets from multiple donors and a
      glucocorticoid-free immunosuppressive regimen. These islet recipients were insulin free at
      follow-up ranging from 4.5 to 15 months. All of the recipients had experienced severe
      hypoglycemic episodes prior to transplant, and afterwards, none did. The efficacy of the
      Edmonton approach has now been confirmed by several other centers, and represents a major
      breakthrough in the field. However, it has also become clear that, in most islet recipients,
      there is loss of graft function over time; in Edmonton, insulin-independence rates have
      declined from 72% at one year to 28% by three years. A multicenter trial using the Edmonton
      protocol has both confirmed the results of the initial experience and raised questions
      relating to the expansion of the procedure to multiple centers, the toxicities of the
      immunosuppressive regimen, and the evaluation of the islet product.

      In 2006, the NIH initiated several multi-center (Clinical Islet Transplantation Consortium)
      clinical trials of islet transplantation with the primary goal of establishing islet
      transplantation as a therapeutic treatment option for patients with type 1 diabetes either
      already have had a successful kidney transplant or with severe hypoglycemic events and good
      native renal function. The clinical protocol utilized for these trials improved from the
      Edmonton protocol in that it incorporates (1) T cell depletion anti-thymocyte antibody(16,
      17); (2) peri-transplant anti-inflammatory therapy using Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF)-a
      blockade; (3) aggressive control of glucose homeostasis after transplant with continuing,
      albeit reduced, insulin therapy; (4) short-term anticoagulation therapy peri-intraportal
      islet infusion. Northwestern is one of the clinical centers of the Consortium and has
      successfully transplanted a total of eighteen patients with twenty-six islet preparations
      using this protocol in the past two and half years.

      The current study protocol modifies the protocol of the (CIT) Clinical Islet Transplantation
      consortium and substituted anti-thymocyte polyclonal antibody with alemtuzumab which has been
      shown to have efficacy in both pre-clinical model as well as clinical trials of allogeneic
      islet transplantation.
    
  