
    
      Patients who seem to fulfil the inclusion without the exclusion criteria for the study will
      enter a screening phase of seven days. During this period, a clinical investigation will be
      performed, blood sample collected and prostate specific antigen (PSA) measured. The Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 will be used for measuring and
      classifying the tolerability and toxicity. Additionally, the quality of life (QoL)
      questionnaires EQ-5D-5L developed by EuroQol will be used. Both CTCAE and QoL will be
      recorded initially as individual baseline values. The trial treatment will start at the end
      of the screening period, denoted as Day 0, and the patients receiving study identification
      numbers.

      BP-C2 will be administered orally once per day and the dose-window set to 0.33 - 1.67 mg/kg
      body weight (bw). For an average patient of 75 kg this represents 5 - 25 ml. The starting
      dose will be 1.0 mg/kg bw representing 15 ml for an average patient. All the eight
      participating patients will receive the daily starting dose of 1.0 mg/kg bw for four weeks at
      the first design-level. The study consists of three design-levels, each of four weeks
      duration. CTCAE and QoL registration will be performed after two and four weeks at each
      design-level. In case of life threatening, serious adverse events, or occurrence of
      unacceptable side effects related to the trial substance, the treatment will be stopped.

      The CTCAE results are shown in the two variables "Sum CTCAE score" and "Max CTCAE". The
      tolerability classification used in the study design is based on the Max score as: "0=none",
      "1=mild", "2= moderate", "3= severe", "4= Life threatening" and "5= death". The change in the
      Max score from the study baseline to four weeks of BP-C2 treatment [4 weeks - baseline] are
      classified as "0= unchanged or reduced", "1=small increase", "2= moderate increase", "3=
      severe increase" and "4= life-threatening increase". In case the change in the Max score is
      classified as 0 or 1, the dose to be used for the patient at the next design level will be
      increased. If the change is 2 or 3, the dose will be reduced. Termination of the study occurs
      if the change in the Max score is 4 or larger. The size of the dose escalation or
      de-escalation will be calculated in accordance with the Response Surface Pathway (RSP)
      procedure depending on the change in Max CTCAE score from baseline to the end of each
      design-level. Based on the results obtained after four weeks of treatment at one design
      level, the dose to be used at the next design level will be individually calculated.

      Each patient will be followed up four weeks after end of treatment with final CTCAE and QoL
      registration.

      The CTCAE related variables are the main variables in this study. The secondary variables are
      the QoL variables EQ index and EQ-VAS.
    
  