
    
      Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) including oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC)
      has been reported as the sixth most common cause of cancer mortality in the world and the
      fifth most commonly occurring cancer. Thus a compelling need for investigation of the
      underlying molecular events associated with OSCC tumorigenesis has emerged for better
      understanding of such lesion. Moreover, identification of biomarkers for early detection and
      prediction of prognosis became of extreme importance, as it was reported that early diagnosis
      has been vital for effective treatment of OSCC and improved the survival rate of OSCC
      patients.

      OSCC may originate from malignant transformation of the normal oral mucosa, as well as from
      oral potentially malignant lesions (OPMLs) with different degrees of oral epithelial
      dysplasia (OED). The approach of a step-wise transition from OPMLs to OSCC was
      well-established, but it could be difficult to predict if and when an OPML would undergo full
      transformation and resulted in a tumor. Thus, using specific molecular biomarkers able to
      identify OED lesions with higher potential for malignant transformation would be very
      beneficial. Unfortunately, up to date there has been no tools available to monitor OED
      lesions or HNSCC patients for early stages of local recurrences or distant metastases .

      Among the recently introduced biomarkers, B-lymphoma Moloney murine leukemia virus insertion
      region-1 (BMI1), a member of the polycomb group (PcG) genes, was considered to be pivotal in
      regulating stemness-related genes involved in maintaining the self-renewal ability of stem
      cells by promoting chromatin modifications. BMI1 was also known to be deregulated in various
      human types of cancer. Previous studies have revealed the capability of BMI1 to be used as a
      prognostic marker in gastric, esophageal, nasopharyngeal cancer, prostate, breast, cervical
      and ovarian cancer, However, the role of BMI1 in maintaining self-renewal and tumorigenicity
      in HNSCC or HNSCC-derived cancer stem cells (CSCs) remained to be clarified.
    
  