
    
      Diabetes is an increasingly important public health issue. The American Diabetes Association
      estimates that 25.8 million people in the United States (8% of the total population)
      currently have diabetes. In fact, it is estimated that as many as 30.3 million Americans will
      have the disease by the year 2030. Concurrently, the economic impact of diabetes is rising at
      an alarming rate. In 2007, all costs associated with diabetes totaled $174 billion; $116
      billion was spent on direct medical costs. Diabetes is associated with significant morbidity
      and mortality, a leading cause of blindness, kidney failure, stroke, and cardiovascular
      death.

      Given the chronically progressive nature of diabetes, controlling the disease and preventing
      or delaying complications necessitates constant communication between the patient and the
      provider. Diabetes care limited to clinic visits does not meet the needs of many patients.
      With the increasing diabetes burden, there is an unmet need for innovative care methods. The
      internet's widespread availability has paved the way for increased utilization of web-based
      care management programs to manage chronic diseases such as diabetes mellitus.

      A few randomized controlled trials have evaluated the use of web-based care in diabetes.
      These trials, ranging from 3 months to 30 months, have shown favorable changes in Hemoglobin
      A1c (HbA1c), as well as patient and provider satisfaction. A web-based application called
      MyLink has been used and evaluated in some Kaiser Permanente regions with impressive
      differences in HbA1c between groups utilizing web-based care versus usual care. This tool,
      along with appropriate software, enables patients to upload glucometer results from home, to
      the care provider in the office. Patients are able to view trends on their computer screen to
      see how lifestyle activities affect their blood sugar. The primary objective of this study is
      to evaluate the potential role of the MyLink web-based care management program in improving
      diabetes-related measures. It is expected that participants using web-based care will achieve
      a greater improvement in HbA1c than patients receiving usual care from the Clinical Pharmacy
      Specialist (CPS).

      Between October 1 and November 30, 2011, participants will be enrolled in this study
      comparing the use of MyLink web-based care with usual CPS care. Patients age 18- 74 with
      HbA1c ≥ 9% in the last 12 months will be identified. It is expected that approximately 32
      people (16 per group) will participate in the study. Once eligible patients are found, they
      will be randomly assigned (like the flip of a coin) to usual care with the CPS or usual care
      with the CPS plus web-based care using the MyLink software. Participants using the software
      will agree to upload their glucometer measurements using the software every 2- 4 weeks.
      Following the receipt of the glucometer data, either electronically from intervention group
      participants or verbally from the control group participants, medications/ doses will be
      adjusted by the pharmacist as needed to achieve HbA1c goals. Participants in both groups will
      receive a follow-up HbA1c 2-4 months after enrollment to see if there were any significant
      changes in HbA1c between groups.
    
  