
    
      Patients who are admitted to an orthopaedic trauma unit or intensive care unit with fractures
      or crush injuries and who are at risk of developing Acute Compartment Syndrome (ACS) are
      eligible for the study.

      These patients will undergo routine monitoring for signs and symptoms of ACS. Patients who
      are able to make decisions about the ongoing treatment of their injured limb will be
      approached about the study. The patient will initially be given a short verbal statement
      about the study. At this point, patients may agree to take part or request additional
      information about the study. If patients request additional information, they can be offered
      a brief Patient Information Leaflet (PIL) or more detailed PIL. After reading this, they may
      agree to take part. Patients who agree to take part can either give verbal agreement to take
      part at this stage, or written informed consent.

      Patients who agree to take part will have a pH probe inserted into their injured limb. The pH
      probe will be attached to a pH monitor which will record pH data for up to a maximum of 72
      hours (24 hours per probe). The surgical team will not have access to the pH data. During the
      time participants are considered "at risk" for ACS, patients will be monitored in the routine
      way (using regular clinical assessment and pressure monitoring). If ACS is diagnosed in the
      routine way, then treatment (fasciotomy) will be offered as appropriate.

      Once patients start to recover, written informed consent will be sought from those
      participants who gave verbal agreement at the outset of their participation in the study.

      Until their discharge from hospital, clinical information will be collected from their
      medical notes or collected directly onto the study case report forms. Information from the pH
      monitor will be downloaded into the study website.

      Participants will usually be followed up as part of routine care approximately 6 months after
      their initial injury. Where possible, the study follow-up will coincide with this routine
      follow-up. The study follow-up will include clinical examination of the limb that sustained
      the initial injury (including any evidence of contracture, strength of flexion/extension and
      any sensory abnormalities). At the 6 month follow-up participants will also be asked to
      complete a quality of life questionnaire.

      The primary objective is to establish that the Softcell pH monitoring system measures muscle
      pH in an injured limb over time, monitoring changes in muscle pH that are consistent with
      ischaemia (drops in pH).

      The properties of the pH probe as a diagnositic test will be investigated. The first analysis
      will be carried out after recruitment is complete, and initial data (up to 72 hours
      monitoring for ACS, and to potential discharge) is available. For this analysis, the presence
      of disease will be defined as fasciotomy within 72 hours.

      A second analysis will be undertaken at the end of the study after the 6 month patient
      reviews have been undertaken. For this analysis, the presence of disease will be defined as
      fasciotomy within 72 hours OR evidence of contracture at 6 months OR significant reduction in
      strength OR significant sensory loss which is not improving by six months that anatomically
      suggest ACS.
    
  