
    
      Spinal cord injury (SCI) and spina bifida is a source of irreversible injury to the spinal
      cord often resulting in paralysis and loss of sensation below the waist. The inability to
      urinate normally is a consequence of both conditions (neurogenic voiding dysfunction). In
      spina bifida and spinal cord injury, the nerve that controls the bladder and sphincter (the
      muscle that squeezes the bladder neck to prevent leaking) may no longer work properly
      resulting in patients who cannot urinate or are constantly wet.

      Most patients will maintain high pressures in their bladder and these elevated pressures will
      eventually take its toll by causing recurrent urinary tract infections, backup of urine to
      the kidneys, and marked dilatation of possible further damage to the kidneys. Many patients
      eventually suffer from irreversible renal (kidney) damage, where dialysis or kidney
      transplant is the only way to sustain life.

      Spinal bifida (present at birth) and SCI (occurs most often early in the fourth decade of
      life) predominately affect young individuals and longevity and quality of life may be greatly
      reduced by the presence of bladder, bowel, and sexual dysfunction. In the recent past,
      medications and catheters were the only way to help cord injured patients empty their
      bladders. Although clean intermittent catheterization (CIC) provides good maintenance
      results, medications can help conserve low bladder pressures, and antibiotics sustain an
      infection free urinary tract, these are difficult bladder management programs to uphold. They
      are expensive, time consuming, and outcomes are inconsistent.

      A new surgical procedure has potential for treatment of spinal cord injuries/ spinal bifida.
      Recently, Dr. Chuan-Guo Xiao from China developed a surgical procedure of rewiring the nerves
      in the spinal cord to gain better control of urination and avoid complications of neurogenic
      bladder. The procedure reconnects live wires (nerves) to dead wires.
    
  