
    
      Endocrine therapy and chemotherapy (using either sequential single agents or combination
      regimens) remain the principal treatments for women with metastatic breast cancer. A wide
      variety of classes of chemotherapeutic agents have demonstrated anti-tumor activity as single
      agents or in combination regimens. Cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agents have been the mainstay
      of cancer therapies for many years and have improved survival in many disease settings.
      Median survivals remain approximately two years for women with metastatic breast cancer, and
      less than 3% of patients experience long-term survival after initiation of treatment. The
      development of new treatment strategies is therefore essential to improve outcome for
      patients with metastatic breast cancer.

      One of the most promising pathways for the development of new anti-neoplastic agents is
      targeting tumor vascular endothelium. There is significant preclinical and clinical evidence
      indicating that tumor neoangiogenesis is critical in pathogenesis and progression of solid
      tumors, including breast cancer. Of the numerous known growth factors that have been
      implicated in tumor angiogenesis, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is one of the
      important molecules regulating new blood vessel formations and subsequent invasion and
      metastases. As a result, agents that inhibit VEGF are of substantial interest for the
      treatment of advanced diseases. More thorough elucidation of mechanisms behind intrinsic and
      acquired resistance therefore is imperative disease and to identify patients most likely to
      benefit from treatment options.

      Motesanib has been shown in preclinical pharmacology and PK studies to be a potent, orally
      bioavailable multi-kinase inhibitor with anti-angiogenic and anti-tumor activity achieved by
      selectively targeting all known VEGF, PDGF and Kit receptors. It has an acceptable safety
      profile in both non-clinical and clinical studies, and a PK profile that appears suitable for
      daily oral dosing in humans.

      The investigational product motesanib (Amgen) is a small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor
      with high efficacy against VEGFR and c-Kit kinases. C-kit has been detected in 12% of breast
      cancers, correlating with basal or triple-negative breast cancer. In addition, efficacy of
      the drug has been noted to PDGFRα, which is expressed in approximately 40% of breast cancers
      and is associated with aggressive disease, metastatic invasion and poor prognosis.
      Importantly, in more than half (56%) of these cases, the carcinoma cells bearing the
      receptors expressed the PDGF-A ligand, suggesting an autocrine loop and a cancer
      cell-autonomous process. Cancer cell-autonomous pathways are especially attractive as drug
      targets against metastatic breast cancer because they are expected to continue to be
      functional at metastatic sites, since they do not depend on stromal factors.

      The primary molecular target of motesanib, VEGFR, is intriguing because neovascularization is
      expected to be required also at metastatic sites. A preliminary analysis revealed that VEGF
      expression correlated with the triple-negative, basal breast cancer subtype and poor outcome.
      Importantly, PDGF receptors are also present on vascular pericytes, cells required for
      adequate vascularization. Thus, motesanib is a unique multikinase inhibitor that targets both
      growth factor receptors on the carcinoma cells and growth factor receptors related to
      neovascularization.
    
  