
    
      Thus far the only demonstrated means to reduce the risk of vision loss from diabetic macular
      edema are laser photocoagulation, intensive glycemic control, and blood pressure control.
      Earlier studies have shown that photocoagulation, although effective in reducing the risk of
      moderate vision loss, can eventually result in retinal and retinal pigment epithelium atrophy
      resulting in loss of central vision, central scotomata, and decreased color vision.
      Consequently, many retinal specialists today tend to treat diabetic macular edema (DME) with
      lighter, less intense laser burns than was originally specified in the Early Treatment
      Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS). The additional unsatisfactory outcome from treatments
      with laser photocoagulation in a significant proportion of eyes with DME has prompted
      interest in other treatment modalities. One such treatment is pars plana vitrectomy. Studies
      suggest that vitreomacular traction may play a role in increased retinal vascular
      permeability, and that removal of the vitreous, or relief of mechanical traction with
      vitrectomy and membrane stripping may substantially improve macular edema and visual acuity.
      However, this treatment may be applicable only to a specific subset of eyes with a component
      of vitreomacular traction secondary to edema. Other treatment modalities such as
      pharmacologic therapy with oral protein kinase C inhibitors and intravitreal corticosteroids
      are under investigation.

      The use of antibodies targeted at vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is another
      treatment modality that needs to be further explored for its potential benefits. Increased
      VEGF levels have been demonstrated in the retina and vitreous of human eyes with diabetic
      retinopathy. VEGF, also knows as vascular permeability factor, has been shown to increase
      retinal vascular permeability in in vivo models. Therapy that inhibits VEGF, therefore, may
      represent a useful therapeutic modality which targets the underlying pathogenesis of diabetic
      macular edema. Ranibizumab is a promising anti-VEGF drug. Its efficacy and safety have been
      demonstrated in treatment of age-related macular degeneration. Reports of its use and that of
      other anti-VEGF drugs in DME have suggested sufficient benefit to warrant evaluation of
      efficacy and safety in a phase III trial. Corticosteroids, a class of substances with
      anti-inflammatory properties, have also been demonstrated to inhibit the expression of the
      VEGF gene. The Diabetic Retinopathy Clinical Research Network (DRCR.net) is currently
      conducting a phase III randomized clinical trial comparing focal photocoagulation to
      intravitreal corticosteroids (triamcinolone acetonide) for diabetic macular edema. However,
      even if triamcinolone or ranibizumab are proven to be efficacious, a major concern, based on
      clinical observations with intravitreal corticosteroids, is that DME will recur as the effect
      of the intravitreal drug wears off, necessitating repetitive injections long-term. Combining
      an intravitreal drug (triamcinolone or ranibizumab) with photocoagulation provides hope that
      one could get the short-term benefit of the intravitreal drug (decreased retinal thickening
      and decreased fluid leakage) and the long-term reduction in fluid leakage as a result of
      photocoagulation. In addition, it is possible that the worsening of macular edema immediately
      following focal photocoagulation, a known complication of this treatment, could be decreased
      if an intravitreal drug was present at the time of photocoagulation. This might result in an
      increased likelihood of vision improvement following photocoagulation and a decreased
      likelihood of vision loss.

      This study is designed to determine if ranibizumab alone or ranibizumab added to laser
      photocoagulation is more efficacious than photocoagulation alone, and if so, to determine if
      combining ranibizumab with photocoagulation reduces the total number of injections needed to
      obtain these benefits. Furthermore, this study is designed to determine if combining
      photocoagulation with corticosteroids, the only other class of drugs currently being
      considered for treatment of DME, is efficacious in the population being enrolled.

      Subjects will be randomly assigned to one of the following 4 groups:

        1. Group A: Sham injection plus focal (macular) photocoagulation

        2. Group B: 0.5 mg injection of intravitreal ranibizumab plus focal photocoagulation

        3. Group C: 0.5 mg injection of intravitreal ranibizumab plus deferred focal
           photocoagulation

        4. Group D: 4 mg intravitreal triamcinolone plus focal photocoagulation

      In groups A, B and D, laser will be given 7-10 days after the initial injection at the time
      of the injection follow-up safety visit. During the first year, subjects are evaluated for
      retreatment every 4 weeks. The injection for group A is a sham and for groups B and C
      ranibizumab. For group D, a triamcinolone injection is given if one has not been given in the
      prior 15 weeks; otherwise a sham injection is given. For Groups A, B, and D, focal
      photocoagulation will be given 7 to 10 days later following each injection unless focal
      photocoagulation has been given in the past 15 weeks or no macular edema is present. In Years
      2 and 3, subjects continue to be evaluated for retreatment every 4 weeks unless injections
      are discontinued due to failure. In that case, follow-up visits occur every 4 months and
      treatment is at investigator discretion.
    
  