
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the recommended phase II dose of everolimus when administered with low-dose
           cisplatin in patients with advanced solid tumors.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the safety and tolerability of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Describe the pharmacokinetics of this regimen in patients with advanced solid tumors.

        -  Assess the effects of this regimen on p53 and p21 immunohistochemistry assays of pre-
           and post-treatment tumor biopsies from patients with recurrent or metastatic solid
           tumors.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of everolimus (part A) followed by a biological
      marker study (part B).

        -  Part A (closed to accrual as of 1/2009): Patients receive cisplatin* IV over 30 minutes
           on days 1, 8, and 15 and oral everolimus* once daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats
           every 28 days for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of everolimus until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose proceeding that at which 2 of 6
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) during course 1. The recommended phase II
      dose is defined as the dose at which 1 of 6 patients experience DLT during course 1.

      Blood is drawn periodically on days 1 and 8 of course 1 for pharmacokinetic studies.

        -  NOTE: *Patients who have completed 5 courses of treatment and maintain stable disease or
           better may continue treatment with everolimus alone or in combination with cisplatin

        -  Part B: Patients undergo biopsy of the primary tumor, metastatic deposit, or involved
           lymph node. No more than 14 days later, patients receive everolimus at the recommended
           phase II dose and cisplatin as in part A.

      Patients undergo another tumor biopsy on day 15 of course 1, before receiving chemotherapy.
      The pre- and post-therapy tissue is examined by immunochemistry and analyzed for p53 and p21
      expression.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 people will be accrued for this study.
    
  