
    
      Although conventionally fractionated radiation therapy has been utilized for decades, the
      rates of complete pain relief and local control for complex tumors are sub-optimal. The
      management of patients with spine metastasis has undergone a great deal of change in the past
      5 years. Improvements in neuroimaging, computer- assited treatment planning, and radiation
      therapy techniques have led to the development of extracranial radiosurgery.

      SSRS is rapidly being adopted in the clinic as preliminary applications of SSRS appears
      promising. However, the role of SSRS remains in its infancy and lacked high-quality evidence
      about the treatment schedule and lacked a solid understanding of the adverse events. The RTOG
      0631 phase 2/3 study was initiated to determine whether a more intensive radiation dose
      delivered by image guided 16-Gy dose single fraction SRS could improve pain control and
      quality of life as compared with conventional EBRT in patients with localized spine
      metastases. Our preliminary result from previus phase 2 stereotactic spine radiosurgery trial
      (NCT02608866) also showed good local control with minimal side effects in the single fraction
      16-Gy setting as compared with 3 fractions 24 -Gy SRS dose.

      Accurate and approproate delineation of the target area is paramount to the utilization of
      spine SBRT. Whethr the target volume should include the entire extent of tumor and the
      involved anatomical compartment for intact vertebra metastasis or remained to be discussed.

      Our preliminary showed that the overall treatment failure rate was only about 14% using the
      definition of the treating the affected spinal lesions(invovled target ) instead of treating
      the entire . Better dose coverage of the target vome with improved normal tissue protection
      can be achived with invovled field treatment without compromising the local control. Since no
      treamtent target consensus has been reached from current clinical practive evidence. It is
      pivotal to establish and collect more treatment evidence for future spinal SBRT.

      There was no randomized trials to assess the SSRS treatment response and SSRS induced grade 3
      or higher adverse events between these two different target delineations. Thus, we proposed
      the randomized study to determine the feasibility of using "Invovled Target Volume" versus
      "Elective Target Volume" and tried to evaluate the toxicity profile and gain robust data as
      well as predictive factors regarding the local control rate and risk of complications after
      SSRS.
    
  