
    
      The Community Reinforcement Approach (CRA) with contingency management (CM) is a widely
      researched and demonstrably efficacious drug abuse treatment. This treatment is derived from
      drug self-administration research and a behavioral analysis of drug dependence, where abused
      drugs are thought to compete successfully with the more delayed pro-social reinforcers
      because of their relatively more immediate reinforcing effects. The CRA treatment with CM
      approach takes this theoretical view into account by (1) providing immediate positive
      reinforcement for abstinence via the voucher reinforcement procedure, and (2) having
      therapists teach skills and encourage behaviors that help improve employment status,
      family/social relations and increase recreational activities via the CRA treatment. The
      incentives for abstinence with the enhancement of non-drug sources of reinforcement are then
      expected to successfully compete with the reinforcement from drug use. Adoption of CRA with
      CM may be facilitated if it could be delivered so that it is both less costly and requires
      less staff time to implement. In our previous trial, we demonstrated that among buprenorphine
      maintained opioid-dependent persons, computer-delivered CRA with CM (i.e., voucher
      incentives) was as effective as and less costly than therapist-delivered CRA with CM (i.e.,
      voucher incentives). However, the design of that study did not indicate whether the
      computer-delivered CRA produced increases in abstinence over that produced by the CM (i.e.,
      voucher incentives) procedures alone. Thus, we believe the contribution of the computerized
      treatment to therapeutic outcomes should be isolated.

      In this study, which will include only buprenorphine maintained opioid-dependent
      participants, we plan to examine whether computer-delivered CRA produces increases in
      abstinence over that produced by CM (i.e., voucher incentives) procedures alone.
      Specifically, this trial will compare computer-delivered CRA with vouchers (with minimal
      therapist involvement) and voucher incentives alone in a randomized parallel groups design.
      Participants will be assigned randomly to receive one of two treatments: (1)
      computer-delivered CRA along with voucher incentives (i.e., CM); or (2) voucher incentives
      (i.e., CM) alone. Outcome measures will include abstinence, retention, HIV-risk behavior, and
      cost-effectiveness. We hypothesize that the computer-delivered CRA with CM will be more
      efficacious than CM.

      Importantly, in this trial, the treatment interventions will reinforce both cocaine and
      opioid abstinence. Many opioid-dependent individuals also abuse, or are dependent upon,
      cocaine. Additionally, opioid-dependent individuals who also use cocaine represent a
      population of substance abusers at particularly high-risk for HIV infection from both their
      high level of risky drug-injection and sexual risk behavior. Nevertheless, polydrug abuse in
      this population has been rarely addressed. By targeting both drugs, our understanding of
      effective ways to address polydrug abuse will be increased.

      Overall, this research will contribute new empirical information regarding the efficacy of
      providing CRA with CM. Such information may result in more cost-effective treatment and
      facilitate its dissemination. This research will further examine the utility of computerizing
      a substantive portion of substance abuse treatment. Computerization of treatment is a novel
      approach that may positively impact the future of drug abuse treatment.
    
  