
    
      This study is translating and cross culturally adapting the COMI outcome measure for patients
      with neck pain in Egypt. This study will be conducted at the outpatient clinic of Cairo
      University hospitals in Egypt.

      Translation:

      The cross-cultural adaptation process for the COMI will be done as described by Beaton and
      colleagues (2000). This will include the following phases:

        1. Initial translation that includes forward translation to translate the questionnaire
           from the English language to Arabic by two independent bilingual translators one of them
           is familiar with the concepts of the COMI and the other translator doesn't have medical
           background.

        2. Synthesis of the translations by comparing the two Arabic translations and combine them
           into one version.

        3. Back translation to translate the Arabic version to the English language again. This
           should be done by two independent translators both of them shouldn't have medical
           background, yet not familiar with the use of COMI then comparing between two backwards
           translations to determine any differences between them and the original one.

        4. Expert committee that consists of both translators, one of the back-translators, one
           bilingual clinician and one native English clinical research scientist to compare
           between versions of the COMI and consolidate the final version. The role of the expert
           committee to detect and correct any conceptual errors or inconsistencies, grammatical or
           other errors.

        5. Test of the pre-final version of the instrument in a small sample to assess its content
           and face validity according to patients' feedback and collect comments about wording and
           clarity of the translated version via semi-structured interview. This will be done in a
           sample of 20 patients who fulfill the study inclusion and exclusion criteria. Patients
           will be asked to complete the final Arabic version of COMI and will be asked to comment
           on any linguistic ambiguity. Finally, researcher will discuss received comments and a
           consensus will be done to adapt any necessary changes.

      (2) Validation and reliability testing:

      One hundred male and female adults will be recruited from physiotherapy and Orthopedic
      outpatient clinics.This sample size has been recommended as an appropriate size for
      reliability and validity analyses.

      Validation testing:

      COMI will be tested by comparing it with Visual Analogue scale (VAS), EuroQol-visual analogue
      scale (EQ-VAS), EuroQo-5D (EQ-5D), Neck disability index (NDI).

      Reliability testing:

      Each patient will be asked to complete the questionnaire booklet in two-separate sessions
      within 14 days.
    
  