
    
      This study aims to enroll 696 elderly patients with non-ST elevation myocardial infarction
      (NSTEMI) from 20 hospitals throughout mainland China.. Consective patients of 75 years or
      older with a diagnosis of NSTEMI will be suitable for enrollment. Written informed consent
      form will be obtained from every patients. Initially stabilized patients with an ischemic
      episode within 24 hours before admission will be randomized and others will be registered.
      For randomization, the patients' brief information will be entered in a central randomization
      system to generate a random number.

      According to the random number, each patient will be randomly assigned to early invasive
      therapy versus routinely deferred invasive strategy. All patients will initiate dual
      antiplatelet therapy (aspirin+P2Y12 inhibitor) and continued till the end of follow-up at one
      year. For patients assigned to early invasive group, a loading dose of antiplatelet agent
      should be given, unless contraindicated. Anticoagulation, anti-ischemic agents, statin and
      other guideline recommended medicine will be given according to physician in charge according
      to guideline.

      Patients assigned to early invasive strategy will undergo coronary angiography within 24
      hours after admission and have percutaneous coronary intervention or coronary artery bypass
      grafting as soon as possible during the index hospitalization if appropriate. Patients
      assigned to deferred invasive strategy will undergo coronary angiography and subsequent
      revascularization after at lest 72 hours after admission and in the index hospitalization.
      Patients who undergo percutaneous coronary intervention can receive a glycoprotein IIb/IIIa
      inhibitor if indicated and upfront use of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors is discouraged.
      The choice of intervention or surgery and the choice of complete or staged revascularization
      will be determined by the operator according to coronary anatomy and consistent with current
      practice guidelines. Patients assigned to deferred strategy should undergo urgent coronary
      angiography and revascularization accordingly if indicated during the period of time waiting
      for catheterization. Such procedure will be adjudicated as an endpoint. Elective percutaneous
      coronary intervention on non-culprit vessels, in either study arm, can take place sometime
      after the index procedure with the goal to achieve complete revascularization. Such staged
      procedures will not be deemed as an adverse event.

      Specific data for acquisition:

      Research demographics: age, height, weight, body mass index, medications at randomization,
      pertinent medical/family/social history, i.e., hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, diabetes
      mellitus, current tobacco use, history of prior myocardial infarction, PCI or CABG. This data
      will be gathered by research coordinator through interviewing patient and checking patient's
      medical record.

      Procedural: Exact time of onset of ischemic symptoms, of admission, of randomization, and of
      undertake coronary angiography will be noted by a supplemental chart, along with important
      information like the evidence of occurrence of an endpoint. Blood concentration of
      hemoglobin, BNP/NT-proBNP, creatinine, cardiac troponin and C-reaction protein will be tested
      at admission. First electrocardiography and echocardiography will be recorded. Thrombolysis
      In Myocardial Infarction flow will be recorded before and after PCI procedure, and the images
      will be copied to calculate the SYNTAX score afterwards.

      After hospital discharge, the research coordinator will contact the patient at specified
      intervals （30 days after discharge, 180 days and 365 days after randomization） to determine
      if an endpoint has been met.
    
  