
    
      CRITERIOS INCLUSION

        -  Written informed consent confirming that the patient understands the study objective and
           the procedures required.

        -  Patients must be able to accomplish with the study protocol.

        -  Men and women ≥70 years old.

        -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed diagnosis of non-squamous non-small cell lung
           cancer (NSCLC) with EGFR gen mutational status negative or non-determinable.

        -  Patients with stage IV disease.

        -  Patients who have not received first-line treatment

        -  Patients with ECOG performance status 0 or 1.

        -  Adequate bone marrow function, defined as:

             -  Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) ≥1.500/mm3 or ≥1.5x109/L;

             -  Hemoglobin ≥ 9 g/dL.

             -  Platelet count ≥ 100.000/mm3.

        -  Adequate renal function, defined as:

             -  Creatinine clearance ≥ 40 ml/min, according to MDRD formula.

             -  Urine dipstick proteinuria <2+. If urine dipstick for proteinuria ≥2+ 24 hours
                urine must be collected within 24 hours, and proteins must be less than 1 g.

        -  Fertile males must use an effective contraceptive method (error rate per year <1%)
           during the trial and until 6 months after the last study treatment dose, such as sexual
           abstinence, previous vasectomy and/or having a partner using any of following methods:
           implantables, injections, combined oral contraceptives and/or intrauterine device
           (hormonal only).

      CRITERIOS EXCLUSION

        -  Previous chemotherapy for advanced NSCLC.

        -  History of haemoptysis grade ≥ 2 (defined as at least 2.5 mL of bright red blood) in the
           3 months before inclusion.

        -  Major surgery (including open biopsy), significant traumatic injuries in the 28 days
           before inclusion or anticipation of the need of major surgical procedure during the
           treatment period

        -  Minor surgery, including permanent catheter insertion, in the 24 hours before
           bevacizumab infusion.

        -  Untreated brain metastases. Patients with CNS metastases treated with radiotherapy or
           surgery may be included if there is no evidence of progression after treatment

        -  Radiological evidence of a tumor that invades or is adjacent to a main blood vessel
           (e.g. lung artery or superior cava venous).

        -  Radiotherapy, in any lesion and for any reason, within 28 days before inclusion.
           Palliative radiotherapy for bone lesions within 14 days before inclusion is allowed.

        -  Treatment with aspirin (>325 mg/day) or clopidogrel (>75 mg/day) within 10 days prior to
           bevacizumab first dose. Use of full dose of oral or parenteral anticoagulants or
           thrombolytic agents in therapeutic doses. Prophylactic use of anticoagulant therapy is
           allowed.

        -  Uncontrolled hypertension (systolic BP >140 mmHg, diastolic BP >90mmHg) in the 28 days
           previous to inclusion or history of hypertensive crisis, or hypertensive encephalopathy.

        -  Clinically significant cardiovascular disease (i.e. cerebrovascular accident (CVA),
           myocardial infarction within 6 months prior to inclusion, unstable angina, congestive
           cardiac insufficiency NYHA ≥ II, left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) <50% or
           serious cardiac arrhytmia), not responding to treatment or that can interfere with trial
           treatment administration.

        -  Not healed wounds, active peptic ulcer or untreated bone fracture.

        -  Hypersensibility to any of the active ingredients of the study treatment (bevacizumab,
           carboplatine and paclitaxel) or any of its excipients.

        -  Serious cognitive impairment that limits the patient to understand and answer the study
           questionnaires.

        -  Inability to comply with the study protocol and/or follow-up procedures due to
           psychological, familiar, social or geographical problems

        -  Patients with an ADL score <5 at the screening.

        -  Patients with dementia: 9-12 points in the Folstein MMS at the screening.

        -  Patients accomplishing fragility Balducci criteria at the screening:

             -  Age ≥ 85 years old

             -  Dependence in 1 or more ADL

             -  >3 comorbilities

             -  >1 geriatric syndrome

      OBJETIVOS

      To assess the toxicity of the treatment in elderly patients (≥70 years) with NSC lung cancer
      who meet inclusion criteria for bevacizumab and selected based on a geriatric evaluation.

      Determine predictive factors of toxicity in the elderly population (≥70 years). Determine
      objective response rate Determine disease control rate Determine progression free survival
      Determine overall survival Determine safety of the treatment combination

      VARIABLES

      Primary endpoint:

      Rate of grade 3-4 neutropenia defined according to National Cancer Institute Common
      Terminology Criteria version 4.0 (NCI-CTC v4.0).

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  Items of the Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment (CGA) scale as predictive factors for
           toxicity end-points.

        -  Objective response according to the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST
           v1.1).

        -  Progression-free survival.

        -  Overall survival.
    
  