
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the feasibility and safety of cellular immunotherapy utilizing ex vivo expanded
      autologous memory-enriched T cells that are genetically modified using a self-inactivating
      (SIN) lentiviral vector to express an interleukin 13 receptor alpha 2 (IL13R alpha
      2)-specific, hinge-optimized, 41BB-costimulatory chimeric antigen receptor (CAR), as well as
      a truncated human cluster of differentiation 19 (CD19) for participants with
      recurrent/refractory malignant glioma in one of the following ways: stratum 1 (intratumoral
      delivery of IL13 [EQ]BBzeta/truncated CD19[t]+ central memory T cells [Tcm]) (IL13R alpha
      2-specific, hinge-optimized, 41BB-costimulatory CAR/truncated CD19-expressing T lymphocytes),
      stratum 2 (intracavitary delivery of IL13 [EQ]BBzeta/truncated CD19[t]+ Tcm, stratum 3
      (intraventricular delivery of IL13 [EQ]BBzeta/truncated CD19[t]+ Tcm), stratum 4 (dual
      delivery [both intratumoral and intraventricular] of IL13 [EQ]BBzeta/truncated CD19[t]+ Tcm),
      or stratum 5 (dual delivery of IL13 [EQ]BBzeta/truncated CD19[t]+ naive and memory T cells
      [Tn/mem]).

      II. To determine maximum tolerated dose schedule (MTD) and a recommended phase II dosing plan
      (RP2D) for each stratum based on dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) and the full toxicity
      profile.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the timing and extent of brain inflammation, as assessed by magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI)/magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), following T cell administration.

      II. To describe cytokine levels (cyst fluid, peripheral blood) over the study period.

      III. In research participants who receive the full schedule of three CAR+ T cell doses IIIa.
      Estimate the six month progression free survival rate. IIIb. Estimate disease response rates.
      IIIc. Estimate median overall survival.

      IV. In research participants who receive intraventricular infusions after progressing
      following intratumoral/intracranial infusions (stratum 1 or 2):

      IVa. Estimate disease response. IVb. Describe CAR T cell and endogenous immune populations,
      as well as cytokine and microenvironment profiles (cerebral spinal fluid [CSF], cyst fluid,
      peripheral blood) considering post progression therapy(ies), if applicable.

      V. In research participants who receive at least one dose of CAR+ T cells estimate the mean
      change from baseline in quality of life using the European Organization for Research and
      Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) quality of life questionnaire (QLQ)-C30 and EORTC QLQ brain
      neoplasm (BN)-20 survey scale, domain and item scores during and post treatment.

      VI. For research participants who undergo a second resection or autopsy:

      VIa. To evaluate CAR T cell persistence in the tumor micro-environment and the location of
      the CAR T cells with respect to the injection.

      VII. To evaluate IL13R alpha 2 antigen expression levels pre and post CAR T cell therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 5 strata.

      STRATUM I (Intratumoral delivery) CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 03/02/2018: Patients receive IL13R alpha
      2-specific, hinge-optimized, 41BB-costimulatory CAR/truncated CD19-expressing T lymphocytes
      via intratumoral catheter over 5 minutes weekly for 3 weeks. Beginning as early as 1 week
      later, patients may receive additional T cell infusions as long as patients remain eligible
      and there is product available. Patients who progress on intracavitary or intratumoral
      administration may move to intraventricular catheter for the optional infusions.

      STRATUM II (Intracavitary delivery): Patients receive IL13R alpha 2-specific,
      hinge-optimized, 41BB-costimulatory CAR/truncated CD19-expressing T lymphocytes via
      intracavitary catheter over 5 minutes weekly for 3 weeks. Beginning as early as 1 week later,
      patients may receive additional T cell infusions as long as patients continue to remain
      eligible and there is product available. Patients who progress on intracavitary or
      intratumoral administration may move to intraventricular catheter for the optional infusions.

      STRATUM III (Intraventricular delivery): Patients receive IL13R alpha 2-specific,
      hinge-optimized, 41BB-costimulatory CAR/truncated CD19-expressing T lymphocytes via
      intraventricular catheter over 5 minutes weekly for 3 weeks. Beginning as early as 1 week
      later, patients may receive additional T cell infusions as long as patients continue to
      remain eligible and there is product available.

      STRATUM IV (Dual delivery): Patients receive IL13R alpha 2-specific, hinge-optimized,
      41BB-costimulatory CAR/truncated CD19-expressing T lymphocytes via intratumoral catheter and
      intraventricular catheter over 5 minutes weekly for 3 weeks. Beginning as early as 1 week
      later, patients may receive additional T cell infusions as long as patients continue to
      remain eligible and there is product available. Based on clinical response after the first 3
      infusions, the study principal investigator may decide to continue with the optional
      infusions at either one or both sites (instead of requiring injections at both sites).

      STRATUM V (Dual delivery): Patients receive IL13 [EQ]BBzeta/truncated CD19[t]+ Tn/mem via
      intratumoral catheter and intraventricular catheter over 5 minutes weekly for 3 weeks.
      Beginning as early as 1 week later, patients may receive additional T cell infusions as long
      as patients continue to remain eligible and there is product available. Based on clinical
      response after the first 3 infusions, the study principal investigator may decide to continue
      with the optional infusions at either one or both sites (instead of requiring injections at
      both sites).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks, 3, 6, 8, 10, and 12
      months, and then yearly for 15 years.
    
  