
    
      Waitlist Recruitment. Participants will be recruited directly from the Anxiety and Stress
      Clinic's waitlist. Consistent with our existing clinic screening procedures, individuals
      added to our waitlist meeting the following criteria will be invited to participate in this
      study:

        1. They have not experienced significant suicidal ideation in the past week.

        2. They do not meet for a bipolar I diagnosis without current utilization of stabilizing
           medications.

        3. They are not experiencing psychotic symptoms.

      Upon meeting these criteria and being added to the clinic waitlist, patients will be asked if
      they would like to participate in our feasibility trial. Patients already on the waitlist at
      the time of study approval will also be contacted and offered participation. If interested in
      participating, patients will be asked to complete a digital informed consent via UT Qualtrics
      or Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap), secure, online assessment tools designed to
      collect self-report questionnaire data for research studies.

      Baseline Survey. Following informed consent, participants will complete a baseline survey via
      UT Qualtrics or REDCap. This survey will include measures of anxiety and other internalizing
      symptoms (Patient Health Questionnaire, PHQ-9; Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7-item Scale,
      GAD-7; Overall Anxiety Severity and Impairment Scale, OASIS). Other questions will evaluate
      participants' current medication/treatment status (Treatment/Medication Status questions).
      More details about these questionnaires included below. Following completion of the baseline
      survey, participants will receive a voucher for free access to Velibra.

      Velibra Program. All treatment will be provided via the Velibra website:
      https://velibra.broca.io/en/registration/voucher. While the Velibra treatment is only six
      weeks long, participants will have free access to the program for 24 weeks. They can access
      this website as often as they would like. The Velibra program is self-guided, so participants
      determine how often they access the material (the program encourages participants to complete
      one of six sessions per week for six weeks).

      Velibra Treatment. Velibra is grounded in a cognitive-behavioral theoretical orientation and
      consists of six treatment modules representing different skills and therapeutic techniques.
      Each of the first five modules is followed by a "training session", and contains activities
      related to training attention biases (CBM-I). All sessions plus trainings are designed to be
      completed in 1 - 2 hours, depending on the user's reading speed, interest, motivation, and
      individual path through the program. Modules are organized as simulated dialogues in which
      the program explains and illustrates concepts and techniques, engages the user in exercises,
      and continuously asks users to respond by selecting from response options. Subsequent content
      is then tailored to the users' responses, resulting in a simulated conversational flow. All
      modules are accompanied by illustrations (e.g., drawings, photographs, flash animations). The
      modules cover a variety of therapeutic content that is broadly consistent with a
      cognitive-behavioral perspective, although the program is not restricted to one CBT manual.
      Instead, the program provides a variety of relevant therapeutic approaches and fits within
      the broad array of contemporary CBT. The modules' theoretical rationale and content draws
      from therapeutic strategies: (1) Cognitive Modification, (2) Mindfulness, Acceptance, and
      Relaxation techniques (4) Exposure, (5) Interpersonal Skills, (6) Psychoeducation and Relapse
      Prevention.

      Throughout participants' use of the program, we will collect user data on Velibra's secure,
      online server (amount of time spent in the program, number of completed modules, number of
      training sessions completed between modules).

      Post-Treatment Survey. Six weeks after the original voucher send date, participants will be
      asked to complete a second survey via UT Qualtrics or REDCap. This survey will include
      identical symptom measures (PHQ-9; GAD-7; OASIS) and will contain a series of questions about
      Anxiety and Stress Clinic treatment interest and Velibra dropout (Participation Questions).
      Lastly, the survey will include questions about current medication/treatment status
      (Treatment/Medication Status Questions) as well as questions concerning user satisfaction
      (SUS), credibility of treatment (CSQ-8), and other questions for suggestions (Suggestions).
    
  