
    
      Study Protocol

      Introduction:

      The NICU provides a sensory overload through excessive handling, noisy environment, neglected
      cry, prolonged sleep state and social interactions of the newborns with the professionals.
      All these make difficult the internal organization of the preterm neonate (Pereira et al,
      2013). Also, when babies are born prematurely, their muscles have not yet acquired the
      appropriate tone which is normally low compared to the muscle tone of full-term neonates.
      With the deprivation of their usual space limits (uterus walls) and the action of gravity to
      which the neonates are exposed after birth, the preterm neonates acquire a posture of
      extension, which is contrary to the flexion they usually adopt in the uterus. This extension
      position does not help the flexion of their limbs and makes the hand-mouth activities and
      meeting the middle line difficult. Further, the deprivation of the physical rhythms of the
      neonates' usual space creates insecurity, irritability, increased extensive motor activity
      and difficulties with respiration and alertness-sleep cycle (Toso et al, 2015; Zarem et al,
      2013).

      There is a randomized controlled trial (RCT) that investigated the effectiveness of
      positioning on the general condition and ability to be fed of 100 neonates (≤ 32 weeks of
      gestation). This study compared a positioning using the Dandle Roo (DandleLion Medical) with
      traditional or other positioning (e.g. rolls of sheets, snuggle up) (Madlinger-Lewis et al,
      2013). At term-age, a significant difference was found between the two groups, favoring the
      Dandle Roo positioning, in the movements symmetry as assessed with the NICU Network
      Neurobehavioral Scale (mean difference: 0.90, 95% confidence intervals: 0.05 to 1.75). No
      other significant differences were observed at rest of outcomes. Another RCT including 56
      preterm neonates (27-32 weeks of gestation) explored the effects of positioning with the
      Snuggle up and Bendy Pumpers (Philips, USA) in comparison to traditional positioning (rolls
      of soft fabric). The results showed a significant difference between the two groups, favoring
      the intervention group, in respiratory rate, oxygen saturation, score of cardiovascular
      stability, and weight gain (p<0.5) (Sathish et al, 2017).

      However, none of these previous studies has investigated any differences in the patterns of
      movement of the pre-term neonates after a positioning intervention. For example, no study has
      assessed the gross motor function of the pre-term neonates using the general movements of
      Prechtl after a positioning intervention, although this assessment is considered important
      for the prognosis of the motor development and ability for independence of these children
      (Einspieler et al, 2016). No previous study has also assessed the effect of positioning in
      the long-term neuro-developmental progress of pre-term children with scales such as the
      Denver II scale, which scale is also important for the prognosis of the development of the
      neonate.

      Aim of the study:

      The current trial aims at exploring the effectiveness of positioning in a "flexion" position
      on the movement and clinical outcome of neonates (≤32 weeks of gestation), which group of
      neonates is a high-risk group.

      Methods:

      Inclusion criteria: neonates of 32 weeks of gestation or less. Exclusion criteria: neonates
      with congenital deformities, genetic anomalies, or neurological deficits detected at 1st week
      post-natal, neonates of multiple birth (triplets and over) or breech deliveries.

      Two groups of neonates will be randomly assigned using a concealed method (sealed envelopes)
      either to positioning (intervention group) or to usual care (control group). In order to
      maintain similar gestational ages throughout the two groups, participants will be stratified
      by gestational age (≤28 weeks and >28 weeks). Each stratum will have an independent
      randomization scheme.

      The intervention group will be positioned in flexion (lower limbs in flexion, hands in
      midline) with a positioning aid, the Snuggle up (Philips, USA). With positioning, the
      neonates bottom is tucked down in the snuggle up pocket, legs are aligned and gently flexed
      and hands are placed towards midline and near the face. The control group will not receive
      any positioning in flexion and the neonates will lie as usually. This study has been approved
      by the Research Committee of the General University General Hospital of Patra (decision: 246,
      date: 09/04/2019).

      Factors that may affect the neonates' condition should be controlled, and be similar to both
      groups of neonates. Such factors are light, noise, temperature of room (incubator), touching
      from nursing staff or others etc.

      The intervention group will receive positioning during day and night throughout the
      intervention period. Neonates may be removed from positioning when a nurse or mother needs to
      feed them, that is a period that will not last more than 1 hour/day. The principal
      investigator (TB) will demonstrate the positioning to the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU)
      nursing staff, and will check each week during the intervention period the positioning of the
      neonates as well as will reply to any questions of the staff. The physiological status
      (normal functioning) of the neonates will be checked regularly by the neonatologist in charge
      and the nurses of the NICU.

      Outcomes Assessments of the 2 groups (intervention and control group) will take place at
      baseline and again at term-age of each neonate. For assessment, the General Movements (GM's)
      of Prechtl (Einspieler et al, 2016) using 5-minute video observations of each neonate will be
      used. The GM's assessment is a non-invasive assessment and can be used from birth up to 5
      months. In this study, the detailed GM's assessment will be conducted by two pediatric
      physiotherapists, independently. The two assessors have a long-lasting experience in
      assessing/treating small children and infants and will be blind to which group the neonates
      will be assigned. There is evidence that the GM's (total score) demonstrate high test-retest
      reliability with Intra-class Correlation Coefficients (ICCs) or Pearson coefficients
      exceeding 0.84 (Yeh et al, 2016), while there were lower correlation coefficients during the
      initial period of writhing movements (6-8 weeks post-natal). A significant amount of
      test-retest reliability was also found for each sub-category of the Detailed GM's assessment
      with ICCS exceeding 0.80, except for the assessment of "speed" (ICC: 0.51) (Yeh et al, 2016).
      Evidence of moderate to good intra-tester reliability has also been demonstrated (kappa
      coefficient: 0.44-0.63) (Bernhardt et al, 2011), and 97-100% agreement between raters for the
      GM's total score. Assessment will also be performed with the Denver II scale (at term-age and
      4 months of corrected age). This scale has shown a significant amount of validity for
      assessing the neuro-developmental progress of babies and infants. The assessment with the
      Denver II scale will be performed by a neonatologist of the NICU, who will be blind to the
      neonates' assignment.

      The principal investigator will film all the videos at baseline and at post-intervention (at
      term-age for each neonate). Video recording will follow a typical method of observation of
      the GM's, and each video will have a 5-minute duration for a more reliable observation of the
      movement of each neonate. Video recording will take place at least 30 minutes after the
      neonate is fed and during periods in which the neonate is awake and is moving. Other
      parameters that will be examined at baseline and post-intervention are the heart rate,
      respiratory rate, weight gained from baseline to post-intervention, days to achieve full oral
      feeding, days on the ventilator, days on oxygen, and duration of stay in the NICU.
      Demographics and basic characteristics of the neonates will be recorded such as weeks of
      gestation at birth, gender, type of birth (normal or Caesarian), weight at birth, and Αpgar
      score to compare the 2 groups for similarities at the baseline of the trial. These data will
      be obtained from the neonates' medical record.

      Written information about the study will be provided to the neonates' parents and written
      consent will be asked from either the mother or father (or the guardian of the neonate)
      before the neonate enters the trial. Detailed information will be also provided to all the
      staff of the NICU involved in the study. A code number will be given to each neonate to
      maintain his/her anonymity, during data analysis and dissemination of results. Babies videos
      needed for assessment will not be accessible from internet or other sharing mediums.

      Video recording The neonate will lie on his/her back in the incubator, with no clothes and
      dressed only with a diaper. The surface of the incubator should be flat and of plain color
      (e.g. white) with no patterns etc. to avoid interference with accurate scoring in movement
      assessment.

      The neonate should be in a calm state, not irritated and not sleeping either. If the baby is
      crying and is unsettled it will be difficult to film, therefore, in this case the filming
      will be postponed and completed at an alternative time. It is best that the neonate cannot
      see the nurse or other person except for the person filming as this may attract the baby's
      attention. No dummies or toys should be used and no interaction with the neonate by talking
      or touching throughout the video recording period.

      A simple camera on a tripod (height 1.5 meters), will be placed next to the incubator and
      above the neonate at an angle so that the neonate can be seen in the frame (including his/her
      feet and hands). As afore-mentioned, 5-minute videos will be recorded twice (at the beginning
      and at term-age).

      Data analysis:

      Data will initially be presented using mean and standard deviation (descriptive data). For
      comparisons between the intervention and control group, the ANOVA and independent t-test will
      be used (SPSS). Differences will be considered statistically significant when p value is
      <0.5.
    
  