
    
      Primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) is a slowly progressive cholestatic disease associated with
      the development of cirrhosis and liver failure that may justify liver transplantation.
      Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) is currently the only drug approved specifically for the
      treatment of PBC. However, one out of three patients does not adequately respond to UDCA
      therapy and many need additional medical therapy or liver transplantation, or both.

      The potential for stem cells to differentiate into biliary epithelial cells was recently
      confirmed. In particular, bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell (BM-MSC) transplantation
      has been applicated in the clinic for treat several human disease such as GVHD, cardiac
      injury and brain injury, and displayed good tolerance and efficiency. Recently, umbilical
      cord-derived MSCs (UC-MSC) has also been used to treat severe autoimmune diseases, such as
      therapy-resistant rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis.

      The purpose of this study is to learn whether and how UC-MSC can improve the disease
      condition in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis. This study will also look at how well
      UC-MSC is tolerated and its safety in PBC patients

      Participants in the study will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment arms:

      Arm A: Participants will receive 12 weeks of UC-MSC treatment plus UDCA. Arm B: Participants
      will receive 12 weeks of placebo plus UDCA. UC-MSC will be prepared according to standard
      procedures and is collected in plastic bags containing anticoagulant. UC-MSCs are given via
      i.v. under sonography monitoring. After cell therapy, patients are followed up at week
      4,8,12,24,36 and 48. The evaluation of some clinical parameters such as the level of serum
      alkaline phosphatase (ALP), alanine aminotransferase(ALT) aspartate aminotransferase (AST)
      and total bilirubin (TB), prothrombin time(PT), albumin(ALB), prealbumin(PA), are detected at
      these time points. Mayo risk score, portal hypertension, Liver histology, MELD score and
      clinical symptoms were also observed simultaneously.
    
  