
    
      The purpose of this study is to characterize longitudinal salivary RNA expression in 600
      children with mTBI and identify RNA patterns that predict length and characterof concussive
      symptoms, as well as the response to therapy.

      Hypothesis: Specific RNAs will be differentially regulated in children with prolonged mTBI
      symptoms across the acute and sub-acute time periods. The investigators predict that a set of
      RNAs with differential expression in children with mTBI will be statistically associated with
      functional measures of mTBI symptoms as well as the duration of concussive symptoms.

      Rationale: Preliminary studies show that miRNA is altered in adults with varying degrees of
      TBI and that salivary RNA is altered by disorders of the CNS. These studies indicate that
      serum-based miRNA may be used as an accurate biomarker for differentiating adults with and
      without TBI. Whether similar patterns can seen in the saliva of children following mTBI
      remains to be seen. Furthermore, the influence of confounding variables such as gender,
      mechanism of injury, and previous mTBIs on RNA profiles has not been explored. The
      investigators propose to investigate these questions by examining salivary RNA from 600
      children (ages five to twenty-one years) with a clinical diagnosis of mTBI (as well as 100
      age-and gender-matched controls, recruited from the Penn State Pediatric Concussion Clinic,
      Emergency Department, and the affiliated primary care clinics). The investigators plan to
      prospectively follow 600 children with mTBI for 1-month post-concussion, tracking subjective
      symptoms with the Child Sports Concussion Assessment Tool (SCAT-5), and objective symptoms of
      balance and cognition. Saliva will be collected via swab at three time-points (at initial
      clinical presentation, 1-2 weeks, and 4-weeks after the date of initial mTBI). Expression of
      salivary RNA taken at initial presentation will be compared against symptom duration (where
      prolonged post-concussive symptoms are defined as those lasting >4 weeks) and character (as
      measured numerically by Post-concussion symptom inventory self-report and ClearEdge scoring).
      The investigators plan to identify a set of salivary RNAs that can easily be used to predict
      clinical course for pediatric patients following a diagnosis of mTBI.
    
  