
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the rate of local-regional relapse in patients with resectable rectal cancer
           treated with chemoradiotherapy comprising radiation therapy and either capecitabine or
           fluorouracil with or without oxaliplatin.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the rate of clinical complete response in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the rate of pathologic complete response in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Determine the increase in the number of patients who are able to undergo
           sphincter-saving surgery after treatment with these regimens.

        -  Correlate genetic patterns and the presence or absence of specific tissue biomarkers
           with response and prognosis in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare preoperative quality of life (QOL) of patients treated with oral capecitabine
           versus continuous infusion with fluorouracil.

        -  Determine the impact of oxaliplatin on neurotoxicity in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the convenience of care in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the impact of the type of surgical management on QOL at 1 and 5 years
           postoperatively in these patients.

        -  Describe the long-term impact of cancer treatment on symptoms (e.g., vitality and
           neurotoxicity) and QOL at 5 years after randomization (5-year follow-up visit).

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      participating center, gender, clinical tumor stage (stage II vs stage III), and surgical
      intent (sphincter saving vs non-sphincter saving). Patients are randomized to 1 of 4
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm 1: Patients receive fluorouracil IV continuously and undergo radiotherapy once daily
           5 days a week for 5-6 weeks.

        -  Arm 2: Patients receive fluorouracil and undergo radiotherapy as in arm 1. Patients also
           receive oxaliplatin IV over 1 hour once weekly for 5 weeks.

        -  Arm 3: Patients receive oral capecitabine twice daily and undergo radiotherapy once
           daily 5 days a week for 5-6 weeks.

        -  Arm 4: Patients receive capecitabine and undergo radiotherapy as in arm 3. Patients also
           receive oxaliplatin as in arm 2.

      Within 6-8 weeks after the completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients with responding or
      stable disease undergo surgery. Patients with progressive disease are treated at the
      discretion of the investigator and continue to be followed.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, at completion of chemoradiotherapy, and at 1 and 5
      years after surgery.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,606 patients will be accrued for this study within 4 years.
    
  