
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  We have constructed a retroviral vector that encodes an anti-cluster of differentiation
           19 (CD19) chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) that recognizes the CD19 antigen. This
           chimeric receptor also contains the signaling domains of cluster of differentiation 28
           (CD28) and cluster of differentiation 3 (CD3)-zeta. The retroviral vector can be used to
           mediate genetic transfer of this CAR to T cells with high efficiency (> 50%) without the
           need to perform any selection.

        -  In co-cultures with CD19-expressing target cells, anti-CD19-CAR-transduced T-cells
           secreted significant amounts of interferon gamma (IFN-y) and interleukin 2 (IL-2).

        -  We have developed a process for cryopreserving the cell product which may lead to the
           ability for this product to be manufactured at a central location and shipped to other
           institutions for treatment of a broader patient population

      OBJECTIVE:

      - Primary objective:

      --With the approval of amendment S, to determine the safety and feasibility of the
      administration of cryopreserved anti-CD19-CAR engineered peripheral blood lymphocytes with a
      non-myeloablative conditioning regimen in patients with Bcell lymphomas.

      ELIGIBILITY:

      Patients of 18 years of age or older must:

        -  Have a CD19-expressing B-cell lymphoma

        -  Be a non-responder to, or recurred after one or more standard chemotherapy-containing
           regimens for their malignancy

        -  Currently require treatment due to progressive malignancy

        -  Be deemed to be incurable by standard therapy

      Patients may not have:

        -  A history of allogeneic stem cell transplantation

        -  Central nervous system (CNS) disease

      DESIGN:

        -  Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) obtained by leukapheresis (approximately 5.0x
           10^9 cells) will be cultured in the presence of anti-CD3 (muromonab-CD3 (OKT3)) and
           aldesleukin in order to stimulate T-cell proliferation.

        -  Transduction is initiated by exposure of approximately 1.0x 10^8 to 5.0x 10^8 cells to
           retroviral vector supernatant containing the anti-CD19 CAR.

        -  With the approval of Amendment S, patients will receive fludarabine and cyclophosphamide
           chemotherapy (NMA) for lymphodepletion, followed by cryopreserved
           anti-CD19-CAR-transduced T-cells.

        -  Patients will be followed until disease progression.

        -  Patients who have responded to treatment and then progress may receive one retreatment.
    
  