
    
      Back Ground:

      Laparoscopic cholecystectomy(LC) is the one of most common procedure done by minimal invasive
      surgery worldwide but the common bile duct(CBD) injury still happened even the existence of
      standard technique with growing experience and new technology, especial in cholecystitis.
      Image guided surgery created new concept for fluorescent cholangiography to demonstrate the
      anatomy of CBD by using indocyanine green (ICG) intravenous injection before operation to
      decreased complication. The result is positive but the border of gallbladder can't be seen
      very well in systemic injection . In cholecystitis, the border between gallbladder and common
      bile duct is important as well as CBD and cystic duct.

      Purpose:

      The investigators hypothesized injection of ICG into gallbladder directly will be helpful to
      identify cystic duct, CBD and the border of gallbladder as well as systemic injection . The
      purpose of this study was to evaluate feasibility of this image guide surgery

      Study Design:

      The investigators will collect the pre-operative medical history and arrange physical
      examination, life quality evaluation, blood and biochemical test. The Patients with acute
      cholecytitis, gallstone or gallbladder polyp without interventional treatment or
      cholecystitis after percurtaneus gallbladder drainage(PTGBD) were involved in this study.
      Four laparoscopic ports were introduced and the pneumoperitoneum (12mmHg) was established. In
      study group , ICG was give by intra-gallbladder injection or systemic injection, the
      cholecystectomy were performed . In control group, no ICG was given and traditional
      cholecystectomy were performed. A near-infrared optimized laparoscope was used to detect the
      ICG fluorescence signal arising from gallbladder , cystic duct and common bile duct before
      cholecystectomy in study group. According to the enhancement of ICG, the cholecystectomy was
      started from cystic duct in Calot's triangle. Time to gallbladder removed was recorded.
      Conversion rate, post-operative morbidity and mortality will be recorded as well . The
      investigators intend to collect 600 patients. 150 patients will receive ICG injection via
      gallbladder as image guided surgery, 150 patients will receive ICG injection via systemic
      injection as image guided surgery , the other 300 patients who refuse will be the control
      group(150 patients for LC and 150 patients for LC + intra-operative cholangiography).

      Expected results A. Publish Intra-gallbladder indocyanide green injection via drainage route
      facilitate cholecystectomy in acute cholecystitis。 B. Publish Comparison of systemic and
      intra-gallbladder injection of indocyanide green in benefit for cholecystectomy C. Extend to
      publish Near-infrared cholangiography decreased learning curve of laparoscopic
      cholecystectomy for medical student D. Near- infrared laparoscope education textbook and
      clinical case analysis
    
  