
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  The complex symptom profile in NF1 puts children and adolescents with this condition at
           risk for a variety of physical, cognitive, and social-emotional difficulties. Thus,
           caring for a child with a chronic medical condition such as NF1 can be challenging.

        -  Over the last two decades, researchers have been examining the use of internet support
           groups (ISGs) as a means of connecting individuals with similar conditions, diagnoses,
           or challenges to provide emotional and informational support.

        -  While the benefits of ISGs have been well documented in many studies of medical
           patients, very few have examined the use of ISGs in parents of children with chronic
           medical conditions. Further, no studies have been conducted on an ISG in parents of a
           child with NF1.

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  The primary objective of this pilot study is to assess the effectiveness of an ISG
           designed for parents of children with NF1 on a measure of perceived social support.

        -  Secondary objectives are to assess effects of the ISG on self-efficacy, depression, and
           anxiety, and to explore themes and topics discussed in the ISG.

      ELIGIBILITY:

      Eligible participants must self-report:

        -  Being greater than or equal to 18 years of age

        -  Having a child with a diagnosis of NF1 between 0 and 25 years of age

        -  Living in the same home as the child with NF1

             -  Having regular access to a computer with internet capability

      DESIGN:

        -  Parents of children with NF1 will be recruited through Dr. Widemann s NF1 patient
           database and through the Children s Tumor Foundation s (CTF) NF registry.

        -  Eligible participants will be emailed a link to access the study website through the CTF
           website. Due to the nature of the study, consent will be obtained online.

        -  After consenting, participants will be administered (electronically) baseline measures
           of perceived social support, self-efficacy, depression, and anxiety. After 8 weeks,
           participants will complete the measures again via the same website, as well as a
           post-study questionnaire assessing their experiences with participation. Measures will
           be repeated at 3-months post-intervention.

        -  Content analyses will be performed to identify themes and needs of the participants
    
  