
    
      The internal medicine in Valais (switzerland) service encounters several prescription issues
      partially caused by semi-automatic informatized software. The more often students are not
      aware of the costs inherent to unuseful laboratory examens and use the quickest way.
      Furthermore several older students still use prior recommendations for the determination of
      patient deficiency status. The investigators wish to determine if a web-based instruction
      module can improve practice and persist over time.

      Objective: To evaluate the effectiveness of a web based learning module in the prescription
      of laboratory examens by postgraduate medical students.

      Methods: A website will be especially designed for the purpose. All postgraduate medical
      students of the internal medicine service will be introduced to the e-learning module as part
      of routine medical care. Preceding and following this exposure the investigators will measure
      how well the students perform to a comprehensive 10-item assessment tool designed by
      experienced internists in the Department.

      40 to 55 students are expected to participate in the study. A quick test will be performed
      before and after the module, then at 2 and 4 months. Efficiency will be determined by the
      analysis of the median number of prescriptions of blood iron, transferrin and D vitamine
      levels 5 months before the module then at the completion of the study.

      Pre and post-test will be used to evaluate the efficiency of the short learning module, and
      test at 2 and 4 months to estimate the persistence of these results over time.

      The prescription of B9 and B12 levels as well as the management of the obtained results will
      also be analysed.

      Limitations: This design does not incorporate a comparison group, because of the insufficient
      number of students for this method. Multicenter study with comparison group will be performed
      if results are promising.
    
  