
    
      Dizziness is a common condition that is responsible for a significant degree of material
      morbidity and burden on the National Health Service. There are multiple causes of dizziness,
      and these originate from pathologies affecting a large variety of different organ systems.
      Dizziness is usually episodic and short-lived, so when a patient presents to their health
      care provider, examination is often normal. As such, diagnosis is challenging and patients
      often experience significant delay in receiving a diagnosis. The investigators have developed
      a prototype device for monitoring dizziness and have tested it in a small group of
      volunteers. The results showed that their device is capable of accurately, precisely and
      reliably identifying periods of dizziness over a short period of time. Independent market
      research has confirmed that their device could meet the required clinical need, would be
      desired by clinicians, and that there is no equivalent solution currently available. The
      investigators have received an award from the Medical Research Council to trial their device
      in a large cohort of healthy volunteers. Once completed, they will be positioned well to test
      their device in a cohort of patients with a defined dizziness syndrome, before further
      testing their device in a more diverse patient population. Once validated, developed and
      brought to market, the device would provide early diagnosis and accurate treatment for a
      significant proportion of the patient population. This would save the National Health Service
      money by reducing multiple visits to General Practitioner clinics, reducing referrals to
      multiple specialist clinics, and reducing treatment required from falls and other conditions
      associated with dizziness.

      The overall aim of this trial is to test a fully evolved device for the continuous recording
      of eye movements over a prolonged period of time. For the purpose of this study, the
      monitoring period is 23 hours a day, for 30 days. The device is composed of two components: a
      bespoke single-use sensor array that adheres to the participant's face, and a small reusable
      module that contains a battery, microcomputer, data storage facility, battery and connection
      port.

      The investigators intend to confirm that the device will be able to capture any occurrence,
      of a minimum period of thirty seconds, of artificially induced nystagmus, within a 24-hour
      period of time. Each participant will be provided with the device and enough single-use
      electrode arrays to allow the array to be changed every 24 hours, for thirty days.
      Participants will be allowed to remove the sensor array for up to 60 minutes each day to
      allow them to wash and/or shower. On eight of the thirty days for which they wear the array,
      each participant will be required to induce physiological nystagmus by viewing optokinetic
      video footage. The footage will be viewed on a portable screen (of a deactivated mobile
      phone) inside a Virtual Reality headset. These will be issued to the participants at the
      beginning of the trial. Participants will undertake the procedure whilst stationary for the
      first four days, and whilst walking gently on the spot for the remaining four days. The
      identity of these days will not be revealed to the blinded investigator who will later
      analyse the data. At the end of the thirty-day trial, the sensitivity and specificity of the
      device will be determined by assessing whether the data can be used to correctly identify the
      dates that participants induced nystagmus.
    
  