
    
      Endoscopic Mucosal Resection (EMR) is the current standard treatment for non-malignant
      colorectal polyps in the United States. Large colorectal polyps are most often removed
      piecemeal when using EMR, as en-bloc resection becomes increasingly challenging with
      increasing lesion size. The major drawback of EMR is its low en-bloc resection rate. The
      piecemeal nature of the resection hinders margin assessment, which consequently results in
      low R0 resection rates and causes uncertainty regarding the appropriate treatment plan for
      the patient going forward. This outcome results in surveillance colonoscopies at shorter
      intervals to evaluate for recurrence, which in turn, increases patient anxiety and poses a
      burden on the healthcare system. Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection (ESD) enables en bloc
      resection and therefore improved histopathological assessment of margins and has been
      reported to have highly improved R0 resection rates when compared with EMR. ESD is a common
      treatment option for large colorectal lesions in Asia; however, the technical difficulty and
      steep learning curve, which are mainly attributed to the lack of traction and countertraction
      capability, have resulted in low adoption of ESD in the United States.

      The ColubrisMX Endoluminal Surgical (ELS) System represents a marked advancement in the
      removal of non-malignant colorectal lesions. Robotic-assisted instrumentation with bimanual
      dexterity allows for application of traction and counter-traction and closure of the defect
      via suturing, and enables the technically challenging, single-handed ESD procedure to be
      conducted via a two-handed, robotic-assisted, transanal endoluminal surgical approach. The
      ELS System consists of two main components: the Patient Cart and the Surgeon Console. This
      system gains access by means of a flexible overtube (Colubriscope) that can be manually
      inserted up to 17 cm into the distal colon. The ELS System provides full visualization of the
      surgical site and the ability to manipulate up to two surgical instruments and a
      robotic-assisted third-party flexible endoscope (Olympus GIF-XP190), which is referred to as
      the "videoscope". The ELS Surgical Instruments are robotically assisted with full
      triangulation and articulation with up to 7 degrees of freedom to provide enhanced dexterity
      in narrow endoluminal anatomy.
    
  