
    
      Background: Previous research has found that people with Parkinson's disease who participate
      in dance classes have improved functional exercise capacity, mobility, balance and quality of
      life (Duncan and Earhart 2012; Hackney and Earhart 2009). Dance may be an effective
      intervention for people with Parkinson's disease as it targets key components of
      rehabilitation programmes for people with Parkinson's disease (Earhart 2009). These
      components include use of cueing strategies, training of muscle power and balance and
      focusing of attention on movement strategies.

      The benefit of many forms of dance have being investigated in people with Parkinson's disease
      including Tango, (Hackney et al 2007), Contact Improvisation (Marchant et al 2010) and modern
      dance (Batson 2010). However, recently Irish set dancing has also being found to be
      beneficial for those with Parkinson's disease (Volpe et al 2013). Irish Set dancing may be
      beneficial for people with Parkinson's disease as it involves continuous movement initiation
      and cessation along with focusing of attention on body posture and foot placement. However,
      research to date has not been conducted in the Irish population. It is important to
      investigate if set dancing is beneficial for people with Parkinson's disease in Ireland as
      results may be influenced by the familiarity which the Irish population has for set dancing.

      The objectives of the study are:

        -  To compare functional exercise tolerance, balance, motor performance and quality of life
           in those with Parkinson's disease before and after participating in set dancing classes,
           using the following validated outcome measures: Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale
           3, Berg Balance Scale, The Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire and The Six-Minute Walk
           Test.

        -  To compare functional exercise tolerance, balance, motor performance and quality of life
           in those with Parkinson's disease participating in set dancing classes to those
           receiving usual care.

        -  To assess the effect of the intervention on care giver burden using the Zarit Care Giver
           Burden Interview.

      Participants, who meet inclusion/exclusion criteria, will be randomly assigned to a group who
      will receive a set dancing intervention along with their usual care or to a control group who
      will continue with their usual care only. Participants will be assessed the week before the
      intervention period begins and the week after the intervention period ends using valid and
      reliable outcome measures.
    
  