
    
      The trial includes a run-in period of two weeks duration followed by a six weeks intervention
      period.

      After having given their written informed consent, subjects will complete screening
      procedures to evaluate their eligibility for the trial and complete a run-in period of
      minimum two weeks duration to washout possible pre-trial probiotics. At the screening visit
      (visit 1), subjects will also perform a VO2max test on a running treadmill to determine their
      individual VO2max.

      After baseline assessments at visit 2 and 3, the subjects will be randomly assigned to one of
      the two treatment groups (active or placebo product) in a ratio of 1:1. The two arms will be
      stratified for gender.

      The subjects will consume 1-2 capsules once daily, together with breakfast, for six weeks
      starting at Day 1, the day after Visit 3. During the entire run-in and intervention period
      the subjects will be asked not to consume any other probiotic products. During the entire
      trial subjects should maintain their habitual life style in relation to physical activity
      level, diet and sleep habits.

      At Visit 2, 3, 4 and 5, the small intestinal permeability will be evaluated by the L:R ratio
      measured in urine obtained 5 hours after oral ingestion of a lactulose and rhamnose solution.
      The permeability test will be performed in combination with a 1 hour treadmill running
      challenge when performed at Visit 3 and Visit 5. The treadmill run will be performed at a
      velocity corresponding to 80% of the subjects individually measured VO2max.

      Faecal, urine and blood samples will be collected at Visit 2, 3, 4 and 5 for evaluation of
      the secondary objectives. The faecal samples collected will be: First bowel movement
      post-permeability test at Visit 2, first bowel movement post-exercise test at Visit 3, first
      bowel movement post-permeability test at Visit 4 and the first bowel movement post-exercise
      at Visit 5.
    
  