
    
      Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder involving social
      communication disturbances and a restricted pattern of interests, present before age 3.
      Premature infants are at particular risk for neurodevelopmental disturbances, such as
      language delay, difficulties in social communication and ASD.

      ASD is often associated with behavior difficulties, emotion regulation difficulties,
      psychiatric comorbidities and a dysfunctional response to sensory stimuli. Children with
      premature birth also present difficulties related to emotion and behavior regulation.

      Due to these difficulties, caring for children with neurodevelopmental disorders can be very
      stressful for parents, which could in turn lead to lower effectiveness of interventions and
      greater mental health difficulties in parents.

      Therefore, parenting interventions should not only address children's difficulties, these
      interventions should also aim to provide support for parents. Since no interventions have
      specifically addressed these two aspects in the treatment of neurodevelopmental disorders,
      several therapies have been adapted for this population. This is the case of the intervention
      at hand: Incredible Years - ASD and Language Delay (IY-ASLD).

      In this intervention, in addition to learning strategies to promote the development of skills
      in children, parents receive support from other parents and from the therapists. The
      effectiveness of the Incredible Years program has been widely demonstrated in multiple
      randomized clinical trials, showing an improvement in terms of parental stress levels,
      depression and parental coping, as well as in children behavior difficulties. Incredible
      Years is also considered an evidence-based intervention according to the NICE guidelines.

      The Incredible Years Program has been adapted for parents of children between ages 2 and 5
      diagnosed with ASD, presenting ASD symptoms or language delay. A pilot study conducted in the
      UK has demonstrated high levels of acceptability, as well as a decrease in levels of parental
      stress associated with the care of their children. The results of a pilot randomized clinical
      trial in Wales have been recently published, supporting the feasibility of this intervention
      in the NHS and showing good levels of acceptability and fidelity to the program and
      compliance. The Incredible Years - ASLD Program has not been implemented in Spain and to the
      best of our knowledge it has not been used with parents of children of premature birth with
      communication and socialization difficulties.

      This study aims to demonstrate the feasibility of reliably implementing the IY-ASLD parental
      program in different outpatient services of the Spanish public health service, as well as
      exploring its effectiveness in terms of reducing parental distress and improving children
      outcomes.

      The IY - ASLD program will be implemented in three sites across Spain: Hospital Sant Joan de
      Déu Barcelona (HSJD), Hospital General Universitario Gregorio Marañón (HGUGM) and Hospital
      Materno Infantil (HMI) de Málaga. In the first site the program will be implemented with
      parents of premature children with communication and socialization impairment, and in the
      other two sites the program will be applied with parents of children diagnosed with ASD. The
      IY-ASLD program will consist of 22 weekly online group sessions for parents of children
      between 2-5 years of age. The sessions will be conducted by a therapist and a co-therapist,
      both trained in the program. A total of n = 72 parents (48 with ASD children and 24 with
      premature children) will be recruited and will be randomized to a control group (36 parents:
      24 with ASD children and 12 with premature children) or group intervention (36 parents: 24
      with ASD children and 12 with premature children).
    
  