
    
      Assisting individuals to adopt and maintain lifestyle exercise after a cardiac event remains
      challenging. The purpose of this 3-group, randomized controlled trial was to test two
      theoretically distinct behavior change interventions against a usual care (UC) group to
      increase lifestyle exercise after a cardiac event. In a new intervention, SystemCHANGE (SC),
      based on process improvement and ecological theories, participants were taught to use a
      series of small self-designed experiments to change their daily routines associated with
      exercise. The emphasis was on changing systems in their lives rather than relying on
      motivation or memory. The second intervention, CHANGE+ (C+), based on cognitive behavioral
      theory, included contemporary approaches to increase self-efficacy, motivation, and
      problem-solving skills.

      Sample

      The sample consisted of a convenience sample of 379 individuals who were consecutively
      recruited from five Phase II cardiac rehabilitation programs (CRP) in the greater Cleveland,
      Ohio area. Forty percent of the participants approached agreed to participate and were
      randomized. Of the 406 subjects consented, 379 completed the study. Subjects were randomly
      assigned to one of three study arms: SystemCHANGE (process improvement model program of
      health behavior change), CHANGE+ (cognitive behavioral model program of health behavior
      change), or Usual Care. All subjects had a recent cardiac event (myocardial infarction,
      coronary artery bypass surgery and/or percutaneous coronary intervention) and were
      participating in a Phase II cardiac rehabilitation program. Subjects were recruited near the
      end of their program and followed for one year after cardiac rehabilitation. Subjects were
      included if they were greater than 55 years of age and able to read and speak English; they
      were excluded if they met criteria for being at high risk for safe exercise participation
      following a cardiac event (ejection fraction < 30%, decrease in systolic blood pressure of >
      15 mmHg with exercise, serious arrhythmias at rest or exercise induced, and exercise induced
      ischemia indicated by angina > 2 mm ST segment depression on the electrocardiogram).

      Intervention Protocols

      Both the CHANGE+ and SystemCHANGE interventions consist of a series of five small-group (six
      to eight people) education sessions provided in three 1.5-hour sessions once a week during
      the last three weeks of the CRP and in two sessions held at one and two months following
      completion of their CRP. An experienced cardiac nurse or exercise physiologist trained in the
      intervention protocol taught each of the sessions. In a series of structured activities,
      participants were taught to use behavior change strategies consistent with the respective
      intervention models. A series of three monthly booster calls were made during months four,
      five and six following the last intervention class and individuals were coached in the use of
      strategies consistent with the respective interventions. Usual Care consisted of only the
      routine care provided at the CRP. All participants received the usual CRP prescribed
      structured exercise and individual and group classes (four) on diet modification and stress
      reduction that are part of routine care at the CRPs. At the end of the CRP, all individuals
      were given an exercise prescription that included their target heart rate and counseled to
      exercise at least five times a week for 30 minutes.

      Measures

      Three dimensions of exercise were measured: frequency, amount, and maintenance. Exercise
      frequency was the number of sessions exercised (of at least 10 minutes duration) over a given
      period of time. Exercise amount was the number of hours exercised and reflected both the
      frequency and the duration of each exercise session. Exercise was measured using portable
      wristwatch heart rate monitors (Polar RS400) and exercise diaries. Data from the monitors was
      used as the primary data source with diary data used as backup if data from the monitor were
      not available (i.e., forgot to put on the monitor, monitor malfunction). The heart rate (HR)
      monitor memory was programmed to record HR at 5-second intervals during an exercise session.
      Standardized, validated measures were also obtained at baseline, two, six, and twelve months
      of: system changes, social support for exercise, problem-solving skills, motivation, health
      beliefs, and exercise self-efficacy. Measures were also obtained on possible moderating and
      confounding variables: age, race, functional capacity, body fat, co-morbidity, muscle or
      joint pain, exercise experience, home and neighborhood environment, and depression.

      Procedures

      Individuals who met study inclusion criteria were enrolled during the sixth to eighth week of
      the CRP and written informed consent was obtained. Baseline measures were obtained in a
      private interview at the CRP center. The intervention began week ten of the subjects' CRP. At
      the end of their CRP, subjects were given HR monitors and exercise diaries and were directed
      to return mail them during each of the next twelve months. The number of hours exercised
      during exercise adoption (months one through three) and maintenance (months four through
      twelve) was calculated. Multiple linear regression was used to determine if study group
      membership predicted exercise adoption and maintenance. Mediation analysis was also
      conducted.
    
  