
    
      (i) Recognition of unique need of older adults cancer patients Cancer is a disease largely
      affecting the older adults, with incidence of malignancies after age of 65 years 11 folds
      higher than younger adults. Despite this, our understanding of cancer treatment effects in
      older adults is poor because they are largely unrepresented in such trials. Efforts to
      extrapolate cancer treatment effects from younger adults to the older adults have been
      difficult because of their heterogeneous health status, which lead to a recognition of the
      need for Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment (CGA) to detect vulnerability and formulate
      individualized care plan. This awareness has been echoed in multiple international guidelines
      including the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO), European Organization for
      Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC), European Society of Medical Oncology (ESMO),
      National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) and has led to the founding of International
      Society of Geriatric Oncology (SIOG) in 2000.

      (ii) Geriatric-Oncology In Geriatric Medicine, CGA is the cornerstone in caring for the older
      adults and is defined as "multidisciplinary diagnostic and treatment process that identifies
      medical, psychosocial, and functional capabilities of older adults to develop a coordinated
      plan to maximize overall health with aging". The diagnostic outcomes and treatment targets of
      CGA are traditionally represented as "geriatric giants" including instability, incontinence,
      immobility and intellectual impairment, with recent inclusion of "modern geriatric giants"
      represented by frailty and sarcopenia. CGA has been shown to improve function, health status,
      quality of life and healthcare utilization outcomes in diverse clinical settings. It is
      important to understand that the key to improve patient outcomes based on CGA relies not only
      on the assessment butalso the intervention that follows. The CGA by a geriatrician, however,
      is labor-intensive, time consuming and limited by the number of geriatricians available.
      Hence, in a busy oncology clinic, there are 3 recommended approaches for assessment of older
      adults. Firstly, in a form of risk assessment tool, such as Cancer and Aging Research Group
      (CARG) or Chemotherapy Risk Assessment Scale for High-Age Patients (CRASH), that predicts
      likelihood of toxicity from chemotherapy. Secondly, a screening test, such as Geriatric-8
      (G8) with an aggregate that serves to identify vulnerable older adults who may benefit from a
      subsequent CGA. Thirdly, a geriatric assessment (GA) which takes into account the different
      domains of CGA to identify vulnerable older adults who may benefit from a subsequent CGA. The
      above 3 pathways also form the current models of care for geriatric-oncology. G8 has been
      recommended by ASCO and EORTC as a screening test of choice (<=14 as vulnerable and >14 as
      fit) with good sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive
      value for vulnerability against CGA assessment outcomes as the gold standard. G8 has been
      extensively studied in older adults with cancer undergoing radio(chemo)therapy.

      (iii) Special consideration to older adults with early and locally advanced cancer Current
      published trials and ongoing trials focused on older adults who are undergoing oncological
      treatment regardless on cancer stage. However, generally, early and locally advanced cancer
      patients and advanced cancer groups should not be regarded to be homogenous. Firstly, the
      intention for treatment may be vastly different with most of the advanced cancer group being
      treated with palliative intent. Henceforth, the treatment intensity, frequency and likelihood
      for further treatment escalation is higher in early and locally advanced cancer. Secondly,
      the prognosis between the 2 groups, in view of disease burden and treatment intent, will be
      vastly different. Thirdly, recently studies of early palliative care has shown significant
      improvement in quality of life and mood in patients with advanced cancer, but there had been
      no studies looking at early and locally advanced cancer group. Henceforth, older adults with
      early and locally advanced cancer is a unique group facing higher potential of complication
      from treatment with worsened quality of life for a prolonged period of life without any
      useful service option.

      (iv) Special consideration to early palliative care in older adults with newly diagnosed
      cancer In older adults, frequently their focus is for maintenance of quality of life and less
      so for prolonging life. In Geriatric-Oncology, this aim is fulfilled by (1) detecting
      vulnerability (2) intervention to maintain fitness and quality of life (3) providing advice
      to oncologist for optimized management. However, we propose for a 4th dimension of care for
      older adults with cancer which entails symptom control from principles of palliative care. It
      is crucial to know that poorly controlled symptoms is associated with poorer quality of life.
      This is even more important for older adults who are not undergoing treatment. Henceforth, to
      look into maintenance of quality of life, there had been recent calls for integration of
      palliative care with geriatric oncology.

      (v) Identified evidence gap Despite multiple studies looking at the efficacy of
      Geriatric-Oncology, there had been a paucity in research on its impact on quality of life.
      This is especially so specifically for older adults with early and locally advanced cancer
      who may suffer for a prolonged time with poor quality of life. Research is also lacking on
      the effect of palliative care in early and locally advanced cancer. Henceforth the impetus to
      seek for the benefit of a new service that integrates principles of Geriatric-Oncology with
      palliative care.
    
  