
    
      This study will conduct a rigorous evaluation of the sexual abuse prevention program
      entitled, "Safe Touches: Personal Safety Training for Children (Safe Touches)." Founded in
      2007, Safe Touches was developed for kindergarteners through third graders, and is conducted
      in the New York City public school system. The main goal of Safe Touches is to empower
      children to have personal agency over their bodies thus decreasing the likelihood of being
      inappropriately sexually touched and increasing the likelihood of disclosure if sexual abuse
      occurs.

      While prior research provides some data regarding the efficacy of school-based child sexual
      abuse (CSA) prevention programs, evidence is profoundly marginal. First, most studies were
      not designed for multicultural populations, and therefore cannot inform what is effective in
      populations as diverse as New York City. A review of 22 studies evaluating school-based CSA
      prevention programs found just eight studies that used ethnically diverse samples, only one
      of which used a randomly assigned concurrent control group--however, this study had a very
      small sample size. Further, only three of the studies explored the mediating effects of
      factors such as gender and ethnicity on outcomes. The authors of those studies recommend
      future research that includes diverse samples and investigates differences in child
      characteristics more systematically--these recommendations are incorporated into the design
      and analysis plan of the current study. Second, statistical methods applied to data from
      prior studies were limited. A meta-analysis of 15 randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of
      school-based CSA prevention programs found that 10 studies used statistical analyses
      inappropriate for their particular design, thus increasing the risk for bias. Further, none
      of the 15 RCTs reported using the intention-to-treat principle. Third, no prior research has
      evaluated the cost of these programs relative to what children learn. In light of how common
      these programs are and the lack of valid evidence as to their efficacy, this study will
      determine their relative value with regard to acquisition of protective skills by addressing
      the first and second methodological gaps mentioned above, and expanding the scope to include
      the third, cost-effectiveness.

      Study aims are:

        1. To determine the significance of the difference in effectiveness between the
           Intervention and Control groups with regard to changes in children's recognition of
           unsafe touches/situations/people and acquisition of self-protective skills (short-term
           retention).

        2. To evaluate maintenance of knowledge gains four weeks after intervention (maintenance).

        3. To assess intervention costs relative to short-term retention and maintenance four weeks
           after intervention.
    
  