
    
      -  Design: Four-month controlled, randomized, and double-blind study. The patients will be
           recruited by trained psychiatrists from the Center for Alzheimer's disease in the
           Institute of Psychiatry of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (IPUB/UFRJ). They
           will be randomized with a blind design to an exercise group (EG) and control group (CG)
           by a researcher who will not participate of the initial assessments.

        -  Intervention

      On completion of the baseline assessment, all patients will be invited to engage in the
      exercise program. Those who accept to take part and will be available, having easy access to
      the facilities, will be included in the sample. The other ones will be included in the
      control group. So, subjects will be divided by two groups: medical care (control) and medical
      care + physical exercise.

        1. Medical care control group (C): Subjects will maintain clinical treatment.

        2. Medical care + exercise group (E): This group will be prescribed the exercise treatment
           as an adjunctive intervention to drug therapy. Patients who accept to participate in
           this group will be evaluated with a thorough clinical exam and with a resting
           electrocardiogram. The training exercise intensity is established at 60% of VO2máx. This
           intensity was determined using exercise prescription guidelines established by the
           American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM). Each aerobic session began with a 10-minute
           warm-up period (40%VO2máx), followed by 20 minutes of continuous treadmill walking at an
           intensity established by 60% of VO2máx, according to ACMS guidelines (2006). The
           exercise session will be concluded with a five minutes of cool down. Heart hate (Polar®
           Sport Tester, Finland) and perceived exertion (Borg Scale) will be monitored and
           recorded at each five minutes during each exercise session by physical education
           instructors. Subjects will be encouraged to attend two supervised exercise sessions per
           week for 16 weeks.
    
  