
    
      1. Intervention Details: Biological: umbilical cord/placenta-derived mesenchymal stem cells;
      Drug: 1. Oral Hypoglycemic Drugs, such as Dimethylbiguanide, Glurenorm and Acarbose, et al.
      2. Insulins.

        1. 1st transplantation: after finishing all required examines according to protocol in Day
           0, umbilical cord/placenta-derived MSCs are transplanted intravenously.

        2. 2nd transplantation: after finishing all required examines in Day 90, umbilical
           cord/placenta-derived-MSCs are transplanted intravenously if the effects of MSC are
           better than that before.

        3. At the same time, patients continue taking the oral hypoglycemic drugs, insulins or the
           combination of the oral hypoglycemic drugs and insulins which the patients have taken
           for controlling the higher blood sugar from Day 0 for 1 year. But the dose of the oral
           hypoglycemic drugs and insulins should be regulated according to the level of blood
           sugar.

      2. Detailed Description:

        1. To evaluate the feasibility and safety of transplantation treatment using umbilical
           cord/placenta-derived mesenchymal stem cells in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus
           undergoing the oral hypoglycemic drugs, insulins or the combination of the oral
           hypoglycemic drugs and insulins.

        2. To assess efficacy of transplantation treatment using umbilical cord/placenta-derived
           mesenchymal stem cells in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus undergoing the oral
           hypoglycemic drugs, insulins or the combination of the oral hypoglycemic drugs and
           insulins.

        3. This study will last 2 to 3 years. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive
           either MSC transplant and the oral hypoglycemic drugs or MSC transplant and insulins or
           MSC transplant and the combination of the oral hypoglycemic drugs and insulins
           (experimental group) or the oral hypoglycemic drugs or insulins or the combination of
           the oral hypoglycemic drugs and insulins (control group). Patients will undergo MSC
           transplant at the start of the study on Day 0 and take the oral hypoglycemic drugs,
           insulins or the combination of the oral hypoglycemic drugs and insulins for 1 year. As
           control, some patients take the oral hypoglycemic drugs, insulins or the combination of
           the oral hypoglycemic drugs and insulins for 1 year. At the same time, the dose of the
           oral hypoglycemic drugs and insulins should be regulated according to the level of blood
           sugar. After 3 months, patients will receive the second MSC transplantation. After six
           and twelve months from the first transplantation, patients will be evaluated.
    
  