
    
      On arrival in the operating room, patients will be randomly assigned to receive an adductor
      canal block under ultrasound guidance or a simulated block.

      In the adductor canal block group, a 18 Gauge Tuohy needle will be inserted and its position
      in the adductor canal adjacent to the femoral artery will be confirmed using ultrasound
      guidance. Once the adequacy of the position is confirmed, the anesthesiologist will
      administer 15 mL of bupivacaine 0.25% with epinephrine in divided doses and examine the
      quality of its spread. A 20 Gauge polyamide catheter will be inserted at 2 cm in the space.
      The needle will then be withdrawn and the catheter will be fixed in place. Three mL of the
      same mixture of local anesthetics will be administered through the catheter and the
      anesthesiologist will observe the quality of its distribution.

      In the simulated block group, the insertion of the Tuohy needle and the injection of 15 mL of
      bupivacaine 0.25% with epinephrine will be simulated. The insertion of the polyamide
      catheter, the withdrawal of the needle and the injection of local anesthetics through the
      catheter will also be simulated.

      Surgery will be performed under spinal anesthesia. A standardized dose of bupivacaine and
      morphine will be administered for spinal anesthesia.

      In both groups, an infusion of local anesthetics will be initiated on arrival in the recovery
      room and will continue for the first 48 hours. To preserve the blinding in the simulated
      block group, a Luer-lock connector and a 50 mL empty pouch of intravenous fluids will be
      affixed to the catheter to collect the infused local anesthetics. The empty pouch will be
      inserted under the opaque dressing. Patients in the adductor canal block will receive an
      infusion of bupivacaine 0.125% at 12 mL/h and patients in the simulated block group will have
      an infusion of the same medication but at an infusion rate of 1 mL/h. The infusion rate will
      be hidden from the patient. Multimodal analgesia will be used in all patients.

      Patients will be asked to complete the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS)
      questionnaire before and 6 weeks following surgery.

      Knee extensor muscle strength will be measured using a hand-held dynamometer pre-operatively
      and 24 hours, 48 hours and 6 weeks following surgery. Pain scores at rest and during strength
      assessment will be collected. Opioids consumption and side-effects attributable to analgesia
      will be recorded. Patients will be asked to rate their global satisfaction regarding the
      quality of analgesia 48 hours after surgery. Time to discharge will be recorded.
    
  