
    
      Procedure for patients and partners:

      Patients will be informed about the study by their treating oncologist at the end of the
      appointment, when they will be informed about the metastatic incurable progression of their
      disease (announcement visit). Oncologists will provide the patients a written description of
      the study, presenting the information previously orally provided by them, together with the
      consent form, to fill in. Signed informed consent will be sent back by post-mail if necessary
      (if participants ask for a time to think), using a pre-stamped envelope. Due to the objective
      to prevent distress, recruitment to the study and random assignment of the intervention need
      to be performed within the 7 days following this announcement visit, after making sure the
      patient is eligible for the study according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Early after the announcement visit and consent collection, the clinical psychologist will
      call the patient before randomization in order to assess patients' level of stress from 1 (no
      stress) to 10 (maximal stress). Patients with a level higher or equal than 4 will be
      randomized in the study. For the patients with a stress level below or equal than 3, only
      background information will be collected in the study. These patients will receive the
      standard care.

      Patients and their spouse will be randomly assigned together (i.e., if the spouse
      participates, he/she will be allocated to the same treatment arm as the patient) to receive
      the MSI + VB (experimental group) or to receive the supportive listening and attention (usual
      care serving as control condition), using an online centralized randomization program.
      Randomization will be implemented after the receipt of the consent form and balanced by (1)
      cancer type (bladder, prostate, kidney, colorectal cancer, sarcoma), (2) gender, as these two
      variables are identified as risk factors of PTSD (for cancer type) and as impacting the MSI
      effects (for gender) in the literature, and (3) the presence of the spouse during the
      announcement visit (yes/no), using a dynamic allocation program (minimization with a random
      factor set at 0.8).

      For reasons of feasibility, no pre-screening aiming at including patients with a high risk of
      distress and potentially with high risk for developing PTSD will be realized. However, during
      the first telephone session, the psychologist will assess patients' level of stress using a
      10-point likert scale, similar to a past study, before and after the MSI + VB intervention or
      the support and attention control session. This scale includes asking patients on a scale
      from 1 (no stress) to 10 (maximal stress) their level The treatment consists of a single
      telephone session conducted by a trained therapist maximum 10 days after receiving the
      announcement of the incurable disease progression. This is done in order to prevent PTSD, as
      was already done when the MSI treatment was developed in traffic accident survivors (Gidron
      et al., 2001, 2007). The same trained therapist will provide the MSI + VB intervention to the
      experimental group and give support and attention to the control group, in order to control
      for therapist's effects. This telephone session will be followed by 3 follow-up telephone
      assessments (a week, a month and 3 months after the previous telephone session), for
      collecting data by a research assistant who will not know in which group the participants
      are. All the sessions and interviews of the patient and his/her spouse (for treatments and
      for follow-up measures) will be conducted separately, and the information will remain
      confidential between the patient and the spouse. Each of these telephone calls will be
      conducted from the participating center, in order contact details of the participants remain
      inside the medical center to ensure the confidentiality of the data.

      Experimental intervention. In the experimental group, participants will perform vagal
      breathing (VB), followed by the MSI, followed again by VB. The VB component will guide
      participants how to perform deep slow vagal breathing by inhaling and counting 1-5, holding
      their breath and counting 1-2, and exhaling and counting 1-5, during 2-5 minutes. The MSI
      component will teach participants to chronologically organize the segments of their memory of
      the incurable diagnosis, to verbally label feelings or somatic sensations they had at that
      moment, and to provide causal links between the event's segments and causality to their
      feelings and sensations, following the protocol of Gidron et al. (2001). In the MSI part, the
      patient will talk, and the therapist will note the different event parts and their real
      timing. Each time the patient says a feeling or sensation, the therapist will ask to verbally
      elaborate and provide the cause of these feelings and sensations. Then, the therapist will
      retell the story in a chronological manner, with verbal titles and causes for feelings and
      sensations. Finally, the patient will be asked to retell the story in this structured manner,
      after being explained how to do so.

      patients in the MSI + VB group will be encouraged to perform it daily, for 5-10min, and
      especially before going to bed, to reduce any sleeping arousal associated with PTSD symptoms

      Control. Participants in the control group will receive support and attention (usual care)
      and will be invited to recall announcement of the incurable disease progression. More
      precisely, they will be invited to express their associated thoughts and feelings, being free
      to talk about their experience, and the psychologist will react with empathy and support.

      At Baseline for both arms, i.e., at the beginning of the telephone interview where the
      trained therapist will call the participants, the therapist will collect background
      information including age, gender, years of education, self-reported length of couple
      relationship and psychotropic medication (anxiolytic, antidepressant) in order to control the
      association between PTSD symptoms and anxiety and/or depressive disorder.

        1. PTSD symptoms will be assessed by the post-traumatic checklist for DSM 5 (PCL-5;
           Weathers et al., 2013, French translation and validation by Ashbaugh et al., 2016).

        2. Emotional regulation will be assessed by the BACQ scale (Finset et al., 2002).

        3. Quality of life will be assessed by the EuroQol-5D scale (EQ-5D 3L)

      In both groups, the trained therapist will also evaluate the degree of "natural" structuring
      regarding the way in which the patients/partners talk about the announcement visit. More
      precisely, the trained therapist will rate both groups on their level of chronological
      organization of their story from 1 = totally disorganized; 2 = a bit organized; 3 =
      chronologically very organized (in the MSI + VB group: before and after the MSI training; in
      the control group: at the first time they recall their story)

      Afterwards, three follows-ups will be conducted by telephone: 1 week, 1 month and 3 months
      after the first intervention or control phone session.A research assistant blind to group
      assignments will collect the same self-reported measures initially collected by telephone at
      the first phone meeting. In sum, levels of PTSD symptoms and quality of life will be assessed
      at each time (initial phone meeting, 1 week, 1 month and 3 months). However, emotional
      regulation will be assessed at the first phone meeting and at one month only, in order to
      reduce patients' burden.

      Patients and partners will also be asked if they have talked about the event, to recall how
      and how often they have spoken about the event since the last phone call.

      For all the groups, medical information including type and stage of cancer and type of cancer
      treatments will be collected at baseline by the medical staff (as summarized in the table
      below). Levels of albumin and levels of C-reactive protein (CRP, reflecting inflammation)
      will also be obtained at baseline, 1 month and 3 months when patients will come in any case
      to the hospital for their medical appointments (no medical appointment is anticipated at 1
      week, hence the absence of CRP and albumin measures at this time). Survival time will be
      monitored for all patients as well until the final analysis. We will calculate the
      quality-adjusted life years (QALY) for all patients, to reflect both quantity and quality of
      survival. This will be done using the length of survival weighted by patients' score on the
      EQ-5D scale.
    
  