
    
      Lung transplantation is increasingly employed as a therapy for patients with advanced lung
      disease including cystic fibrosis, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis or emphysema. Despite
      significant short-term improvements in life quality and measures of lung function after lung
      transplantation, long-term outcomes are disappointing primarily due to the development of a
      condition of airway fibrosis known as bronchiolitis obliterans (BO). It is hypothesized that
      aztreonam lysine for inhalation (AZLI) is a safe and effective treatment for declining lung
      function in lung transplant recipients with early stage BOS. In order to test the hypothesis,
      the investigators seek to establish the safety of AZLI in a two-center cohort of 30 lung
      transplant recipients with BOS treated intermittently for 5 consecutive study months and
      determine if this treatment leads to improvement or stabilization of lung function. The
      intervention will involve open label treatment with AZLI, in addition to usual transplant
      care, administered for 3 intermittent courses, 28 days each, over a 5 month study period..
      Bronchoscopy, pulmonary function testing, and laboratory testing will be performed on a
      regular basis during study enrollment consistent with each center's usual standard clinical
      care. Patients will have a baseline screening visit, one month and five month study visit..
      The study will take two years to complete from the start of funding. After a start-up period
      of 2 months, a total of 30 patients will be enrolled over 12 months across the two centers
      (15 patients each at DUMC and UCLA). Each enrolled patient will complete 5 months of
      intermittent therapy, and complete baseline, month 1 and month 5 visits. Over the next 6
      months the study database will be finalized, statistical analysis will for primary and
      secondary outcomes will be performed leading to the generation of either a study abstract or
      manuscript.
    
  