
    
      National immunization coverage has consistently fallen short of Healthy People 2010 and 2020
      goals and has remained relatively stagnant over the past few years for many immunizations.
      One important group with a high risk of under-immunization are children with chronic medical
      conditions (CMCs), who are also at increased risk of serious morbidity and even death from
      vaccine preventable diseases. One of the key interventions to improve immunization coverage
      in both the general population and children with CMCs is to decrease missed opportunities for
      immunization. Immunization reminders in the electronic health record (EHR) are a type of
      clinical decision support (CDS) that can reduce missed opportunities. In a recent project,
      the investigators successfully employed such reminders to increase influenza immunization.

      One limitation of EHR immunization reminders is that they generally act only on local EHR
      immunization data. If that data is incomplete, a provider may be erroneously alerted to order
      an immunization the child does not need. The likelihood of incomplete local data is high.
      Nearly one-quarter of children in the U.S. visit more than one immunization provider in their
      first three years of life, leading to fragmented and incomplete records. Low-income and
      minority children are especially susceptible to immunization record fragmentation as they are
      more likely to receive care from multiple clinics and providers. Children with CMCs are also
      at high-risk since their care is often shared between a primary care provider and
      subspecialists.Harnessing Immunization Information Systems (IIS) data can help overcome this
      limitation. IIS are population-based systems that collect immunization data primarily for
      children and adolescents from providers at a regional or state level, consolidating patient's
      immunization data into a single location no matter where administered. There are currently
      IIS in 50 states, five cities, and the District of Columbia. However, in most cases, IIS data
      are available to providers only on the IIS's website. Yet, frontline care providers are most
      likely to benefit when an IIS provides information at point of patient care within their EHR
      workflow. This type of bidirectional exchange of immunization information between IIS and EHR
      systems is a proposed Stage 3 Meaningful Use objective; this consolidated data would be the
      most complete data to use for an EHR reminder, but is rarely used.

      Another challenge associated with EHR-based immunization reminders is that pediatric and
      adolescent immunization schedules are complex, requiring up to 35 immunizations plus the
      annual influenza vaccine. Each immunization series has its own minimum age and dosing
      intervals, and new immunizations are not uncommon. However, many EHRs may not have or
      aggressively maintain comprehensive immunization decision rules.

      IIS can help overcome this limitation as well. Many include tools for forecasting when doses
      are next due and can provide that information during data exchange with an EHR, but that has
      not been assessed.

      Bringing IIS immunization data and forecasting tools into a local EHR to power CDS will be
      helpful for the general population. However, one limitation of immunization CDS, whether
      provided by an IIS or native to the EHR, is that it does not account for subtleties required
      by children with certain CMCs who may need extra immunizations specific to their condition or
      cannot receive certain immunizations. A logical next-step is to couple exchange of IIS
      immunization data and forecasting tools with patient-level EHR information regarding medical
      conditions to power accurate, patient-specific EHR immunization reminders. This has yet to be
      done.

      Aim 1: Assess the impact of EHR reminders integrated with immunization data and forecasting
      from a regional IIS on receipt of generally recommended immunizations in a low-income, urban,
      pediatric and adolescent population.

      Aim 2: Assess the impact of integrated EHR reminders that also incorporate patient's medical
      conditions on receipt of immunizations specifically recommended for children and adolescents
      with chronic medical conditions.

      Hypothesis 1: Lower rates of under-immunization will be observed when reminders are 'on' vs.
      'off'.

      Hypothesis 2: Lower rates of over-immunization will be observed when reminders are 'on' vs.
      'off'.

      Hypothesis 3: Higher rates of captured opportunities will be observed when reminders are 'on'
      vs. 'off'.

      Hypothesis 4: There will be no difference in reminder impact on generally recommended
      immunizations for children with and without chronic medical conditions (CMCs)

      In this three-year project, investigators will conduct a randomized cluster crossover
      pragmatic clinical trial to assess immunization outcomes during periods when an integrated
      immunization reminder is 'on' vs. 'off' for generally recommended immunizations as well as
      ones specific for children with CMCs. The proposed work will generate empiric knowledge
      regarding the best practices for implementing IIS-supported immunization reminders for both
      children with and without CMCs. The results may help guide local and national efforts on both
      immunization data exchange and EHR reminders.
    
  