
    
      Alloimmunization to blood products in transfused patients is a recognized management
      challenge in the clinical setting. In particular the ethnic and racial specificity of RBC
      antigens and the limited availability of matched healthy volunteer blood donors have
      intensified the dilemma. The presence of low prevalence clinically significant RBC antigens
      among minorities account for the higher rate of alloimmunization observed in patients from
      this group. This is partly due to the racial and ethnic differences between the blood donor
      and recipient populations in the U.S.

      The increasing number of new Ethiopian-American immigrants in the US presenting to the health
      care system with blood transfusion requirements makes understanding the unique transfusion
      needs of this minority population imperative. Although the majority of African Americans
      claim origin to West Africa, Ethiopians, being from East Africa, represent a rapidly growing
      population in the United States. Furthermore, identifying genetic similarities and
      disparities to their West African counterparts will certainly have clinical implications in
      terms of transfusion support and disease modifiers. This additional information would help in
      understanding the natural history and transfusion requirements of certain debilitating
      diseases, such as Sickle Cell Disease (SCD), which are known to occur more commonly in
      African Americans. Identifying ethnically and racially similar individuals could assist in
      recruiting healthy volunteer donors with similar RBC antigen profiles potentially
      supplementing the rare donor pool.

      Although extensive archeological and sporadic serologic RBC antigen studies have been
      conducted in Ethiopia, there are no population wide RBC antigen molecular studies. Our study
      population is selected by altitude and migration history. Ethiopia, being in close proximity
      to the Red Sea in the northeast, Indian Ocean in the southeast and the rest of Africa in the
      south/west has diverse population.

      The study is a population based analysis of genetic variation of blood group antigens in
      three distinct and conserved Ethiopian sub-populations. Statistical analysis using Chi-square
      tests will be performed for each blood group antigen to detect differences in the
      distribution between the three sub-populations. The The Lead Associate Investigator (LAI),
      and, as appropriate, additional Investigators, will travel to Ethiopia to collect blood
      samples, which will be analyzed in the Department of Transfusion Medicine (DTM) at the
      National Institutes of Health (NIH) using the standard serologic methods and currently
      available molecular genotyping systems. Samples will also be stored for future high
      throughput sequencing analysis and other studies.

      The study will be a systematic analysis of the distribution of blood group antigens in
      Ethiopian sub-populations. Furthermore, new variants could be detected allowing insight into
      the correlation of particular genotypes and phenotypes.
    
  