
    
      About one tenth of the 1.7 billion individuals infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb)
      will progress to active tuberculosis (TB). This probability increases in people with human
      immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and other risk co-morbidities such as malnutrition, diabetes and
      substance abuse. Chronic microbial colonisation with unrelated bacteria are associated with
      TB pathogenesis (e.g., mice colonised with Helicobacter hepaticus exhibit poor control of
      TB), indicating that the gut microbiota may modulate progression to active TB. Furthermore,
      first-line TB treatment (Isoniazid, Rifampicin, Ethambutol, Pyrazinamide; HREZ) depletes gut
      commensal bacteria (Ruminococcus, Coprococcus and Bifidobacterium) with immunomodulatory
      roles [interleukin (IL)-1, interferon (IFN)-γ and Th17 responses, respectively).

      Recent work identified heat-killed Mycobacterium manresensis (hkMm), a harmless member of the
      fortuitum complex naturally found in drinking water, as a promising candidate for reducing
      the risk of active TB. Mtb-infected mice treated with hkMm had significantly reduced lung
      pathology (fewer and smaller lesions,) bacillary load and proinflammatory cytokines (TNF-α,
      IFN-γ, IL-6, and IL-17) compared to untreated control mice, and in mice receiving hkMm with
      HREZ, survival rates were significantly increased. Moreover, mice treated with hkMm had
      increased microbial diversity and an altered gut microbial composition relative to untreated
      mice. This could prove beneficial for TB patients during prolonged antibiotic treatment as
      supplementation with hkMm may help protect gut microbiota, and potentially improve clinical
      outcome.

      In individuals with and without latent M. tuberculosis infection, two weeks of daily oral
      doses of Nyaditum resae® (a preparation of hkMm approved as a food supplement by Manremyc)
      demonstrated enhanced effector and memory specific regulatory T-cell responses. Similar
      clinical trials with Nyaditum resae® are currently being done in paediatrics (NCT02581579)
      and close contacts of active TB cases in Tbilisi, Georgia (NCT02897180; 2017-2023). The
      probiotic is also being registered as a food supplement in several countries.

      In the proposed study, the efficacy of Nyaditum resae® in reducing antibiotic-associated gut
      dysbiosis and disease progression in patients with active TB will be tested. To do this, the
      investigators will assess changes in the microbiota during treatment (with or without
      Nyaditum resae® supplementation) and attempt to identify genera associated with a favourable
      or unfavourable treatment outcome in TB patients.
    
  