
    
      Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death in men today. An estimated
      220,900 new cases will be diagnosed in 2003 according to the American Cancer Society.7
      Prostate cancer will account for one-third of the new cancer diagnoses in men in 2003.
      Prostate specific antigen (PSA), a sensitive screening method for prostate cancer, has helped
      diagnose prostate cancer at earlier stages. Stamey et al. found that the diagnosis of
      prostate cancer in patients with T1c disease (no abnormalities on digital rectal examination
      but elevated PSA) increased from10% in 1988 to 73% in 1996 and the increase in organ confined
      cancers increased from 40% to 75% over the same time period.8

      Current surgical options for organ confined prostate cancer include open radical retropubic
      prostatectomy, open radical perineal prostatectomy, radioactive seed implantation, and
      radiation therapy. Open radical retropubic prostatectomy was pioneered in 1947 by Millin but
      what was slow to gain widespread acceptance secondary to associated morbidity.9-13 Refinement
      of the retropubic approach by Walsh has greatly improved outcomes, making it the most common
      surgical approach for radical prostatectomy.14, 15

      As with other procedures, interest in the laparoscopic approach for radical prostatectomy
      developed in hopes of minimizing patient morbidity. In 1992, Schuessler et al performed the
      first LRP but the technical difficulties of the procedure at that time prohibited the
      widespread application of this technique.16 In 1998, Guillonneau et al introduced the
      Mountsouris technique in which a transperitoneal approach was used to perform the LRP.17, 18
      Other groups have used this approach and even adapted this technique to perform
      extraperitoneal approaches to LRP.1, 2, 4, 5, 19, 20 Many centers are currently offering LRP
      as primary therapy for organ confined prostate cancer.

      All curative surgical therapies for prostate cancer, whether performed in an open or
      laparoscopic manner, can result in impotence and/or incontinence. Incontinence can be treated
      with simple measures, such as muscle strengthening exercises, or if more bothersome, can be
      treated with surgical therapy. Impotence can be treated with medications or, if needed,
      surgery.

      The relative risk of having positive surgical margins in patients undergoing open radical
      retropubic prostatectomy compared to laparoscopic radical prostatectomy is not known.
      Preliminary publications regarding laparoscopic radical prostatectomy report rates of
      positive surgical margins (13-25%) that are similar to open radical prostatectomy (11-46%).2,
      5, 6, 19, 21-28 However, long-term follow-up is not available for patients undergoing
      laparoscopic radical prostatectomy, so the impact of positive margins on long-term survival
      is not known.
    
  