
    
      Latinos in Arizona, who are predominantly of Mexican-origin, are disproportionately affected
      by chronic disease and social conditions that contribute to health disparities. Important
      social determinants of health (SDH)--conditions where people live, work, and play--include
      barriers to healthy food, physical activity, poverty, discrimination, and housing instability
      as well as insufficient access to quality and culturally-responsive services. Such factors
      are increasingly recognized within primary care and population health as equal drivers of
      chronic disease and clinical indicators. Latino health is complex with not only
      disproportionate barriers, but also health advantages compared to other groups.

      Recently, federally qualified health centers (FQHCs) have begun to incorporate assessments of
      their clients' SDH. With their foci on high-level clinical care for underserved populations,
      however, the capacity of these entities to respond to social and community needs is markedly
      limited. Community-clinical linkage (CCL) models provide opportunities for FQHCs to work
      collaboratively with other entities to leverage extant community resources and capacities.
      County health departments are uniquely positioned to collaborate with primary care partners
      and other community agencies to address social determinants.

      Existing evidence of the effectiveness of CCLs in improving the health status of Latinos and
      their antecedent social conditions is scarce. The AzPRC will address this gap by executing a
      practice-based public health research study within four underserved, predominantly
      Mexican-origin communities. Our core research project, Unidos: Linking Individuals' to Social
      Determinant and Community Health Services, will result in a model CCL intervention to reduce
      chronic disease risk among Latinos in Arizona. Further, the investigators expect this
      intervention model to be applicable in other regions and populations. To execute this
      research, the AzPRC will implement the intervention in partnership with county health
      departments and FQHCs. In Unidos the county/community-based CHWs will: 1) support and connect
      participants to health promotion resources; 2) provide individual and group-based support
      guided by a novel framework for understanding Latino's health advantages, the sociocultural
      resiliency model; and, 3) leverage community resources to help individuals address
      SDH-related needs. The aims of this research study are to

        1. Implement and evaluate Unidos, a community-delivered, SDH-focused CHW intervention. The
           core elements of the evaluation will include community-responsive, mixed methodologies.
           Our hypothesis is that the Unidos intervention will reduce overall chronic disease risk,
           defined from the biological component from the American Heart Association's Life's
           Simple 7. A rigorous quasi-experimental design will be employed to determine Unidos'
           effect from electronic health records extracted 12 months after enrollment, with
           comparisons of clients participating vs not participating in the 6-month intervention.
           Exploratory analyses of cost effectiveness will be executed to further inform the
           scaling and sustainability of the intervention within local and county health department
           infrastructures.

        2. To test the sociocultural resilience model of Latino health advantages through the
           collection and analysis of longitudinal data that includes rich markers of reported
           health status, health behaviors, and psychosocial factors. The investigators have two
           hypotheses: a) the CHW-led, culturally embedded, intervention will lead to enhanced
           social support, social networks, health behaviors, quality of life and general health;
           and b) social support and social networks will mediate improvements in reported health
           observed over 6 months.

        3. A secondary aim is to examine whether our novel, CHW-administered assessments,
           contribute to the understanding of Latino health risk and advantages beyond a
           self-administered SDH tool that recently became integrated in the electronic health
           record (EHR) of two of our four clinical partners. The partners' use of this
           self-administered SDH tool is part of a national effort where select FQHCs across the
           country are testing whether it has utility for understanding and better addressing the
           population health needs of the patients they serve.
    
  