
    
      Objective: To provide a mechanism for recruitment and screening of AD patients for inclusion
      into studies conducted at the National Institutes of Health. To provide data from MRI and
      [18F]FDG and PIB PET imaging from healthy volunteers to compare to that from AD patients. To
      provide longitudinal data from MRI and [18F]FDG and PIB PET imaging from both AD patients and
      healthy volunteers.

      Study population: Patients with signs and symptoms of Alzheimer s disease. Healthy
      age-matched volunteers.

      Design: Patients with signs and symptoms of Alzheimer s disease will be recruited from the
      community using advertisements and through communication with neurologists, psychiatrists,
      and general practitioners in the community. Patients will come to the NIH for an evaluation
      that may include medical and neurological evaluation, laboratory testing, brain MRI,
      neuropsychological evaluation, and brain imaging with [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose ([18F]FDG) and
      carbon-11 labeled Pittsburgh Compound B (PIB) PET. The focus of this protocol will be on
      assisting with the diagnosis of AD vs. another cause of memory impairment. Eligible patients
      will be offered participation in other protocols with the Molecular Imaging Branch. Eligible
      patients may also be referred to other studies at the NIH. Patients will not be offered
      treatment or long-term follow-up in this protocol. Age matched healthy volunteers will
      undergo brain imaging with MRI and with [18F]FDG and PIB PET. Healthy volunteers and patients
      who meet diagnostic criteria for AD will be asked to repeat study procedures after an
      interval of at least one year but no more than 5 years.

      Outcome measures: Results from medical and neurological evaluation, neuropsychological
      testing, laboratory tests, and brain MRI will be used to determine if patients meet NINDS
      criteria for probable Alzheimer s disease. In patients who undergo brain imaging with
      [18F]FDG and PIB PET, PET data will be used for investigational purposes in subjects who
      participate in other protocols with the Molecular Imaging Branch. Results from brain imaging
      from healthy volunteers will be used to compare to that from AD patients. [18F]FDG and PIB
      PET may also be useful for determining if patients meet criteria for probable Alzheimer s
      disease.
    
  