
    
      - Clinical and scientific background

      Cystic fibrosis is characterized by functional abnormalities in the cystic fibrosis
      transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) membrane channel leading to a decrease in
      mucociliary clearance, recurrent infections and airway inflammation. This inflammatory
      process in airway mucosa is persistent, uncontrolled, but, somewhat paradoxically,
      ineffective for pathogen clearance. Neutrophils are chronically recruited in the airway
      mucosa by proinflammatory mediators such as IL-17, and probably largely contribute to tissue
      damage. However, up-stream mechanisms involved in this dysregulated and persistent immune
      response are not well understood.

      In this context, seeking for new candidates that may be involved in this chronic inflammation
      is critical as there is, to date, no effective treatment to modulate immune response in CF.
      To address this, a heterogeneous subpopulation of T lymphocytes called "unconventional T
      cells" (UTC) should deserve greater attention. These cells comprise Natural Killer T (NKT)
      cells, mucosal associated invariant T cells (MAIT cells) and γδ T cells. The investigators
      believe these cells could be instrumental for future immune-intervention in CF
      immunopathology. First, UTC play a key role in orchestrating the ensuing innate and adaptive
      immune responses. Their pivotal role in mounting host defense during infection have been
      demonstrated, by the investigators and others, in different experimental models. Notably,
      their pivotal role for IL-17-driven neutrophil recruitment during acute pulmonary infection
      is well documented. Second, they are endowed with numerous regulatory and effector
      properties. Third, UTC mainly establish residency at mucosal sites, including the lung. Last,
      these cells are already investigated for therapeutic interventions (mainly in oncology, with
      ongoing phase I and II clinical trials). To date, however, data related to implication and
      behavior of UTC during cystic fibrosis are extremely limited and preliminary.

      The hypothesis is that, given UTC properties, their functions and behavior are altered in CF,
      and thus, these cells could be implicated in persistent inflammation and poor response to
      infections.

      - Objective of the study: The objective is to study UTC properties and functions in cystic
      fibrosis using blood and sputum samples of patients with CF, in correlation with
      comprehensive clinical and microbiological data.

      - Design:

      This is a prospective exploratory single-center study including adult patients with CF whom
      follow-up is undertaken at University Hospital of Tours, France.

      Number of participants: 80

      - Interventions and analysis:

      For each patient included, study duration will be 18 months, during which blood and sputum
      samples will be analyzed 1/ from routine tests obtained at steady state during annual
      check-up and follow-up examination and 2/ from tests performed during acute exacerbations
      treated at the hospital or outpatient. To be enrolled in this study does not add any medical
      or biological examination compared to the usual follow-up. Each blood or sputum test done
      during follow-up examination or treating care will lead to supplementary samples for
      research.

      Clinical parameters will be collected including clinical status (exacerbation or not),
      microbial status, pulmonary function test, drugs used like CFTR modulator therapies
      (lumacaftor ivacaftor) or antibiotics.

      UTC will be explored in blood and sputum using flowcytometry approach, to evaluate their
      relative abundance, activation/inhibition profile and functions (cytokine production and
      cytotoxic ability). In some cases, intra-cellular staining will be performed to assess
      cytokine production and/or transcription factor expression. Functions of unconventional T
      cells will also be performed after ex vivo stimulation on purified population (cell sorting).
      Cytokine level sand transcriptomic analyses will also be performed on blood
      samples.Correlation will be made with clinical status, with longitudinal comparison across
      the study period for each patient, and comparison with the other patients and healthy
      volunteers.
    
  