
    
      Studies discovered that medulloblastoma is a group of tumors with different pathogenesis
      through different pathways, and majorly can be divided into four molecular subgroups.
      Moreover, multicenter retrospective studies from US, Canada and European Countries revealed
      that the molecular subgroup of medulloblastoma becomes an independent correlated risk factor
      for the patient outcomes. This finding made WHO classification of tumours of central nervous
      system consider the markers in molecular pathway be an ever important indicator in the new
      diagnosis criteria. In COG prospective studies for target therapies, subgroup distinguishing
      becomes indispensable, and the use of immunohistochemistry combined with NanoString, DNA
      methylation arrays or other molecular methods makes subgroup identification more reliable. In
      China, there are limited single institutional studies, which were all conducted by
      immunohistochemistry or polymerase chain reaction (PCR), on molecular sub-grouping of
      medulloblastoma, especially in pediatric patients. This multicenter retrospective study
      enrolls children and adolescents (0-18y/o) with primary medulloblastoma from CNOG member
      institutions across the country, with available paraffin embedded samples and reliable
      follow-up information, to assess the correlation of molecular subgroups of medulloblastoma
      and outcomes in Chinese population.

      This multicenter study recruits eligible patients from CNOG member institutions. Data
      validation and verification is double conducted by each center and investigators in central
      data base. Case report form (CRF) was designed by principle investigator and will be modified
      in the period of uploading first 5 cases by each participated center. The estimated
      enrollment is 200 cases after sample size assessment. Descriptive statistical analysis,
      Two-Sample (Independent group) T-Test and one-way ANOVA will be used in epidemiological
      analysis. Cox-regression / Kaplan-Meier plot will be used in survival analysis. Chi-square
      test will be used to validate the test efficiency of immunohistochemistry and NanoString
      methods.
    
  