
    
      Despite a large body of evidence on the effectiveness of hypertension treatment in reducing
      cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, the control rate of hypertension is low in many low
      and middle-income countries. The shortage of skilled workforce diagnosing and managing
      hypertension is one of the major barriers. A promising option is to involve community health
      workers (CHWs) in hypertension care, who have shown promising results for improving maternal
      and child health. However, the evidence on whether CHWs can diagnose and treat hypertension
      under the supervision of a physician has not been systematically tested.

      Thus, this study will evaluate whether existing Facility Based-Community Health Workers
      (FB-CHWs) and Female Community Health Volunteers (FCHVs) of the Ministry of Health can safely
      and effectively diagnose hypertension and initiate/maintain protocol-based hypertension
      treatment. This study will be conducted in Rupa (active group) and the Biruwa (comparison
      group) Rural Municipality of Gandaki province. All adults aged 25-70 years of age who reside
      in the Rupa and Biruwa municipalities are eligible for the initial screening by data
      enumerators of the Nepal Development Society (NeDS). Only eligible participants who meet the
      inclusion criteria will participate in the study.

      Rupa Rural Municipality will allow the initiation of antihypertensive medication (amlodipine)
      by FB-CHW at Health Posts under the supervision of a study physician. Biruwa Rural
      Municipality will follow usual care, which is a referral to healthcare facilities currently
      providing hypertension care. FCHVs will provide lifestyle counseling and follow up the
      adherence to hypertension treatment three times in Rupa Rural Municipality and once in Biruwa
      Rural Municipality.FCHV in Rupa Rural Municipality will make three home visits (at 3, 6, and
      9 months) whereas FCHV in Biruwa Rural Municipality will make one home visit after 3 months
      of baseline. The end of the study survey will be carried out after one year by FCHV and NeDS
      data enumerators. The primary study outcome is a net change in systolic blood pressure among
      hypertensive participants 12-months after confirming hypertension in the active vs. the
      comparison group.
    
  