
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Current research suggests that loss of the vasodilator, anti-thrombotic, and
      anti-inflammatory properties of the vascular endothelium plays a dynamic role in the
      pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease. Impaired endothelial function, including impaired
      nitric oxide-dependent vasodilation is associated with cardiovascular disease risk factors.
      Further, there is growing evidence that endothelial function can be improved by risk
      modification. However, the available studies have not definitively resolved the issue of the
      cross-sectional correlates of endothelial dysfunction because they have been limited to small
      samples of highly selected patients. For example, it remains unclear whether
      hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, or elevated glucose levels are independent determinants
      of endothelial dysfunction. Most importantly, no study has shown a relation between
      endothelial dysfunction and increased cardiovascular risk. Such a demonstration would
      increase our understanding of the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease and aid clinicians
      in identifying high risk individuals who would benefit most from intervention.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Using non-invasive brachial artery ultrasound, endothelial function was examined in about
      3,800 men and women of the Framingham Heart Study. The cross-sectional correlates of
      endothelial function with known coronary risk factors were examined and cross-sectional
      analyses were performed on the relation of endothelial function to prevalent cardiovascular
      disease. Observations were made of the adjusted relation of endothelial function to incident
      and recurrent cardiovascular events. The central hypothesis was that the presence of
      endothelial dysfunction was an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease events.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  