
    
      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be asked to fill-out some questionnaires,
      and your medical records will be reviewed. Your doctor or healthcare provider will also be
      asked to complete a questionnaire.

      You will be asked to fill-out questionnaires at 3 different times (when you join this study,
      3 months later, and 6 months later). The questionnaires will include questions about how your
      chronic GvHD impacts your body, your day-to-day activities, your emotions and perceptions,
      and your social and sexual life. Each questionnaire has 195 questions. Each should take about
      20-30 minutes to complete, but you will also be asked how long it takes you to complete each
      questionnaire. For most participants, these visits will be part of your routine schedule for
      follow-up for the disease.

      You have several options for where you may choose to complete the questionnaires. They may be
      completed when you visit the doctor for your appointments, at home (you will have to mail
      them back in self-addressed stamped envelopes that will be provided to you), or over the
      internet. If you are interested in the internet option, please ask study staff for more
      details. If at any time, your healthcare provider does not think it would be in your best
      interest to receive a survey at one of your scheduled time points, you will not be given a
      survey at that time, and you will be taken off this study.

      Your healthcare provider will be asked to fill-out a questionnaire that asks about what was
      found on your physical exam and routine laboratory tests, what medications you are taking,
      and how severe your chronic GvHD is at that clinic visit.

      Your medical records will be reviewed for about 1 year after your enrollment in this study to
      collect information about your stem cell transplant procedure, your medications, your medical
      condition, and the results of tests and procedures. The reviewing of your medical records
      does not require your active participation.

      You will be on this study until you have completed the 6-month questionnaire.

      This is an investigational study. There is no cost involved for participation in this study.
      Up to 40 participants will take part in this multicenter study. Up to 15 will be enrolled M.
      D. Anderson.
    
  