
    
      This is a randomized, multi-center, open-label, study to evaluate the efficacy and safety
      profile of prolonged dual antiplatelet treatment (i.e. up to 2-year) with aspirin and
      clopidogrel after coronary stenting compared to currently recommended antiplatelet regimens
      (i.e. dual antiplatelet treatment for minimum 1 month after BMS or 6 months after DES
      implantation). As the degree of intimal hyperplasia (IH) suppression provided by the coronary
      stent system may be expected to influence the comparison between conventional versus
      prolonged dual antiplatelet treatment (DAT), patients in each group will be further
      randomized to no (BMS), intermediate (Endeavor), moderately high (Taxus) or very high (Xience
      V) degree of IH suppression so to minimize the confounding role of IH suppression on the
      primary hypothesis. Patients will be then follow-up on a clinical basis at 1, 6, 12, 18 and
      24 months for the primary hypothesis and then every year up to five for secondary hypotheses.

      In the conventional dual antiplatelet therapy group receiving one or more BMS implantation at
      the time of PCI, length of DAT may be influenced by acuity of clinical presentation.
      According to the CURE study (JAMA. 2002 Nov 20;288(19):2411-20), patients presenting with
      non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndromes may be felt to require longer than 1 month
      DAT. Thus, to impose 1-month only of DAT duration after PCI may be not regarded as
      conventional at current stage. Based on this consideration, the protocol will allow extension
      of DAT up to 6 months after PCI in the conventional BMS group in those patients satisfying
      the inclusion and exclusion criteria of the CURE study at discretion of the treating
      physician.Extension of DAt up to 6 months after BMS in patients with STEMI is not recommended
      byt will be allowed as per protocol

      Dual antiplatelet treatment refers to the use of Aspirin at doses ranging from 75 up to 325
      mg/day p.o. in conjunction with clopidogrel (75 mg/day). Ticlopidine (250 mg/ twice a day) is
      a second-choice drug and it will be allowed in cases where clopidogrel is not well tolerated
      or unavailable. Clopidogrel and ticlopidine are equipotent antiplatelet agents. Both of them
      belong the class of thienopyridines and they act by inhibiting the the P2Y12 ADP receptor on
      platelets.
    
  