
    
      Data will be captured on specific patient types undergoing Blue Light Cystoscopy with Cysview
      for known or suspected non-muscle invasive bladder cancer. Specific clinical questions will
      be asked.

        1. What is the incremental detection rate with Blue Light Cystoscopy with Cysview over
           conventional white light cystoscopy in each of the seven (7) patient populations? Does
           this translate into lower recurrence/progression rate?

        2. How do the six (6) tumor variables used in the European Association of Urology (EAU)
           risk tables (primary/secondary, recurrence rate, size, multifocality, grade, and history
           of carcinoma in situ (CIS))6 affect this incremental rate?

        3. How does an abnormal cytology or positive or negative fluorescent in situ hybridization
           (FISH) affect the likelihood that Blue Light Cystoscopy with Cysview will detect more
           cancers than white light?

        4. What are the performance characteristics of Blue Light Cystoscopy with Cysview within
           eight (8) weeks of Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) with respect to improved tumor
           detection and false positive rate compared to conventional white light cystoscopy?

        5. What is the incremental Blue Light Cystoscopy with Cysview detection rate over random
           bladder biopsies alone in patients being evaluated for routine three month restaging
           (group 4) or occult disease (group 5)?

        6. What are the performance characteristics of Blue Light Cystoscopy with Cysview after
           repeated Blue Light Cystoscopy with Cysview evaluations with respect to improved tumor
           detection, false positive rate and safety compared to conventional white light?

        7. Does an abnormal urinalysis help identify patients with inflammation more likely to have
           false positive Blue Light Cystoscopy with Cysview results?

        8. What is the practical learning curve for becoming "proficient" with Blue Light
           Cystoscopy with Cysview?

        9. What is the overall false positive rate with Blue Light Cystoscopy with Cysview?

       10. Can Blue Light Cystoscopy with Cysview make the resection more complete? If yes, is this
           due to improved margins and/or additional tumors seen under blue light?

      The Blue Light Cystoscopy with Cysview Registry is a web-based program supported by Global
      Vision Technologies. Data will be captured longitudinally over five (5) years on patients
      from each enrolled site. Each center will enter their respective site's patient data
      electronically.
    
  