
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, parallel group study to compare the
      bronchodilator efficacy and safety of tiotropium inhalation capsules and Atrovent? MDI in
      patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).

      Following an initial screening visit, patients will enter a 2-week baseline period. Patients
      who successfully complete this phase will be randomized into the double-blind portion of the
      study in which they will receive tiotropium once daily (morning) or Atrovent? four times
      daily for 4 weeks. Pulmonary function testing will be conducted just prior (i.e. 5 minutes
      before) to the start of therapy at Visit 2 (i.e. randomization visit after completion of the
      2-week run-in period) and at 30, 60, 120 and 180 minutes post-dosing. Pulmonary function
      testing will be repeated at the same time intervals after 14 days of therapy (visit 3) and at
      the end of therapy.

      Those patients taking theophylline, will be questioned about their last theophylline intake
      in order to ensure adherence to the washout requirements.

      Vital signs will be measured in conjunction with the pulmonary function tests. Adverse events
      will be recorded throughout the entire run-in and treatment period.

      Study Hypothesis:

      The null hypothesis is that there is no difference in mean response between tiotropium and
      Atrovent. The alternative hypothesis is that there is a difference in mean response between
      tiotropium and Atrovent.

      Comparison(s):

      The primary pulmonary function variable will be FEV1 (Forced Expiratory Volume in one second)
      and trough FEV1 response at the end of the four week treatment period, i.e. visit 4, will be
      the primary efficacy endpoint.

      Trough FEV1 is defined as FEV1 at the end of the dosing interval (for tiotropium at
      approximately 24 hours post treatment administration). On test days (Visits 3 and 4) it is
      measured by the PFT just prior to dosing. Trough FEV1 response is defined as change from
      baseline in trough FEV1. Baseline FEV1 is defined as FEV1 measured just prior to first dosing
      in the morning of randomization visit (Visit 2).
    
  