
    
      After receiving of the approval of the MedicalCenter Ethics Committee, the files of all
      infants with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis, who were treated by open pyloromyotomy under
      Spinal Anesthesia and general anesthesia in Bnai-Zion Medical Center through a decade will be
      reviewed.

      Primary outcomes: total operation time, pain assessment and management, postoperative apnea
      episodes and time for regaining full enteral feeding. Secondary outcome measures include,
      significant cardiorespiratory changes and substantial postoperative vomiting.

      Full enteral feeding is defined as an infant tolerating 130 ml.kg-1 of formula a day, or
      breast feeding in 6-8 divided doses. Infants tolerating 2-3 full enteral feedings without
      complications were discharged.

      Total operating room time defined as the elapsing time since entrance to the operating room
      until transport to the post anesthesia care unit or neonatal intensive care unit .

      Surgical time is defined as the elapsing time since performing the surgical incision until
      wound dressing .

      All infants assisted by the CRIES pain score for pain measurement and management after
      surgery. The CRIES score, (which is the abbreviation of C - Crying, R - Requires increase
      oxygen administration, I - Increased vital signs, E - Expression, S- Sleeplessness), obtained
      by nurses each 4 hours.

      Anesthesia pharmacological Paracetamol 25 mg.kg-1 administered rectally to all infants prior
      to surgery. Fentanyl 1mg.Kg-1 ordered IV by the anesthetist in titration dose for pain
      control in PACU, and Paracetamol 15 mg.kg-1 ordered by the paediatric surgeon rectally for
      postoperative pain in the surgical ward, as needed. Bilateral ultra sound- guided rectus
      sheath block performed at the end of surgery.

      Respiratory monitoring f performed in the NICU using Vitalmon® 5010 (Kontron Instruments,
      France), with the nursing staff recording occurrences of apnea, desaturation, and
      bradycardia.

      A long apnea defined as a respiratory pause of 15 seconds or longer, or any apnea that
      coincided with the appearance of bradycardia.

      The General anesthesia is preformed by intravenous Propofol (2-4 mg.kg-1) and Fentanyl (1-2
      µg.kg-1) and Rocuronium bromide (0.5mg.kg-1) administration to facilitate endotracheal
      intubation, assisted by Sellick manoeuvre. Anaesthesia maintenance with Sevoflurane (2-3%) in
      an air/oxygen mixture, intravenous Fentanyl as required.

      All spinal blocks performed by the same consultant anesthesiologist group. The infant's back
      prepared scrubbed with chlorhexidine solution. Lumbar puncture performed with a midline
      approach through either the fourth or fifth lumbar space using a 22 or 25 -gauge 4 cm
      disposable styletted needle. Spinal isobaric Bupivacaine 0.5%, 0.8-1 mg.kg-1 without
      epinephrine injected using a 1ml tuberculin syringe.

      Standard monitoring during anaesthesia included: heart rate, blood pressure by non-invasive
      means, skin temperature and blood oxygen saturation (SpO2) using the AS/3® monitor (Datex,
      Engestrom, Helsinki, Finland). The above monitored parameters were applied before performing
      the spinal block, and subsequently every 5 minutes after the spinal block, until the end of
      surgery. In all infants, the stomach was suctioned until no further gastric fluid was
      obtained.

      Effective spinal block was defined by the infant's inability to move the lower extremities.
      The sensory level of anesthesia was determined by observing the patient's segmental response
      to a tetanic stimulus of 10-30 milli-amperes, delivered by a peripheral nerve stimulator
      (Innervator® NS252, Fisher and Pajkel Healthcare Electronics Ltd, Auckland, New Zealand).
      Attainment of sensory block was indicated by the lack of crying, flexure of the upper
      extremities and an increase in both the heart and respiratory rate by 15% above baseline.

      Bradycardia is defined as less than 100 bpm, and hypoxia is defined as O2 saturation of less
      than 95 % for more than 30 seconds. An increase in blood pressure and heart rate of more than
      15% above the baseline considered clinically significant.

      All the surgical pyloromyotomy procedures were performed by the same paediatric surgeon
      group, using open Fredet-Ramstedt technique through a supraumbilical transverse right upper
      quadrant incision. For inadequate relaxation or if persistent discomfort was noticed, infants
      who were given a single dose bolus of IV Diprivan, (0.5-1 mg.kg-1), or a titration dose of
      midazolam (0.05-0.1 mg.kg-1).

      Intra-operatively, the infants were hydrated with 5% dextrose in a 0.45% NaCl solution at a
      rate of 5 ml.kg-1.h-1 using an infusion pump.

      Statistical analysis:

      For the demographic continuous variables (age, weight and height at surgery) and the surgical
      continuous variables (duration of surgery, duration of spinal anesthesia, total time in
      operating room, regain of full feeding time and home discharge day) means, standard
      deviations, medians, ranges and IQR (the difference between Q3 and Q1) will be calculated.

      For the categorical variables (number of spinal attempts and sedation required), numbers and
      percentages will be calculated.

      For the continuous repeated measures of respiratory rate, oxygen saturation rates, mean blood
      pressure and heart rate at six periods of times, the means and standard deviations were
      calculated, and the results analyzed by the Anova repeated-measures test.

      All statistical tests analyzed to a significance level of 0.05. Statistical analysis
      performed using the STATA 12.0 software.
    
  