
    
      Antibiotic prescriptions for children is a cause for concern in both developed and developing
      countries, especially for its excessive use in non-established infections or in infections
      with viral etiology (Friedman et al., 2011). Although antibiotics play a crucial role in
      reducing child morbidity and mortality (De Jong et al., 2009), its irrational use directly
      increases antibiotic resistance by promoting the emergence of resistant bacteria leading to
      increased rates of treatment failures and more severe illness episodes with higher costs and
      mortality rates (Adisa et al., 2018).

      Rational prescribing implies using the right drug for the right patient at the right time in
      the right dose and manner of administration at affordable cost with the right information.
      Thus, rational antibiotic prescription has to be tailor-made for individual patients taking
      into account the diagnosis, age, sex, weight, microorganism susceptibility, vital organ
      functions, drug and food interactions, as well as socioeconomic background of a patient
      (Aronson, 2014).

      Within the dental community, awareness of clinical indications of antibiotic prescriptions to
      the child dental patient is lacking. It was found that a substantial proportion of children
      who received dental treatment for pain or localized swelling under general anaesthesia had
      also received antibiotics, with wide variation in antibiotic regimens (Dar-Odeh et al.,
      2018). Further, among members of the American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry, there was a
      trend toward overuse of antibiotics for non-indicated clinical conditions, like pain relief,
      irreversible pulpitis, and localized dentoalveolar abscess (Sivaraman et al., 2013).

      Conditions requiring antibiotic treatment in dentistry is limited and there should be (i) a
      therapeutic goal to help treatment of acute/chronic infections (where drainage or debridement
      is impossible) or (ii) a prophylactic goal to prevent metastatic infections (e.g., bacterial
      endocarditis) or local or systemic spread of the infection (Dar-Odeh et al., 2010).

      The non-clinical factors initiated antibiotic prescribing for some clinicians, such as
      unavailability of close appointments and seeking parental satisfaction (Sivaraman et al.,
      2013). A similar trend was observed in developing countries, where a substantial proportion
      of dentists prescribe for non-indicated clinical conditions, such as dry socket, localized
      periapical infection, marginal gingivitis, periodontitis, and pulpitis (Kouidhi et al.,
      2011). This insufficient knowledge of the appropriate clinical indications is paralleled by a
      lack of awareness of important interventions that promote the optimal use of antibiotics,
      such as antibiotic stewardship programs. Other forms of abuse in prescribing antibiotics
      include prescribing broad-spectrum antibiotics for infections that can be treated by
      narrow-spectrum antibiotics, prescribing antibiotics for long periods, and adopting
      inappropriate dosing regimens (Sivaraman et al., 2013).

      Patients who consult their GP due to tooth-related problems are unlikely to receive a
      surgical intervention and have a greater likelihood of being prescribed a systemic antibiotic
      compared to individuals who consult a dentist with similar symptoms (Cope et al.,
      2015)complications from an odontogenic infection, (Seppänen et al., 2011) the management of
      dental problems in general practice could result in increased patient morbidity. Furthermore,
      the indiscriminate use of antibiotics may contribute to the emergence of antibiotic-resistant
      bacterial strains (Cope et al., 2015).

      Antibiotic resistance (AR) is a condition when bacteria change against antibiotics which are
      developed to cure the illnesses they cause. It is a global crisis and posed as one of the
      greatest threats to population health. This problem is driven by many factors such as low
      quality of antibiotics and improper (under- or over-) use of antibiotics (including
      self-medication) (Alumran et al., 2013). Self-medication, which refers to the use of any
      medical products without a prescription or following unprofessional recommendations in
      treating any illnesses (Togoobaatar et al., 2010), is particularly leading to the AR.
      Self-medication practice possibly raises incorrect drug selection, drug resistance,
      uncontrolled adverse effects or drug reactions, misdiagnosis, and delay in medical care
      (El-Hawy et al., 2017).

      It has been observed that contribute to the problem of antibiotic resistance by dentists can
      be substantial as dentists prescribe 10% of all common antibiotics. Yingling et al concluded
      from the findings of his study among members of the American Association of Endodontists
      (AAE) that they were prescribing antibiotics inappropriately. On the contrary (Yingling et
      al., 2002), the National Center for Disease Control and Prevention found that almost
      one-third of all outpatient antibiotic prescriptions are unnecessary (Swift and Gulden,
      2002). The world has entered an era where some bacterial species are resistant to the full
      range of antibiotics presently available, with the methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
      aureus and vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus being the most widely known example of
      extensive resistance (Lewis, 2008).

      It is estimated that, in 2050, there will be more than 10 million deaths and 100 trillion USD
      lost due to AR if no substantial actions have been made to eliminate this emerging threat. As
      inappropriate antibiotic use is the primary cause of AR, responses to this phenomenon
      prioritize promoting public awareness about AR (El-Hawy et al., 2017).

      Irrational prescribing can be due to errors such as required amount of drug or as errors in
      writing, abbreviations, pharmaceutical form, drug dosage, administration method, or duration
      of treatment. These errors can lead to ineffective treatment and dangerous, long-lasting
      illness, or worse: harm to the patient and an increase of the cost of treatment (Grant et
      al., 2013).

      Dentists, like other health care practitioners should have sufficient knowledge about drugs.
      Observing the prescription principles according to international law for dentists is
      required. Although dental prescription generally contain pharmaceutics items are limited to
      providing short-term drug therapy or specific drugs prescribed for dental surgeries but the
      evidence suggests that in many countries, dentists often do not enjoy a good medical
      knowledge for this reason, some mistakes in writing prescription occurred (Guzmán-Álvarez et
      al., 2012).

      Goud et al. reported that general dentists prescribed more than required antibiotics for root
      canal therapy (Goud et al., 2012). Mendonca et al. found that in one-fourth of prescriptions
      written by dentists, medication names were illegible (Mendonça et al., 2010). Ogunbodede et
      al findings indicate the presence of different types of error in dentist's prescription in
      term of dosing, frequency and duration of drug use (Ogunbodede et al., 2005).
    
  