
    
      The prevalence of overweight in Spanish children in the puberty age is among the highest in
      the world and increasing quickly. Our group has done so far two interventions based on
      after-school programs of recreational physical activity to control obesity and other
      cardiovascular risk factors in primary school children (8-to-11 years)in Cuenca, Spain.

      The first edition, called MOVI, showed moderate effect in reducing adiposity and improving
      the lipid profile, but did not significantly improve overall cardiometabolic risk, mainly
      because of did not reduce blood insulin levels. A second edition (MOVI-2), increased duration
      and intensity of the sessions and was more focused on increased muscle strength. Preliminary
      analysis also show a decrease in body fat, a reduction of global cardiometabolic because of
      decreased insulin levels.

      Our project integrates a multidimensional intervention to promote physical activity, with a
      mixed design (cross-over randomized trial, and a qualitative study) and consist of two
      sub-projects that share the same study population: "Effectiveness of an intervention of
      physical activity promotion in schoolchildren on preventing obesity during the adiposity
      rebound period: a cross-over randomized cluster trial" and "Effectiveness of physical
      activity intervention to prevent obesity and improve academic performance in children with
      and without ADHD risk".

      The two interventions are based on a cross-over randomized trial aimed to test the
      effectiveness of an intervention to promote physical activity in the school environment
      (MOVI-KIDS) during two-years in 22 schools (20 public and two private schools) in the
      provinces of Cuenca and Ciudad Real, Spain.

      This principal subproject consisted of a mixed study including both the trial cited above and
      a nested qualitative study aimed to identify barriers and facilitators to physical activity
      in children in the school environment (social and family factors, urban planning, etc.), and
      produce knowledge about the perceptions of children, parents and teachers on how you can
      improve conditions of physical and social environment to facilitate physical activity.

      The hypotheses of this third edition are that a multidimensional intervention promoting
      physical activity in children at the adiposity rebound period (4-7 years),in the school
      environment (MOVI-KIDS), lasting two-years, will to:

        1. Reduce the body fat percentage in the intervention group versus the control group in 2%.

        2. Improve the several components of fitness: aerobic capacity, strength, speed and
           agility.

        3. Reduce the carotid intima-media thickness and

        4. Reduce fat, increase fat free mass, and reduce sedentary behavior.
    
  