
    
      Platinum-based concurrent chemoradiotherapy is the standard of care for patients with
      locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma(NPC). Gemcitabine plus cisplatin(GP) has
      been demonstrated an effective chemotherapy regimen for NPC patients in previous studies. The
      results of GP combined with concurrent chemoradiotherapy in the treatment of locoregionally
      advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma showed 10% of locoregionally advanced NPC patients had
      complete response after three cycles of GP neoadjuvant chemotherapy, and GP neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy added to chemoradiotherapy significantly improved recurrence-free survival
      (85.3% vs 76.5%) and overall survival (94.6% vs 90.3%) among locoregionally advanced NPC
      patients , as compared with chemoradiotherapy alone. Therefore, GP regimen has been
      established as the highest level of evidence-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy in the 2020
      National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines. Recently, immune checkpoint
      inhibitors, such as anti-programmed cell death-1 (PD-1)monoclonal antibody has shown
      promising efficacy in the treatment of tumor patients. Clinical trials have shown objective
      response rates of 20.5%-34% in patients with recurrent or metastatic NPC patients receiving
      anti PD-1 monoclonal antibody immunotherapy including pembrolizumab, nivolumab, camrelizumab,
      and toripalimab. The current NCCN guidelines recommend anti PD-1 monoclonal antibody as a
      second-line treatment for recurrent or metastatic NPC. More and more evidence show that
      immunotherapy combined with chemotherapy has a synergistic effect in treating tumors. GP
      chemotherapy combined with anti PD-1 antibody has achieved the initial effect in NPC. Phase 1
      trials have shown the combination of camrelizumab plus GP chemotherapy in recurrent or
      metastatic NPC led to a proportion of 91% patients achieving an objective response.
      Tislelizumab, approved by the National Medical Products Administration in China, is an
      anti-PD-1 monoclonal IgG4 antibody with higher affinity to PD-1 than pembrolizumab and
      nivolumab and was engineered to minimize binding to FcγR on macrophages in order to abrogate
      antibody-dependent phagocytosis, a mechanism of T-cell clearance and potential resistance to
      anti-PD-1 therapy. Multiple clinical trials have shown strong anti-neoplastic activity of
      tislelizumab in various tumors including NPC. Clinical trial has shown an objective response
      rates of 43% in patients with recurrent metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma treated with
      tirelizumab, which is superior to other anti PD-1 monoclonal antibodys. So we hypothesize
      that GP neoadjuvant chemotherapy combined with tislelizumab could further improve survival of
      patients with locaregionally advanced NPC. Based on this, this study aims to evaluate the
      efficacy and safety of gemcitabine plus cisplatin chemotherapy combined with tislelizumab
      neoadjuvant therapy, followed by cisplatin based concurrent chemoradiotherapy in the patients
      with locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma, to provide new evidence for
      individualized comprehensive treatment in NPC.
    
  