
    
      Patients are stratified according to sex (male vs. female), concurrent use of chemotherapy
      (no vs. yes), patient age at registration (< 60 years old vs. ≥ 60 years old and RTOG acute
      radiation morbidity criteria (1 vs. 2 vs 3 or more). Protocol therapy will consist of 2
      cycles. Patients are randomized to one of three treatment regimens, which include doxepin,
      DLA and placebo. Cycle One will consist of one day. The care provider or nurse will confirm
      that the oral pain is at least 4 out of 10 severity level at the time of the rinse on the
      first day of the study. Patient will be asked to complete the baseline evaluation in the Oral
      Symptoms booklet. If the pain score is less than 4 then administration will be delayed until
      the pain is at least 4. Cycle Two will consist of an optional continuation phase lasting up
      to 7 days. Initiation of the Cycle 2/Continuation Phase may be delayed up to one week after
      Cycle 1/Day 1.

      Primary Objective:

      1. Determine whether the doxepin rinse or DLA rinse is more effective than placebo in
      reducing OM-related pain in patients undergoing RT to the oral cavity, as measured by a
      patient-reported questionnaire at baseline, 5 minutes, 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 1 hour, 2
      hours, and 4 hours.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. Assess the adverse event profile of the doxepin rinse, the DLA rinse agent, and the
           placebo using a patient-reported questionnaire at 5 minutes, 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 1
           hour, 2 hours, and 4 hours for domains of unpleasant taste, burning or stinging
           discomfort, and drowsiness.

        2. Compare the incidence of using additional analgesics between 1 and 4 hours after the
           initial mouthwash, between the doxepin oral rinse, the DLA rinse agent, and the placebo
           arms.

        3. Compare the length of time that each study product is used by patients in the one-week
           continuation phase.

        4. Compare the daily pain scores in the one-week continuation phase for the three study
           arms.

        5. Compare the 24-hour morphine equivalent dose used in the continuation phase for the
           three study arms.
    
  