
    
      Office-based Opioid Treatment (OBOT) is the primary care or ambulatory care provision of
      medication assisted treatment (MAT) for patients suffering opioid use disorder (OUD). MAT
      with buprenorphine in primary care clinics is a proven strategy to treat opioid use disorder
      (OUD) and is slowly becoming accessible to patients through primary care. Treating patients
      with buprenorphine involves an initial induction, during which patients discontinue their
      opioids, begin withdrawal, and receive the first few doses of buprenorphine. National
      guidelines for OBOT have focused on observed, office-based induction to begin MAT. Over the
      years, unobserved, home MAT inductions have also been used and shown to be safe and
      effective. Individually, each induction strategy is evidence-based, guideline concordant
      care. In light of the current COVID-19 pandemic, inductions are also being conducted via
      telehealth using synchronous audio or video observation. Most research, on which the current
      guidelines are based, examined short-term outcomes. However, OUD is a chronic condition. MAT
      often involves intermittent return to illicit opioid use and treatment lapses, resulting in
      multiple attempts to remain in long-term treatment. Important differences between the
      activities that occur during home, office-based, and telehealth induction might influence
      short-term stabilization, long-term maintenance treatment, and quality of life outcomes. No
      large-scale, multi-center, randomized comparative effectiveness research has compared
      induction method on long-term outcomes for patients suffering from OUD seen in primary care
      settings.There is currently insufficient evidence to recommend home induction (asynchronous,
      unobserved), office induction (synchronous, observed), or telehealth induction (synchronous
      phone or video contact, observed).

      Acknowledging the dire need for increased access to effective treatment for OUD, patients and
      providers are eager to better understand if home, office-based, or telehealth induction in
      the primary care setting leads to more successful short-term stabilization and long-term
      maintenance treatment and patient outcomes. They also question whether certain patient
      characteristics, such as substance use history, executive function, and social determinants
      of health, are associated with better long-term outcomes in patients receiving one method
      versus the others. We propose a comparative effectiveness research study, randomized at the
      patient level, to compare short-term stabilization and long-term maintenance treatment
      outcomes of home induction (asynchronous, unobserved), office induction (synchronous,
      observed), or telehealth induction (synchronous phone or video contact, observed) for
      patients suffering from OUD and opioid dependence.
    
  