
    
      RATIONALE

      Chronic obstructive lung disease (COPD) is an inflammatory disease characterized by
      progressive airflow limitation that is not fully reversible by the use bronchodilators
      .Cigarette smoking is the single most common cause of COPD . It is estimated that 15-20% of
      smokers will develop COPD over their lifetime, but higher figures have been reported for
      older smokers. Incidentally, previous studies showed that up to 20% of "healthy" smokers
      participating in cessation trials might have airway obstruction, most of whom are unaware of
      this diagnosis . There is no single explanation for the fact that only a fraction of smokers
      develop COPD. Bronchodilator treatment improves symptoms and quality of life of COPD
      patients, and new drugs are available for this purpose. Notwithstanding, smoking cessation
      remains the only therapeutic intervention likely to slow down the progression of the disease
      by preventing further decline of maximal expiratory flows . Thus, smoking cessation is
      paramount in the treatment of patients with COPD.

      Although they know smoking is the cause of their disease, many patients with COPD continue to
      smoke. Smoking prevalence rates up to 80 % have been documented in patients with mild to
      moderate disease and up to 50% in those with severe disease . Notwithstanding, for various
      reasons COPD patients are more resistant to smoking cessation than "healthy" smokers; these
      include higher pack-year history and stronger nicotine dependence . In addition, COPD smokers
      are less motivated to quit and often suffer from depression, a known cause of failure in quit
      attempts . These observations call for new cessation strategies likely to prompt COPD smokers
      to attempt to quit smoking.

      The standard way to stop smoking is to quit abruptly on a designated quit-day. However, for
      COPD patients, this can be very hard to achieve since, for them, smoking is not only a source
      of pleasure but also a longstanding habit, a second nature . An alternative strategy is the
      so-called "reduce-to-quit" or "gradual" cessation method. Although it also has a quit-day,
      the key difference is that smokers reduce the number of cigarettes/day over several days or
      weeks prior to quitting. To help smokers achieve and maintain reduction, pharmacotherapy is
      usually offered and, in many countries, nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) is licensed for
      this purpose.

      Surprisingly enough, no studies have been published on the efficiency of varenicline as an
      aid for pre-quitting smoking reduction. Indeed, varenicline was found superior to any single
      type of NRT (and bupropion) as an aid for smoking cessation in adult smokers. . Second, it
      was found to be more efficient than placebo and NRT for "abrupt" cessation in COPD smokers
      motivated to quit ]. Finally, varenicline was found to decrease pre-quit enjoyment in general
      smokers and increase motivation to quit among healthy smokers who are not willing to make a
      serious attempt to quit smoking .

      RESEARCH QUESTION/OBJECTIVE

      With the above considerations in mind, the investigators set out to examine the efficiency of
      varenicline-assisted "gradual" vs. "abrupt" cessation in COPD smokers with low motivation to
      quit. The investigators hypothesized that, if these patients received the standard 12-week
      varenicline treatment, "gradual" cessation would produce higher quit rates at 6 months than
      "abrupt" cessation if varenicline was used to assist pre-treatment reduction. A secondary
      hypothesis is that varenicline-assisted pre-quitting smoking reduction would increase
      motivation to quit compared with usual smoking before quitting.

      STUDY DESIGN OVERVIEW

      When planning this study, the investigators first idea was to carry out a three-arm,
      double-blind, randomized trial. However, the lack of basic information for reliable sample
      size calculation and uncertainties about participation rates guided them towards a
      preliminary, open, randomized pilot study of COPD smokers with low motivation to quit. The
      patients will be recruited among those attending the outpatient clinic of Pulmonary Institute
      of the Share Zedek Medical Center, in Jerusalem. Participants will be randomly assigned to
      receive varenicline for smoking reduction or smoke as usual before quitting. Thereafter the
      two groups will receive standard varenicline treatment with follow-up extending to 6 months.

      PARTICIPANTS

      Participants will be heavy smokers (≥15 pack years) of both sexes, aged ≥35 yrs who received
      a diagnosis of COPD (FEV1/FVC <70% and FEV1 <80% predicted) with low motivation to quit
      smoking.

      Randomization procedure

      Eligible participants will be computer-randomized either to the "gradual" or "abrupt"
      cessation groups at baseline visit.

      Blinding

      The study is open so both the participants and the medical team will be aware of treatment.

      INTERVENTION AND PROCEDURES

      Gradual cessation Patients randomized to the "gradual" cessation group will receive
      varenicline (0,5 mg once daily for 3 days, 0,5 mg twice daily for 4 days, and 1,0 mg bid
      thereafter) as an aid for smoking reduction. This pre-treatment phase will last 6 weeks at
      the end of which all participants must stop smoking altogether. However, patients will be
      allowed to quit already as of week 4 if they feel ready to do so. After quitting,participants
      will continue to receive varenicline 1,0 mg bid for a further 12 weeks.

      Smoking reduction: Participants will be recommended to reduce their smoking by 25% in the
      first two weeks, 50% in weeks 3-4, and 75% in weeks 5-6; however, this will be given only as
      an indication and every subject will be allowed to chose his/her own goal and rate of
      progress. To achieve reduction each participant will be offered three structured ways: a)
      Scheduled reduction (SR), that is gradually increasing the time between cigarettes (the
      inter-cigarette interval); b) Hierarchical reduction - easiest first, that is rating
      cigarettes in terms of how difficult it would be to give up then eliminate each in turn,
      starting with the easiest one; and c) Hierarchical reduction - hardest first: this is similar
      to the previous one but the subject must start by the hardest to give up cigarette first.

      Abrupt cessation

      Patients in this group will be asked to smoke as usual for 6 weeks after enrolment then stop
      altogether. However, those feeling ready will be allowed to quit as of week 4. Thereafter,
      participants will receive the standard 12-week varenicline treatment, starting with a 1 week
      titration period as described above.

      Visits and Follow-up

      Ten visits will be scheduled: at study entry and at weeks 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 14, 18, 24 and 30.

      Support

      Only minimal levels of advice and support will be given. However, all subjects will receive
      individualized verbal instructions regarding the general conduct of the study and the proper
      use of the study medication.
    
  