
    
      Many individuals with a spinal cord injury (SCI) rely on manually propelled wheelchairs as
      their primary source of locomotion, leading to increased non-active sitting time, reduced
      physical activity and reduced lower extremity (L/E) weight bearing. This contributes to the
      development or worsening of complex and chronic secondary health problems, such as those
      affecting musculoskeletal (e.g., osteoporosis), endocrine-metabolic (e.g., hypertension,
      dyslipidemia, type 2 diabetes) and cardiorespiratory (e.g., poor aerobic fitness) health.
      Ultimately, these health problems may negatively affect functional capabilities and reduce
      quality of life.

      Preliminary evidence has shown that engaging in a walking program with a wearable robotic
      exoskeleton (WRE) is a promising intervention. In fact, WRE-assisted walking programs promote
      L/E mobility and weight bearing (a crucial stimulus for maintaining bone strength in
      individuals with SCI), while also soliciting the trunk and upper extremity muscles and
      cardiorespiratory system.

      This study aims to measure the effects of a WRE-assisted walking program on 1) bone strength,
      bone architecture and body composition, 2) endocrino-metabolic health profile and 3) aerobic
      capacity.

      Twenty (20) individuals with a chronic (> 18 months) SCI will complete 34 WRE-assisted
      training sessions (1 h/session) over a 16-week period (1-3 sessions/week). Training intensity
      will be progressed (i.e., total standing time, total number of steps taken) periodically to
      maintain a moderate-to-vigorous intensity (≥ 12/20 on the Borg Scale). All training sessions
      will be supervised by a certified physical therapist.

      Main outcomes will be measured one month prior to initiating the WRE-assisted walking program
      (T0), just before initiating the WRE-assisted walking program (T1), at the end of the
      WRE-assisted walking program (T2) and two months after the end of the WRE-assisted walking
      program (T3).

      Descriptive statistics will be used to report continuous and categorical variables. The
      alternative hypothesis, stipulating that a pre-versus-post difference exists, will be
      verified using Repeated Mesures ANOVAs or Freidman Tests.
    
  