
    
      Functional dyspepsia (FD) is a very common health problem characterized by epigastric pain
      and/or postprandial fullness with no evidence of structural disease to explain the symptoms.
      There are few effective treatment options for FD, with medications having limited efficacy
      for the condition.

      The goal of the current study is to test a 7-session hypnotherapy treatment specifically
      targeting symptoms of functional dyspepsia. The intervention will be provided via the
      Internet with pre-recorded audio files. In this trial, 23 adults diagnosed with functional
      dyspepsia in accordance with the Rome IV criteria will be included. Patients will meet with a
      licensed health psychologist for an initial study visit to determine their eligibility for
      hypnotherapy treatment. Following this screening visit, patients will receive an email with
      information for accessing the password-protected online platform where they will complete
      pre-treatment assessment forms and access treatment materials. Participants will complete
      baseline questionnaire data prior to beginning the hypnotherapy sessions and follow-up
      questionnaires at mid-treatment (6 weeks), post-treatment (12 weeks) and 3 months
      post-treatment. Participants will complete a new hypnotherapy session every 2 weeks over the
      course of 3 months and utilize a shorter, practice session 5 times per week.

      The primary aim of the study is to assess feasibility and acceptability of the online
      treatment program by assessing the percentage of patients who log in to the web interface,
      utilize the materials sufficiently, complete the 12 week program, and report at least average
      satisfaction with the treatment. The secondary aim is to determine treatment effectiveness by
      measuring changes in pre- to post- treatment scores on a self-report functional dyspepsia
      symptom severity index (Patient Assessment of Upper Gastrointestinal Symptom Severity Index;
      PAGI-SYM). Additional endpoints include changes in pre- to post- treatment scores on a
      measure of disease-specific quality of life and psychological indices.
    
  