
    
      Our primary outcome measurement is body mass index (BMI) as this is now recommended by major
      health organizations as the preferred measure for the determination of obesity. All children
      at YMCA After School Programs will receive either YMCA-PAN or YMCA standard care; however, we
      will only follow children in grades kindergarten through second grade (K-2). For children in
      grades K-2, we will determine if 3 years of increased physical activity and snacks lower in
      energy and fat and higher in nutrient density will diminish gains in BMI. We have
      specifically targeted an increase of moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA) by 225
      minutes per week that is delivered in YMCA-PAN as this is a compromise between the
      recommendations suggested by Healthy People 2010 and the Institute of Medicine (IOM) and is
      administratively feasible within the existing YMCA After School Programs. YMCA-PAN would
      exceed the Healthy People 2010 guidelines and would provide the majority of PA for the IOM
      guidelines. Children would satisfy the IOM guidelines with just 15 additional minutes of MVPA
      accrued throughout the day in physical education class or free play. Finally, YMCA PAN would
      provide opportunity for PA at the very time the guidelines call "most critical:" the hours
      between 3 and 6pm when children have finished the school day and frequently are sedentary.
      For the nutritional component, we are targeting snacks, as snacks are part of the YMCA after
      school programs, snacks contribute significantly to 24 hour energy intake, children are
      increasingly in control of the snacks they consume, and we have previously diminished 24 hour
      energy intake and fat intake using snacks in elementary school children.

      We will provide this intervention using regular YMCA staff and use the regular time periods
      for PA that exist in the YMCA after school programs. We will also use the regular YMCA staff
      to provide snacks. Specifically, we expect that children receiving YMCA-PAN will show smaller
      changes in BMI after 3 years of the intervention when compared to children not receiving
      YMCA-PAN (i.e. standard, existing YMCA after school program or "YMCA standard care").
    
  