
    
      The lung in acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a heterogeneous viscoelastic
      system, in which areas with different time constants coexist, causing tidal volume to be
      distributed unevenly within a lung which is anatomically and functionally reduced. The
      administration of a really high tidal volume for this limited functional residual capacity
      prones to the overdistension of the best ventilated alveoli as well as to injury by cyclic
      opening and closure of the most unstable alveoli (tidal atelectrauma). In this sense, using
      low tidal volume and homogenizing the lung by means of the prone position have proved to be
      beneficial in ARDS.

      Tidal volume, driving pressure, inspiratory flow and respiratory rate have been identified as
      responsible for mechanical ventilation-induced lung injury (VILI). All these factors
      represent both the mechanical power (P = W/∆t) and the injuring energy (W) which is
      repeatedly applied to a vulnerable lung parenchyma (5,6). The amount of mechanical power can
      be calculated through a derived 'power equation', increasing its applicability in clinical
      practice. Recently, it was shown that mechanical power is associated with worse outcomes in
      critically ill patients receiving mechanical ventilation for more than 48 hours. Despite
      being a promising idea that combines several variables related to VILI, the concept of
      mechanical power carries a number of limitations such as the fact that it does not define the
      amount of energy applied to vulnerable lung tissue (specific power).

      Objectives: To correlate the risk of VILI (stress, strain and atelectrauma) with specific
      power.

      Design: Patients with ARDS will be ventilated under the same conditions of tidal volume and
      plateau pressure. The final positive expiratory pressure (PEEP) will be adjusted to reach 30
      cmH2O of PPlat. A CT scan will be performed on inspiration and expiration. Transpulmonary
      pressures will be measured and lung volumes will be calculated (volume analysis software,
      Toshiba, Japan). Stress was defined as TP at the end of inspiration, tension: tidal volume /
      final expiratory pulmonary volume (EELV) and atelectrauma as the difference of non-aerated
      lung tissue between both respiratory times in relation to their baseline condition. Specific
      power results from the relation between mechanical power and EELV.
    
  