
    
      Maple syrup urine disease is a severe inborn error of amino acid metabolism caused by
      deficiency of the mitochondrial branched-chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase complex (BCKDC)
      resulting in the accumulation of branched-chain amino acids (BCAA) (isoleucine, leucine, and
      valine) and their corresponding branched-chain alpha-ketoacids (BCKA)
      [alpha-keto-beta-methylvalerate (KMV), alpha-ketoisocaproate (KIC), and
      alpha-ketoisovalerate(KIV)] in tissues and plasma. The disorder typically manifests with
      potentially lethal episodes of intoxication presenting with acute neurological deterioration,
      feeding problems, weight loss, and a maple syrup odor to the urine. Current treatment is
      based on dietary manipulations with protein restriction and a synthetic formula with reduced
      BCAA content. However, mental and social impairment are still present in the majority of
      these patients in spite of dietary management.

      Our study seeks to investigate the potential small molecule inhibition of the kinase that
      regulates BCKDC by applying a novel activity of sodium phenylbutyrate (NaPBA), in MSUD.
      Sodium phenylbutyrate is has been used to treat patients with urea cycle disorders (UCDs). In
      our extensive studies with UCDs, we noted that patients on therapy with NaPBA had decreased
      plasma levels of BCAA. This led us to hypothesize that NaPBA has effects on BCAA metabolism.

      This will be a single-site, randomized, active-controlled, double-blind, cross-over study
      designed to enroll subjects with MSUD. Subjects will be randomly assigned to receive either
      sodium phenylbutyrate (PB) or placebo for 2 weeks, and then crossed over to receive the other
      treatment for 2 weeks.

      If study findings show sodium phenylbutyrate lowers BCAA and BCKA levels in these patients,
      it may prove to be an effective adjunct treatment for these patients. A treatment option that
      could prevent or decrease the accumulation of BCAA and BCKA during states of catabolism
      induced by fasting or intercurrent illnesses, and thereby minimize or prevent the neurologic
      sequelae and loss of human potential that result, would greatly benefit society.
    
  