
    
      The Investigators assembled a multidisciplinary investigative team to examine the potential
      effects of older red cell units in adults with Sickle Cell Disease(SCD). Study staff have
      preliminary data that show: 1) there is equipoise among blood bank directors about the
      effects of older units in adults with SCD, 2) in our institution, many adults are
      administered older units, 3) older units activate macrophages and 4) this physiology promoted
      by older units is associated with an increased risk of infection. Our team is now poised to
      take the next investigative step: a prospective, randomized study.

      In Milwaukee, 1/3 of units transfused to adults with SCD are >30 days old, but nation-wide
      some restrict the transfusion of older units. About four hundred adults receive care in the
      Adult Sickle Cell Clinic at Froedtert Hospital in Milwaukee, about 23 of who receive chronic
      outpatient transfusions for chronic pain or stroke prophylaxis. Transfusions are administered
      to adults regardless of storage age, except in the case of red cell exchange, for which there
      is a policy to use less than 14 day old units. In a 3-year retrospective review of
      transfusions administered to adults with SCD, 627 units were given via simple transfusion
      over 281 outpatient encounters. The overall median unit storage age was 22 days (range: 2-42
      days), and 25% of the units transfused were stored 33 days or longer.

      To determine the opinions and policies of other hospital blood bank directors about the use
      of older red cell units for patients with SCD, study staff conducted a nation-wide survey
      (n=90). While only 23% of respondents had a storage age restriction policy for patients with
      SCD, 31% thought that older units were not as effective as younger units, and 65% believed
      that evidence-based policies were needed

      Adults with SCD may be susceptible to the effects of an older unit's physiology because they
      are prone to infection, inflamed, and poorly equipped to handle excess iron. In a cohort of
      40 steady-state adults with SCD, we specifically measured markers of inflammation and iron
      excess. High sensitivity C-reactive protein, a marker of systemic inflammation, was found to
      be markedly elevated (median 5.6 mg/L, range 0.4-60 mg/L; reference range <1.0 mg/L), as was
      ferritin, a marker of iron stores (median 2,969 ng/ml, range 20-12,300 ng/ml; reference range
      13-400 ng/ml).

      Forty chronically-transfused adults with SCD will be randomized in a double-blind fashion to
      receive ≥30 day-old or ≤10 day-old units for 3 months. Subjects will be randomized in blocks
      of 5 and stratified by age: at least 10 subjects from each of the age ranges 18-30 and 31-45
      years will be enrolled. Pre-transfusion, sterile samples will be extracted from red cell
      units. Patient peripheral blood will be also obtained 1 month before randomization,
      immediately pre-transfusion, and 2 and 24 hours post-transfusion. Hemoglobin will be measured
      pre-transfusion, 2 and 24 hours post-transfusion, and 2 weeks post transfusion. Participants
      will complete standardized diaries daily to document symptoms of infection, SCD pain,
      medications and Emergency Department(ED) or hospital use. Diaries will be collected and
      participants will be assessed with each transfusion encounter and 4 weeks after the last
      transfusion. To ensure compliance, coordinators will contact subjects weekly to complete the
      diaries.

      Study staff will evaluate red cells pre- and post-transfusion for Phosphatidylserine(PE),
      Phosphatidylethanolamine(PS), and microparticles as above for all blood samples. White cells
      will be isolated with established separation techniques. The white cell populations of
      interest will be defined by their location on a forward scatter/side scatter plot and their
      positivity using key fluorochrome-labeled identity markers (macrophages: CD14, neutrophils:
      CD16). Once the cell populations of interest are identified, the cells will be evaluated for
      various markers of activation. The plasma fraction from each patient and red cell unit will
      be diverted to determine concentrations of free heme/hemoglobin, cytokines, and NTBI,
      respectively.
    
  