
    
      Premature ovarian insufficiency (POI), formerly referred to as premature ovarian failure
      (POF), is defined as hypergonadotropic ovarian insufficiency occurring prior to age 40 (1).
      It is surprisingly common and affects approximately 1% of women below the age of 40 (2, 3).
      The incidence is 10% to 28% in women with primary amenorrhea and 4% to 18% in women with
      secondary amenorrhea (2). The clinical manifestations include amenorrhea and abnormally high
      levels of luteinizing (LH) and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and low levels of Anti
      Mullerian Hormone (AMH). The etiology of POI is unknown in most cases. It can be caused by a
      combination of inherited conditions such as immune disorders, environmental toxins and
      iatrogenic injury (2, 3). The majority of patients with POI are considered to have idiopathic
      premature ovarian insufficiency because usually no cause can be identified (3). POI has been
      shown to be associated with an increased incidence of other conditions, including
      Alzheimer's, cardiovascular and immune system diseases, metabolic syndrome, osteoporosis,
      diabetes and cancer of reproductive organs. POI is characterized by loss of secondary
      follicles, arrested folliculogenesis, decreased estrogen production, and infertility (3). The
      mechanism of ovarian insufficiency is most likely accelerated follicular atresia but detailed
      pathogenesis is yet to be fully understood (2).

      In women younger than 40, at least two menopausal FSH levels (≥40 IU/L) will be sufficient
      for the diagnosis of POI. It is not essential to have amenorrhea for the diagnosis of POI.
      Subjects with oligomenorrhea or low ovarian reserve and elevated FSH, referred to as
      transitional ovarian insufficiency (TOI), or at least 4 months amenorrhea together with FSH
      levels exceeding 40 IU/liter, and are included in this category. Spontaneous menstrual cycles
      can sometimes be seen after the diagnosis of POI as well. Resumption of normal ovarian
      function, albeit temporary, in patients with normal karyotypes has been documented in 10 to
      20% of patients; thus, spontaneous resumption of fertility is possible (1).

      No therapeutic intervention has proven effective in restoring fertility in patients with POI.
      Currently, egg donation remains the only reliable method to establish a pregnancy in women
      with POI (2, 3). Even though this approach is attainable, resulting children will not be
      genetically related to the recipient mother. Furthermore, egg donation is not ethically
      acceptable to many couples. Various attempts at ovarian stimulation patients with POI are
      usually unsuccessful because they are poor responders. Therefore, the diagnosis of POI can
      cause great physical and mental suffering among these patients. Thus, there is critical need
      to develop novel effective approaches for the treatment of POI.

      Throughout life, there is an ongoing physiological level of atresia of oocytes. A decreased
      germ cell endowment combined with an increased rate of germ cell destruction can explain POI
      (1). The current concept that the ovary has a static ovarian reserve is entirely at odds with
      the germ cell dynamics. Current research supports the concept that the ovary continues to
      produce new germ cells into adult life, however, whether this occurs in humans is not
      universally accepted. Recent research suggests that diminished ovarian reserve is a result of
      the aging of the niche rather than a defect in the germ cells (4-6). Anti-mullerian hormone
      has been used as a reliable biomarker for ovarian reserve in humans and the circulating AMH
      levels change with age as follows:

      20-25: 1.23-11.51 ng/mL 26-30: 1.03-11.10 ng/mL 31-35: 0.66-8.75 ng/mL 36-40: 0.42-8.34 ng/mL
      41-46: 0.26-5.81 ng/mL 47-54: <0.82 ng/mL Emerging evidence suggests that bone marrow-derived
      mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) could restore the structure and function of injured tissues
      (7). During embryologic development, cells of the mesodermal layer give rise to multiple
      mesenchymal tissue types including bone, cartilage, tendon, muscle, and fat and marrow stroma
      (8). These precursor cells, also present in the postnatal organism, are referred to as
      mesenchymal stem cells. These stem cells have been shown to retain their developmental
      potential following extensive sub-cultivation in vitro. Implantation of culture-expanded
      mesenchymal stem cells has been demonstrated to effect tissue regeneration in a variety of
      animal models and depends on local factors to stimulate differentiation into the appropriate
      phenotype (8).

      Recent studies suggest that stem cell therapy holds promise in treatment of variety of
      diseases including reproductive dysfunction. In a recent investigation by Ghadami et al
      (2012) in our lab at Augusta University in Georgia, BMSC treated animals resumed ovarian
      function (9). In another investigation by Lui et al (2014), granulosa cell apoptosis induced
      by cisplatin was reduced when BMSCs were migrated to granulosa cells in vitro. In this study,
      chemotherapy-induced POI rats were injected with BMSCs. The BMSCs treatment group's antral
      follicle count and estradiol levels increased after 30 days, compared with untreated POI
      group (10). In a recent clinical trial in Egypt, Edessy et al (2014) evaluated the
      therapeutic potential of autologous mesenchymal bone marrow stem cells transplantation in
      women with POI. Ten patients with POI were selected and their ovaries were injected with
      autologous BMSC at time of laparoscopy. The results revealed resumption of menstruation in
      one case after 3 months; two cases showed focal secretory changes after having atrophic
      endometrium (11). According to these results, BMSC seem to have the ability to revive
      prematurely failed ovaries both in their hormonal and follicular development abilities.

      Furthermore, in this clinical trial, while at Augusta University, Georgia, USA, we have
      successfully initiated two cases so far (8/10/2017). Both patients have tolerated the
      procedure very well with no reported side effects or complications. Our first patient resumed
      menses after 6 months post stem cell injection and she demonstrated decreasing levels of
      serum FSH and increasing serum Estradiol levels (from undetectable levels pre-procedure, as
      well as the one week, one month and 3 months' time points assessments to 96pg/ml at the 6
      months' time point (latest data available so far). She also reported amelioration of her
      post-menopausal symptoms including a decrease in hot flashes frequency and severity,
      decreased vaginal dryness and improved sleeping patterns. The second patient will be finished
      with the post-procedure follow up period on 2/21/2018.

      Stem cell therapy has been shown to be beneficial and effective in various disease processes.
      The safety of the stem cell therapy has been assessed in multiple clinical trials. Although,
      autologous mesenchymal stem cell therapy for premature ovarian insufficiency is a novel
      approach, the safety and success of such stem cell therapy has been demonstrated in many
      other disease processes including graft versus host disease, acute myocardial infarction,
      acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and many other diseases (12-14). There are
      additional ongoing trials (Pilot -Phase III) to further assess risk and safety of stem cell
      based therapies (15-17). This interventional pilot clinical study will investigate the use of
      stem cell therapy to restore steroidogenesis, folliculogenesis, menstruation, and fertility
      in participants.
    
  