
    
      Twenty-two provinces of Turkey's seven regions and 26 hospitals from these provinces will be
      included in the study. The number of samples was specified by the public health specialist on
      the 2018 census figures. The Turkish population consists of 80,810,525 people according to
      the data announced by the Turkish Statistical Institute in 2018. In order to determine the
      prevalence in Turkey, the sample size was calculated with a confidence interval of 99% and
      error margin of 1%, and the total number of individuals to be screened was designated as
      5861. The number of patients to be screened via the clustering method weighted by regions was
      specified as 1800 for the Marmara Region, 750 for the Aegean Region, 744 for the
      Mediterranean Region, 568 for the Black Sea Region, 932 for the Central Anatolia Region, 434
      for the Eastern Anatolia Region and 633 for the Southeastern Anatolia Region. The provinces
      that were thought to represent each region were selected via the cluster sampling method.

      During the study period, female patients aged between 18 and 45, who present to dermatology
      outpatient clinics, will be examined clinically until the number of patients designated for
      each study center is reached, and the hirsutism level of the patients diagnosed with
      hirsutism will be determined by using the modified Ferriman-Gallwey (mFG) scoring system. In
      this system, hair growth in nine regions (upper lip, chin, chest, upper back, lower back,
      upper abdomen, lower abdomen, upper arms and thighs) is graded between 0 and 4. And nine
      regions are scored between 0 (no terminal hairs) and 4 (excessive presence of terminal
      hairs). The score above 8 is considered hirsutism. The hirsutism family history, body mass
      index, menstrual cycle pattern, concomitant disease status (diabetes, hyperlipidemia,
      hypertension, thyroid disease), history of medication causing body hair growth, the acne
      presence and severity, presence and severity of androgenic alopecia, presence of seborrhea,
      presence and localization of acanthosis nigricans, presence of acrochordon, presence of
      hidradenitis suppurativa, presence of galactorrhea, presence of virilization symptoms and
      presence of cushingoid symptoms of all the examined patients will be investigated and
      recorded.
    
  