
    
      Activation of EGFR signalling can lead to increased transcription of COX-2. Increased COX-2
      transcription results in enhanced production of PGs, including PGE2, which in turn can
      activate EGFR initiating a positive feedback loop. Although majority of HNSCC over-express
      EGFR, the clinical responses to EGFR targeting agents have been modest. When the mechanisms
      of intrinsic resistance are identified like the mutations in the EGFR receptor, alternative
      therapeutic approaches should be employed. In preclinical studies, combining an inhibitor of
      COX-2 with an inhibitor of EGFR tyrosine kinase was more effective than either agent alone in
      suppressing tumor formation. Acquired resistances that may be amenable to pharmacological
      intervention include deregulation of EGFR degradation, constitutive activation of overlapping
      signal transduction pathways, especially cMET/HER3, the PI3K/Akt resistance pathway,
      angiogenesis and epithelial to mesenchymal transition. Preclinical data suggest that COX-2
      inhibitors can affect most of the described acquired EGFR resistance pathways.

      We propose a prospective phase II randomized trial based on a 2 X 2 factorial design in which
      patients are randomized to COX-2 inhibition vs. no COX-2 inhibition. Each arm will be further
      randomized to erlotinib vs. no erlotinib. This results in the following treatment
      combinations.

      Arm 1: Celecoxib 200mg twice daily Arm 2: Celecoxib 200mg twice daily + Erlotinib 150mg daily
      Arm 3: Erlotinib 150mg alone Arm 4: Control group with no drug Patients in the drug treatment
      arm will receive the prescribed drug for 21 days before the tumor being surgically resected.
      Having a control group is ethically justifiable because the average waiting time in our
      hospital prior to definitive treatment is 30 days after diagnosis.

      The study population consists of any patients with resectable oral cavity squamous cell
      carcinoma seen at Tata memorial hospital. Tumor size will be estimated by MRI Scans as well
      as by clinical examination before and after completion of the study drugs.
    
  