
    
      To carry out this study, an experimental protocol will be used, where patients admitted to an
      inpatient unit of the São Paulo hospital will perform a rehabilitation protocol at two
      different times using virtual reality tasks and conventional therapies.

      In the first moment, in the initial evaluation, only on the first day of care with the
      patient, the Medical Research Council Scale, Visual Analog Scale, BORG Scale, Brunel Mood
      Scale and Satisfaction Scale will be applied. At the end of the therapy, a BORG scale is
      applied to assess and monitor the patient's perception of effort. For the evaluation and
      characterization of the sample will be used:

      Medical Research Council scale (MRC)

      The Medical Research Council (MRC) was created in 1943, it is an instrument adapted to assess
      muscle strength in critically ill patients. The result is obtained through the evaluation of
      six movements of upper limbs (upper limbs) and lower limbs (lower limbs) and the strength is
      graded between 0 (plegia) to 5 points (normal strength). The maximum sum can reach 60 points,
      values below 48 are considered that the patient has muscle weakness.

      Visual Analog Scale (EVA) The visual analog scale (VAS) is an instrument to assess the degree
      of pain in the patient, it consists of a 10 cm line that has, in general, the phrases
      "absence of pain and unbearable pain" as extremes.

      Borg scale

      The Borg scale is a tool for monitoring the intensity of physical effort, it is considered as
      one of the most used instruments for the evaluation and quantification of the sensations of
      physical effort, also known as subjective perception of effort (PSE). This is used both in
      the area of high performance sports and in the area of physical rehabilitation, to monitor
      the changes caused by physical exercise in the cardiorespiratory, metabolic, neuromuscular
      systems.

      Satisfaction Scale (EVA-S)

      The 10 cm Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) assesses the level of satisfaction of the interviewed
      individuals. Patients will answer the questionnaire, and they will be asked to mark with a
      vertical line at the scale location that indicates satisfaction with rehabilitation, in which
      zero (0) indicates very dissatisfied and 10 indicates very satisfied.

      This scale was developed to allow a quick measurement of the mood of adults and adolescents.

      BRUMS contains 24 simple mood indicators, such as feelings of anger, disposition, nervousness
      and dissatisfaction that are noticeable by the individual being assessed. The evaluated
      responds the scale according to how they feel about such sensations.

      The score is 5 points (0 = nothing to 4 = extremely). The form put in the question is "How do
      you feel now", although other forms: "How have you felt this past week, including today", or
      "How do you normally feel" can be used. BRUMS takes about one to two minutes to respond.

      The 24 indicators on the scale comprise six subscales: anger, confusion, depression, fatigue,
      tension and vigor.

      Respiratory Rate (RR)

      Respiratory rate (RR) is defined as the number of breaths a person takes 1 minute (breaths /
      min), being an important vital sign. It varies in response to metabolic demand and the normal
      range for an adult is 12 to 20 breaths.

      Before starting therapy with VR and conventional therapy, RF will be measured. At the end of
      the respective therapies, the RF will be checked again.

      Heart Rate (HR)

      All heart rate records will be performed using a cardiofrequency meter (V800, Polar). After
      placing the brace and monitor, individuals will be placed in supine position and will remain
      at rest breathing spontaneously for 15 minutes and then for another 10 minutes during
      interventions, whether during VR or conventional.

      Oxygen Saturation (Spo2)

      Pulse oximetry is widely used for patients who need continuous monitoring of oxygen
      saturation. Its main purpose is the early detection of hypoxemia in various situations and
      the monitoring of perfusion and circulation. It is a non-invasive monitoring.

      Heart Rate Variability (HRV)

      HRV is a simple, reliable, inexpensive and non-invasive measure to capture autonomic
      impulses. The widespread use and cost-effectiveness of the technique and the ease of data
      acquisition make HRV a capable choice for the interpretation of cardiac autonomic functioning
      and a promising clinical tool to assess and identify physiological changes. Fluctuations in
      HRV patterns provide an early and sensitive diagnosis of the human body's physiological
      behavior and the individual's health status.

      HRV has emerged as a simple and non-invasive measure of autonomic impulses, representing one
      of the most promising quantitative markers of autonomic balance. HRV describes oscillations
      in the interval between consecutive heartbeats (R-R intervals), as well as oscillations
      between consecutive instantaneous heart rates. It is a measure that can be used to assess the
      modulation of the ANS under physiological conditions, such as in waking and sleeping
      situations, different body positions, physical training, and also in pathological conditions.
      Changes in HRV patterns provide a sensitive and early indicator of health impairments

      Virtual Reality Training

      Participants will perform the tasks individually in a room equipped with a computer, table
      and chair, in the presence of the evaluator responsible for providing the instructions and
      recording the results. The chair and footrest will be adjusted according to the individual's
      height and needs, so that they are positioned correctly during the task. Participants will be
      instructed to sit in a way they think is most comfortable.

      Before starting the task, the researcher will explain the task verbally and will demonstrate
      how the game works. Then, participants will complete a one-time trial in order to verify that
      they understand the instructions.

      Intervention After performing all the tests and questionnaires of the initial evaluation,
      individuals will be divided into two groups, being Group A: Subjects with COVID -19 who will
      start the first day of the protocol with Virtual Reality tasks in the morning and then in the
      second period in the afternoon, they will perform conventional exercises (n = 25); And Group
      B: Subjects with COVID -19 who will start the first day with conventional exercises in the
      morning and in the second period, in the afternoon, will perform activity with virtual
      reality (n = 25). After the application of therapies, final evaluations will be carried out.
      The rehabilitation protocol will be applied during hospitalization.

      Participants will perform the virtual tasks individually in a room equipped with a computer,
      table and chair, in the presence of the evaluator responsible for providing the instructions
      and recording the results. The chair and footrest will be adjusted according to the
      individual's height and needs, so that they are positioned correctly during the task.
      Participants will be instructed to sit in a way they think is most comfortable.

      Before starting the task, the researcher will explain clearly and objectively how the game
      works. Then, participants will complete a one-time attempt to make sure they understand the
      instructions.

      MoveHero

      Software developed at the School of Arts, Sciences and Humanities of the University of São
      Paulo will be used. The game features balls that fall, in four imaginary columns on the
      computer screen, to the rhythm of the chosen music. The task is not to let the balls fall.
      However, the balls can only be touched when they reach four circles placed in parallel (at
      two height levels), two on the left and two on the right of the participant (0 0 \ o / 0 0),
      called targets 1, 2 , 3 and 4, as viewed from left to right.

      The game captures the participant's movements through a webcam, not requiring physical
      contact to perform the task, so the participant must move his arms, at a distance of one and
      a half meters from the computer screen. The participant must wait for the balls to fall,
      until they begin to overlap one of the target circles. Therefore, the game requires the
      participant to have a strategy of anticipating the movement to reach the balls within those
      circles.

      The game offers hit feedback through a numbering (+1) that appears next to the sphere that
      has been successfully hit within the target, in addition, the total score is visible in the
      upper left corner of the screen, with 10 points for each hit.

      Conventional task

      Participants will perform the tasks individually in the inpatient sector, in the presence of
      the evaluator responsible for providing instructions and recording the results.

      Statistical analysis Statistical analyzes will be performed using IBM-SPSS (version 26.0, IBM
      Corp., Armonk, NY, USA). As dependent variables, all HRV indices will be considered. If the
      data meet the assumptions of normality, Multiple Analysis of Variances (MANOVA) will be used
      to compare the study groups (Virtual Group and Conventional Group) and intra-group comparison
      (virtual and conventional group, when comparing the same subject), with Minimum Significant
      Difference (LSD) post-test. If the data do not meet the assumptions of normality, the
      differences between the groups will be analyzed using the Kruskal-Wallis test. Dunn's post
      hoc tests will be performed on each pair of groups, with Dunn-Bonferroni post-test on each
      pair of groups66. Values of p <0.05 will be considered significant.
    
  