
    
      Closure of complex and contaminated abdominal wounds is challenging and carries risks,
      including wound dehiscence and incisional hernias. Use of biological meshes in these
      situations may provide a safe method of reducing these complications, especially long-term
      incisional hernias. ROCSS will use stoma site closure as a model for biological mesh
      placement during any difficult contaminated abdominal wall closures.

      Hernia at the site of stoma closure occurs in up to 30% of patients and is associated with
      adverse effects on quality of life. In up to 10% of cases, patients are submitted to complex
      re-operation which carries significant morbidity. Not all patients will report symptoms or
      undergo repair, as they do not wish to have a further major operation. Incisional hernias at
      the site of stomas closure form an important and well defined subgroup. If there is a
      measurable benefit from mesh insertion, elective use of a collagen mesh would warrant
      consideration in the closure of other difficult, contaminated abdominal wounds. This study
      will also provide useful information on the value of using a CT scan as an early diagnostic
      tool of herniation, which could then be used in future abdominal wall studies as a surrogate
      endpoint for clinical hernia.

      ROCSS aims to assess whether a biological mesh (collagen tissue matrix) reduces the incidence
      of clinically detectable stoma closure site hernias at two years compared to standard closure
      techniques. The primary outcome is Occurrence of clinically detectable hernias at two years
      post randomisation. Other outcomes include surgical re-intervention rate, surgical
      complications at 30 days post-operation and 1 year post-randomisation, quality of life and
      post-operative pain, cost-benefit analysis and radiological hernia rate at one year
      post-randomisation (an exploratory analysis will compare radiological hernia rate at 1 year
      with clinical hernia rate at 2 years to assess the value of using a CT scan as an early
      diagnostic tool of incisional hernias).

      Randomisation is 1:1 between Strattice® mesh vs. standard closure. The sample size for the
      trial is 560 (80% power, 10% dropout/crossover, 40% proportional reduction - 25% to 15%) and
      recruitment will be over 2 years from at least 30 centres. ROCSS will be a double blind
      (observer blind) randomised controlled trial with a CT scan at one year and clinical follow
      up at 2 years. Cost benefit analysis and quality of life analysis will be performed at 2
      years. The sample size will be reviewed prior to reaching target and may be increased 790
      (90% power, 20% dropout/crossover, 40% proportional reduction - 25% to 15%).
    
  