
    
      Access to healthcare is currently a key priority for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).
      The current practice of teledermatology in VA is effective but has not been uniformly
      implemented. Once patients establish care in a dermatology clinic, they often need follow-up
      visits to evaluate responses to treatment and to adjust management, neither of which
      necessarily requires a face-to-face visit. To improve clinic access to in-person dermatology
      clinics, VA Office of Connected Care developed a mobile app, My VA Images to be used in
      conjunction with the Patient Viewer app, to allow established dermatology clinic patients to
      follow-up remotely. The mobile apps are planned for wide-spread implementation in the VA. The
      investigators are conducting one trial of database review to understand how these two apps
      affect features of dermatology care, specifically related to access to care.

      The apps will be made available over a 1 year period in a randomized, stepped-wedge design to
      Veterans Health Administration (VHA) facilities. The direct-to-patient facing apps will be
      distributed to 28 facilities with dermatology clinics that currently have relatively high
      teledermatology activity and thus already have relatively mature teledermatology programs
      ready for advanced operations.

      By using a stop code unique to this process, the investigators will use the VA Corporate Data
      Warehouse (CDW) to measure the impact of the apps in one trial on outcomes reflecting
      dermatology access. At the end of the study period, the proposed research will result in a
      novel documentation of mobile teledermatology's effectiveness in enhancing Veteran's access
      to dermatology service. The results will be of significance to VA as it develops and
      implements other mobile telehealth programs, and more generally to other healthcare
      organizations planning for large-scale telehealth interventions.
    
  