
    
      Objectives: To evaluate and compare the Efficacy and Safety, of extra-corporeal irradiation
      of circulating blood by extra-corporeal electro-magnetic irradiation with Selenium containing
      food supplement herbal tablets in the treatment of non-cirrhotic subjects with chronic
      hepatitis C.

      Background and Rationale: As many as 150 million persons are chronically infected with the
      hepatitis C virus (HCV) worldwide, and more than 350,000 die annually from liver disease
      caused by HCV

      Egypt is confronted with an HCV disease burden of historical proportions that distinguishes
      this nation from others. It has the highest prevalence of hepatitis C virus (HCV) in the
      world, estimated nationally at 14.7% . Approximately, there are 10 million Egyptians carry
      the virus. Due to its chronic debilitating nature, it has tremendous social and financial
      impacts on our community. Hence, this trial aims to find a logic rational and effective
      treatment for Hepatitis C.

      Extra-corporeal electro-magnetic irradiation: The wavelength of UV irradiation (UVI) lies in
      the range of 100-400 nm, and is further subdivided into UVA (315-400 nm), UVB (280-315 nm),
      and UVC (100-280 nm).UVC and UVB are directly absorbed by DNA bases causing serious DNA
      damages. On the other hand, DNA damage by UVA is indirect through the formation of Reactive
      Oxygen Species (ROS) that are formed when other cellular chromophores act as endogenous photo
      sensitizers. ROS can then react with and damage DNA, or interact with other cell structures
      such as membranes (lipids) and proteins. All of these different types of damage may hamper
      cell metabolic processes, such as protein synthesis and cell cycle progression, or induce
      mutations and cell death . Both Selenium itself and various selenoproteins are proposed to
      have antioxidant effects, reducing the biological impact of ROS on human cells .

      Ultraviolet blood irradiation (UBI) was first used on humans in the early 1930s. The
      effectiveness of UBI in treating infections was studied extensively in the 1940s and it was
      found that UBI was extremely successful in treating such infections as peritonitis, pyelitis,
      sinusitis, puerperal sepsis and wound infections in all but the most advanced cases.Later
      studies showed UBI helped a number of patients with acute viral hepatitis .Recently, Energex
      Systems, a developer of advanced UBI technology, studied the effects of UBI therapy on viral
      loads in 13 patients with the infection and it showed some effect.

      Optical and physical characteristics of electro-magnetic irradiation is the narrow band of
      ultraviolet A radiation with a peak at 365 nm with an average power about 18 µW/cm2 during
      the session.

      For irradiation in the UVA region (315 nm- 400nm) the measured average irradiance was 0.12
      mW/cm2in the place of circulating blood at any time of each session(40 sec).

      The time integral of irradiance (prescribed exposure dose) is 0.144 J/cm2(1440 J/m2)for total
      radiant exposure time of 1200 sec (20 min) in all therapeutic sessions (up to maximum of 30
      sessions in some particular cases).

      The Irradiance power at all bands of output wavelength (250 nm - 1050 nm) from the optical
      lamps:

      Wavelength (nm) Irradiance Power (mW/cm2) Ultraviolet Region A: UVA (315 nm -400 nm) 0.12
      mW/cm2 Visible Band: VIS (400 nm - 700 nm) 110.8mW/cm2 Infrared Band: IR (700 nm - 1050 nm)
      28.3mW/cm2

      Selenium containing herbal food supplement:

      No. Name Action

        1. Ginseng Liver tonic

        2. Saffron Anti - Oxidant

        3. Dandelion Anti - Bacterial

        4. Curcuma Anti - Parasitic

        5. Vinca Rose Anti - Bacterial

        6. Wormwood Anti - Oxidant

        7. Lemon balm Anti - Bacterial

        8. Papay Anti - viral

        9. Achillia Anti - viral

       10. Arctium Anti - viral

       11. Aloe Anti - viral Anti - bacterial Anti - Fungal

       12. Asfour Liver support

      Detailed Description A Randomized, Open-Label, Study to investigate the Efficacy and Safety
      of extra-corporeal irradiation of circulating blood with and Selenium containing herbal food
      supplement tablets in the treatment of non-cirrhotic chronic hepatitis C subjects.

      The null hypothesis: There is no difference in outcomes and cure rate of patients with
      Hepatitis C when using electromagnetic device or herbal tablets containing selenium are used
      with aim of treatment.

      This study was submitted for ethical approval via the relevant Minister of health and Medical
      military sector Research Ethics Approval Committees.

      Study Arm (s)

      Interventions (arm 1):

      Twenty four daily one hour sessions using Extra-corporeal electro-magnetic irradiation device
      combined with Herbal Food Supplement Selenium containing tables as an Anti Oxidant (Tablet A)
      starting 10 days before the radiation sessions and to continue for 24 weeks.

      Intervention (arm 2):

      Daily Herbal Food Supplement Selenium containing tablets for 24 weeks. What will happen to
      patients?

        1. Invitation to participate:

           Patients with hepatitis C virus infection will be identified from the attendee of the
           hepatology and tropical diseases clinics at our institute.

        2. First Contact:

           Each patient will then receive a phone call from the Research Nurse, to request an
           indication of whether they would like to participate in the study. If the patient would
           like to meet face-to-face, in which case arrangement would be made during the
           investigation tests or outpatient clinic appointments. Otherwise, questions will be
           answered over the telephone. This phone call is anticipated to last 10 minutes on
           average.

        3. Initial Assessment Meeting and Informed Consent:

           An initial meeting will then take place at which patients will be asked to give their
           informed consent.

           In addition, demographics, past medical history and baseline observations will be noted.
           Up-to-date base line investigations will be performed including: FBC, renal functions,
           liver profile, Viral load PCR. The patients will then be informed of which group they
           have been randomized into (electromagnetic or herbal tablets). Patients in each group
           will have a detailed explanation of their corresponding management and booklet will be
           given to patients to take home.

        4. The Electromagnetic Device group:

           Those participants in the intervention group will be invited to attend the treatment
           cubicles to see the device. They will receive 20 minutes presentation about the theory
           of the device and how it functions.

        5. Repeated Assessment Meetings:

             -  The Assessments performed in 3 above, will be repeated:

             -  On discharge (-24hrs to +48hrs) with additional returning to normal activities
                questions.

             -  4-week out-patient appointment in research team clinic.

             -  8-week out-patient appointment in research team clinic

             -  12-week out-patient appointment in research team clinic.

             -  24-week out-patient appointment in research team clinic.

        6. Monitoring and Supportive Meetings:

           • The research nurse will be available on the study mobile phone which will be supported
           by other members of the research team during periods of leave.

        7. End of the study:

      A final assessment meeting will take place six month after completion of treatment.
      Participants will be discharged back to the hepatology clinic for long term management.
      Research team will be notified of any long term adverse effects of either treatment arms.

      Last follow up date: 48 weeks from baseline. Recruitment Status: Currently recruiting.

      Supervision:

        1. The Management and Monitoring Group (MMG). The study will be managed by a 'Management
           and Monitoring Group' (MMG) which will meet regularly, throughout the study, to manage
           it and to monitor progress. A Gantt chart showing the points at which MMG meetings are
           proposed is provided within the appendices. The study management will also comprise 5
           sub-groups (involving specialized experts) who will interact with the MMG. A schematic
           showing all of these study management groups is given in the appendices of this
           document.

           The MMG will comprise:

             -  Patient Representative.

             -  Professor Doctor: Tayseer Abdulaal, M.D., Internal medicine, Clinical Immunology
                Consultant, Egyptian Military Armed Forces

             -  Professor Doctor: Mostafa El-Awady, M.D.,Molecular Biology Consultant, Egyptian
                National Research Center

             -  Professor Doctor: Mostafa El-Nakib, M.D., Virology Consultant, Egyptian Military
                Armed Forces

             -  Professor Doctor: Hala Zayed, M.D., Internal medicine, Clinical Immunology
                Consultant, Egyptian Ministry of Health

             -  Professor Doctor: Ahmed El-Sawy, M.D., Gastroenterology Consultant, Egyptian
                Military Armed ForcesDr

        2. The Patient Experience Sub-group The principal sub-group of the MMG will be one who will
           take responsibility for managing and monitoring the experiences of all patients during
           the study. This group will comprise Dr Tayseer Abdulaal and the Research Nurses and the
           Administrator. Therefore, it will be based within the hospital. This group will also be
           responsible for patient recruitment and for patient data entry onto an appropriate
           database. This group will make a significant contribution to the overall management of
           the study (which is done by the MMG) by raising awareness, within that group, of issues
           relating to all aspects of patient experience that arise as the study progresses.

        3. The Critical side effects Sub-group A team of researchers, based at Egyptian military
           hospital, Ain Shams and Cairo University hospitals will meet within 24 hours of
           admission of any patients involved in the trial to any of the designated hospital. An
           action plan will include a thorough evaluation of the patient condition. Ife there is
           any concern regarding patient safety; the trial will be suspended for further
           assessment.
    
  