
    
      Emergence hypertension following craniotomy is a well-described, albeit poorly understood,
      phenomenon. Strict control of blood pressure is of utmost importance during and after
      neurosurgical procedures; failure to prevent acute rises in arterial blood pressure places
      patients at increased risk of intracranial bleeding, cerebral edema, increased intracranial
      pressure, and prolonged hospital stays. Emergence hypertension after craniotomy seems to be
      the result of an acute and transient increase in catecholamine release, peripheral
      vasoconstriction, and reduced baroreceptor sensitivity. Prior investigations have
      demonstrated that treatment with antihypertensive agents is required in 60 to 90% of
      neurosurgical patients postoperatively. Given the common occurrence of emergence hypertension
      after craniotomy and the increased risk of potentially devastating events that may occur in
      the setting of acute increases in arterial blood pressure, it is important to identify how
      best to manage these hemodynamic changes.

      An ideal drug for the management of emergence hypertension would be a short-acting,
      parenteral drug that is easily and rapidly titratable. Medications commonly utilized include
      nicardipine, labetolol, and esmolol. When given as a bolus, nicardipine, a calcium channel
      blocker, demonstrates a maximal response in <2 minutes and a mean half-life of approximately
      40 minutes. Nicardipine is also frequently administered as an infusion; however, time to
      onset is increased if no bolus is administered and duration of action may be 4-6 hours after
      prolonged infusion. Labetolol, a non-selective beta-blocker, demonstrates onset in 10-20
      seconds with peak activity at 5 minutes. Esmolol is an ultra-short-acting, B1-beta-blocker
      that has rapid onset and is quickly metabolized by nonspecific red blood cell esterases;
      however, esmolol primarily results in decreased heart rate and demonstrates less effect on
      blood pressure.
    
  