
    
      The Policy & Research Group (PRG) will be conducting a rigorous evaluation of an innovative
      intervention designed to prevent adolescent pregnancy, births, and STIs among high-risk youth
      populations, entitled online Practice Self-Regulation (e-PS-R). e-PS-R is the online
      adaptation of the Practice Self-Regulation (PS-R); both PS-R and e-PS-R were developed
      through grant funding by Joann Schladale of Resources for Resolving Violence, Inc. The
      original PS-R intervention is a 10-session therapeutic program designed for youth ages 14-19
      who have experienced trauma; each session is intended to be offered by a masters-level
      therapist during one-on-one weekly therapy sessions. The online adaptation e-PS-R utilizes
      'blended learning', the combination of online and face-to-face instruction, and incorporates
      online videos and interactive elements that have been shown to be effective with high-risk
      youth. e-PS-R consists of eight 30-minute e-learning sessions for youth participants and four
      30-45 minute one-on-one in-person meetings between youth and a trained facilitator. The
      following Adulthood Preparation Subjects are covered during both the online sessions and the
      in-person meetings: Adolescent Development, Healthy Life Skills, and Healthy Relationships.
      By increasing knowledge of sexual health and the impact of trauma on sexual decision-making,
      the program is designed to encourage and support youth in practicing self-regulation.

      The Policy & Research Group (PRG) will conduct an implementation evaluation and an impact
      evaluation, using a randomized controlled trial, to test the effectiveness of this new
      intervention. The study will target juvenile justice-involved youth ages 14-19 who have
      experienced trauma. The primary focus of the study will be to investigate the impact of the
      intervention on two self-reported sexual behaviors: (1) inconsistency of condom use, and (2)
      number of sexual partners. In addition, the study will include exploratory investigations of
      the following self-reported sexual behaviors and theoretically relevant antecedents to
      behavior and pathways to behavior change: (1) use of contraception; (2) use of dual methods
      of protection; (3) incidence of pregnancy; (4) self-efficacy to engage in affect regulation;
      (5) sexual self-efficacy; (6) intentions to engage in affect-regulation; (7) intentions to
      engage in sexual self-regulation; and (8) use of affect regulation. Outcomes will be assessed
      using self-reported, participant-level data gathered (by way of a questionnaire) at four time
      points: baseline (enrollment); post-program (immediately after the end of the intervention
      period; 3 months after baseline); short-term (3 months post-intervention period) follow-up;
      and long-term (nine months post-intervention period) follow-up.

      Starting in July 2017 and continuing for two years, 600 participants will be enrolled into
      the study at partner implementation sites within the juvenile justice systems in New Mexico
      and West Virginia. The third and fourth years of the grant will be used to complete the
      following tasks: collect follow-up data from study participants; conduct implementation and
      impact evaluation analysis, reporting, and dissemination efforts; and manualize and package
      the curriculum and training materials.
    
  