
    
      Preemptive living donor transplant (PLDT), where renal patients get a living donor transplant
      before their kidneys fail, has better graft survival and lower mortality rates than living
      donor transplant following dialysis. However, not all renal patients and their living donors
      know about or consider living donation before a patient starts dialysis; To date, patients
      and donors presenting for PLDT are more likely to be Caucasian, of higher socioeconomic
      status, and more knowledgeable about transplant. To reach all patients newly diagnosed with
      kidney disease, the Missouri Kidney Program conducts a community Patient Education Program
      (PEP) outlining patients' transplant and dialysis options. Since 1994, approximately 2000
      Missouri patients newly diagnosed with kidney disease and their family members have attended
      2-day PEP classes. However, the current PEP transplant module does not significantly increase
      patients' willingness to pursue PLDT. Through a previous HRSA grant, Dr. Waterman designed
      the "Explore Transplant" education program based on Prochaska's Transtheoretical Model of
      Behavioral Change and her previous research to address key gaps in patients' living donation
      knowledge and to motivate patients to consider living donation. If funded, this study would
      conduct a group-randomized controlled trial to explore whether improved community transplant
      education for renal patients not yet on dialysis could increase patients' willingness to
      pursue PLDT and PLDT rates. Secondary objectives of the study are: (2) to increase rural and
      minority patients' access to transplant education, and (3) to describe racial, social,
      economic, and other influences affecting patients' PLDT willingness. The study design is a
      group-randomized controlled trial of 300 patients in 30 PEP classes in St. Louis,
      Springfield, and Kansas City, MO; patients and their family members in 15 classes will be
      randomized to receive the "Explore Transplant" education module, while 15 control classes
      will receive the traditional PEP transplant education. Across the education and control PEP
      classes we will compare: (1) increased willingness to pursue PLDT using baseline and
      follow-up attitudinal patient surveys, and (2) rates of living donation by tracking whether
      patients and their living donors present to any Missouri transplant center. At the conclusion
      of the study, we will have learned important information about how to reach and educate
      patients who have not yet begun dialysis and have developed a PLDT program that could be
      utilized in physicians' offices and by other organizations serving renal patients to increase
      living donation rates.
    
  