
    
      Achalasia is a disorder benign esophageal motor, which is characterized by failure to relax
      the lower esophageal sphincter ( LES) in response to swallowing associated with lack of
      peristalsis of the esophageal body . Its most common clinical presentation is dysphagia , and
      occasionally chest pain , regurgitation , aspiration pneumonia and weight loss , resulting in
      a large impact on daily activities and quality of life of affected individuals .

      Epidemiological data show an incidence in the United States and Europe , approximately
      1/200.000 and no predilection for sex, age group (mean between 25 and 60 years) was observed
      , as well as any other demographic group . In Brazil , the incidence is approximate
      7-13/100.000 inhabitants .

      Large proportion of patients with symptomatic achalasia require additional tests for
      diagnosis. Endoscopy ( EDA ) despite being regarded as a major test for initial evaluation of
      dysphagia , presents serious limitations to evaluate esophageal motility , especially in
      early stages . Some contrast studies , highlighting the Esophagogram barium ( DSE ) , provide
      additional anatomical findings as esophageal shape and size , as well as functional :
      peristalsis , the LES function and bolus clearance through the esophagogastric junction ( TEG
      ) . Another useful method of diagnosis is the Esophageal manometry , with characteristic
      (Chicago Classification of Distal Esophageal Motility Disorders ) : aperistalsis the
      esophageal body and failure to relax the LES , currently best characterized by High
      Resolution Manometry .

      Idiopathic achalasia is confined to the esophagus and has no established etiology , with
      agenesis of the myenteric plexus or viral infections , in particular herpes simplex ( HSV - 1
      ) , the most likely hypothesis . In Brazil , the secondary achalasia caused by Chagas disease
      predominantly among other etiologies , involves but is expressed primarily systemic disease
      with esophageal involvement . Infected patients Typanossoma cruzi, the causative agent of
      Chagas disease , 7-10 % have esophageal involvement, and due to its chronic nature the most
      common clinical presentation is megaesophagus , to varying degrees .

      There is currently considered curative treatment for achalasia , dysphagia relief being the
      primary therapeutic target and is forced to relax the LES by endoscopy or surgery . Thus ,
      the most commonly used endoscopic treatments are forced dilatation of the cardia and
      botulinum toxin. Laparoscopic Heller myotomy with antireflux procedure with therapy is
      considered "gold standard " because of excellent results and minimal invasiveness . Currently
      , pneumatic dilation and surgical treatment with the Heller myotomy with fundoplication are
      strongly associated with the best therapeutic options available .

      Many studies have validated the efficacy of pneumatic dilation in some cases exceeding 90%,
      but with the limitation of the need for serial dilations , the main complication being
      perforation , around 8 % .

      With the introduction of minimally invasive surgery , surgical approach has gained great
      clinical importance , especially for laparoscopic Heller myotomy with antireflux valve (
      fundoplication ) . With a success rate ranging between 89 and 100 % in recent studies ,
      provide a more lasting relief of symptoms without the need for additional interventions ,
      compared to pneumatic dilation .

      In recent years, the possibility of using endoluminal access in the treatment of achalasia
      patients through the technique originally described as Natural orifices Translumenal
      Endoscopic Surgery ( NOTES) and continuing advances in the submucosal dissection has enabled
      the concomitant development of a new approach described as perioral endoscopic myotomy . In
      2007, Pasricha et al , described the feasibility of endoscopic esophageal myotomy through a
      submucosal tunnel initially in an animal model . The first performance of this procedure in
      humans was described by Inoue et al , in 2010 , introducing the concept of transluminal
      endoscopic surgery through natural orifices , with the objective of minimizing the trauma and
      all the stress resulting from open surgical procedure . These authors call the procedure as
      POEM ( Per Oral Endoscopic myotomy ) .

      OBJECTIVE The primary objective of this protocol is to compare the efficacy between surgical
      approach through laparoscopic myotomy with fundoplication associated Heller myotomy and
      endoscopic peroral ( POEM ) in the treatment of patients with achalasia regardless of its
      etiology .
    
  