
    
      i. Purpose

      a) The purpose of this study is to compare and evaluate the efficacy of repetitive
      Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) by MagVenture and Deep Transcranial Magnetic
      Stimulation (DTMS) by BrainsWay with and without the combination of active Exposure and
      Response Prevention (ERP) for the treatment of patients with OCD.

      ii. Hypothesis a) We hypothesize that the combination of TMS + active ERP will have a
      superior efficacy in the treatment of OCD. We also hypothesize that MagVenture cool D-B80
      coil will be as effective as BrainsWay H7 coil in treating patients with OCD.

      iii. Justification

        1. The Prospective Multicenter Randomized Double-Blind Placebo-Controlled Trial by Carmi et
           al. (2019) had shown significant improvement in OCD symptoms by using the H7 coil and
           provocation of OCD symptoms before and during treatment.

        2. The study by Dunlop et al. (2016) has shown reduction in OCD symptom severity by using
           the Cool D-B80 Coil without provocation.

        3. There have been no head to head studies comparing the BrainsWay H7 coil and MagVenture
           Cool D-B80 coil using provocation methods for both coils.

        4. Also there have been no head to head studies comparing the gold standard treatment of
           medications + active ERP with medications + active ERP + TMS and medications + TMS.

      iv. Objectives

      a) The aim of the study is to evaluate and compare the efficacy of DTMS treatment and the
      rTMS treatment with and without the combination of active ERP in patients suffering from OCD,
      in conjunction with medications approved for OCD treatment.

      v. Research Method/Procedure

        1. Recruit 100 patients suffering from OCD who have been treated and currently on at least
           one SSRIs, SNRIs, clomipramine and at least one trial of CBT (Exposure and Response
           Prevention) had an inadequate response.

        2. Make a personalized provocation for each patient and using them during treatment

        3. The trial will consist of 3 phases:

             1. Pre-study screening and baseline assessment;

             2. Treatment trial period (8 weeks); and

             3. Follow-up (12 weeks).

        4. Clinical severity rating scales will be taken every other week and include: (Brief
           Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (BOCS), Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS) ,
           Beck's Depression Inventory (BDI), Clinical Global Impression Severity (CGI-S) and
           Clinical Global Impression Improvement (CGI-I). Safety evaluations will include adverse
           event monitoring, vital signs, and cognitive changes (Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE)).
           All measures will be taken before treatment administration.

        5. Pre-Study Screening and Baseline Assessment

             1. Potential Patients will be given complete information describing the study
                treatment and their role in the trial, and they will be encouraged to ask any
                questions regarding the trial. The risks and requirements of this clinical research
                trial will be explained to each potential patient. Those volunteering to take part
                will read and sign the Informed Consent Form for participation in the clinical
                research trial before any trial-related procedures are performed.

             2. Upon obtaining the signed informed consent, inclusion and exclusion criteria will
                be reviewed to verify the patient's eligibility.

             3. Baseline data are defined as the data generated during the baseline visit before
                the first treatment Session.

        6. After the patients has been admitted into the study, they will be asked to undergo a
           fMRI and then randomly organized based on age and symptom severity into the 5 different
           groups.

        7. Comparing 5 groups of patients with OCD 1) Group 1 - 20 patients undergoing DTMS
           treatment using the H7 coil 2) Group 2 - 20 patients undergoing rTMS treatment using the
           cool D-B80 coil 3) Group 3 - 20 patients undergoing DTMS treatment using the H7 coil +
           ERP 4) Group 4 - 20 patients undergoing rTMS treatment using the cool D-B80 coil + ERP
           5) Group 5 - 20 patients undergoing ERP only

        8. Treatment Trial period

           1) During the treatment phase the patients will either receive

           Group 1 - medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) DTMS 5 days a week for 8 consecutive weeks =
           40 Sessions 20 Hz at 100% MT, 2 s on 20 s off intertrain interval, 50 trains, 2000
           stimuli per session.

           TMS will be done at active state by provocation

           Group 2 - dorsomedial prefrontal cortex (DMPFC) rTMS 5 days a week for 8 consecutive
           weeks = 40 sessions 10 Hz at 120% MT, 5 s on 10 s off intertrain interval, 60 trains,
           First 3000 pulses to the left DMPFC then 3000 pulses to the right DMPFC. TMS will be
           done at active state by provocation

           Group 3 - medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) DTMS + ERP 5 days a week for 8 consecutive
           weeks = 40 sessions 20 Hz at 100% MT, 2 s on 20 s off intertrain interval, 50 trains,
           2000 stimuli per session. TMS will be done at active state by provocation The ERP will
           be administered for 2 hours on week 1 and week 8 and for 1 hour on Weeks 2 to 7 for a
           total of 10 hours.

           Group 4 - dorsomedial prefrontal cortex (DMPFC) rTMS +ERP 5 days a week for 8
           consecutive weeks = 40 sessions 10 Hz at 120% MT, 5 s on 10 s off intertrain interval,
           60 trains, First 3000 pulses to the left DMPFC then 3000 pulses to the right DMPFC. TMS
           will be done at active state by provocation The ERP will be administered for 2 hours on
           week 1 and week 8 and for 1 hour on Weeks 2 to 7 for a total of 10 hours.

           Group 5 - ERP The ERP will be conducted for 2 hours on week 1 and week 8 and for 1 hour
           on Weeks 2 to 7 for a total of 10 hours.

        9. Prior to initiation and during each treatment of TMS, OCD symptoms will be provoked for
           each patient in an individual manner to activate the relevant brain circuitry. Targeted
           questions will be designed for each patient using external, internal or a combination of
           provocations and the degree of provocation on a Visual Analog Scale will be recorded.
           These may require adjustment as the patient improves.

       10. Study evaluations will be performed every week at the beginning of the next treatment
           week (from week 2), prior to the first or second (preferably second) treatment session
           of that week. Procedures to be performed at the 8-week visit will also be performed in
           case of Early Discontinuation of the study.

       11. Follow up period 1) All patients will be followed up at week 12. vi. Plan for Data
           Analysis

        1. Primary Efficacy Variable

           - The primary outcome measure is the BOCS and YBOCS severity rating scale. The primary
           efficacy endpoint is the change in BOCS and YBOCS severity score from baseline to the
           8-week visit.

        2. Secondary Efficacy Variables

           - Change from baseline to the 8-week visit in the Clinical Global Impression - Severity
           (CGI-S) and Improvement (CGI-I) scores.

           - Change from baseline to the 12-week visit in the BOCS and YBOCS severity score.

           - Change from baseline to the 12-week visit in the Clinical Global Impression - Severity
           (CGI-S) and Improvement (CGI-I) scores.

        3. Exploratory Efficacy Variables - Change from baseline to the 8 week and 12 weeks visit
           in the Beck's Depression Inventory score.

             -  fMRI changes before and after treatment and using fMRI to predict future response
                to TMS treatment (to identify responders and non-responders)
    
  