
    
      Patients will be enrolled if they are scheduled to undergo a coronary or peripheral
      catheterization procedure involving the placement of a sheath (plastic tube) in the radial
      artery near the participants wrist. The purpose of this research is to compare two devices
      which make bleeding stop after the participants procedure is finished and the plastic tube is
      removed from the radial artery in the wrist. The two devices are called the VasoStat and the
      TR Band. Both of these devices are called hemostasis devices, which means they stop bleeding
      (hemostasis). Both devices are approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and are
      used throughout hospitals in the United States. The investigators will compare blood flow to
      the hand, and survey patients as to how comfortable these devices are, while they are being
      used to stop bleeding after the catheterization procedure.

      Patients will be randomized to one device or the other as part of the study.

      The investigators will noninvasively measure the blood flow to the hand by placing a soft
      plastic probe on the tip of the thumb called a plethysmography probe. This measurement only
      takes a few seconds and is painless. The investigators will measure before, after application
      and after removal & before patients are discharged. Thirty days later, patients will return
      for another measurement and to examine the radial artery with an ultrasound probe.

      40 patients will be enrolled. Statistical analysis: Based on prior studies, The investigators
      will assume that the VasoStat produces a 30% reduction in hand perfusion during normal
      clinical use. The investigators assume the TR Band produces a 70% reduction in hand perfusion
      during normal clinical use. Using a two-sample test of proportions, with a Type I error of
      5%, a power of 80%, and an anticipated drop-out rate of 10%, The investigators will need to
      enroll 40 patients (20 patients in each arm of the study) (StatMate 2.0, GraphPad Software,
      San Diego, CA)
    
  