
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety, tolerability, and to establish the maximum tolerated recommended
      dose (RD) CCI-779 (temsirolimus) in cohorts of patients with varying degrees of hepatic
      dysfunction (mild, moderate, and severe) in order to provide appropriate dosing
      recommendations for CCI-779 (temsirolimus) in this population.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of CCI-779 (temsirolimus) in patients
      with varying degrees of hepatic function.

      II. To determine if the pharmacodynamic (PD) profile of CCI-779 (temsirolimus) as measured by
      drug effects on p70s6 kinase and p4EBP1 phosphorylation and other markers of mTOR inhibition
      in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) is altered in patients with varying degrees of
      hepatic function.

      III. To document the non-dose limiting toxicities and any anti-tumor efficacy associated with
      administration of CCI-779 (temsirolimus) in this patient population.

      IV. To compare the NCI ODWG criteria and the Child-Pugh classification of hepatic dysfunction
      in terms of their predictive value in reducing interpatient variability in the PK and PD of
      CCI-779 (temsirolimus).

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      hepatic function (normal vs mild dysfunction vs moderate dysfunction vs severe dysfunction vs
      liver transplant).

      Patients receive temsirolimus IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses repeat
      every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of temsirolimus until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Up to 12 patients are treated at the MTD.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 30 days.
    
  