
    
      Background: Cardiac rehabilitation (CR) programs are well established, as their effectiveness
      and cost-effectiveness is proven. In spite of this, CR remains under-utilized, especially in
      middle and low-resource settings such as Latin America. As the highest rates of mortality and
      disability-adjusted life-years in the world are caused by cardiovascular diseases, with a
      corresponding major impact on economies, there is an urgent need to create more accessible CR
      delivery models to reach all patients in need. This trial aims to evaluate if the prevention
      of recurrent cardiovascular events is not inferior in a hybrid cardiac rehabilitation program
      compared to a standard program.

      Method and analysis: A non-inferiority, pragmatic, multicenter, parallel (1:1), single
      blinded, randomized clinical trial will be conducted. 314 patients with coronary artery
      disease will be recruited consecutively. Participants will be randomized to hybrid or
      standard rehabilitation programs. The hybrid CR program includes 10 supervised exercise
      sessions and individualized lifestyle counseling by a physiotherapist, with a transition
      after 4-6 weeks to unsupervised delivery via text messages and phone calls. The standard CR
      consists of 18-22 supervised exercise sessions, as well as group education sessions about
      lifestyle. The intervention in both groups will be by 12 weeks. The primary outcome is a
      composite of cardiovascular mortality and hospitalizations due to cardiovascular causes.
      Secondary outcomes are cardiovascular risk factor control, exercise capacity, adherence to
      physical activity and diet recommendations, health-related quality of life and
      exercise-related adverse events. The outcomes will be measured at the end of intervention, at
      6 months, and at 12-month follow-up from recruitment. The primary outcome will be tracked
      through the end of the trial. The sample size was calculated considering 5% of the
      non-inferiority limit. Per protocol and intention-to-treat analysis will be undertaken. A
      survival analysis will be run for the primary outcome.

      Ethics and dissemination: The corresponding ethical committees at the sponsor institution and
      each center where participants will be recruited approved the study protocol and the Informed
      Consent form. Research findings will be published in peer-reviewed journals. Additionally,
      scientific results will be disseminated among stakeholders and national policy-makers.
    
  