
    
      Examine in a randomised trial whether revaccination with BCG reduces childhood mortality
      after 19 months of age by 30%.

      Criteria for verification: 3,000 children aged 1½ year enrolled and followed for an average
      of 3 years; information on potential adverse events among children with a positive PPD
      reaction; assessment of parasitaemia after revaccination; assessment of the tuberculin
      response and scar-formation after revaccination; and assessment of all-cause mortality during
      the period of follow-up.

      Following consent to participate, children will be assessed for BCG scar and tuberculin
      reaction at 18-19 months of age. Subsequently, the children will be invited to a clinical
      examination at one of the health centres. The study will be explained again to the mother,
      and if she accepts to participate, she will draw a randomisation number deciding whether the
      child will be revaccinated or not. The BCG vaccine given will be the standard dose of 0.1 ml
      as recommended by WHO in this age group. In the beginning of the study, a group of 800
      revaccinated and not revaccinated children will be followed weekly for two months to monitor
      morbidity and possible adverse effects of the vaccination. It is not expected that Koch like
      reactions will be common in this age group. However, should there be too many adverse
      reactions among children with a positive tuberculin test, only tuberculin negative children
      will be included in the continuation of the trial.

      Two months after inclusion, the children will have another tuberculin test to examine changes
      in tuberculin reaction. At the same time, scar-size will be measured. In the initial phase of
      the project, a finger-prick blood sample will be collected from 1000 children to examine
      whether BCG boosting/no boosting have had an effect on the prevalence of malaria parasitaemia
      and the level of measles antibodies. Children with malaria will be treated and children with
      non-protective levels of measles antibodies will be offered revaccination with measles
      vaccine. In a group of children, samples will be collected both before and after BCG
      revaccination/no revaccination to measure changes in cytokine profile. Children with a large
      PPD reaction (> 15mm) will be followed in a similar way as the other children as this may
      reflect immune stimulation from exposure to natural TB. The studies of morbidity and
      immunological changes will be done both in the dry and the rainy seasons. The children will
      be followed for hospitalisations and mortality to 5 years of age.
    
  