
    
      Aim: Determine if Rapid Evaporative Ionization Mass Spectrometry (the iKnife); can diagnose
      cancer and pre-cancer from endometrial tissue biopsy samples.

      Background:

      Endometrial cancer is a tumour originating in the endometrium (womb lining); it is the most
      common gynaecological cancer in the United Kingdom (UK). In 2012, there were almost 100,000
      new cases diagnosed in Europe. Endometrial cancer classically presents with postmenopausal
      bleeding (bleeding after the menopause), or intermenstrual bleeding (bleeding between
      periods).

      Although routine management for these women does vary, in general a screening test is
      performed, typically a pelvic (internal) ultrasound to assess the endometrium (womb lining).
      In cases where the endometrial thickness is above the threshold for investigation -an
      endometrial biopsy (sampling cells from the womb lining) is indicated.

      Once the endometrial biopsy is performed, it is sent to the histologist for further
      examination. Histological analysis may take several days and patients are either brought back
      to clinic for discussion of the results or are given a telephone appointment. The patient
      often will not know the result of the test for up to 2 weeks; thus causing a lot of
      unnecessary anxiety and distress. Novel diagnostic tests, such as Rapid Evaporative
      Ionization Mass Spectrometry (REIMS), may enable real time point of care diagnosis for the
      first time. When REIMS is coupled to conventional surgical diathermy it is colloquially
      referred to as the iKnife. REIMS has been used successfully in other organs and has been
      shown to accurately distinguish between cancer and non-cancer. Part of this research project
      is to evaluate this new technology in endometrial cancer.

      The study:

      All women presenting to the rapid access clinic with post menopausal bleeding (PMB) and
      intermenstrual bleeding will be approached for consent for inclusion into this study. They
      will receive the patient information leaflet when they arrive in clinic and are waiting to
      see the clinician. When women normally attend this clinic the doctor will discuss what will
      happen - this includes an internal (pelvic scan) and an examination. If the womb lining is
      thickened on the scan the patient will need a tissue biopsy (this is not that common, most
      women only need a scan), this will be taken at the same time as the examination in clinic.
      The device used to take the tissue biopsy is called a pipelle. It is a fine 3mm width tube
      with suction which removes cells from the lining of the womb. If the patient is agreeable a
      second endometrial sample will be taken specifically for research.

      The histology of first sample will be analysed by conventional pathology and the second
      sample will be analysed by the new technology REIMS. REIMS is Rapid Evaporative Ionization
      Mass Spectrometry. This new technology uses mass spectroscopy to analyse the tissue. REIMS
      has been dubbed the 'iKnife' or 'intelligent knife' colloquially as when coupled with
      surgical diathermy the gas pattern produced is unique to the tissue and helps surgeons know
      where to cut. The diagnostic ability of this technology will be compared against the gold
      standard, which is histological examination.

      Patients who already have a diagnosis of endometrial cancer and can still participate in the
      study if they are undergoing a hysterectomy, as can consent to an tissue biopsy sample in
      theatre (either under general anaesthesia, GA or ex-vivo).

      If this technology proves effective it will mean that womb (endometrial) cancer can be
      diagnosed from samples taken in clinic on the same day; providing a true one stop clinic, for
      the first time.
    
  