
    
      The investigators are studying an amended dosing regimen of an approved drug (Gardasil 9) in
      the population for which it is approved (vaccine is approved for ages 9-45 years and
      participants in this study will be 15-26 years of age.) The purpose of the study is to
      examine a delayed dosing schedule. The current recommendation is to administer the vaccine in
      3 doses (administered at 0, 1-2 months and 6 months) to those 15-26 years of age but only 2
      doses (0 and 6 months) if given at 9-14 years of age. The investigators will conduct a
      randomized study to determine if 2 doses will elicit an immune response similar to the
      standard 3 doses in those 15-26 years of age. Participants in the study group will receive 2
      doses of Gardasil 9 at 0 and 6 months. Participants in the control group will receive 3 doses
      of Gardasil 9 at 0, 1-2 months and 6 months. All participants (Target Accrual n=512) will
      have 5 mLs of blood drawn at 0, 7, and 12 months. Following the 12 month blood draw,
      participants randomized to 2-doses will receive the 3rd dose. Potential participants will be
      recruited in the University of Texas Medical Branch (UTMB) clinics where providers have given
      the PI permission to directly contact patients. The investigators will also display signs and
      use email announcements at UTMB and other college campuses and will advertise the study
      online or by mail. The investigators will call UTMB patients if their provider gave
      permission to contact the patient, or if the patients gave prior consent to contact through
      the UTMB system. Potential participants (and their parents, if under 18 years of age) will be
      screened with inclusion/exclusion criteria. Eligible and interested parents and patients will
      sign informed written consent. Patients under 18 years of age will sign written assent. At
      the initial visit, eligible, consented participants will have their blood drawn, be
      randomized into either the study or control group, and receive a dose of the HPV vaccine.
      Participants will be re-screened against the inclusion/exclusion criteria at subsequent
      visits. All participants will receive compensation administered through a ClinCard following
      each of the 3 blood draws.
    
  