
    
      The addition of molecules or growth factors to the implant surface is an approach to enhance
      bone to implant contact (BIC).1 Platelet rich fibrin matrix (PRFM) is an autologous
      concentrated platelet-rich thrombin free fibrin matrix, prepared by two step centrifugation
      of blood. Platelets isolated, remain intact and retain their growth factor compliment. This
      allows a more effective, sustained release of growth factors to the wound site following PRFM
      application.2 During the second spin, a cross-linking of fibrin takes place, resulting in the
      formation of a dense fibrin matrix, within which a concentration of viable platelets can be
      found. Having an organized fibrin matrix at the start of healing accelerates the speed of
      vascular ingress into the wound compared to non-accelerated healing, which requires a longer
      time for fibrin formation and the development of vascularity. The earlier the vascularity is
      established, faster is the migration of the bone-forming cells at the wound site and
      initiation of bone formation. Therapeutic applications of platelet-rich products have led to
      improved bone regeneration and faster titanium implant osseointegration, which improve the
      stability and maintenance of dental implants by increasing BIC.1 Mesenchymal stem cells
      (MSCs) is a multipotent stromal cell with prominent regenerative functions. MSCs were first
      identified and isolated from bone marrow and then found in various tissues including
      umbilical cord, adipose tissue and peripheral blood. Among these sources peripheral blood
      MSCs draw increasing attention as they share similar biological characteristics with MSCs
      derived from bone marrow or adipose tissue. Bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem
      cells(BMMSCs) are multipotent cells capable of differentiating into osteoblasts,
      chondrocytes, adipocytes , fibroblasts, tenocytes, and myoblasts , which are considered as a
      cell source for various tissue repair and regenerating bone defects.3 The requirements of
      aspiration of bone marrow from the patient will cause pain and morbidity of the donor sites.
      It will be very convenient if peripheral blood mesenchymal stem cells (PBMSCs) could be
      harvested and expanded to enough numbers, with their osteogenic capacity maintained in a
      clinical permitted period.

      The literature search does not show any human clinical trial conducted till date to assess
      the regenerative potential of this new modality i.e. PRFM and peripheral blood mesenchymal
      stem cells. This study therefore aims at the evaluation of PRFM and PBMSCs as regenerative
      materials for implant stability.
    
  