
    
      In this research study, study investigators are partnering with United Neighborhood Houses of
      New York, the umbrella membership organization of the 34 New York City Neighborhood Houses.
      Due to the limited scope of this feasibility study, we have selected three Houses to serve as
      recruitment sites. These three house approximate the gender and racial characteristics of the
      larger group.

      During Stage 1, investigators will work with the three Houses in implementing systematic
      research assessments to identify level of psychopathology, referral patterns, and connections
      to mental health evaluation among their depressed senior clients. Investigators will train
      caseworkers to screen their clients for depression and will also instruct caseworkers to
      refer any senior scoring endorsing depressive symptoms to their partnering community-based
      mental health or medical clinic. Data on successful connections to mental health evaluation
      will serve as the comparison to that achieved by Stage 2, the ENGAGE intervention.

      During Stage 2 study investigators will train all caseworkers from each Neighborhood House to
      use the ENGAGE intervention. For eligible depressed seniors, the caseworker will:

        1. provide psychoeducation that addresses client-specific barriers to evaluation and care
           (e.g., stigma, transportation);

        2. use shared decision-making strategies to engage seniors and arrive at a decision about
           where and from whom to receive an evaluation and possible care; and

        3. provide connections to preferred mental health services. Mental health service options
           will include referral to the senior's primary care physician or local community mental
           health clinic for further evaluation.

      In two subsequent sessions 2 and 4 weeks later, the caseworker will assess success in
      receiving a mental health evaluation, and in initiating treatment:

        -  If the senior has not yet pursued an evaluation, the caseworker will continue to address
           his/her individual barriers and will re-engage in shared decision-making if necessary.

        -  If the senior did receive an evaluation that confirms a depressive diagnosis, but
           remains undecided about treatment, the case worker will empower and help the senior to
           select an appropriate treatment of his/her choice and will encourage ongoing engagement
           in this treatment.

        -  If an evaluation revealed the absence of a depressive disorder and no treatment
           recommendations, the caseworker will re-assess to ensure that depression did not emerge.
    
  