
    
      This study is a 24 week, placebo-controlled, parallel, double-blind, five-arm trial. The
      randomized treatment assignment will be stratified by participating study center and baseline
      pain score (mild, moderate to severe). In order to establish that the study is able to detect
      significant treatment effects for glucosamine, chondroitin sulfate and the combination of the
      two, celecoxib, already established to be effective, will also be compared to placebo.
      Patients will receive a rescue analgesic medication, acetaminophen, which they will be
      allowed to take for severe pain throughout the trial but not within 24 hours prior to a study
      visit.

      The visits include a screening visit (Visit 1.0), randomization visit (Visit 2.0), and
      follow-up visits at 4 weeks (Visit 3.0), 8 weeks (Visit 4.0), and 16 weeks (Visit 5.0) and a
      completion visit at 24 weeks (Visit 6.0) after randomization or at any time patients
      discontinue the study drug or withdraw from the study. All patients require an X-ray to
      document the presence of their disease and all patients must have clinical and X-ray evidence
      of OA. X-rays are read at the individual sites and then forwarded to a central radiology
      center for confirmatory readings.

      Patient evaluations consist of; 1) the Western Ontario and MacMaster (WOMAC) osteoarthritis
      index, 2) patient and investigator global evaluations of disease status and response to study
      medication, 3) evaluation of the index knee for swelling and tenderness, 4) SF-36, 5) the
      Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ), 6) Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), 7) clinical
      evaluation for adverse reactions and 8) reconciliation of study medications and rescue
      analgesia use.

      The percentage of treatment responders is the primary outcome measure. A patient will be
      classified as a treatment responder if there is a 20% reduction from baseline to the end of
      follow-up in the WOMAC pain subscale.

      Following the method by which the sample size target was derived, the analysis to address the
      primary hypotheses will involve 3 primary comparisons 1) glucosamine vs. placebo, 2)
      chondroitin vs. placebo, and 3) glucosamine + chondroitin vs. placebo. A side comparison will
      also be done between celecoxib and placebo. Each comparison will be done using Fisher's Exact
      Test, with a two-sided alpha of 0.0125.

      GAIT Ancillary Study

      Patients recruited at selected sites will be extended the opportunity to participate in a
      trial that administers blinded study agents for a total of 24 months. This study is a
      preliminary evaluation of whether glucosamine, chondroitin sulfate and/or the combination of
      glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate are more effective than placebo and whether the
      combination is more effective than glucosamine or chondroitin sulfate alone in altering
      radiographic progression in patients with osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee after two years of
      follow-up.

      Expected Total Enrollment: 791

      (*Indicates centers participating in the ancillary study, sites listed below)

      Study start: April 2000; Study completion: March 2006

      Primary Analysis

      The primary analysis will be based on all patients with baseline and follow-up xrays,
      including those who withdraw from treatment. Inclusion of all patients with baseline and
      follow-up data will reduce the degree to which differential effectiveness biases the
      treatment comparisons. A second analysis will be based on all patients who remain on
      treatment.

      Following the method by which the sample size target was derived, the analysis to address the
      primary hypotheses will involve 3 primary comparisons 1) glucosamine vs. placebo, 2)
      chondroitin vs. placebo, and 3) glucosamine + chondroitin vs. placebo. A side comparison will
      also be done between celecoxib and placebo. Each comparison will be done using the t-test for
      2 independent samples, with a two-sided alpha of 0.0125.

      The primary outcome measure is the change in joint space width between baseline and two years
      of follow-up as defined by the Buckland-Wright MTP protocol.

      To evaluate long-term efficacy of the treatments, the two-year treatment response rate
      (defined as a 20% reduction from baseline in the WOMAC pain score) will be calculated.
      Paralleling the main study protocol, Fisher's exact test will be used to compare each active
      treatment arm to placebo.

      Mixed-model analysis of variance using generalized estimating equations will be used to
      compare the % of treatment responders over time across treatment groups. Treatment of missing
      data will follow that discussed previously for the mixed-model analysis of change in JSW.

      Safety will be evaluated by comparing the percentage of people withdrawing from study
      medications due to adverse events during the two-year follow-up period using Fisher's exact
      test. Time to withdrawal due to an adverse event will be evaluated using Kaplan-Meier life
      table estimates and comparison of treatment groups will use the log-rank test.
    
  