
    
      Functional dyspepsia (FD) is one of the most common functional gastrointestinal disorders.
      Current data from clinical studies have shown that traditional Chinese medicine can obviously
      relieve clinical symptoms of patients with FD, and has special advantages and good clinical
      application prospects in the treatment of FD. Zhizhu Kuanzhong Capsule is mainly composed of
      the following 4 kinds of Chinese herbs: Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephala, Fructus Aurantii
      Immaturus, Radix Bupleuri and Fructus Crataegi. This trial aims to evaluate the clinical
      efficacy and safety of Zhizhu Kuanzhong Capsule in the treating patients with functional
      dyspepsia postprandial distress syndrome(FD PDS). This is a multi-center, stratified-block
      randomized, double-blind and placebo parallel-controlled trial. The comparison between the
      investigational drug and the placebo will be conducted with superiority design. About 480
      subjects matched Rome IV diagnostic criteria for FD PDS will be enrolled. For each subject,
      this study includes a 0-2 week screening period, a 1-week run-in period, an 8-week
      double-blind treatment period, and a 4-week follow-up period. The drugs used in the clinical
      study (including investigational drug and placebo) will be supplied by Shuangren
      Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. of Lonch Group.The quality standards and test methods for the
      placebo are consistent with those for the investigational drug, and the quality test meets
      the proposed quality standards. The selection and evaluation bias are controlled by means of
      strictly implementing randomized control blinded method etc, and the investigator will be
      trained on the consistency of scale evaluation.The electronic case report form (hereinafter
      referred to as eCRF) of this trial is created using the Medical Clinical Trial Data
      Management System (eCDMS3.0) for online data acquisition and management via the Internet. The
      data in the eCRF are from the original documents such as the original medical records and the
      physicochemical examination report sheets and should be consistent with the original
      documents. The response rate for functional dyspepsia VAS score will be compared between the
      test group and control group at 8 weeks after randomization.
    
  