
    
      Cancer outcomes are equivalent regardless of the order of systemic treatments and surgery
      with a trend towards improved overall survival in women age <50 years receiving chemotherapy
      before surgery. Adjuvant post-mastectomy chest wall RT has been shown to have both a local
      and survival benefit particularly in high risk patients. Accordingly, patients with T3/T4
      breast cancer and/or with a significant burden of axillary disease commonly now receive a
      treatment sequence comprising primary chemotherapy followed by mastectomy and immediate
      autologous reconstruction, increasingly using abdominal fat (DIEP reconstruction), and
      finally adjuvant radiotherapy to the affected chest wall +/- supraclavicular fossa.

      There are precedents for the use of upfront (neoadjuvant) radiotherapy (NART) followed by
      complex cancer surgery. For example, in rectal cancer, there is substantial evidence for the
      use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy and radiotherapy followed by aggressive surgical excision as
      the standard of care in patients with a threatened or involved circumferential margin.
      Short-course preoperative radiotherapy has been tested in multiple trials in rectal cancer,
      including the Swedish Rectal Cancer Trial, Dutch Colorectal Cancer Group Study and more
      recently the Medical Research Council CR07 trial. All three studies demonstrated better local
      control and improved disease-free and overall survival. Flap reconstruction of the perineum
      at the time of abdomino-perineal resection is well described as a method to reduce perineal
      morbidity and is indicated when primary closure cannot be achieved after wide local
      resection. By transferring a bulk of vascularized soft tissue into the irradiated pelvis,
      flap reconstruction has been shown to reduce infection rates, fill pelvic dead space, prevent
      wound dehiscence, and reduce time to healing. 'Short course' pre-operative rectal
      radiotherapy: surgery is generally undertaken 7-10 days after completion of radiotherapy with
      an acceptable impact on post-operative complication rate.

      There is one published series of NART in breast cancer reporting an acceptable post-operative
      complication rate. Following on from this, surgeons and clinical oncologists from Imperial
      College and the Royal Marsden have begun to develop a limited experience of mastectomy and
      DIEP reconstruction 14 days following completion of radiotherapy (10 cases, no significant
      post-operative complications). This non-randomised phase II study sets out to formally
      evaluate the safety of reversing the order of mastectomy plus immediate DIEP flap
      reconstruction and adjuvant radiotherapy, with a view to a subsequent randomised controlled
      trial testing local control and cosmetic outcomes.
    
  