
    
      This will be a prospective descriptive pilot study. The demographic data forms and the
      adapted reaction questionnaires will be administered to subjects via pen and paper after
      obtaining informed consent at the conclusion of the staff meetings. They will be collected by
      administrative assistants and placed into a secure drop box, located in the study
      coordinator's office. Only the assigned unique subject ID will be used on all data forms.

      During the ED triage data collection phase, administrative assistants will be on-site to give
      triage nurses the fatigue questionnaire. It will be completed using pen and paper every two
      hours, with subjects cued to complete the questionnaire by administrative assistants.

      After the subject completes the survey, he/she will place it in an envelope and hand it to
      the administrative assistant who will place it into a secured drop box, located in a study
      coordinator's office. No PHI or identifying data will be on the completed surveys. Each
      participant will only use the previously assigned unique subject ID, known only to the study
      coordinator & Co-PIs, & PI. The key to the unique ID will be kept in a locked secure file
      accessible only by the study coordinator and Co-PI.

      Data will be collected over a total of six 24-hour periods. The first 24-hour data collection
      period will take place on a high volume day (Monday) in which triage nurses will be assigned
      to 12-hour triage shifts. The second 24-hour data collection period will take place on a low
      volume day (Sunday) in which triages nurses will again be assigned to 12-hour triage shifts.
      The third 24-hour data collection period will take place on a high volume day (Monday) in
      which nurses will be assigned to 8-hour triage shifts. The fourth 24-hour data collection
      period will take place on a low volume day (Sunday) in which nurses will again be assigned to
      8-hour triage shifts. The fifth 24-hour data collection period will take place on a high
      volume day (Monday) in which nurses will be assigned to 4-hour triage shifts. The sixth
      24-hour data collection period will take place on a low volume day (Sunday) in which nurses
      will again be assigned to 4-hour triage shifts.
    
  