
    
      Osmotherapy is commonly used in the treatment of intracranial hypertension (ICH) due to a
      variety of causes, including head trauma, intracranial neoplasia, infection or hemorrhage,
      and status epilepticus. The principle goal of osmotherapy is to shift fluid from the
      intracellular into the extracellular compartment using intravenous hyperosmolar agents,
      thereby reducing brain edema and improving cerebral perfusion pressure. Although 10-20%
      mannitol is considered the gold standard hyperosmolar agent in the treatment of ICH,
      mannitol-induced osmotic diuresis may cause hypovolemia and reduction in cerebral perfusion
      pressure. In recent years, 3.0-7.5% hypertonic saline (HTS) has gained popularity in the
      treatment of ICH as it has less pronounced diuretic effects and therefore does not cause
      hypovolemia. Indeed, in the face of hypovolemic shock and traumatic brain injury, HTS
      provides the advantage of volume expansion, restoring adequate cerebral perfusion pressures,
      and reducing brain edema, which makes it superior to mannitol in trauma patients with shock.

      Both mannitol and HTS have been shown to interfere with whole blood coagulation and platelet
      function. This is in part due to dilutional coagulopathy. Furthermore, 7.2% HTS may directly
      disturb both fibrin formation and platelet function, and mannitol may interfere with
      coagulation by reducing clot strength. In addition, hyperosmolarity is supposed to lead to
      impairment of both whole blood coagulation and platelet function . In consequence, the safety
      of using these agents in patients with ICH and intracranial hemorrhage remains unclear.
      Previous in vitro studies in humans have demonstrated anticoagulant effects of both mannitol
      and HTS, although one clinical study failed to demonstrate any negative effect on hemostasis
      using either solution in patients undergoing elective intracranial surgery. However, in vivo
      studies in a clinical setting are lacking.
    
  