
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the "best dose" (defined as the dose that shows the greatest improvement in
           the erectile function domain of the International Index of Erectile Function [IIEF]
           after 8 weeks of therapy) of an L-arginine/Korean ginseng/gingko biloba/damiana-based
           supplement (L-arginine) to be used in a subsequent phase III trial in prostate cancer
           survivors previously treated with radiotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate the toxicity of treatment with L-arginine with or without phosphodiesterase-5
           inhibitors.

        -  Estimate trial accrual, retention, adherence, and variability.

        -  Assess changes in quality of life (QOL) and sexual function as defined by changes in the
           QOL of these patients using the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite, changes in the
           other domains of the IIEF (i.e., orgasmic function, sexual desire, intercourse
           satisfaction, and overall satisfaction), changes in the Sexual Encounter Profile, and
           changes in the percentage of "yes" (positive) responses to either of the two global
           efficacy questions.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to age (< 65 years vs ≥ 65 years) and current use
      of phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitors (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 3
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral placebo twice daily (total of 6 capsules per day).

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral L-arginine and oral placebo twice daily (total of 3
           capsules of each per day).

        -  Arm III: Patients receive oral L-arginine twice daily (total of 6 capsules per day).

      In all arms, treatment continues for 8 weeks in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients may also receive oral sildenafil, tadalafil, or vardenafil (PDE-5 inhibitors).

      Patients complete the International Index of Erectile Function and the Expanded Prostate
      Cancer Index Composite-26 at baseline and at weeks 4 and 8. Patients also complete the Sexual
      Encounter Profile Questionnaire, FACT-P, and the Global Efficacy Questionnaire at weeks 4 and
      8.
    
  