
    
      In addition to pain at the surgical incision site, patients undergoing major bowel operations
      commonly experience pain in the surrounding (uninjured)skin during the postoperative period -
      this phenomenon is known as hyperalgesia. In most patients hyperalgesia resolves with healing
      of the wound, but in some patients it persists. Recent studies have shown that 25% of
      patients undergoing bowel surgery will have chronic pain at 1 year following surgery. This
      pain can be debilitating and has significant implications, both for the individual and for
      society. For the individual there are significant physical, mental, social and economic
      implications. The burden on society is significant because bowel surgery operations are very
      common, and many of the 25% of the patients who develop chronic pain will required ongoing
      treatment and unable to work.Chronic pain after surgery is believed to be a result of changes
      in the central nervous system (i.e. brain and spinal cord)occurring during and immediately
      after the surgery. Indeed the likelihood of a patient developing chronic pain is related to
      the extent of hyperalgesia during the initial post-operative period. Two other important
      predisposing factors are the emotional state of the patient and the genetic predisposition of
      the patient to develop chronic pain states. In our hospital, in common with most western
      hospitals, patients undergoing major bowel surgery commonly have an epidural catheter (a soft
      plastic tube inserted in the space surrounding the spinal cord fluid) inserted before the
      operation to facilitate the administration, during the first few postoperative days, of a
      combination of a local anaesthetic agent (bupivacaine in our hospital) and an opiate drug (a
      morphine-like medicine; fentanyl is used in our hospital). Unfortunately, neither fentanyl
      nor bupivacaine appear to reduce the incidence of hyperalgesia. In fact there is evidence
      that larger doses of opiates such as fentanyl can increase the extent and severity of
      hyperalgesia. Moreover, although routinely used in our hospital, fentanyl is associated with
      several adverse effects including nausea and vomiting, generalised itching, sedation
      (sleepiness), and respiratory depression (slowed respiration rate). Recent studies have shown
      that when clonidine is injected through an epidural catheter, it can provide good pain relief
      in the immediate post-operative period, and is also effective in reducing the extent of
      hyperalgesia in the area around the incision. This, in turn may lead reduce the probability
      of patients developing persistent pain. There is good evidence to show that when clonidine is
      used instead of fentanyl, the adverse effects are reduced.

      Although epidural clonidine has been used with success in different surgical settings, there
      are no published studies comparing epidural combinations of bupivacaine and clonidine with
      bupivacaine and fentanyl (or all 3 drugs together) in patients undergoing abdominal surgery.
      There is now good evidence from animal and human studies to suggest that a combination of
      fentanyl and clonidine has more pain-relieving effect than either of the two drugs
      administered on its own.

      We thus propose to compare the pain relieving effects of these three drug combinations in
      patients undergoing abdominal operations for bowel resection.

      There are various methods of detecting hyperalgesia. Measurement of sensitivity to touch and
      pain in the skin around the incision site is a simple and reproducible method. This involves
      use of simple devices - a brush (to test pain on touch) and a plastic pointed hair/filament
      (to detect and measure abnormal sensitivity to a mildly painful stimulus in the area around
      the incision). To determine the incidence of chronic pain we will follow up patients after
      surgery by telephoning to ask them questions relating to the intensity of their pain as well
      as its effect on their lifestyle. To assess the patients' emotional state before surgery we
      will ask them to complete questionnaires known to be reliable and validated for detection of
      anxiety and depression, for assessment of general well-being. For detection of genetic
      predisposition to developing chronic pain, we will analyse patients' blood samples for genes
      that are known to either reduce the effectiveness of pain-relieving medication,or to make
      them more sensitive to painful stimuli.
    
  