
    
      BN is a serious disorder that is characterized by extreme concerns about body weight and
      shape, dieting, and the disinhibited eating behaviors of binging and purging. There are no
      published randomized clinical trials of psychotherapy treatment for Bulimia Nervosa in
      adolescents although it often onsets in this age group. There is evidence that some
      treatments are effective, but none has been empirically tested. Because Bulimia Nervosa is a
      serious medical and psychiatric illness it is important to learn efficacious ways to treat
      this disorder, especially in its early stages. Treatments used in this study are the best
      known treatments for adults with Bulimia Nervosa. The investigators hope to learn which of
      two previously studied treatments might be superior to the other, in an effort to guide
      clinicians in treatment choices. Successfully treating the disorder early on (even in those
      adolescents with partial BN, characterized by binge eating and purging at least one time per
      week over a 6 month period) may reduce the number of cases requiring treatment during
      adulthood, leading to possible reduction in severity of associated psychopathology and lower
      costs, as well as enable individuals to lead more productive lives.

      Given the neglect of adolescent BN in the research literature and the need for information to
      guide the clinical treatment of this disorder, this study's primary aim is to compare the
      efficacy of CBT-A to FBT-BN in decreasing binge eating and purging episodes in adolescents
      with BN and partial BN (defined as binge eating and purging at least one time per week for
      the past six months).

      Participation in this study will last 1 and a half years and will consist of 6 months of
      treatment and a follow-up session at 6 and 12 months post-treatment. All participants will
      first undergo baseline assessments, which include interviews and questionnaires about
      psychological history and BN symptoms, and an Eating Disorder Examination (EDE) interview.
      All treatment assignments consist of 18 sessions of therapy over the course of 6 months.
    
  