
    
      Families will be randomly assigned to either the Standard Care plus access to the
      Mobile-Thrive (M-Thrive) application or Standard Care alone. All families will complete a
      24-hour dietary recall, Feeding Strategies Questionnaire (FSQ), PedsQL Family Impact Module
      (PedsQL FIM), and Pediatric Inventory for Parents (PIP) at pre/post treatment. It will take
      about 45 minutes to complete these measures. Anthropometric measurements will be collected at
      pretreatment, 6 weeks, and 3 months. Families receiving standard care alone will have
      regularly scheduled visits in the Nutritional Care Program and will have access to standard
      care resources, including phone contacts and electronic access through the CHW hospital
      portal. Specifically, standard care treatment provides dietary and behavioral instructions on
      appropriate beverage intake, appropriate feeding regimen, advice on limiting low-calorie
      foods, and multivitamin supplementation, if appropriate. Families in the standard care plus
      the M-Thrive application will receive the standard care treatment that is described above, as
      well as on-demand resources, daily educational text messages, and family self-management push
      notifications through the M-Thrive application. The research team will train families on the
      use of the M-Thrive application and families in the standard care plus M-Thrive application
      can contact their provider through the application with questions and/or concerns. At the
      conclusion of the intervention, qualitative data regarding the participants' experience will
      be collected. Specifically, 90-minute focus group sessions will occur within 2 weeks of
      concluding the 3 month active phase of treatment. Families will be asked to discuss factors
      that affected their ability to sustain condition management recommendations, their efforts to
      access health care resources, factors that affect family quality of life and caregiver
      stress, and family impressions of what else would help to build support for families managing
      FTT. All sessions will be transcribed and coded for content analysis.
    
  