
    
      Synopsis

      All enrolled patients will receive 3.5 Gy per fraction (five fractions per week) at the
      following levels;

      Dose escalation by 7 Gy in 2 fractions to maximum of 63 Gy, as follows:

      Dose Level I: 3.5 Gy for 12 fractions (42 Gy total) Dose Level II*: 3.5 Gy for 14 fractions
      (49 Gy total) Dose Level III: 3.5 Gy for 16 fractions (56 Gy total) Dose Level VI: 3.5 Gy for
      18 fractions (63 Gy total) *Protocol treatment begins at level 2 for patients with the sum of
      the diameters of irradiated tumor(s) less than 10 cm.

      Patient population:

      Hepatocellular carcinoma based on the diagnostic criteria of European Association for the
      Study of the Liver (EASL), either confirmed cyto-histologically or confirmed non-invasively
      (restricted to cirrhotic patients) by radiological criteria (two coincident imaging
      techniques and focal lesion >2 cm with arterial hypervascularization) or combined criteria
      (one imaging technique associated with alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), focal lesion >2 cm with
      arterial hypervascularization, and AFP levels >400 ng/ml); Hepatitis B virus carrier
      serologically; Child-Pugh grade A for cirrhosis; The patients should be considered not
      suitable for surgery, ablation therapy, or trans-arterial chemoembolization judged by the
      caring physician. In addition, no systemic anti-cancer therapy with high priority is
      available judged by the caring physician.

      Required sample size: Minimum of 15 (if starting from level II)

      OBJECTS

      Primary To identify the maximally tolerated dose (from 42 Gy up to 63 Gy in 3.5 Gy per
      fraction), conformal radiation therapy in patients with HBV-related Child-Pugh grade A
      cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) who are not eligible for other conventional
      treatment modalities.

      Secondary To evaluate the local tumor control rate within the irradiated fields. To assess
      patterns of failure and survival of patients treated with conformal liver radiation therapy.

      To analyze the dose volume characteristics that influence whether radiation-induced liver
      disease (RILD), HBV reactivation, or other toxicities occur.

      To collect blood samples for translational research.

      RADIATION THERAPY:

      Radiation therapy must start within 4 weeks of patient registration. Intensity modulated
      radiation therapy or volumetric modulated arc therapy is acceptable. Helical tomotherapy or
      cyberknife is not allowed in this study. H2 blockers or proton pump inhibitors will be
      required in an attempt to reduce the risk of late gastrointestinal bleeding. Oral anti-viral
      agents are allowed at the discretion of the treating physician to prevent the reactivation of
      HBV.

      Dose specification

      The target dose is determined based on the study dose level and the volume of normal liver
      excluded from radiation, using the liver dose-volume histogram (DVH). Treatment at the
      allocated dose level is only permitted if the normal tissue criteria are maintained. If the
      normal tissue criteria are not met at that dose, treatment at a lower dose level is
      permitted, as long as the normal tissue constraints are met at the lower dose level.

      The dose per fraction to the planning target volume (PTV) is 3.5 Gy. Dose will start at dose
      level 2 (49 Gy), but may vary from 42 Gy to 63 Gy, in 12 to 18 fractions, Monday through
      Friday, in 2-fraction increments. The starting level will be Level 2, 49 Gy in 14 fraction
      for patients with the sum of the diameters of irradiated tumor(s) less than 10 cm and
      Child-Pugh grade A of liver cirrhosis, and level 1, 42 Gy in 12 fraction for patients
      otherwise.

      Doses will be prescribed to a peripheral covering isodose covering the PTV. Assuming dose is
      normalized to this isodose at 100%, the maximal dose can be 120% and the minimum PTV dose
      90%. Any dose > 110% must be within the PTV (except for adjacent tumors, in which the maximum
      dose outside the PTV must be < 115%). Minor variation is defined as minimum PTV dose falling
      between 85 and 90% (of the required 100% isodose prescription). Major variation
      (unacceptable) is defined as minimum PTV dose < 85 % (for the required 100% isodose
      prescription). The acceptable exception is the underdose of PTV adjacent to small bowels to
      keep less than any 3cc of small bowels or stomach with the dose more than 42 Gy. This part of
      PTV should be specified and recorded.

      Maximum doses are defined at 1 cc of volume. Minimum dose to the PTV is defined as minimum
      dose to 99.0% of the PTV.

      *Protocol treatment begins at level 2 for patients with the sum of the diameters of
      irradiated tumor(s) less than 10 cm and Child-Pugh grade A of liver cirrhosis.

      The minimum, maximum, and mean dose to the PTV is to be recorded for each gross tumor volume
      (GTV).

      Technical factors

      External beam equipment: Treatment will be delivered with 6 - 25 MV photons, with selection
      of appropriate energies to optimize the radiotherapy dose distribution within the target
      volume and minimize the dose to non-target tissues.

      Localization, simulation and immobilization Patient positioning will be based on clinical
      judgment to best achieve the ideal dose distribution.

      The target volume will be identified on an IV contrast CT scan and/or MRI that is registered
      to the planning CT dataset. The planning CT and all subsequent CT studies will be obtained
      using the identical immobilization technique used for treatment.

      An immobilization frame may be used, but is not required. A variety of immobilization methods
      may be utilized for planning and treatment, including active breathing control (ABC),
      voluntary breath hold, gating, shallow breathing, or abdominal compression. For free
      breathing, 4D-CT can be used to aid in PTV definition.

      Treatment planning/volume definitions

      CT-based 3D treatment planning shall be used for all patients. Intensity modulated radiation
      therapy (IMRT) can be used for selected patients with breathing control device during IMRT.

      The GTV will be defined by IV contrast CT or MRI. The clinical target volume (CTV) will be
      the GTV + 5 mm, within the liver. The PTV will be determined by the immobilization device
      used and/or the individual patient breathing motion. The minimal and maximal PTV margins
      permitted are 4 mm and 30 mm, respectively, dependent on the immobilization method used and
      breathing motion.

      DVH shall be calculated for the liver (liver minus the GTVs), both kidneys, the spinal cord,
      small bowels and stomach as well as the target lesions (GTVs. CTVs, and PTVs). The maximum,
      minimum, and mean dose and dose per fraction must be documented.

      Critical structures

      Normal liver: The normal liver is defined as the normal liver volume minus GTV. In all
      patients, it is required that there is at least 700 cc of normal liver. No more than 30% of
      the normal liver may receive more than 27 Gy, and no more than 50% of normal liver may
      receive over 24 Gy.

      Kidney: No more than 50% of the combined renal volume may receive 20 Gy or more.

      Spinal cord: Maximal permitted dose to spinal cord is 37 Gy. Small bowel: Maximal permitted
      dose to small bowel is 42 Gy for any 3 cc volume. The underdose of PTV adjacent to small
      bowels or stomach is acceptable.

      Stomach: Maximal permitted dose to stomach is 42 Gy for any 3 cc of volume. All doses are
      physical doses (not biologically corrected). Note that 42 Gy is biologically equivalent to
      56.8 Gy in 2 Gy/fraction using an α/β of 3.

      Radiation adverse events

      Liver: Radiation therapy should be held at any point in the protocol for CTCAE v3.0 hepatic
      adverse event Grade 4. It is expected that a proportion of patients will have transient
      elevation of liver enzymes following treatment (possibly up to Grade 3 CTCAE levels). If
      elevation of liver enzymes is observed up to Grade 3 levels, more frequent measurements (at
      least once a week) of the liver enzymes are recommended until the enzymes stabilize or return
      to baseline levels. Repeat of all Grade 4 blood work is required at least 5 days following
      the first abnormal lab value to determine if the Grade 4 levels are transient (defined here
      as < 5 days) or persistent. Patients will be evaluated at 1-month and 3-month follow-up
      visits for symptoms and signs of radiation induced liver disease (RILD). In patients who have
      elevation of liver enzymes near Grade 4 levels and/or in patients with early non-specific
      signs or symptoms of liver injury, close follow-up is recommended with repeat blood work. If
      no tumor progression is documented in these patients, liver injury will be presumed to be
      treatment related.

      HBV-related hepatitis: HBV-related hepatitis flare is defined as a greater than 3-fold
      increase of pre-treatment baseline serum ALT level and more than 100 IU/L. The HBV-related
      hepatitis flare (HBV reactivation) should be accompanied with the preceding or simultaneous
      greater than 10-fold increase, compared with previous nadir levels, of HBV DNA or by the
      reappearance of hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) in the serum of patients whose baseline HBeAg
      is negative. Oral anti-viral agent should be initiated in patients without prophylactic use
      of oral antiviral agents after HBV reactivation is confirmed.

      Gastrointestinal: The dose constraints required for the normal stomach and small intestine
      should limit the GI toxicity observed and it is not expected that GI toxicity will be dose
      limiting. However, if a portion of the stomach or small intestine is treated (> 30 Gy), H2
      blockers or proton pump inhibitors will be required to attempt to decrease the chance of late
      GI bleeding. Patients will be followed for GI toxicity at each follow up visit.

      Other: The occurrence of Grade 4 adverse events, related to protocol treatment, in any organ
      system will prompt discontinuance of protocol therapy while appropriate physical examination,
      laboratory, and imaging assessments are undertaken. Protocol treatment will not be resumed in
      the absence of recovery from adverse events of this magnitude. Once recovery to grade 1 has
      occurred, treatment may continue at the discretion of the treating physician.

      Evaluation of partial and complete response will be based on the 3-month follow-up CT scan.
      Only very gross increase in tumor size seen in less than that time will be scored as
      progressive disease. Response to radiation may continue up to 12 months follow-up and time of
      maximal response will be recorded.

      Measurement of Response

      Response will be evaluated in this study using the international criteria proposed by the
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Committee. The sum of the longest
      diameter (LD) for all target lesions will be calculated and reported as the baseline sum LD.
      The baseline sum LD will be used as reference by which to characterize the objective tumor.

      Response Criteria: Evaluation of target lesions Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all
      target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have
      reduction in short axis to <10 mm.

      Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions,
      taking as reference the baseline sum diameters.

      Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions,
      taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the
      smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also
      demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new
      lesions is also considered progression). Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to
      qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest
      sum diameters while on study

      In-field local control: For this study, local control is defined as the lack of progressive
      disease in the treated fields.

      Cause of death: The treating physician will evaluate whether the cause of death was hepatic
      or non-hepatic, and/or due to tumor or due to toxicity

      SPECIMEN COLLECTION FOR TRANSLATIONAL RESEARCH

      Peripheral Blood Collection

      Sample collection time points:

      Blood samples will be collected in 5 occasions along the protocol treatment:

        1. baseline (within 1 week before the first radiotherapy fraction);

        2. 5-10 days after the last radiotherapy fraction;

        3. 4 weeks after the last radiotherapy fraction.

      Preparation of Plasma and Buffy coat:

        1. Collect 5-10 mL of anticoagulated blood (EDTA). Invert tube several times to assure
           blood is mixed thoroughly with anticoagulant.

        2. Using three (3) 1mL cryovials, label them patient's case number, procedure date, and
           clearly mark cryovials "plasma". Similarly, label three (3) 1mL cryovials and mark as
           "buffy coat".

      Process:

        1. Centrifuge specimens within one hour of collection. EDTA (purple top) tubes should be
           centrifuged in a standard clinical centrifuge at ~2500 RPM at 4° Celsius for 10 minutes.

        2. If the interval between specimen collection and processing is anticipated to be greater
           than one hour, keep specimen on ice until centrifuging is done.

        3. Remove plasma close to the buffy coat taking cared not to disturb the white cell layer.
           Aliquot plasma into three 1mL cryovials labeled with the RTOG study and case numbers,
           procedure date, and clearly mark as "plasma".

        4. Remove the buffy coat cells carefully and place into the 1 mL cryovials labeled "buffy
           coat" (it is okay if a few packed red cells below the buffy coat layer are inadvertently
           collected in the process)

        5. Place cryovials into biohazard bag.

        6. Store plasma and buffy coat specimens frozen. Buffy coat samples must be shipped to the
           tissue bank within one (1) week of collection.

      Preparation of Serum:

        1. Collect one 5-10 mL red-topped tube. Allow 30 minutes for clotting at room temperature
           before processing.

        2. Using four (4) 1ml cryovials, label them with the study number, and patient's case
           number, procedure date, and clearly mark cryovials as "serum".

      Process:

        1. Allow one 5ml red top tube to clot for 30 minutes at room temperature.

        2. Spin red-topped tube in a standard clinical centrifuge at ~2500 RPM at 4°Celsius for 10
           minutes.

        3. Aliquot serum into the four 1mL cryovials labeled with the RTOG study and case numbers,
           procedure date, and marked "serum".

        4. Store serum frozen (at -80° Celsius) until ready to ship

      Analysis of Blood Samples

      Serum or plasma samples:

      Soluble cytokines and growth factors related to inflammation and angiogenesis will be
      analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for serum samples and plasma samples.
      Inflammatory factors, such as IL-6, TNF-alpha, CRP, MMP-2, MMP-9, VEGF, IL-8, pro-angiogenic
      factors, such as VEGF, basic-FGF, PDGF, PIGF, and TNF, and anti-angiogenic factors, such as
      thrombospontin-1 (TSP-1), will be included. Serum HBV DNA level will also be analyzed.

      RNA samples from blood mononuclear cells:

        1. Tumor-associated gene expression in peripheral blood reflects the presence of
           circulating hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells and might be associated with aggressive
           features of HCC. We will assess the prognostic significance of AFP and human telomerase
           reverse transcriptase protein (hTERT) mRNA expression in the peripheral blood of HCC
           patients.

        2. Circulating endothelial cells and their progenitors have been shown as surrogate markers
           of angiogenic activity. Several cellular markers, including VEGFR2, Tie-2, and CD133,
           have been shown to be specifically expressed in activated endothelial cells or
           endothelial progenitor cells. The expression of these markers will be detected by
           real-time quantitative PCR.

      DNA samples from blood mononuclear cells:

      The polymorphic inheritance of human drug-metabolizing enzymes, such as those encoded by the
      glutathione-S-transferase (GST), microsomal epoxide hydrolase (mEPHX), and CYP systems, have
      been implicated in both cancer risk and prognosis. DNA samples from blood mononuclear cells
      will be used for the analysis of GST, mEPHX, CYP, and p53 polymorphism by PCR and sequencing
      analysis.

      Data Management and Analysis

        1. Evaluation of soluble factors related to inflammation or angiogenesis and the surrogate
           quantification of circulating endothelial cells or progenitors (the B-2 section) will be
           conducted according to standard procedures by personnel who have no access to the
           clinical outcomes of the patients.

        2. The clinical outcomes of the patients will be included for further correlation study
           include clinical responses (responders vs. non-responders), other patterns of failure
           (intrahepatic recurrence outside radiation field vs. no intrahepatic recurrence;
           extrahepatic metastasis vs. no metastasis), radiation induced liver disease (RILD vs. no
           RILD), and survival.

        3. The correlation of clinical outcomes with the surrogate markers evaluated from the
           after-mentioned markers will be made.

      STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS

      Study Endpoints The primary endpoint of this study is to determine the maximally tolerated
      dose of highly conformal radiation therapy in patients with HCC. The secondary endpoints are
      to evaluate local control rate within the irradiated fields,to assess patterns of failure and
      survival, and to analyze the dose volume characteristics that influence whether RILD, HBV
      reactivation, or other toxicities occur.

      Sample Size

      Evaluation of Adverse Events

      Adverse events will be graded according to the CTCAE v. 3.0 criteria. Dose limiting toxicity
      (DLT) is defined as any of the following occurring within 90 days from the start of
      treatment:

      a) grade 4 or 5 hepatic b) grade 4 or 5 gastrointestinal c) grade 4 or 5 thrombocytopenia d)
      Radiation Induced Liver Disease (RILD) requiring treatment (including diuretics). RILD will
      be defined using the following adverse events: i) grade 3 or higher alkaline phosphatase
      (ALP) in the presence of ascites occurring in the absence of disease progression ii) grade 4
      hepatic liver enzyme elevations persisting for ≥ 5 days e) any adverse event requiring
      interruption of therapy by ≥ 2 weeks (14 calendar days). This does not include patient desire
      to discontinue therapy. It does include failure for thrombocytopenia to improve to a level of
      80 requiring interruption of therapy.

      f) Any grade 5 adverse event The goal of this study is to determine the maximally tolerated
      dose (MTD) for patients with HCC, such that the rate of DLT is less than 35%.

      Dose Escalation

      The following are the four possible dose levels for this study:

      Dose Level I: 3.5 Gy for 12 fractions (42 Gy total) Dose Level II: 3.5 Gy for 14 fractions
      (49 Gy total) Dose Level III: 3.5 Gy for 16 fractions (56 Gy total) Dose Level VI: 3.5 Gy for
      18 fractions (63 Gy total)

      Patients will receive highly conformal radiotherapy starting at Dose Level II. Dose levels
      will be escalated by 7 Gy in 2 fractions per level up to 21 Gy in 6 fractions and a total
      dose of 63 Gy. Evaluable patients will be defined as any eligible patient that begins
      treatment. After 5 evaluable patients have been followed for a minimum of 90 days from the
      start of treatment, if there are 0 or 1 DLT, the dose level will be judged to be acceptable.
      If this occurs, then patients will begin to be accrued at the next higher dose level. If ≥ 3
      of 5 patients have DLT, the preceding dose level will be declared to be the MTD. If 2 of 5
      patients have DLT, the addition of 5 more patients to the same level will be done. If ≥ 4 of
      10 patients have DLT, the preceding dose level will be declared to be the MTD. If 2 or 3 of
      the 10 patients have DLT, patients will begin to be accrued at the next higher dose level. If
      there are 3 or more DLT at the starting dose level (Dose Level II), then the dose will be
      de-escalated to Dose Level I. If this occurs, then after 5 evaluable patients have been
      followed for a minimum of 90 days from the start of treatment at Dose Level I, if there are 0
      or 1 DLT, the 3.5 Gy per fraction for a total of 42 Gy will be declared to be the MTD. If at
      any time a grade 5 treatment-related adverse event is observed, the study chairs will review
      the event.

      The number of evaluable patients that will be needed depends on the number of times the dose
      is escalated or possibly de-escalated. If the escalation continues up through Dose Level IV,
      15 evaluable patients will be required. If the dose is de-escalated after Dose Level II, then
      10 evaluable patients will be required.
    
  