
    
      In this phase I trial 21 paediatric patients with solid tumours of childhood (14 sarcoma and
      7 non-sarcoma patients) that have exhausted all conventional treatment options are recruited
      for the treatment with AV0113.

      Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (MNCs) will be obtained from patients by leukocyte
      apheresis. Monocytes enriched by density gradient centrifugation from MNCs will be used to
      generate immature DCs by cultivation in recombinant human interleukin-4 (IL-4) and
      granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating-factor (GM-CSF). These immature DCs will be loaded
      with autologous tumour cell lysates obtained by needle biopsy or surgery prior to tumour
      vaccination.The antigen loaded immature DCs will then receive a final maturation stimulus
      transmitted by exposure to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma).
      Maturation enables DCs to present antigen with high efficiency to T-lymphocytes.
      Subsequently, mature loaded DCs will be injected subcutaneously close to tumour free lymph
      nodes or intra-nodally into tumour free lymph nodes at weekly intervals for at least 6 weeks.

      It is anticipated to establish the feasibility and safety of tumour vaccination in the
      described clinical setting and to find some clinical and/or experimental evidence for the
      induction of an anti-tumour immune response.

      For obtaining a clearer picture of AV0113's utility in the treatment of bone and soft tissue
      sarcoma, a long-term (LT) follow-up investigation of the 14 Sarcoma patients, which will be
      treated using the AV0113 DC-CIT technology is planned, in order to gather first evidence for
      a potential LT effect of DC-CIT with AV0113.

      Furthermore, a comparison of the 14 sarcoma patients treated with AV0113 DC-CIT with a cohort
      of matched historic control patients that were treated using standard of care will be
      conducted. It is planned to analyse 42 historic control sarcoma patients that will be matched
      for disease, recurrences, relapses etc.
    
  