
    
      Ramucirumab is a human IgG1 (Immunoglobulin G) monoclonal antibody that targets the
      extracellular domain of VEGFR-2 (vascular endothelial growth factor receptor). A recent
      double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial evaluated the addition of ramucirumab to
      docetaxel compared with docetaxel and placebo in patients with Stage IV squamous and
      non-squamous NSCLC in the 2nd-line treatment setting. This study demonstrated a superior
      overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), and overall response rate (ORR) with
      the combination therapy compared with docetaxel with placebo. This effect was seen across
      histologic subtypes, in the absence of excess toxicity in patients with squamous cell
      histology. This finding is intriguing, as prior study of bevacizumab in patients with NSCLC
      of squamous cell histology was associated with excess pulmonary hemorrhage. This provides the
      rationale for further investigation of ramucirumab in patients with squamous cell NSCLC.

      nab-Paclitaxel is a formulation of paclitaxel complexed with albumin that is readily soluble
      in saline and allows administration of paclitaxel without the use of lipid-based solvents and
      the need for corticosteroid and antihistamine premedication. nab-Paclitaxel was approved for
      the 1st line treatment of NSCLC based on a trial which demonstrated a superior ORR with the
      addition of nab-paclitaxel to carboplatin compared with carboplatin/paclitaxel in patients
      with advanced and metastatic NSCLC, as well as prolonged PFS and OS without statistical
      significance. The subgroup analysis by tumor histology demonstrated a statistically
      significant advantage for nab-paclitaxel/carboplatin in terms of best overall response rate
      (41% vs 24%, p<0.001), and numerically better PFS and OS in squamous NSCLC. [3]

      This is a single-arm phase II clinical trial, in which patients with previously treated NSCLC
      will be treated with ramucirumab/nab-paclitaxel until disease progression, unacceptable
      treatment-related toxicity or withdrawal of consent with the primary endpoint of
      progression-free survival. A minimum of 40 patients with squamous cell histology will be
      required for determination of the co-primary endpoint. The investigators hypothesize that the
      addition of ramucirumab to nab-paclitaxel is well-tolerated and associated with a superior
      PFS compared with single agent taxane-based therapy.
    
  