
    
      BACKGROUND:

      An association between overt diabetes and cardiovascular disease has been observed in
      multiple studies among populations across the world. The reason for this excess are only
      partly understood. In recent years, several studies have suggested that elevations in levels
      of insulin or insulin resistance are important risk factors for cardiovascular disease, not
      only in diabetic patients but also among those with normal or subclinical abnormalities in
      glucose tolerance.

      Many reasons exist to investigate the role of insulin and insulin resistance in the
      development of cardiovascular disease. Insulin has effects on multiple metabolic pathways and
      has been shown to promote development of atherosclerotic lesions in animals. In addition,
      levels of insulin and insulin resistance are correlated with multiple abnormalities in other
      cardiovascular disease risk factors such as elevations in blood pressure, dyslipidemia, and
      alterations in coagulation factors.

      It is particularly important to determine whether these associations are strongest with
      levels of insulin or of insulin resistance since this information will be valuable both for
      studies aimed at localizing the site of the defect and in developing new therapeutic
      interventions. Despite evidence from population studies, it is difficult to explain the
      excess of cardiovascular disease in diabetics solely as a consequence of elevations in
      insulin levels. Recent, small studies suggest that the risk previously associated with
      hyperinsulinemia may be correlated more strongly with increases in insulin resistance.
      Insulin resistance continues to increase as glucose levels increase, even in the presence of
      decreasing insulin secretion. Such observations may help to explain the higher risk of
      cardiovascular disease in overt diabetics. More detailed assessments of the role of insulin
      resistance in altering cardiovascular disease risk factors are also needed. Prior to the IRAS
      study, direct measures of insulin resistance had not been performed in population studies.
      The continuation of IRAS for an additional five years will provide the first longitudinal
      data on insulin resistance as a cardiovascular disease risk factor.

      The IRAS was proposed by staff and approved by the Clinical Applications and Prevention
      Advisory Committee in May, 1990. The Request for Applications was released in November, 1990.
      Awards were first made in September, 1991. The study was extended for an additional five
      years in September, 1995 and in August, 1999.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study population was selected to insure adequate numbers of participants within gender
      and glucose tolerance groups (normoglycemia, impaired glucose tolerance, and non-insulin
      dependent diabetes mellitus). IRAS is the first large epidemiologic study to include detailed
      measurements of insulin sensitivity and secretion. During the first four years of funding,
      the IRAS investigators successfully designed and implemented the first phase of the study--a
      cross-sectional evaluation of 1,625 participants. Cohort examinations began in October, 1992
      and were completed in April, 1994. Insulin resistance was assessed directly using the
      frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test with minimal model analysis.
      Intimal-medial carotid artery wall thickness, an indicator of atherosclerosis, was measured
      using B-mode ultrasonography. Prevalent cardiovascular disease was assesed by questionnaire
      and resting electrocardiography.

      The IRAS was renewed in September, 1995 for an additional five years through July, 1999 for
      the prospective follow-up and reexamination of the cohort. The renewal period consisted of
      three phases. During the first phase (years 05 and 06), the investigators conducted a
      substudy to address the measurement of insulin sensitivity in individuals with NIDDM. This
      substudy evaluated several alternate techniques for measuring insulin sensitivity in
      approximately 115 non-IRAS volunteers with NIDDM. In addition, all IRAS participants were
      contacted annually for incident cardiovascular and other major health events. During the
      second phase (years 07 and 08), a follow-up examination of the IRAS cohort was conducted with
      the goal of determining predictors of changes in insulin sensitivity, cardiovascular risk
      factors, measures of atherosclerosis development, and incident cardiovascular events.
      Additionally, throughout the first four years, there was a continued major effort devoted to
      the analysis and reporting of the cross-sectional data from the first IRAS examination. The
      final phase (year 09) included analysis and reporting of the longitudinal results.

      Since existing measures of insulin resistance do not appear to measure exactly the same
      thing, substudies have been conducted to compare insulin resistance measurement techniques
      and enable the IRAS data to be related to other studies in the literature. A decision has
      been made to continue the frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test (FSIGT) as
      the vascular resistance measure in the IRAS. The FSIGT is compared with other measures of
      insulin resistance in diabetics.

      The IRAS was renewed in August 1999 through July 2005 as the IRAS Family Study. The purpose
      was to identify the genetic determinants of insulin resistance and abdominal obesity and to
      determine the extent to which insulin resistance, visceral adiposity, and metabolic
      cardiovascular disease risk factors share common genetic influences. Families of
      African-American and Hispanic background were enrolled using participants of the original
      IRAS study as index cases. Approximately 1,280 additional family members were recruited to
      the study for a total of 1,440 participants. Insulin resistance was measured using the
      frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test, and abdominal obesity was measured
      using computed tomography. Metabolic cardiovascular disease risk factors were also assessed.
      A panel of 370 micro satellite markers were genotyped to provide data for a genome-wide scan
      to detect chromosomal regions containing quantitative trait loci (QTLs) that influenced
      phenotypic variation for insulin resistance and visceral adiposity.

      The study which has been extended through December, 2008 targets the further exploration of
      genomic regions and positional cloning of genes contributing to variation in adiposity and
      glucose homeostasis. Positional candidate genes will be identified. The original cohort will
      be re-contacted to repeat some of the primary phenotypes for measures of change (abdominal CT
      scan and fasting insulin) and add several important new phenotypes to add depth to the
      assessment of adiposity and glucose homeostasis (total body fat by DXA and adipocytokines,
      including adiponectin and soluble TNF-alpha receptors 1 and 2). A panel of nutritional,
      dietary, and eating behaviors will be assessed to study the genetic effects. Using the
      existing genome scan data and variance-components-based linkage analysis methods, regions of
      the genome will be detected that contribute to variation in these new phenotypes and in the
      change phenotypes
    
  