
    
      Problem of Interest: Lung transplantation represents a potential therapy for patients with
      end-stage lung diseases such as pulmonary fibrosis, emphysema and cystic fibrosis. The major
      limitation to long term survival in lung transplant recipients is the development of graft
      failure over time, termed bronchiolitis obliterans. The conventional therapies used to
      prevent rejection are not effective in preventing bronchiolitis obliterans. Therefore, new
      therapies are needed to address this problem. A growing body of research has focused on a
      unique population of bone marrow cells termed Mesenchymal Stem Cells (MSCs) to improve a
      range of medical conditions including heart failure, autoimmune disease, and inflammatory
      bowel disease. MSCs can prevent animal models of bronchiolitis obliterans. Because of this
      information, it is plausible that MSCs could help patients as a potential treatment in lung
      transplantation. MSCs can be obtained from 2 sources: commercially available MSCs which are
      generated from other normal volunteers and from the patient themselves. When MSCs are
      obtained from the patient for whom they are used, they are termed "autologous MSCs". A major
      potential drawback to the use of commercially available MSCs is that these cells contain
      proteins from other individuals which could provoke rejection when used in lung transplant
      recipients. Therefore, the use of autologous MSCs currently appears the most attractive
      option. What is not understood at the present time is the extent to which autologous MSCs
      obtained from chronically ill patients with end-stage lung disease still maintain properties
      which would be beneficial. This proposal will test the immunologic properties of MSCs
      generated from such individuals to answer the question of whether generation of whether it
      would be feasible to use such cells in the future to prevent entities such as bronchiolitis
      obliterans.

      Overview on how this will be studied: The Investigator will approach patients who are being
      considered for a lung transplant because of end stage lung disease. Enrolled patients will
      undergo a bone marrow aspiration where a small amount of fluid is removed from their pelvic
      bone. Cells obtained in this procedure will be expanded in the Emory/Georgia Tech Cell Lab.
      MSCs will be expanded in this lab using cell culture conditions which are standardly used for
      MSCs. The Investigator will test the efficiency of expansion of these MSCs to determine if
      they can be obtained from all patients, or if there some patients demonstrate inefficient MSC
      expansion based on age or disease or other factors. The Investigator will then test in-vitro
      the ability of MSCs from different patients to prevent activation of the immune system when
      faced with proteins from other individuals. The Investigator believes this model system
      approximates the type of interaction that would occur if these MSCs were given to patients
      who received a lung transplant.

      Benefit of research to knowledge and human health: It is not presently known whether patients
      with severe medical illness are able to have MSCs expanded. If it is found that MSCs can be
      readily obtained from such individuals and additionally find that such MSCs have properties
      which would be predicted to be beneficial in lung transplant, this study would provide the
      rationale to use MSCs as a therapeutic agent in patients undergoing lung transplantation.
    
  