
    
      The management of urinary incontinence seems to improve daily activities and the practice of
      physical activity, according to the literature. Unfortunately, all of these studies are based
      on self-questionnaires with the disadvantages of self-evaluation, more subjective.

      The artificial urinary sphincter (AUS) implantation is an effective treatment on stress
      urinary incontinence in men and women. Currently the PadTest/24 hours is the reference for
      his evaluation.

      For several years activity sensors have been used in the medical field (rheumatology,
      cardiology, diabetology, etc.). They allowed the evaluation of physical activity in real life
      situations, whether to evaluate the degree of severity of a pathology or the impact of a new
      treatment on the resumption of activities.

      Activity sensors are devices that transform body motion into digital measurements. They
      provide detailed information on the frequency, duration, intensity and type of movement to
      determine, for example, the number of steps taken, the distance traveled, calories burned and
      the quality of sleep.

      It is hypothesized that urinary incontinence treatment can increase physical activity and so
      improve the quality of life of patients, that can be measure by activity sensors.

      The research is a monocentric, prospective study.

      The Primary objective of this study is to evaluate the variation of physical activity
      measured by the number of steps per day, before AUS implantation and 3 months after the
      activation of the sphincter.

      For that, the primary outcome measure is the number of steps per day measured 24h/24 for 7
      consecutive days by activity sensor, before AUS implantation and 3 months after activation of
      the sphincter.

      All adult patients (men and women) with a surgical indication for urinary incontinence
      treatment by AUS in the urology department of Pitié-Salpêtrière hospital will be screened for
      eligibility.

      Four visits will be programed as standard of care :

        -  During the first visit, patients will be informed of the study and their agreement will
           be recorded. Patients' eligibility will be checked.

        -  AUS implantation

        -  AUS activation

        -  AUS follow-up, around fourteen weeks after activation The activity sensor, the
           Pad/Test/24 hours and questionnaires such as eQOL will be performed at home before AUS
           implantation, 1 month after the AUS activation and 3 months after the AUS activation.
    
  