
    
      Low back pain (LBP) is the second most frequent reason for health care visits and a leading
      cause of medical evacuation from theater. Traditional medical diagnosis based on static
      imaging strategies (e.g. MRI) has failed to improve management of this epidemic. Functional
      assessment of lumbar musculature using ultrasound imaging provides evidence of clinically
      relevant deficits in the lumbar multifidus (LM) muscle of patients with LBP, however such
      procedures are likely only valid within a narrow range of assessment conditions. Shear-Wave
      Elastography (SWE) is an evolving non-invasive ultrasound imaging technology capable of
      quantifying tissue stiffness (i.e., elasticity). Originally developed to improve diagnosis of
      soft tissue tumors, SWE is beginning to be used to as an alternative and more stable method
      of functional assessment of muscles.

      This study will be the second project in a line of research aimed at improving the diagnosis,
      management, and treatment of patients with LBP using a new structural health monitoring
      technique called shear wave elastography (SWE). Since no previous studies had used SWE in the
      lumbar multifidus muscle, the initial project developed the measurement technique to be used
      with this device. We also established normative parameters, variance, and reliability
      estimates of SWE outcomes in asymptomatic individuals. A previous study, also performed at
      AMEDDC&S, found that individuals with LBP whom received dry needling to the lumbar multifidus
      muscle exhibited a reduction in pain and disability that was associated with an improved
      ability to contract the lumbar multifidus. The focus of this second project is to evaluate
      the diagnostic utility of SWE in individuals after routine low back injury and begin an
      initial investigation of it's ability to effectively guide physical therapy treatment with
      dry-needling as a relevant treatment intervention.
    
  