
    
      -  Nesfatin-1 is an 82-amino acid polypeptide derived from the nucleobindin 2 (NUCB2)
           precursor proteins.

        -  It is a newly identified peptide. It is released from several tissues including
           forebrain, hindbrain, brainstem, spinal cord and adipose tissues.

        -  It plays an important role in hypothalamic pathways such as feeding inhibition,
           locomotion, stress modulation, thermogenesis, and reproduction.

        -  Several studies had demonstrated that nesfatin-1 associated with body mass index (BMI),
           insulin resistance and inflammatory response disorders.

        -  Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is one of the most common causes of infertility in
           women. It is characterized by hyperandrogenism, multiple ovarian cysts,
           oligomenorrhea/amenorrhea. Many mechanisms had been reported to be responsible for the
           pathophysiology of PCOS. The condition is thought to be interactions between
           hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and metabolic
           disorders.

        -  The circulating level of nesfatin-1 in PCOS patients is controversial. Some studies
           reveal lower nesfatin-1 serum levels while others reveal higher level.

        -  Women with PCOS may have reduced dopamine production from the hypothalamus and elevated
           prolactin concentrations and this mechanism may be responsible for reproductive
           disorder.

        -  In PCOS, stimulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation from mononuclear cells
           (MNCs) by hyperglycemia . The superoxide radical in particular is a ROS that is
           generated by the activity of membrane-bound nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate
           (NADPH) oxidase.

        -  Dopaminergic (DA) neurons are highly susceptible to ROS. DA is relatively unstable
           molecule and undergoes auto-oxidative metabolism in nigro striatal tract system, leading
           to ROS production. Nicotinamide can reduce hypothalamic dopamine in postnatal brains
           results in dopamine-deficient phenotypes. Nicotinamide prevents DA release induced by
           long-term perinatal asphyxia.
    
  