
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Coronary heart disease (CHD) and other thrombosis related disorders are a major source of
      morbidity and mortality in the United States and the world. To a certain extent they are
      diseases of the elderly, with the majority of overt CHD occurring in persons over the age of
      65. Recently, fibrinogen and factor VII have been implicated as independent CHD risk factors
      in middle age populations, although causative roles have not been established. These studies
      increased understanding of the relationship of thrombosis to cardiovascular risk.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Beginning in 1992, the study tested the hypothesis that measures of coagulation and
      fibrinolysis correlated with the incidence of coronary heart disease (CHD) and other
      thrombosis related disorders, and identified those individuals at greatest risk, using the
      Cardiovascular Health Study (CHS) and Honolulu Heart Program (HHP) populations. These two
      genetically distinct populations had different event rates for CHD, and offered a unique
      opportunity to test associations that were uncovered by comparing results across populations.
      The study examined selected measures of coagulation and fibrinolysis in individuals 65 years
      and older: measures of pro-coagulation (factor antigen VII, prothrombin fragment 1.2,
      fibrinopeptide A and thrombin - antithrombin III complex), measures of coagulation inhibition
      (protein C and protein S, antithrombin III, and the lipoprotein associated coagulation
      inhibitor (LACI), and measures of fibrinolysis (plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1),
      tissue plasminogen activator-PAI-1 complex, plasmin-alpha-2 antiplasmin complex, and Lp(a).

      A case/control design was used to determine the relationship between the above measurements
      and the incidence of CHD (and other thrombosis related disorders). The short and medium term
      biological variability of the above measures was determined to aid in interpretation of
      observed differences. Finally, the distribution of the above measurements was established in
      both cohorts and their relationships to other variables in the extensive CHS and HHP data
      bases ascertained.

      The study was renewed in 1999 to determine inflammation markers over time in cardiovascular
      disease.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  