
    
      It is increasingly recognized that Vitamin D deficiency affects more than just bone health.
      Links between Vitamin D deficiency have been established or purported for diabetes, the
      metabolic syndrome, cardiovascular disease, and cancer. We propose to explore if Vitamin D
      replacement (safe, readily available, and inexpensive) has beneficial effects on 2 novel
      outcomes in early postmenopausal women: menopause-related symptoms and body composition.

      Most women transitioning through menopause, especially those with higher percent body fat,
      will experience hot flashes through a mean of 4 to 5 years. Many also have mood disturbances
      and muscle aches although the link with the menopausal transition is less clear. In many,
      these symptoms are severe enough to negatively impact their quality of life, work
      performance, and interpersonal relationships. Current treatments for menopause-related
      symptoms, such as menopausal hormone therapy, antidepressants, and anticonvulsants, have
      significant side effects and serious long term adverse consequences and symptoms recur after
      treatment discontinuation. A safe, inexpensive, well-tolerated treatment is therefore of high
      priority.

      Both our preliminary data in early postmenopausal women and a 2010 publication of women on
      aromatase inhibitors for breast cancer show an association between Vitamin D deficiency and
      menopause-related symptoms including hot flashes. It is postulated that a contributor to hot
      flashes is a menopausal decline in serotonin, a neurotransmitter with known effects on
      thermoregulation. As Vitamin D can protect against experimental serotonin depletion in rats,
      one proposed mechanism for symptom alleviation is prevention of serotonin decline in
      menopause.

      Both Vitamin D deficiency and the menopausal transition are associated with mood disturbances
      and musculoskeletal aches. Because estrogen increases the activity of the enzyme responsible
      for activating Vitamin D, the fall in estrogen that occurs during the menopausal transition
      could uncover previously subclinical Vitamin D deficiency. Indeed, Vitamin D can improved
      mood and muscle aches in non-menopausal populations, but its effects in menopausal women,
      where the benefits may be magnified, have not been previously studied.
    
  