
    
      Extubation is part of the daily routine in intensive care and intensive care units. If the
      procedures for weaning from mechanical ventilation are well supervised by the establishment,
      in particular, of standardized treatment protocols, they nevertheless remain technical
      procedures at risk and are associated with significant morbidity and mortality.

      Extubation, defined by the withdrawal of the intubation probe, is to be distinguished from
      the period known as ventilatory "weaning" or "ventilation" which is represented by the
      separation of the patient from the invasive mechanical ventilation device. These 2 successive
      phases (deventilation then extubation) must be anticipated as best as possible by the
      intensivist in order to detect the risk factors and complications inherent in one or the
      other of the stages. A patient can thus be ventilable but not extubable and vice versa.

      Extubation failure can be defined as the need for early reintubation within 48-72 hours of
      scheduled intensive care extubation. This definition takes into account the contribution of
      non-invasive ventilation (NIV) that can be applied in the direct consequences of extubation.

      The risk factors specific to failure of extubation are well identified in the literature and
      differ from those associated with failure of ventilatory weaning. These risk factors are
      multiple but are represented in particular by obstruction of the airways, ineffectiveness of
      cough or bronchial congestion, swallowing disturbances and disturbances of consciousness
      among others.

      Monitoring of transcutaneous pressure in CO2 (PtCO2) has been developed over the past twenty
      years as a reflection of arterial pressure in CO2 (PaCO2). To date, this type of monitoring
      has been developed mainly in neonatal care due to its non-invasive nature. This continuous
      monitoring could be an interesting tool in the evaluation of the gas exchange of the patient
      under mechanical ventilation, in particular in a medical or surgical resuscitation
      environment. This tool could thus make it possible to participate in the prediction of
      extubation failure in medical intensive care or general surgery during ventilatory weaning
      tests. There is indeed a good correlation between PaC02 and PtC02 in the intensive care
      patient population for PaC02 values <60 mmHg.

      We therefore propose to study the benefit of using transcutaneous PtC02 monitoring for
      guiding ventilatory weaning in neuro-injured patients and predicting the risk of extubation
      failure in this category of patients, particularly at risk of re-intubation.

      The main objective of the study carried out is therefore to assess the predictive value of
      the observed variation in PtCO2 during a spontaneous ventilation weaning test in a population
      of neuro-resuscitation patients at high risk of reintubation.
    
  