
    
      In this study, 304 eligible patients will be randomized 1:1 to a 12-week exercise
      intervention program versus observation, and stratified by two factors: received adjuvant
      chemotherapy versus not, and age<50 versus age ≥50 years.

      Breast cancer and its treatment can have both physical and psychological sequelae, which can
      persist many years after diagnosis. Physical effects include higher rates of pain, fatigue
      and decline in physical function, while psychological effects include depression and anxiety.
      In particular, depression spectrum syndromes occur in 20-50% of people with cancer, and in
      1.5-46% of people with breast cancer. In a recent study conducted locally at the National
      University Cancer Institute, Singapore (NCIS), it was found that 27% of newly diagnosed
      cancer patients have caseness for depression and 44% have caseness for anxiety, as measured
      using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression scale. Breast cancer is also associated with weight
      gain - as many as 50-96% of women, especially those undergoing chemotherapy, experience
      sarcopenic weight gain during treatment, in the range of 2.5-6.2kg. Patients do not tend to
      return to their pre-diagnosis weight. With respect to quality of life (QoL), poorer QoL
      occurs in the short term, whereas long-term survivors tend to have a good overall QoL, albeit
      with an increase in some specific problems like lymphoedema and sexual dysfunction. Some of
      these measures predict overall survival and risk of recurrence - low levels of psychological
      distress and low fatigue independently predicted longer recurrence-free and overall survival,
      and lack of anxiety predicted longer recurrence-free survival. Obesity is also a poor
      prognostic factor and increases the risk of recurrence.

      Telomere length (TL), which generally shortens with ageing, may also be implicated - in a
      study of breast cancer patients with or without insomnia, those with insomnia were reported
      to have higher rates of depression, fatigue and anxiety, and shorter TLs. Furthermore, breast
      cancer patients who were engaged in at least moderate physical activity had significantly
      longer TLs than those who did not, although there was no correlation between depression and
      shorter TLs in this study.Another study in prostate cancer patients showed that 3 months of
      comprehensive lifestyle changes after diagnosis was associated with increased telomere
      lengths and reduced telomerase activity after 5 years of follow-up.

      To better understand the physical, psychological, and biological effects of exercise on
      breast cancer survivorship, the investigators propose to perform a phase III randomized
      controlled trial of a 12-week exercise intervention program versus usual care in early stage
      breast cancer patients, and will follow up the patients prospectively for 5 years, with
      serial assessment of physical and functional activity, QoL, depression and anxiety scores,
      telomere length and plasma immune markers.
    
  