
    
      A single pragmatic randomised controlled clinical trial (RCT) (Trial A) which is embedded in
      a series of pragmatic trials within the Trials within Cohort (TwiCs) design of the PaxSpA
      study. This trial will compare manual spinal mobilisation (MSM) intervention for patients
      with axial spondyloarthritis (axSpA) to routine care alone.This trial might appear as a
      standardised RCT but there is a secondary element - an observational cohort the trial is
      embedded in. Trial A is the first (of possibly several) embedded pragmatic RCTs involving
      physiotherapy interventions that may identify therapies that will help improve outcomes for
      patients with axSpA. The cohort might seem as an unnecessary add-on to what could be
      conducted as a standalone standardised RCT, but it has a few important advantages. By having
      a cohort the investigators can observe routine care physiotherapy outcomes for a large cohort
      giving data from a large number of patients. That data can be used to compare to across a
      range of interventions, as each embedded trial will use the same outcome measures and
      therefore results are comparable across trials to give a broader view of the care of this
      chronic progressive condition - axial Spondyloarthritis. The other advantage for having for
      having the cohort is to be able to have a control group receiving standard of care without
      having disappointment bias for not being in the intervention arm, as physiotherapy
      interventions can be very difficult to blind participants. The investigators plan to
      establish an observational cohort of 300 patients with axial spondyloarthritis (axSpA)
      currently treated at the RUH NHS Trust in Bath and observe their outcomes over the duration
      of the study, as a cornerstone for our "Trials within cohort" (TwiCs) study PaxSpA. Cohort
      patients will be asked to consent to (i) provide observational data on their wellbeing
      (standard routine axSpA PROM), (ii) be approached to take part in future trials of
      interventions which aim to improve outcomes for patients axSpA, and (iii) not be approached
      unless they are offered an experimental (i.e. non routine) intervention. Post randomisation,
      only those randomly selected to an experimental (non-routine) intervention will informed
      about the experimental interventions and asked for their 'clinical' consent to receive these
      intervention (i.e. Trial A: manual mobilisation). This method is known as the Trials within
      Cohorts (TwiCs) method and is currently being used in over 70 studies worldwide, including
      many in the United Kingdom (UK) and Canada. This method of providing information and seeking
      consent replicates the informed consent procedures in routine care and has several benefits.
      Firstly, it avoids unnecessary expectation and disappointment regarding the experimental
      interventions. Secondly, clinicians do not have to spend time explaining interventions to
      patients who will not be offered the intervention post randomisation. Thirdly, it enables
      fast and efficient recruitment to both trials.

      The investigators will then conduct the first of possibly several embedded pragmatic
      randomised controlled trials of adjunctive physiotherapy for patients with axSpA: Trial A
      will compare routine care vs routine care plus manual spinal mobilisation physiotherapy. The
      hypothesis for trial A assumes manual spinal mobilisation will improve function, decrease
      pain and decrease disease activity, but primarily increase spinal mobility, as shown in
      previous trials to be the case when specific parts of the spine received manual mobilisation.

      The study design and methodology has been chosen because of its highly pragmatic character in
      a clinical setting of a chronic condition. Physiotherapy in axSpA consists of a variety of
      treatment options to research and outcomes for each intervention can be compared to the
      routinely taken outcome measures across the cohort to identify and compare
      benefits/challenges of different interventions. The TwiCs design has been shown to be
      particularly suitable for chronic conditions, where different treatments are provided to
      inform clinical practice, and therefore the investigators identified this design to be best
      suited to meet the aims and objectives our study (also see second paragraph above).

      The justification for including control arms to a trial:

      The control arm is important for comparison of outcomes and to increase the validity of our
      study. The control arm will receive standard of care as usual (as will the intervention
      group), without the additional intervention, therefore the difference in results between the
      groups will indicate the effect of the trial intervention, enabling to inform clinical
      practice. Additionally, it is very challenging to blind participants and researcher to
      physiotherapy interventions, so randomisation with a control group gives our study a sound
      methodology.

      Randomisation will be achieved my random computer allocation in a staged (phased)
      randomisation process. Initially all cohort participants will get screened for eligibility
      for trial A and if successful, included into the eligible trial cohort. For trial A the
      investigators aim to recruit 12 participants per stage/batch into the manual mobilisation
      trial for six batches (up to 70 participants). For each batch, six participants will get
      randomly selected from the eligible trial cohort to be offered to receive the intervention.
      The remaining six participants that were not selected will function as controls. On average
      the investigators will aim to recruit a new batch every two weeks to start the initially more
      frequent intervention (from biweekly to monthly over six months) in stages. Therefore, all
      participants should have been randomised and started the trial within the first 3-4 months of
      the start of the trial. This phased randomisation/ recruitment to the trial is a due to
      limited resources and time restraints.
    
  