
    
      Pain management can be one of the most challenging aspects of care for total joint
      arthroplasty patients. Poor post-operative pain control can lead to poor patient satisfaction
      and functional outcomes. Moreover, prolonged post-operative opioid utilization for
      post-operative pain is associated with substantial adverse sequelae. Identifying patients at
      high risk for poor post-operative pain control, and implementing strategies to improve pain
      management in this population is of utmost importance. One patient feature that has been
      shown to reliably predict poor post-operative pain management is pain catastrophizing.
      Currently available self-reported metrics such as the pain catastrophizing scale allow for
      pre-operative identification of patients who exhibit high levels of pain catastrophizing.
      Furthermore, there currently exist strategies which may effectively improve post-operative
      pain management in this population. One such strategy is "pre-emptive" analgesia utilizing
      ketamine administered at the time of surgery. Ketamine is commonly utilized in the treatment
      of both acute and chronic pain, and is believed to reduce pain intensity through a complex
      mechanism involving opioid receptors and excitatory neurotransmitters. It has been utilized
      in a variety of surgical procedures and has consistently been shown to reduce acute
      post-operative pain and analgesic consumption as long as 6 months after surgery, without a
      significant incidence of medication related side effects. To date, no study has evaluated the
      use of ketamine for total joint arthroplasty patients who demonstrate high levels of pain
      catastrophizing. We aim to study the effect of intra-operative ketamine administration on
      post-operative analgesic requirements and self-reported pain in patients undergoing total hip
      and total knee arthroplasty who demonstrate high levels of pain catastrophizing.
    
  