
    
      Cancer has excelled as a leading cause of mortality. It is particularly serious in the
      elderly due to increased risk of functional impairment and present comorbidities. The
      physical exercise appears as a promising intervention in the various stages of the treatment,
      mitigating the adverse effects in short- and long-term the oncologic treatment. Its regular
      practice after a diagnosis of breast cancer is associated with 40 % to 50 % lower rates of
      mortality. Produces metabolic and morphological changes that may make it an important option
      in the treatment, prevention, and recovery process of these patients. In this context the
      present study aims to verify the effectiveness of home exercise on quality of life and
      physical fitness of elderly undergoing treatment for breast cancer. This study it's a
      Randomized Clinical Trial. Data will be collected at the Department of Oncology at the
      Professor Fernando Figueira Integral Medicine Institute (IMIP), which serves patients in the
      public health system (SUS) from the metropolitan area of Recife, State of Pernambuco. will be
      held from March to December 2015. Will be studied elderly diagnosed with breast cancer
      undergoing treatment in the Adult Oncology Service of IMIP. For the analysis of means and
      frequencies, the investigators intend to use descriptive statistics and the results will be
      displayed in graphs and tables. For inferential statistical analysis, the investigators
      intend to use the Student's t test, or the Mann - Whitney test, according to the normality of
      the sample. For categorical variables, contingency tables are constructed of type 2x2.
      Chi-square tests of association with Yates correction and Fisher's exact test will be used.
      The risk ratio (RR) will be calculated as a measure of the relative risk of different
      outcomes according to the realization of one or another approach to exercise and control
      group. The Software Stata 12.0 will be used for data processing and will be accepted at p <
      0,05. The project meets the requirements of the National Board of Health and was approved by
      the IMIP Research Ethics Committee. Patients who agree to sign the Instrument of Consent will
      be included in the study.
    
  