
    
      Design Investigators will perform a prospective, multicenter, pragmatic, observational study
      of adults presenting with traumatic head injury at the ED.

      All data necessary for analysis including predictor variables and outcome data for all the
      seven guidelines included in the study will be registered (table 1). Patients will be managed
      clinically accordingly to the judgment of the responsible physician and/or local guidelines.

      Study setting and population The study will be set in Halmstad, Malmö, Lund, Örebro and
      Linköping, Sweden. Hallands Hospital Halmstad (HS) is a level II trauma centre, Skåne
      University Hospital in Malmö and Lund (SUS), Örebro University Hospital, Linköping University
      Hospital are level I trauma centers.

      The coordinating site for the study will be HS where the statistical and the comparative
      biomarker analysis will be performed.

      Inclusion criteria From September 2017 investigators will prospectively enroll all adult
      patients with a GCS 9-15 that seek the ED within 24h after TBI.

      Exclusion criteria

        -  patients younger than 18 years of age;

        -  patients without a Swedish personal identification number due to difficulties in
           performing the follow up phase;

        -  all patients that refuse to participate.

      Data registration and follow-up Details of how patients are managed, including patient
      characteristics, injury type, patient history, clinical examination results, current
      medications and CT findings will be documented in a pre-determined case-report form by the
      triage nurse and/or physician on call.

      All patients will be asked to answer a questionnaire sent by mail 3 months after the injury.
      The questionnaire will be re-sent if no answer is received. If no answer is received from
      these attempts, patients will be contacted via telephone. The questionnaire includes
      questions that would identify a significant intracranial lesion, data concerning sick-days,
      new contacts with medical professionals and information concerning quality of life. In cases
      where patients can not be reached by mail or telephone, medical records and national
      mortality databases will be consulted for evidence of complications and/or death. The Swedish
      health care system allows full visibility of data for persons with a Swedish personal
      identification number for medical records and mortality database over the whole country.
      Patients who suffer significant (enough to seek medical care) intracranial complications
      after discharge would therefore be identified.

      Details on study period are specified on figure 1 with an algorithm for patient eligibility
      and data analysis.

      Data will be registered in an Excel® file. Descriptive statistics will be analysed using IBM
      SPSS® Statistics Version 20 software.

      S100B analysis A 5ml blood sample is drawn from patient's cubital vein in the ED. Samples are
      analysed with the fully automated Elecsys® S100 (Roche AB) at the Clinical Chemistry
      Department of HS, SUS, Örebro University Hospital and Linköping University Hospital, Sweden.
      Cut-off level for normal levels of S100B according to the SNC guidelines is less than
      0.10μg/L and a window of sampling of within 6 hours from the time of the injury.

      From all patients seeking care within 24h form injury with medium and low risk TBI, according
      to SNC13 (including multitrauma patients), a 5ml blood sample will be drawn, centrifuged and
      frozen at -70 degrees Celsius. Samplings will be coded and registered for analysis of GFAP,
      SBP-50 and TAU.

      CT examinations CT scans are always analysed by a board certified radiologist.

      Sample size The Scandinavian guidelines will recommend discharge (i.e. neither CT nor
      admission) in approximately 50% of patients and a prevalence of our primary outcome of 5%
      (from our own observations and from data derived from a pre-selected cohort) . Allowing for
      one missed case, a sensitivity of >99% with a lower 95% confidence interval, a sample size of
      2490 patients is required to detect traumatic intracranial complications according to the
      SNC13. Allowing for a 10% lost to follow-up, the desired sample size is 2767 patients.

      Interim analysis After 1000 patients, the prevalence for the primary outcome will be measured
      in order to be able to reevaluate sample size.

      Ethics Ethical approval was granted from the Regional Ethical Review Board of Lund (approval
      number 2012/574).

      Informed verbal consent will be obtained and registered by nurses responsible for triage at
      ED.

      Patients' data and social security number will be stored and handled accordingly to Swedish
      Personal Data Act, (PUL 1998: 204).

      Written consent will be obtained from all patients from whom the extra blood sampling for
      biomarker analysis will be requested. Sampling will be coded and patients will be able at any
      time to refuse to be part of the study.
    
  