
    
      Once informed consent has been obtained, participants will complete 1 screening visit.

      Screen Visit includes a medical history, physical examination, pregnancy test (for women of
      childbearing potential), blood tests, urine drug test, an oral glucose tolerance test,
      resting electrocardiogram (ECG), questionnaires.

      Baseline testing will be performed in 7 weekly visits requiring 1 inpatient overnight stay
      and will require ~30h to complete testing. Testing will include imaging scans to determine
      leg muscle mass, abdominal (belly) fat mass and liver fat content; DXA scan, blood samples,
      skin temperature monitoring, hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp procedure, immune system
      function/inflammation (performed exclusively in obese with lipedema subjects and BMI-matched
      controls), adipose tissue biopsies, adipose tissue oxygenation assessment (performed
      exclusively in obese with lipedema subjects and BMI-matched controls).

      Once Baseline Testing is completed, participants will start 8-10% dietitian guided
      weight-loss for about 4 months.

      Participant will have weekly visits with a study dietitian.

      After weight loss, the testing completed during baseline will be repeated during Visit 25.

      Study procedures:

        1. Medical History & Physical Exam

        2. Urine Drug/Pregnancy Test

        3. Blood pressure, pulse, height, weight, shoulder and waist circumference measurements

        4. Electrocardiogram (ECG)

        5. Blood tests for routine lab analyses

        6. Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT)

        7. Screening Questionnaires

        8. Food Diary

        9. Deuterated water consumption (performed exclusively in obese with lipedema subjects and
           BMI-matched controls)

       10. Dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA)

       11. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS) for Body
           Composition to determine 1)the amount of fat in the liver, abdomen (belly), and lower
           leg; 2)the amount of oxygen in the abdominal fat store (performed exclusively in obese
           with lipedema subjects and BMI-matched controls); and 3) how much muscle mass is in the
           thigh

       12. Metabolism study (hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp procedure)

       13. Abdominal and Thigh Fat biopsies

       14. Immune function (performed in obese with lipedema subjects and BMI-matched controls).
    
  