
    
      In vitro fertilization (IVF) is a new expertise of our age. Anesthesia during the assisted
      reproduction technique is usually required during oocyte removal, which is one of the basic
      steps throughout the entire procedure. Until now, different anesthetic techniques such as
      conscious sedation, general anesthesia and regional anesthesia have been tried, no
      superiority has been proved against each other. The main point of anesthesia management in
      IVF is to minimize anesthesia exposure to avoid harmful effects on embryo division and
      fertilization.

      IVF requires the collection of mature oocytes from the ovaries of infertile patients. These
      oocytes are then fertilized in vitro and allowed to become embryos. Afterwards, these embryos
      are transferred into the uterus of the patients. Ultrasonography-guided transvaginal
      aspiration makes oocyte intake less invasive compared to prior techniques and can be
      administered within 30 minutes. With the development of this method, trauma was minimalized
      and side effects were reduced. However, the possible effects of different anesthetics on
      oocytes are still being discussed. The potential side effects of different anesthesia
      applications have been observed not only in patients receiving oocytes, but also in embryo
      development and pregnancy success due to the quality of oocytes. The pain of patients is
      common after the puncture of the vaginal fornix. It is usually defined as deep menstrual
      pain, quickly disappears and leaves a mild abdominal pain. Therefore, the anesthetist should
      perform adequate pain relief to immobilize the patient to avoid the risk of perforating the
      vessels during the procedure. Another challenge for the anesthesiologist is to alleviate the
      increased anxiety associated with social and psychological stress associated with IVF.

      Anxiety may develop before and after the procedure, especially in patients undergoing oocyte
      collection. The patient's anxiety is usually present before entering the operating room. The
      assessment, which was started to be developped by investigators, was aimed to measure state
      anxiety levels in normal and non-normal individuals. State-Trait Anxiety Inventory measures
      state anxiety levels and is an easy-to-implement inventory that the individual can answer on
      his/her own. The State Anxiety Scale determines how the individual feels himself / herself at
      a given moment and under certain conditions. It is widely used in preoperative anxiety
      measurement.

      Patient satisfaction depends on the patient's expectations and the benefits expected by the
      patients with the service they receive. Patient satisfaction is the result of meeting the
      wishes and expectations of the patients. An investigator has developed the Recovery Quality
      Score-40 (Quality of Recovery Score) and is used to measure the quality of postoperative
      recovery. This form consists 40 items and is divided into 5 subgroups according to various
      aspects of the improvement. There are a total of 40 items, 9 related to emotional state, 12
      related to physical comfort, 7 related to psychological support, 5 related to physical
      independence and 7 items related to pain. The questionnaire is scored as a minimum of 40 to a
      maximum of 200. No special training is required for the implementation of the survey. The
      fact that the patient can perform the survey on his own and can be done in a short time gives
      a significant advantage.

      The aim of this prospective randomized clinical trial was to compare two different anesthesia
      applications (sedation & laryngeal mask airway) on anxiety and patient satisfaction in
      patients with IVF.
    
  