
    
      Glucocorticoid therapy is associated with a number of significant side effects, of which bone
      loss resulting in glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis and an increase in fracture risk is the
      most serious. However studies show that many patients treated with glucocorticoids do not
      receive treatment to prevent bone loss. There exist 5 large randomized controlled clinical
      trials providing evidence that the bisphosphonates etidronate, alendronate, and risedronate
      are effective in both the prevention and the treatment of glucocorticoid-induced
      osteoporosis. Significant increases in BMD with bisphosphonate treatment, most consistently
      observed in lumbar spine, were seen in patients with many different glucocorticoid-treated
      disorders; most often RA and polymyalgia rheumatica, and occurred generally irrespective of
      patient age, sex and menopausal status in women. In addition, statically significant
      reductions in the absolute risk and relative risk of incident radiographic vertebral
      fractures were demonstrated after 1 year of treatment with risedronate. A similar significant
      reduction in the risk of incident radiographic vertebral fractures was seen in alendronate
      treated patients who completed 2 years of a study of alendronate in the prevention and
      treatment of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis. There exists a data about Ibandronate which
      reported that intermittent intravenous ibandronate reduced vertebral fracture risk in
      corticosteroid-induced osteoporosis. However, there is no report about oral monthly
      ibandronate. Current oral bisphosphonates, which are given either daily or weekly, are
      associated with stringent, inconvenient dosing schedules. Less frequent dosing may provide
      great acceptability. The objective of this study was to investigate the efficacy of oral
      monthly ibandronate in women receiving long-term glucocorticoids.
    
  