
    
      We will evaluate left ventricular diastolic function noninvasively by echocardiography before
      and after the intervention. Exclusion criteria include coronary artery disease, significant
      valvular heart disease, cardiomyopathy, pericardial disease and renal insufficiency. We would
      like to enroll 50 cases and the same numbers of the controls. The inclusion criteria are
      subjects who underwent peritoneal dialysis at our hospital for more than 6 months with higher
      pro-inflammation serum cytokine levels (C-reactive protein > 0.2mg/dL). Atorvastatin
      (40mg/day) would be given to those who were allocated to the intervention group. We will than
      follow up cardiac diastolic function by echocardiography and also the change of serum
      markers. We would also genotype the inflammation-associated genes and their promoter region
      and find the association between genetic polymorphisms and the treatment effects of statins.

      Patients population and Monitoring The study population will consist of patients with CAPD
      and DHF (NYHA Class II-IV), aged 18 years or older without reduced systolic function, defined
      as left ventricular EF ≤ 45%, Patients fulfilling the inclusion and exclusion criteria will
      be randomized in a 1:1 ratio into the study from the single medical centers.

      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Outpatients ≥ 20 year of age, male or female with essential hypertension

        2. Patients must be on a stable condition of CAPD for at least 6 months.

      Exclusion Criteria:

        1. History of hypersensitivity to any of the study drugs.

        2. Current acute decompensated HF (exacerbation of chronic HF manifested by signs &
           symptoms that may require IV therapy).

        3. Acute coronary syndrome, stroke, transient ischemic attack, cardiac, carotid or major
           vascular surgery, percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or carotid angioplasty,
           within the past 3 months prior to visit 1.

        4. Coronary or carotid artery disease likely to require surgical or percutaneous
           intervention within the 6 months after Visit 1.

        5. Right heart failure due to severe pulmonary disease.

        6. Diagnosis of peripartum or chemotherapy induced cardiomyopathy within the 12 months
           prior to visit 1.

        7. Patients with a history of heart transplant or who are on a transplant list or with left
           ventricular assistance device (LVAD device).

        8. Documented ventricular arrhythmia with syncopal episodes within past 3 months, prior to
           visit 1, that is untreated.

        9. Symptomatic bradycardia or second or third degree heart block without a pacemaker.

       10. Implantation of a CRT (cardiac resynchronization therapy) device within the prior 3
           months from visit 1 or intent to implant a CRT device.

       11. Presence of hemodynamically significant mitral and/or aortic valve disease, except
           mitral regurgitation secondary to left ventricular dilatation.

       12. Presence of other hemodynamically significant obstructive lesions of left ventricular
           outflow tract, including aortic and sub-aortic stenosis.

       13. Severe primary pulmonary, renal or hepatic disease judged by physicians.

       14. Presence of any other disease with a life expectancy of < 1 year.

       15. Chronic long-term requirement for NSAIDs (high dose) or COX2 inhibitors, with the
           exception of aspirin at doses used for CV prophylaxis (≤325 mg o.d.).

       16. Subjects are now breast feeding, get pregnant or will be pregnant within 6 months.
    
  