
    
      I. Dose Escalation Phase 1 of Study: The study will employ the standard "Cohort of Three"
      design (Storer, 1989). Three patients are treated at each dose level with expansion to six
      patients per cohort if DLT is observed in one of the three initially-enrolled patients at
      each dose level. If no DLT occurs after 2 doses, escalation to the next dose level will be
      permitted. The maximum tolerated dose is defined as the highest safely tolerated dose, where
      not more than one patient experienced DLT, with the next higher dose level having at least
      two patients who experienced DLT. Patients in the dose escalation study may continue
      treatment at their designated dose levels until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity
      occurs or up to 9 six-week cycles (one year) of therapy (up 18 TRABECTEDIN doses). No
      intra-patient dose escalation will take place.

      Dose of IPILIMUMAB: 1 mg/kg IV over 30 min. q 12 weeks, beginning 2 weeks after first dose of
      TRABECTEDIN, until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity, up to 5 doses

      Dose of NIVOLUMAB: 3 mg/kg over 30 min. q 2 weeks, beginning 2 weeks after first dose of
      TRABECTEDIN, until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity, up to 26 doses

      Dose of TRABECTEDIN: Escalating doses of TRABECTEDIN IV as continuous intravenous infusion
      (CIV) over 24 hrs) q 3 weeks:

      Dose Level I: 1 mg/m2 (n = 3-6); Dose Level II: 1.2 mg/m2 (n=3-6); Dose Level III: 1.5 mg.m2
      (n=3-6)

      II. Expansion Phase 2 of Study: Following dose escalation, an additional 22-28 previously
      untreated patients will receive TRABECTEDIN at the MTD and defined doses of IPILIMUMAB and
      NIVOLUMAB to assess overall safety and potential efficacy in a greater number of patients.
      Patients in the expansion phase of the study may continue treatment until significant disease
      progression (see criteria for discontinuation of therapy) or unacceptable toxicity occurs up
      to 9 six-week cycles (one year) of therapy.

      Surgical Resection: After one or more treatment cycles, the principal investigator may
      recommend surgical debulking, complete surgical removal or a biopsy. If residual disease is
      present either by histopathological examination or by CT scan/MRI, repeat treatment cycles
      may be given 4 weeks after surgery, if the surgical incision has healed, and if the patient
      has < grade I toxicity.

      Resected or biopsied tumors will be analyzed for the effects of this triple therapy on
      response, and immune cell trafficking in the tumor microenvironment. Fresh and paraffin
      embedded tissue blocks will be analyzed by FACS for PD-L1 and other biomarkers, including
      Tregs, CD8+, CD4+ cells etc. Immunohistochemistry for cyclin G1, cyclin D1 and Ki67 will be
      conducted to determine the tumor's proliferative state. Histopathologic examination for tumor
      necrosis and mitotic index will also be determined.
    
  