
    
      This protocol is meant to provide a matrix for multiple, simultaneous brain imaging
      investigations using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at 3.0 Tesla (3T). We intend to study
      regional brain structure, physiology, and biochemistry in living human subjects, both healthy
      and ill. Based on multiple clinical, neuropathological, and functional neuroimaging studies,
      it is clear that schizophrenia is a brain disorder arising from subtle neuronal deficits (for
      lack of more specific terminology). These deficits likely arise in a few key regions such as
      dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and hippocampal formation, that result in widespread,
      multifaceted, and devastating clinical consequences. These neuronal deficits are clearly
      heritable, although in a complex fashion from multiple genes interacting in an epistatic
      fashion with each other and the environment. We hypothesize that these neuronal deficits,
      clearly resulting in quantifiable behavioral abnormalities in schizophrenic patients, will
      produce predictable, quantifiable aberrations in neurophysiology that we can "map" using
      magnetic resonance imaging. In spite of numerous functional imaging findings, clinical
      applications remain scarce and pathognomic findings absent. Therefore, we do not anticipate
      that an approach based solely on any one modality is likely to significantly advance our
      knowledge base. Instead, we propose to create brain imaging datasets for individual human
      subjects predicated on 1) the appraisal of brain function from multiple domains
      simultaneously; 2) the characterization of brain function via summation and intercorrelation
      of these data; and 3) the digestion of these data based on the parsing of complex clinical
      phenomenology into quantifiable neurophysiological parameters. Thus, in addition to the
      identification of those parameters that best characterize and identify manifest schizophrenia
      (i.e., state variables), we hypothesize that some of these fundamental characteristics will
      be heritable. These fundamental characteristics, so-called endo- or intermediate phenotypes,
      represent powerful tools to find susceptibility genes and have already generated a number of
      linkage findings.

      Precis of Substudy: Effects of prosocial neuropeptides on human brain function

      The goal of this substudy is to delineate neural systems involved in fear processing,
      emotional memory, and cognition reactive to intranasally applied prosocial neuropeptides
      (oxytocin, vasopressin) as a prelude to defining genetic variation in humans impacting on
      this circuit.
    
  