
    
      This study will be an open-label, Phase II, multi-center, single arm study to evaluate the
      safety and tolerability of IV zanamivir 600mg twice daily for 5 days in hospitalized subjects
      with laboratory confirmed influenza infection. The initial 5-day treatment course may be
      extended for up to 5 additional days if viral shedding is determined to be ongoing or if
      clinical symptoms warrant further treatment with IV zanamivir.

      Approximately 200 subjects will be enrolled into the study (approximately 150
      adult/adolescent subjects and approximately 50 pediatric subjects). Adult (>/= 18 years of
      age) with normal renal function will receive 600mg per dose. Pediatric (6 months to <13
      years)/adolescent (>13 years to <18 years) subjects will receive an age-adjusted,
      weight-based dose (not to exceed the 600 mg adult dose) intended to provide comparable
      systemic exposures to 600mg in adults. Subjects with renal impairment will receive an
      adjusted dose based on calculated creatinine clearance and renal replacement modality.

      Serum pharmacokinetic assessments will be performed in subjects across all age groups
      wherever possible. Pharmacokinetic analyses will be conducted, in real-time to the extent
      possible, when 4 subjects (from whom samples can be obtained) are enrolled in each of the
      following age cohorts: 6 months to less than 1 year; 1 to less than 2 years, and 2 to less
      than 6 years to determine the need for pediatric dose adjustments. PK assessments are
      required in the first 4 subjects enrolled in the 6 months to less than 1 year age cohort, and
      PK data must be analyzed and IV zanamivir dosage must be reviewed before additional subjects
      in this age cohort can be enrolled.

      The study duration is approximately 28 days for subjects whose treatment duration is 5 days,
      and up to approximately 33 days for subjects whose treatment duration is extended to a
      maximum of 10 days. The study will consist of Pre-dose Baseline Assessments (Day 1), During
      Treatment Assessments (Days 1 to 5, and up to Day 10), and Follow-up Assessments on the
      following days: Post-Treatment +2 +5, +9, +16 and +23 Days. If the first dose of IV zanamivir
      is administered in the afternoon/evening of Day 1, the twice daily dosing schedule will
      result in one treatment day encompassing two calendar days. For subjects who have been
      discharged from hospital, the Post-Treatment +2, +5, +9 and +16 Days Assessments can be made
      by telephone contact.
    
  