
    
      Introduction Currently, teachers have emphasized the instructional strategies and enthusiasm
      in critical thinking to students to understand the educational course1. As coaching mentors,
      they search for innovative teaching models to reach the learning target 2. In anesthesia, a
      training program of nurse students involves several teaching methods such as seminars,
      journal clubs as well as topic, didactic, simulation and problem-based learning 13, 14.

      Simulation-based learning in medicine utilizes aides such as manikins or actors to replicate
      clinical scenarios. It yields the acquisition of skills through deliberate practice rather
      than an apprentice style of learning 22. However, problem-based learning is a small group
      discussions where students are active, learner-centered, or self-directed learning to the
      topic assignments. Teachers play role as moderators or facilitators 21.

      Teaching and learning in airway management are essential in anesthetic field. The personnel
      need to be keen both basic and advance knowledge owing to its applications to the benefits of
      patients' life. At present, the diversity of learning techniques (PBL and SBL) allows
      sophisticated devices as an interactive learning tool to cope with all difficulties in
      details.

      Nevertheless, neither PBL nor SBL manifests the superior benefit of instructional process and
      learning content xx. Chin KL, et al. (2014) concluded that simulation was superior to
      case-based learning in teaching diabetic ketoacidosis and thyroid storm to the final-year,
      undergraduate pharmacy students. Randolph H, et al. (2006) revealed that students who learned
      critical assessment and management skills using full-scale, high- fidelity simulation,
      performed better than students who acquired similar skills in an interactive problem-based
      learning format.

      As either PBL or SBL on difficult airway management is based upon the same table of
      specifications and experienced instructors. We would like to compare the teachers' and
      students' attitudes on these two learning methods.

      Objectives To compare between PBL and SBL in terms of learning content, instructional and
      evaluation methods

      Material and Methods After IRB approval No. 369/2558(EC3). A prospective,
      questionnaires-based study was performed amongst 40 volunteered, consent-signed nurse
      anesthetist students. The inclusion criteria for teachers were anesthesiologists who have
      involved in SBL and PBL with more than 3 years of experience in teaching. The inclusion
      criteria for students were nurse anesthetist students in the academic years of 2015. The
      exclusion criteria of both groups were ones who did not fit all qualifications.

      After stratified randomization, ten nurse anesthetist students attended either SBL or PBL
      course one at a time. The one-day workshops were performed simultaneously. Six weeks later, a
      crossover technique was applied for both groups. At the end of project, teachers and students
      had to response to Likert's scale questionnaires: 4 = very suitable, 3 = suitable, 2 =
      unsuitable, 1 = very unsuitable.

      The teachers' questionnaire based on table of specification of the learning contents,
      consisted of 4 parts: airway evaluation (history taking and physical examination), patient
      preparation (equipments and experienced helpers), 5 strategic planning (facemask ventilation,
      supraglottic airway device, laryngoscopy, tracheal intubation and failed intubation) and
      follow up care (documentation and informative advice).

      On the other hand, the students' questionnaires comprised 3 parts: learning content, process
      and evaluation.

      The correctness and appropriateness of the questionnaires (content validity) were determined
      by three board-certified anesthesiologists who had at least ten year experiences in
      anesthesia and were not involved in the project. The tryout was performed by ten novice nurse
      anesthetists and five anesthesiologists on students' and teachers' matters respectively. The
      index of item objective congruence was 0.80 and 0.82 with Cronbach's Alpha of 0.97 and 0.92
      respectively. We used percentage, mean, standard deviation and student t-Test for data
      analysis at the significant level of 0.05 with 95% confident interval.
    
  