
    
      The proposed study will evaluate the efficacy of a 6-month, child care-based intervention to
      increase workers' MVPA and other health-related behaviors (Healthy Lifestyles) compared to an
      attention control condition (Healthy Finances). This study will use a two-arm,
      cluster-randomized controlled trial (RCT) and a sample of 104 child care centers and 416
      workers (4 workers/center). The primary outcome will be workers' MVPA; and secondary outcomes
      include workers' weight, dietary intake, smoking status, sleep habits, and emotional health
      as well as child care centers' programs, policies and environment around worksite wellness
      and teachers' interactions with children around physical activity. All primary and secondary
      outcomes will be assessed at baseline, post-intervention (6 months), and maintenance (18
      months).

      For this study, 104 child care centers will be recruited from a mix of urban/suburban and
      rural areas. Potential child care centers in these counties will be identified using an
      online database of licensed child care facilities maintained by the North Carolina (NC)
      Division of Child Development and Early Education. State and local community partners will be
      engaged to help inform centers in targeted counties about the research study. Direct
      recruitment of centers will employ a variety of strategies (e.g., mail, email, telephone,
      website, video, in-person contacts). Once a center expresses interest, the center director
      will be engaged to recruit their staff (child care workers) to participate as a team.

      Outcome Measures:

      A series of measurements will be collected on participating child care center directors and
      staff at three time points - baseline, follow-up (6 months), and maintenance (18 months).
      Primary outcome measures will assess moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA) of center
      staff. Secondary outcomes measures will assess staff members' behavioral health risk factors
      as well as centers' programs, policies and environment around worksite wellness and teachers'
      interactions with children around physical activity. These measures will be collected during
      a one-day, on-site visit to the child care center, and supplemented with physical health
      assessments completed at the kick-off event. Center visits will be conducted by research
      assistants who have undergone extensive training and certification on all measurement
      procedures and are blinded to study-arm assignment. Similar data collection protocols will be
      used at all three time points - baseline, follow-up and maintenance.

      Randomization:

      Centers will be randomly assigned (1:1) into the intervention or control arm. Randomization
      will occur during local kick-off events (each center must attend one event). Each kick-off
      event will include a short wellness fair in the morning (including stations to collect
      baseline biomedical health assessments). Lunch will be provided, followed by random
      assignment into either the intervention or control arm. Timing allows for all of baseline
      measures to be complete prior to randomization. Centers in both the intervention and control
      arms will immediately start implementation of their respective programs.

      Program Details/Intervention:

      Healthy Lifestyles Intervention will kick off with an educational workshop and tailored
      feedback based on responses to the CHART assessment tool. The educational workshop and
      personalized health assessment summary will be delivered during the afternoon of the kick-off
      event in a group format with other participating centers. Following this launch, the
      intervention will provide 3 campaigns, each of which will include the following components:
      center support materials, director webinar, staff magazine, and behavioral goal
      setting/monitoring and weekly personalized feedback. The center support materials, director
      webinars, and staff magazines will be delivered directly to the center to support the
      center-based intervention. The behavioral goal setting/monitoring will be delivered directly
      to participating staff. While campaign structure is constant, topics of each campaign will
      vary. Campaign 1 focuses on increasing daily physical activity, cutting back on unhealthy
      snacking, and switching from sugary and diet drinks to water. Campaign 2 focuses on eating a
      diet rich in fruit and vegetables, whole grains, and lean protein, varying daily physical
      activity, and increasing strength training. Campaign 3 focuses on maintaining an active
      lifestyle, managing stress in a healthy way, and improving sleep habits.

      Program Details/Control:

      Healthy Finances Intervention will kick-off with an educational workshop and personalized
      health assessment snapshot at the kickoff community event. The educational workshop will be
      delivered during the afternoon of the kick-off event in a group format with other
      participating centers randomized to the Healthy Finances arm. The personalized health
      assessment snapshot will be provided during that workshop, but not reviewed in detail. It is
      intended to provide only a basic comparison of current behaviors to recommendations.
      Following this launch, the intervention will provide 3 campaigns, each of which will include
      the following components: director webinar, staff magazine, and a contest focused on quizzing
      knowledge gained from the magazines. The director webinars and staff magazines will be
      delivered directly to the center to support the center-based program. The contest and
      knowledge quizzes will be delivered directly to participating staff. While campaign structure
      is constant, topics of each campaign will vary. Campaign 1 focuses on the link between
      financial health and personal well-being (physical, mental), record-keeping: logging income
      and expenses, and thoughtful spending: creating and sticking to a spending plan. Campaign 2
      focuses on creating and making the most of a personal savings account, and benefits of
      long-term investing: rules of thumb for picking investments. Campaign 3 focuses on
      understanding your credit report and credit score, understanding what good credit can do for
      you, and tips and strategies for improving your credit.

      Analysis:

      Investigators will compare the difference in mean change in MVPA between baseline and post
      intervention between Healthy Lifestyle and Healthy Finance arms, controlling for baseline
      physical activity. The primary analysis will test the hypothesis under the intent-to-treat
      principle using Generalized Linear Mixed Models (GLMM) that will account for the correlation
      induced by the clustering of staff within centers. Each GLMM will include a random intercept
      for centers (β 0) and fixed effects for the baseline value of the primary outcome (β1) and
      the intervention (β2) to test if the difference in mean change in the primary outcome is zero
      where β0 is the fixed intercept and e is error.

      [Change in Primary Outcome6mo = β0 + β1PrimaryOutcomebaseline + β2Intervention + b0 + e]
      Including baseline score as a covariate in an analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), in our case a
      GLLM ANCOVA analysis, is a more powerful test than a group comparison of baseline to
      post-intervention change. Additionally, ANCOVA is not distorted by regression towards the
      mean bias, whereas a change analysis is. To further explore intervention effect,
      investigators will fit GLMMs that: 1) adjust for baseline covariates, considered a priori, to
      be relevant to change in MVPA; 2) adjust for baseline variables distributed differently
      between Healthy Lifestyle and Healthy Finance arms; 3) test interaction terms between
      treatment group and other covariates; and 4) examine completers only. While investigators
      will make every effort to minimize attrition at the center and participant level; some drop
      out is expected. Investigators will explore the potential bias from non-ignorable,
      non-response using two methods: 1) compare respondents and non- respondents to see if they
      differ systematically on values of non-missing variables; and 2) assess whether data are
      missing completely at random (MCAR), or missing at random (MAR) or missing not at random
      (MNAR) - non-ignorable. If missing data are ignorable (MAR and/or MCAR), investigators will
      consider imputing missing endpoint data using multiple imputation techniques. However, it is
      often hard to determine if missing data are ignorable; therefore, investigators will consider
      selection models (MNAR models) to assess if data are missing not at random and estimate the
      effect of the interventions after removing selection bias. Investigators will also consider
      using pattern mixture models to assess the sensitivity of our results to various assumptions
      of missing data patterns. Investigators' previous work in child care centers and worksites
      demonstrate good retention.
    
  