
    
      Given the central role of thrombosis in the pathobiology of acute ischemic heart disease,
      injectable (intravenous or subcutaneous) anticoagulants have become the foundation of medical
      treatment for patients presenting with acute coronary syndromes (unstable angina and
      myocardial infarction; ACS) and for those undergoing coronary revascularization procedures,
      either percutaneously or surgically (Harrington et al., 2004; Popma et al., 2004). Currently
      available anticoagulants include unfractionated heparin (UFH), the low molecular weight
      heparins (LMWH), and the direct thrombin inhibitors (DTI) (e.g., recombinant hirudin,
      bivalirudin, and argatroban). The present paradigm both for anticoagulant use and for
      continued antithrombotic drug development is to establish a balance between efficacy
      (reducing the risk of ischemic events) and safety (minimizing the risk of bleeding)
      (Harrington et al., 2004). Each of the available agents carries an increased risk of bleeding
      relative to placebo.

      The major adverse event associated with anticoagulant and antithrombotic drugs is bleeding,
      which can cause permanent disability and death (Ebbesen et al., 2001; Levine et al., 2004).
      Generally, cardiovascular clinicians have been willing to trade off an increased risk of
      bleeding when a drug can reduce the ischemic complications of either the acute coronary
      syndromes or of coronary revascularization procedures. However, recent data have suggested
      that bleeding events, particularly those that require blood transfusion, have a significant
      impact on the outcome and cost of treatment of patients with ACS. Transfusion rates in
      patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery range from 30-60%,
      and transfusion in these patients is associated with increased short, medium and long-term
      mortality (Bracey et al., 1999; Engoren et al., 2002; Hebert et al., 1999). Bleeding is also
      the most frequent and costly complication associated with percutaneous coronary interventions
      (PCI), with transfusions being performed in 5-10% of patients at an incremental cost of
      $8000-$12,000 (Moscucci, 2002). In addition, the frequency of significant bleeding in
      patients undergoing treatment for ACS is high as well, ranging from 5% to 10% (excluding
      patients who undergo CABG), with bleeding and transfusion independently associated with a
      significant increase in short-term mortality (Moscucci et al., 2003; Rao et al., 2004).
      Therefore, despite the continued development of novel antithrombotics, a significant clinical
      need exists for safer anticoagulant agents.

      For hospitalized patients with acute ischemic heart disease, the ideal anticoagulant would be
      deliverable by intravenous or subcutaneous injection, immediately effective, easily dosed so
      as not to require frequent monitoring and immediately and predictably reversible.

      UFH is the only antidote-reversible anticoagulant currently approved for use. However, UFH
      has significant limitations. First, heparin has complex pharmacokinetics that make the
      predictability of its use challenging (Granger et al., 1996). Second, the dose predictability
      of its antidote, protamine, is challenging, and there are serious side effects associated
      with its use (Carr and Silverman, 1999; Welsby et al., 2005). Finally, heparin can induce
      thrombocytopenia (HIT) and thrombocytopenia with thrombosis (HITT) (Warkentin, 2005;
      Warkentin and Greinacher, 2004).

      Despite these limitations, heparin remains the most commonly used anticoagulant for
      hospitalized patients primarily because it is "reversible." Newer-generation anticoagulants,
      such as the LMWHs have improved upon the predictability of UFH dosing and do not require
      lab-based monitoring as part of their routine use. HIT and HITT are observed less frequently
      with the LMWHs, relative to UFH, but they have not eliminated this risk. Two of the three
      commercially available DTIs, lepirudin and argatroban, are specifically approved for use in
      patients who have developed or have a history of HIT. Bivalirudin is approved for use as an
      anticoagulant during PCI and therefore provides an attractive alternative to UFH in patients
      who have HIT. However, there are no direct and clear antidotes to reverse the anticoagulant
      effects of the LMWHs, nor of the DTIs, which presents a particular risk to their use in
      patients undergoing surgical or percutaneous coronary revascularization procedures (Jones et
      al., 2002). Bleeding in patients treated with LMWH's or DTI's is managed by administering
      blood products (including clotting factor).

      Rapid reversal of drug activity can be achieved by formulation of a drug as an infusible
      agent with a short half-life, or via administration of a second agent, an antidote, that can
      neutralize the activity of the drug. Short-acting direct thrombin inhibitors such as
      bivalirudin, which can be reversed simply by cessation of infusion, are being developed as
      infusible anticoagulants for use in CABG surgery (Merry et al., 2004). However, the
      co-morbidities such as renal dysfunction, present in a large percentage of patients
      undergoing CABG (or PCI) procedures (Al Suwaidi et al., 2002), may preclude rapid clearance
      of the drug and thus delay reversal of activity, and/or the relatively large quantity of drug
      required to sustain anticoagulation (i.e., necessary to achieve effective steady state levels
      of a short-half-life agent) may significantly interact with underlying renal impairment to
      compound the problem. Therefore, it remains to be seen if these drugs will indeed achieve
      rapid reversal of anticoagulation following stoppage of infusion in the target patient
      populations, and whether the clearance of the drug itself may exacerbate renal dysfunction.

      An alternative approach to providing controlled anticoagulation embraced by Regado
      Biosciences is the utilization of an anticoagulating agent with medium-term duration of
      action (~12 hours) that can achieve clinically appropriate activity at relatively low doses,
      in combination with a second agent capable of specifically binding to and neutralizing the
      primary anticoagulant. Such a "drug-antidote" combination can ensure predictable and safe
      neutralization and reversal of the anticoagulant activity of the drug (Rusconi et al., 2004;
      Rusconi et al., 2002).

      The cell-based model of coagulation (Hoffman et al., 1995; Kjalke et al., 1998; Monroe et
      al., 1996) (Figure 1) provides the clearest explanation to date of how physiologic
      coagulation occurs in vivo. The advance of this model over prior descriptions of the
      coagulation reaction is that it incorporates the cellular surfaces upon which the specific
      coagulation factors accumulate and react, and thereby more accurately explains the phenotypes
      observed in individuals lacking, or deficient in, the various coagulation factors and
      platelet receptors.

      According to this model, the procoagulant reaction occurs in three distinct steps,
      initiation, amplification and propagation. Initiation of coagulation takes place on tissue
      factor-bearing cells (e.g., activated monocytes, macrophages, and endothelial cells).
      Coagulation factor VIIa, which forms a complex with tissue factor, catalyzes the activation
      of coagulation factors IX (FIX) and X (FX), which in turn generates a small amount of
      thrombin from prothrombin. In the amplification phase (also referred to as the priming
      phase), the small amount of thrombin generated in the initiation phase activates coagulation
      factors V, VIII, and XI and also activates platelets, which supplies a surface upon which
      further procoagulant reactions occur. In vivo, the small amounts of thrombin generated during
      the amplification phase are not sufficient to convert fibrinogen to fibrin, due to the
      presence of endogenous thrombin inhibitors termed serpins, such as anti-thrombin III,
      -2-macroglobulin and heparin cofactor II. The final phase of the procoagulant reaction,
      propagation, occurs exclusively on the surface of activated platelets. During propagation,
      significant amounts of FIXa are generated by the FXIa-catalyzed activation of FIX. FIXa forms
      a complex with its requisite cofactor FVIIIa, which activates FX. Subsequently, FXa forms a
      complex with its requisite cofactor FVa. The FXa-FVa complex activates prothrombin, which
      leads to a "burst" of thrombin generation and fibrin deposition. The end result is the
      formation of a stable clot.

      Based upon this model, FIXa play two roles in coagulation. In the initiation phase, FIXa
      plays an important role in generating small amounts of thrombin via activation of FX to FXa
      and subsequent prothrombin activation. However, this role of FIXa is at least partially
      redundant with the tissue factor FVIIa-catalyzed conversion of FX to FXa. The more critical
      role of FIXa occurs in the propagation phase, in which the FVIIIa/FIXa enzyme complex serves
      as the sole catalyst of FXa generation on the activated platelet surface. Therefore, a
      reduction in FIXa activity, either due to genetic deficiency in FIX (i.e. hemophilia B) or
      pharmacologic inhibition of FIX/IXa, is expected to have several effects on coagulation.
      First, inhibition or loss of FIXa activity should partially dampen the initiation of
      coagulation. Second, inhibition or loss of FIXa activity should have a profound effect on the
      propagation phase of coagulation, resulting in a significant reduction or elimination of
      thrombin production. Finally, limitation of thrombin generation during the propagation phase
      will at least partially quell feedback amplification of coagulation by reducing activation of
      platelets and upstream coagulation factors such as factors V, VIII and XI.

      Inhibitors of FIX activity, such as active site-inactivated factor IXa (FIXai) or monoclonal
      antibodies against FIX (e.g., the antibody BC2), have exhibited potent anticoagulant and
      antithrombotic activity in multiple animal models, including various animal models of
      arterial thrombosis and stroke (Benedict et al., 1991; Choudhri et al., 1999; Feuerstein et
      al., 1999; Spanier et al., 1998a; Spanier et al., 1997; Spanier et al., 1998b; Toomey et al.,
      2000). In general, these studies have shown that FIXa inhibitors have a higher ratio of
      antithrombotic activity to bleeding risk than unfractionated heparin in animals. However, in
      these studies, at doses marginally higher than the effective dose, animals treated with these
      agents have exhibited bleeding profiles no different than heparin. Such an experience in
      well-controlled animal studies suggests that, in the clinical setting, the ability to control
      the activity of a FIXa inhibitor would enhance its safety and facilitate its medical use. In
      addition, FIXai has been shown to be safe and effective as a heparin replacement in multiple
      animal surgical models requiring anticoagulant therapy, including rabbit models of synthetic
      patch vascular repair, as well as canine and non-human primate models of CABG with
      cardiopulmonary bypass (Spanier et al., 1998a; Spanier et al., 1997; Spanier et al., 1998b).
      FIXai has also been used successfully for several critically ill patients requiring
      cardiopulmonary bypass and in the setting of other extracorporeal circuits such as
      extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (Spanier et al., 1998a) by physicians at the Columbia
      College of Physicians and Surgeons, on a compassionate care basis. Thus, FIXa is a validated
      target for anticoagulant therapy in coronary revascularization procedures (both CABG and
      PCI), and for the treatment and prevention of thrombosis in patients suffering from acute
      coronary syndromes.
    
  