
    
      A single-arm, single-center, open label Phase 1 study of a 12-week course of SOF/VEL in 10
      HCV-infected pregnant women. Treatment will be initiated during the second trimester,
      reducing the risk of SOF/VEL exposure during organogenesis and ensuring treatment completion
      by delivery, minimizing the risk of perinatal transmission. The study will be completed in 10
      or 11 visits (7 maternal visits, delivery visit and 3 infant visits) which should align with
      prenatal and postpartum visits. Patients will be screened between 14+0 and 22+6 weeks of
      gestation confirmed by ultrasound by the time of their enrollment visit who are known to have
      chronic HCV infection. An HCV RNA level to confirm the patient is actively infected with HCV
      as well as an HCV genotype will be obtained. A full laboratory evaluation of liver function
      will be obtained to evaluate for renal failure and decompensated cirrhosis. A Hepatitis B
      Virus (HBV) panel will be performed to test all patients for evidence of current or prior HBV
      infection before initiation of HCV treatment. If the inclusion and exclusion criteria are
      met, the patient will be enrolled into the study between 23+0 and 25+6 weeks' gestation and
      initiated on a 12 week course of SOF/VEL. Systemic exposure of both VEL and SOF (SOF and
      inactive metabolite GS-331007) and intracellular SOF (GS-461203) will be assessed by
      pharmacokinetic sampling at 3, 6, and 9 weeks after first dose. HCV RNA viral load will be
      assessed at 12 weeks after completion of SOF/VEL treatment. Pregnancy and delivery outcomes
      will be collected prospectively. Neonatal outcomes will be assessed at birth, 8 weeks, 6
      months and 12 months. HCV RNA viral load will be obtained at birth (as available), 1 to 3
      months, at 6 months and then again at 12 months only if negative viral loads are not
      documented at 1 to 3 and 6 months. Neurodevelopmental assessments will be obtained at 6
      months and 12 months.
    
  