
    
      This study is a single center, prospective, open-label feasibility study evaluating the
      safety and effectiveness of Carotid Stenting. The study population will include patients with
      atherosclerotic obstructive lesions and/or post-endarterectomy restenotic obstructive lesions
      in native carotid arteries. The intention is to include patients with both types of lesions.

      At the 30-day, 6-month and 1-year post-procedure clinical visits, the procedures will include
      a neurological examination and an evaluation of any adverse events. A carotid ultrasound will
      be performed at 6 months and 1 year after the procedure.

      Guidelines for stopping the study will be event rates such as stroke and death that exceed
      twice the expected frequency of such events treated by surgical endarterectomy techniques.
      The control rates utilized will be drawn from the NASCET Trial.

      Patients who meet all the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria (as specified
      in sections 4.1 and 4.2 respectively) will be offered the choice of participating in this
      study. . Within the inclusion/exclusion criteria are included patients who would otherwise be
      at high risk for surgical endarterectomy. This would include patients with restenosis after
      endarterectomy, radical neck dissection, contralateral carotid artery occlusion, and high
      take-off carotid bifurcation disease. Since 1989, 8000 carotid artery stent procedures have
      been performed worldwide with a success rate of 98.6%. This procedure combined with the
      distal protection device, is predicted to show an even greater success rate and a decrease in
      adverse events for these patients. For these reasons, any patient with significant carotid
      artery disease felt to be at high risk for surgical correction will be offered the chance to
      enroll in this registry.

      The patients are referred by the stroke team and also by vascular surgery. The potential
      risks, including recent stroke, excessive cardiopulmonary risk, last remaining patent vessel,
      etc are all considered as well as the risks of traditional medical or surgical therapy. All
      treatment options along with possible risks and benefits will be extensively discussed. Cases
      are reviewed by a multidisciplinary team at a scheduled conference. It is determined at that
      time whether the patient may be a candidate for carotid stenting. If all criteria are met,
      then the procedure and study as well as other options will be explained to the patient. An
      extensive discussion will occur with the patient and family regarding all potential treatment
      options, risks, and benefits. If the patient wishes to proceed with carotid stenting and be
      included in the study, an office visit is made with the investigator if not previously done
      and a possible procedure date is set after the visit with the investigator. At the office
      visit, the study and informed consent will be explained. All questions will be answered and
      the patient, if he wishes, will agree to the study by signing the informed consent. The
      patient and family will be given phone numbers to call for any additional concerns or
      questions and are repeatedly encouraged to contact us for any arising concerns both before
      and after the procedure.
    
  