
    
      Annually, more than 30,000 patients are admitted for treatment at Danish intensive care units
      (ICUs). These critically ill patients are some of the most vulnerable in the health care
      system.

      For years, focus has primarily been on treatment and survival of this patient group. As
      treatment effectiveness has gradually increased, the overall survival rate is now above 80%.
      Consequently, the period following ICU discharge has gained increasing focus and follow up
      interventions in the period after ICU treatment have become more common. These different
      follow up interventions has given name to the concept of 'aftercare'. Aftercare activities
      includes both early rehabilitation initiated during the continued hospital admission and also
      the following rehabilitation after hospital discharge.

      Complications after intensive care treatment are numerous, including both physical, cognitive
      and psychological impairments, e.g. depression, muscle weakness, anxiety and social
      isolation. Together these symptoms are defined as post intensive care syndrome (PICS).

      While it is clear that a need for aftercare exists, the optimal evidence based activities
      remains to be determined. The current follow-up activities are established as local
      initiatives and the methods vary greatly. Examples of present aftercare interventions include
      use of diaries, follow-up consultations, revisiting the ICU and assessment of quality of
      life.

      A recent systematic review examined these different rehabilitation efforts, without finding
      significant effects of the present interventions, although usage of ICU-diaries had a minor
      preventive effect on post-traumatic stress syndrome (PTSD). A Danish meta-analysis from 2015
      on follow-up consultations showed similar results.

      Aftercare is a rapidly developing area and it is necessary to further investigate this
      important topic. Therefore, the investigators want to describe the current level of aftercare
      with a new mapping of activities in all Danish ICUs. Hereby, the investigators hope to create
      a better and up-to-date foundation for further development within Danish aftercare.
      Furthermore, the investigators wish to research on the clinician-experienced (the
      participants) attitude towards and limitations for aftercare activities, in order to discuss
      directions for future development.
    
  