
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      The aim of this study is to estimate the effectiveness of a preemptive bolus of intravenous
      lidocaine on reduction in acute pain, improvement on the range of movement, other
      rehabilitation parameters and functional scoring in the post-operative period after total
      knee replacement.

      DESIGN:

      This is a double-blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled trial.

      RECRUITMENT & SAMPLE SIZE:

      Over a one-year period, suitable patients will be approached at the pre-admission clinic and
      in the general ward before their operation. Informed consent will be obtained before
      enrollment.

      The sample size required is calculated to be 45 subjects per group.

      PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

      In order to minimize potential confounding factors, the demographic data of each subject will
      be collected during preoperative assessment, including: age, gender, duration of preoperative
      pain duration, preoperative NRS (movement) and NRS (rest). Both active and passive ROM of the
      knee will be assessed by the attending physiotherapist.

      RANDOMIZATION & BLINDING:

      Each subject will be assigned to either Lidocaine Group or Placebo Group. A randomization
      list will be established by a computer-generated random sequence before the study begins. An
      envelope containing the group assignment will be prepared, sealed, sequentially numbered, and
      allocated for each subject. A "blinded" anaesthetist will then prepare lidocaine or saline
      according to the group assigned for the attending anaesthetist. The subjects, the
      investigators, and all the parties involved in patient management or data collection will be
      blinded throughout the study period.

      INTERVENTION:

      For Lidocaine Group: a bolus of intravenous lidocaine of 2mg/kg over 5 mins will be given
      before skin incision.

      For Placebo Group: Normal Saline of equal volume will be given as bolus before skin incision.

      ANAESTHESIA & ANALGESIA:

      (I) PRE-OPERATIVE: Routine preoperative assessment will be taken at the pre-admission clinic
      or at the general ward; and standard fasting times (6 hours for solid food and 2 hours for
      clear liquid) will be ordered.

      No analgesics or sedatives will be given as pre-medication. Holter machine will be used to
      document any arrhythmia preoperatively and will be attached to patient till Day 1
      postoperatively.

      (II) INTRA-OPERATIVE: In addition to continuous ECG monitoring, BP, heart rate and SpO2 will
      be monitored at no longer than every 5 mins throughout the operation. Signs and symptoms of
      local anaesthetic toxicity will be assessed at 30 minute intervals.

      After establishing at least one patent intravenous cannula and ensuring the monitors are
      properly applied, Spinal Anaesthesia will be given by the attending anaesthetist under
      aseptic technique.

      The choice of equipment (Whitacre or Quincke Needle), technique (landmark or
      ultrasound-guided), and approach (midline or paramedical) are at the discretion of the
      attending anaesthetist.

      An intrathecal dose of 2.2-2.6ml 0.5% Heavy Bupivacaine with 15mcg of fentanyl will be given
      depending on the height of the patient. Vasopressors and intravenous ﬂuids will be given as
      necessary to keep the patient's blood pressure within 20% of his/her baseline, and to keep
      the heart rate within normal range.

      Bolus of lidocaine or placebo will then be given over 5 minutes before skin incision.

      No Sedation will be given during operation in order to facilitate monitoring of systemic
      toxicity.

      No Systemic Analgesics will be given, including Paracetamol, NSAIDS, Ketamine and Opioids.

      The surgeries will be performed by the same team of orthopedic surgeons experienced in total
      knee replacement at a tertiary level university teaching hospital, using standardized
      surgical techniques. All patients will undergo posterior stabilized knee prosthesis.

      Standardized dose of LIA (40ml 0.75% Ropivacaine, 0.5ml 1 in 200,000 Adrenaline, 30mg
      Ketorolac in 60ml Normal Saline) will be administered by the orthopedic team.

      (III) POST-OPERATIVE (PHASE I RECOVERY IN PACU): Upon completion of surgery, the patient will
      be transferred to PACU for further monitoring for at least 30 minutes. BP, heart rate, and
      SpO2 will be monitored every 5 minutes in addition to continuous ECG monitoring. Signs and
      symptoms of local anaesthetic toxicity will be assessed at 15 minute intervals.

      Pain will be evaluated every 5 mins using NRS. If the score is greater than 4/10, 2mg
      morphine will be given intravenously every 5 mins provided the patient has a respiratory rate
      of > 12/min and a sedation score of <1 until a NRS of < 4/10 is achieved. At which point, a
      patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) device will be connected to deliver morphine under a
      standardized regime: 1mg bolus with 5 mins lockout, an hourly maximum of 0.1mg/kg, and no
      background infusion.

      (IV) POST-OPERATIVE (PHASE II RECOVERY IN WARD): Continuous ECG monitoring will continually
      be applied until Day 1 postoperatively.

      Signs and symptoms of local anaesthetic toxicity will be assessed clinically at 1-hour
      intervals for 12 hours after operation.

      BP, heart rate, SpO2, and sedation score will be monitored at 1-hour intervals while on PCA
      morphine; BP and heart rate will be monitored at 4-hour intervals once PCA morphine is
      terminated.

      Postoperative analgesics will consist of:

      PCA Morphine for at least 2 days postoperatively, and will be terminated on postoperative Day
      3 once NRS (movement) is less than 4/10 or when 24-hour morphine consumption is less than
      10mg.

      Standardized analgesic regime, depending on body weight, will be started immediately after
      operation. For body weight > 50kg, Oral paracetamol 1gram QID, and pregabalin 75mg nocte for
      1 week celecoxib 200mg BD for 5 days. For body weight < 50kg, Oral paracetamol 1gram TDS, and
      pregabalin 50mg nocte for 1 week. celecoxib 200mg daily for 5 days.

      0.1mg/kg of intramuscular Morphine will be provided as necessary as rescue analgesic for any
      breakthrough pain. Intravenous Ondansetron of 0.1mg/kg will be given as necessary for nausea
      and vomiting.

      Diet will be resumed on Postoperative Day 0. The rehabilitation programme will be
      standardized for all patients and be carried out by the same team of physiotherapists and
      occupational therapists with the goal of early mobilization on Postoperative Day 0.
    
  