
    
      The purpose of this small scale RCT is to determine the feasibility and acceptability of EFMT
      among community dwelling older adults who experience anxiety. This study has the following
      three aims: to determine if participants can be recruited, enrolled, and retained; to
      determine if participants can adhere to all components of the intervention; and to determine
      the extent to which participants who receive the intervention have decreased levels of
      anxiety compared to those who do not receive the intervention. The secondary outcomes will be
      to determine the extent to which participants who receive the intervention have improved
      sleep quality, and improved subjective memory functioning compared to those who do not
      receive the intervention.

      This will be a small pilot RCT study that will use a wait list control trial design.
      Participants will be randomly allocated to either the intervention or control group.
      Emotion-Focused Mindfulness Therapy (EFMT) is a group intervention consisting of eight weekly
      meetings of 2.5 hours with 10 - 12 participants per group. Participants are provided
      instruction that encourages noting and experiencing bodily sensations and emotions during
      meditations. Meditations are conducted in silence for between twenty and thirty-five minutes,
      and then participants are asked to journal their recollection of the meditation and
      experiences that arise for them as they journal. Following journalling, each participant
      describes their experience in meditation, with the facilitator offering empathic exploration
      to support transforming negative emotions into adaptive emotions.

      The study will be conducted in an online delivery PHIPPA protected platform and has been
      modified to accommodate electronic delivery. Maximum number of participants per group will be
      six, and each session will be 1.5 hours. Data will be collected at three points by a research
      assistant to evaluate the feasibility of EFMT for older adults and determine whether anxiety
      is influenced by the intervention.
    
  