
    
      Pancreatic adenocarcinoma is the seventh leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide,
      and it carries dismal prognosis with a 5-year survival rate of 1-2%. The pivotal ACCORD11
      trial, FOLFIRINOX (oxaliplatin, irinotecan, 5-FU and leucovorin) has become the standard of
      care for patients with locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma. In daily
      practice, modified version of FOLFIRINOX (mFOLFIRINOX) with reduced dose of irinotecan to 150
      mg/m2 and omission of bolus 5-FU has been widely used to enhance the dose intensity and
      safety profiles.

      Despite of proven efficacy of mFOLFIRINOX in locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic
      cancer, further improvement in the efficacy outcomes are needed, considering that median
      overall survival of metastatic pancreatic cancer patients treated with FOLFIRINOX in the
      phase 3 trial was less than 1 year. Considering that mFOLFIRINOX often require placement of
      central catheterization or repeated hospitalization for continuous 5-FU infusion, novel
      regimens improving mFOLFIRINOX in the viewpoint of patient's quality of life is also needed.
      This may enhance the patient's compliance on the treatment and maximize the clinical
      outcomes.

      Liposomal irinotecan (nal-IRI) is the novel agent enhancing the drug delivery of irinotecan
      and approved for the management of gemcitabine-progressed metastatic pancreatic cancer
      patients. Considering the hostile tumor microenvironment of pancreatic adenocarcinoma,
      nal-IRI may have enhanced anti-tumor activity compared to conventional irinotecan, although
      there are no head-to-head comparison clinical trial data, yet.

      Investigators previously developed oral fluoropyrimidine-based triplet regimen (oxaliplatin,
      irinotecan and S-1) and investigated in 32 patients with advanced biliary tract cancer. This
      regimen was well tolerated and showed favorable efficacy outcome as first-line therapy with
      overall response rate of 50%.

      In present study, investigators evaluate the safety and efficacy of OIS-derived NASOX regimen
      (nal-IRI, S-1, oxaliplatin) in advanced pancreatic cancer. NASOX regimen contains nal-IRI,
      which has recently been proven effective in pancreatic cancer. If NASOX, which is more
      convenient than FOLFIRINOX, proves its safety and effectiveness, it may provide an attractive
      alternative for pancreatic cancer patients.
    
  