
    
      The IMPACT Registry seeks to fill some of the gaps associated with the clinical application
      of CBD (cannabidiol) and other cannabinoid formulations including THC and others. It will
      also serve as a platform for discovery, whereby observations of patient symptoms, specific
      cannabis formulations, delivery methods and clinical outcomes, become the source of more
      in-depth research projects.

      The IMPACT Registry is a prospective observational Registry documenting utility and patient
      experience for patients seeking to use therapeutic cannabis medicaments as a means of symptom
      relief and management related to various diseases.

      Targeted symptoms and conditions include:

        -  Chronic Pain

        -  Neuropathy

        -  Sleeplessness

        -  Poor Appetite

        -  Nausea

        -  Anxiety

        -  Menopausal symptoms

      Data to be recorded includes:

        -  Basic demographics of patients using cannabis-based medicaments

        -  Disease diagnoses and symptoms for which patients are seeking management

        -  Cannabinoid formulation, chemical composition, amount (in milligrams), dose and
           utilization

        -  Patient Reported Outcomes (PRO) using, where possible, validated measures of sleep,
           pain, appetite, etc.

        -  Physician and patient utilization of these data to manage prescription medication
           recommendations and usage, including discontinuation of opiates or reduction in use of
           opiates after initiation of cannabis-based medicaments

        -  Overall impact on clinical or patient treatment plan

      The purpose of this Registry is to provide a platform for physicians and patients to
      collaborate on cannabis research and advance the understanding of the application of
      cannabinoids for symptom relief associated with various medical conditions.

      Patients greater than or equal to 21 years of age seeking to use CBD or other cannabis
      formulations, where legal, will be invited to participate.

      Data collected in the normal course of a patient's visit and follow up are entered. This is
      an observational study; no specific patient interventions are required. Patients must have
      requested a cannabis-based medicament and recommendation from their provider.

      Data will be collected at various time points, including:

        1. At the time patients first request and are recommended cannabis medicaments

        2. At various recommended and voluntary time points, collected via PRO surveys

        3. When patients return to their providers during the course of normal clinical care

      All patients must sign a paper or electronic informed consent form prior to their prospective
      data being entered into the Registry.

      All demographic, diagnostic, cannabis formulation and follow up data will be entered by
      participating providers. Consented patients will record compliance with recommendations,
      usage and symptom relief. They will be asked to take symptom specific surveys, if applicable.
    
  