
    
      Bortezomib, has been approved for use in patients with multiple myeloma, who have already
      received at least one prior treatment and whose disease is worsening on their last treatment
      and who have already undergone or are unsuitable for bone marrow transplantation. Bortezomib
      has significant activity in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma, its efficacy is
      increased with the addition of dexamethasone and it demonstrates synergy with doxorubicin.
      The VAD combination has been widely used in multiple myeloma and has demonstrated to be
      effective in relapsed patients. Based on previous trial results, it is hoped that bortezomib,
      in replacing vincristine in the VAD standard therapy, can improve the response to treatment
      of patients with multiple myeloma, with manageable side effects. This is an international,
      multicentre, randomised, open-label, parallel group study. About 212 patients will take part
      in the study. Patients will be treated with either bortezomib (PS-341), Adriamycin and
      Dexamethasone (PAD) or Vincristine, Adriamycin and Dexamethasone (VAD). There will be an
      initial 14 day screening period to evaluate if the patient is suitable for the study. After
      screening, eligible patients will be randomised to receive either PAD or VAD. Patients will
      receive therapy for up to 8 treatment cycles of 28 days each. After the treatment period,
      there will be a long-term follow-up period with monthly visits until disease progression or
      relapse. Thereafter follow-up will be continued by at least a phone call every other month.
      This long-term follow-up period will be performed for all patients until the last patient was
      treated and followed up for 1 year. Response to treatment will be assessed according to the
      European group for blood and marrow transplant criteria (EBMT). Disease burden will be
      monitored by measuring M-protein concentration in serum and in urine every 4 weeks until
      disease progression or relapse. Thereafter follow-up for survival will be continued every
      other month by at least a phone call. Safety will be assessed by monitoring of adverse events
      (AEs), vital signs, physical examination and clinical laboratory tests. Treatment with PAD or
      VAD will be for up to 8 cycles of 28 days each. Treatment beyond 6 cycles will be discussed
      on individual basis. Proposed dosages are: bortezomib 1.3 mg/m² intravenous (IV) bolus on
      Days 1, 4, 8, and 11; vincristine 0.4mg IV push on Days 1 to 4; doxorubicin 9mg/m² IV push on
      Days 1 to 4; dexamethasone in 1st cycle 40 mg daily on Days 1 to 4, 9 to 12 and 17 to 20,
      orally (or equivalent parenteral dose) and on subsequent cycles as 40 mg daily on Days 1 to 4
      and 17 to 20 only.
    
  