
    
      All patients presenting to the University of Washington Medical Center Sinus Clinic are
      screened for depression with the PHQ-9 as a standard of care in their evaluation, as well as
      a physical examination, nasal endoscopy, and CT scan. Those patients who meet diagnostic
      criteria for CRS and for major depression will then be treated with three weeks of maximal
      medical therapy. Maximal medical therapy includes three weeks of a second-line antibiotic
      (such as Augmentin, azithromycin, or a fluoroquinolone), possible oral steroids based on the
      presence of inflammation or polyps in the sinuses, and nasal saline irrigations. They will
      then follow up with Dr. Davis in one month from their initial evaluation. Those who still do
      not have significantly improved symptoms (considered medical failures) will be approached and
      introduced to the study by Dr. Davis's medical assistant and then referred to the research
      assistant for further discussion and offered enrollment and consent if entry criteria are
      met. Note that if patients present for their initial consultation and have received maximal
      medical therapy from the referring clinician within the past two months, then they will be
      approached for possible entry into the study at that time.

      Patients presenting with complaints of facial discomfort will also be included. These people
      often present with subjective sinusitis-like symptoms that are not objectively supported by
      CT scan or endoscopy. These patients are referred to the Neurology Clinic and will be asked
      to defer their appt. for the duration of the study.

      Both patients and clinician will be blinded to the drug assignment. Subjects will be
      stratified according to facial pain or chronic sinusitis and then randomization will be done
      by restricted block randomization. A letter will be sent to each patient's primary care
      provider explaining this trial and that their patient may be taking an anti-depressant or a
      placebo.

      During the trial, the dose of escitalopram will start at 10mg per day for seven days followed
      by 20mg per day for fourteen days, then will be maintained or titrated up based on our
      study's titration protocol.

      At the conclusion of three months of active drug, the patient will be given the opportunity
      to continue the medication through their primary care provider. A two week supply of the
      active anti-depressant will be available to buffer this transition for patient's randomized
      to escitalopram.

      Data Collection Phase 0: Recruitment All patients who meet criteria of CRS and depression or
      facial pain and depression will be monitored to determine how many patients were excluded and
      for what reasons. This is imperative for Specific Aim 1, to collect the data necessary to
      eventually calculate sample size and recruitment times for a future definitive trial.

      Phase I: Patient Baseline Initial clinical, radiographic, and co-morbid characteristics will
      be identified using questionnaires and a short personal interview (by the study research
      assistant) as described below immediately following the initial one-month follow-up visit
      with Dr. Davis

      Phase II: Patient Follow-up Subjects will be followed closely with weekly phone calls from
      the research assistant for the first four weeks of the trial. During these events, the PHQ-9
      will be administered and questions will be asked regarding adverse events and side effects.
      After this, subjects will be telephoned bi-weekly for the duration of the trial asking the
      same questions. In addition, at one month and three months after the initiation of the
      research drug, during the telephone interview, subjects will be administered four
      questionnaires: the SNOT-20, SF-12, PHQ-9, and the SCL-20. Chronic sinusitis subjects and
      facial pain subjects will complete identical forms as there is common symptom crossover.
    
  