
    
      The study sample will comprise of 170 adults with biopsy proven cirrhosis. A detailed medical
      and nutritional assessment will be implemented at baseline. For patients that will receive an
      intervention aiming at the cause of cirrhosis (e.g. antivirus therapy for HCV or HBV) the
      baseline assessment will take place before the beginning of the therapy and will be repeated
      three months after the completion of the medical intervention to explore the impact of the
      intervention on nutritional status. Data regarding the survival of all the patients will be
      collected one year after the baseline assessment.

      More specifically regarding the detailed assessment, firstly, hepatologists of the research
      team will complete a full medical record regarding the primary disease, cirrhosis'
      complications, comorbidities and medication. The severity of cirrhosis will be assessed using
      the Child-Pugh score. Furthermore, in the Laboratory of Clinical Nutrition & Dietetics at
      Harokopio University, patients will participate in the following procedures:

        -  Anthropometry: Weight, height, waist and mid-arm circumference, and triceps skinfold
           will be measured. Body mass index, mid-arm muscle circumference and area will be
           estimated using standard equations.

        -  Body composition analysis: Total body DXA (Lunar DPX-MD, Madison, WI, USA) will be
           performed.

        -  Muscle strength and performance status: Handgrip strength measurement based on certain
           protocol and the "Short Physical Performance Battery" tool will be implemented.

        -  Dietary intake evaluation: Three non-consecutive 24h recalls (two weekdays and one
           weekend day) will be recorded. Data will be analyzed to estimate energy, macro- and
           micronutrients intake (Nutritionist Pro software, 2.2 version). Food group intake and
           meal patterns will also be evaluated.

        -  Physical activity assessment: Patients' physical activity levels will be assessed using
           the "Harokopio Physical Activity Questionnaire".

      For patients with available upper abdomen computed tomographies skeletal muscle index at L3
      will be calculated with the software SliceOmatic V5.0 software, Tomovision, Montreal, PQ. In
      addition, patients' nutritional risk or nutritional status will be assessed through several
      previously validated tools like the Subjective Global Assessment, the Royal Free Hospital
      Global assessment scheme and Liver Disease Undernutrition Screening Tool, the efficacy of
      which will be tested in the present study. Patients will be also categorized according to
      ESPEN's recent malnutrition diagnostic criteria.

      The full assessment will be repeated only for patients who will receive an intervention
      aiming at the cause of cirrhosis (e.g. antivirus therapy for HCV or HBV) three months after
      the completion of the medical intervention.

      One year after the baseline assessment of the study samples, data will be collected regarding
      survival, development of complications and decompensated cirrhosis.
    
  