
    
      Methylphenidate and atomoxetine are available for the treatment of ADHD in children.
      Methylphenidate is thought to block the reuptake of norepinephrine and dopamine into the
      presynaptic neuron and increase the release of these monamines into the extraneuronal space.
      The mechanism by which atomoxetine produces its therapeutic effect is thought to be related
      to selective inhibition of the presynaptic norephinephrine transporter. This was a
      multi-center, randomized, open-labeled, parallel design study of extended-release
      methylphenidate and atomoxetine in children aged 6 to 12 years with ADHD as evaluated by
      physicians and parents. Children were randomly assigned (2:1, respectively) to 3 weeks of
      treatment with extended-release methylphenidate or atomoxetine. Physicians evaluated
      treatment using the ADHD Rating Scale (ADHD-RS) and the Clinical Global
      Impression-Improvement of Illness scale (CGI-I). Assessments were made prior to beginning
      treatment (screening), at a telephone interview 1 week after beginning treatment, at a clinic
      visit 2 weeks after beginning treatment, and at the final clinic visit (3 weeks). Parents
      assessed treatment using the Parent Satisfaction Questionnaire (PSQ) from treatment days 2 to
      13 and at the clinical visit 3 weeks after beginning treatment. The questions of interest
      included whether there is a difference between treatment in the improvement of behavior and
      the timing of such differences. Vital signs, height, and weight were also recorded as were
      adverse events. Study drug was to be taken orally once each day. Patients randomly assigned
      to extended-release methylphenidate began treatment with 18 mg/day. Patients randomly
      assigned to atomoxetine began treatment with 0.5 mg/kg/day. The study medication was to be
      titrated as considered appropriate by the patient's physician. The duration of treatment was
      21 days.
    
  