
    
      Early appropriate antimicrobial therapy is of utmost importance for reducing mortality in
      critically ill patients with sepsis and septic shock. Pathophysiological changes associated
      with the septic process, such as changes in volume of distribution (Vd), drug clearance (CL),
      decrease in plasma-protein concentration and organ dysfunction, lead to pharmacokinetic (PK)
      changes that may alter the efficacy of the antimicrobial given. As a consequence, antibiotic
      plasma concentrations are variable and hard to predict in these patients, which makes optimal
      antibiotic exposure a challenge, especially in the early phase of treatment.

      Piperacillin/tazobactam is a β-lactam - β-lactamase inhibitor combination frequently used for
      empirical treatment in the critically ill. It is a time-dependent antibiotic where
      antibacterial activity is related to the time for which the free, unbound concentration of
      the drug is maintained above the minimal inhibitory concentration (f T>MIC). Maximizing f
      T>MIC both increases the therapeutic impact and reduces the risk of drug resistance
      development. Because of the PK changes seen in the critically ill, standard dosing of
      antimicrobials may result in subtherapeutic plasma-concentrations and it has been suggested
      that current empiric dosing recommendations for Intensive Care Unit (ICU) patients are
      inadequate and needs to be reconsidered.

      Piperacillin/tazobactam is generally administered either as 4g/0.5g every 8 hour (h) or as
      12g given continuously over 24 hours.The aim of this study is to determine if this dosing
      results in therapeutic plasma concentrations in septic patients. Patients treated with
      piperacillin/tazobactam given as intermittent bolus infusion had piperacillin plasma
      concentrations determined once a week. Patients treated with piperacillin/tazobactam given as
      continuous infusion had piperacillin plasma concentrations determined three times a week.
      Time above the minimal inhibitory concentration (T>MIC) estimated for each patient was
      evaluated against clinical breakpoint MIC for Pseudomonas aeruginosa (16 mg/L).
      Pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic (PK-PD) targets evaluated were 100% f T>MIC (free
      piperacillin concentration maintained above the MIC throughout the dosing interval) and 50%
      fT>4xMIC (free piperacillin concentration maintained at a level fourfold the MIC for at least
      50% of the dosing interval).

      The unbound piperacillin plasma concentrations were determined using ultra high performance
      liquid chromatography (UPLC). There was no intervention in the study.
    
  