
    
      The posterior acetabular wall fracture is one of the simpler acetabular fracture patterns and
      the most common type, accounting for approximately one quarter of all acetabular fractures.
      Most patients achieve excellent outcomes after anatomical reduction and rigid internal
      fixation with standard screws and buttress plates.However,it is well known that the
      reconstruction plate need remould in the surgery. So it does not only lead to the extension
      of operation time, but also cause poor attach of acetabular posterior wall. Moreover, the
      angulation of the screw placement for the holes of the reconstruction plate in the danger
      zone was determined with only caution. The intraoperative fluoroscopy was employed frequently
      to help determine the periacetabular screw location. If the operator lack of experience,
      intraarticular screw penetration and prolonged operative duration is inevitable. The
      investigators now introduce a new type of internal fixation device of acetabular posterior
      wall fracture that improve the shortcomings of existing technology.The plate itself can be
      thought to consist of three regions: the iliac region, the danger zone region, and the
      ischial tuberosity region. The organization of these regions causes the plate to resemble the
      English alphabet letter ''W''.The contour and zygomorphy of the W-shaped plate matched the
      surface of the posterior column of the acetabulum. There are two rows of drill holes in the
      danger zone region. A special safe-angled drilling guide was used to assist in the operation.
      A retrospective study has been indicated that this kind of new plate produce good results.
      This device may help to avoid intraarticular screw penetration and reduce operative duration
      and blood loss. The device further provides a stable fixation of the posterior wall that is
      amenable to early range of motion and weight bearing postoperatively, and results in a good
      clinical outcome.
    
  