
    
      The aim of the present study is to examine with B-type natriuretic peptide (pro-BNP) and
      echocardiographic parameters and to measure life quality the effects of the 12-week Tai-Chi
      exercise program on cardiovascular responses in patients with heart failure in Turkey. In
      addition, four basic research questions have been identified for the purpose of the research:

      1. Methods:

      1.1. Design: Randomized controlled trial. 1.2. Setting: The research will be carried out in
      the cardiology outpatient clinic of Izzet Baysal Training and Research Hospital, Bolu,
      Turkey.

      1.3. Sample: The research will include two groups, an intervention and a control. Power
      analysis was used to determine the sample size. The sample of 46 (intervention=23,
      control=23) was sufficient with 0.86 effect size, 95% confidence interval and 80% power. In
      randomization, closed envelope method will be used.

      1.4. Data collecting

      1.4.1. Patient Information Form: data regarding demographic and clinical features will be
      collected.

      1.4.2. Cardiovascular responses

      1.4.2.1. Pro-BNP Measurements: Pro-BNP levels will be studied from venous blood samples taken
      for each individual before the study (pre-test) and after 12 weeks (post-test). Blood samples
      will be taken at least 2 cc into ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA) tubes between 8:00
      am and 9:00 am after 12 hours of fasting; "Fluorescence immunoassay" method will be used by
      using "Architect BNP Test" kit.

      1.4.2.2. Transthoracic Echocardiography Measurements: In this study, all individuals will
      receive transthoracic echocardiography twice before the study (pre-test) and after 12 weeks
      (post-test). Transthoracic echocardiographic examination will be performed with the Philips
      EPIQ 7 echocardiography device and Philips X5-1 xMatrix 3.5 MHz access probe in the reclining
      position while resting. Measurements will be made according to the American Echocardiographic
      Association criteria. In two-dimensional echocardiographic examination, parasternal long /
      short axis, ventricular wall movements, valve structures and functions will be assessed in
      apical four chamber views; interventricular septum thickness (IVSd), posterior wall thickness
      (PWd), left ventricular diastolic and systolic inner diameters (LVIDd / s) will be measured.
      Left ventricular ejection fraction(LVEF) will be evaluated by M-mod and Simpson methods.
      Evaluation of diastolic functions will be assessed by transmitral pulse wave and tissue
      doppler examinations, right ventricular basal and mid diameters will be measured at the end
      of diastole. Tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE) and S-wave measurements will
      be performed to evaluate the right ventricular systolic functions. Using the Lacobelli
      method, epicardial fat thickness measurements will be performed.

      1.4.2.3. Six minutes walking test: A starting and ending point (30 meters distance) will be
      determined and all participants will be asked to walk for 6 minutes between this distance and
      the total distance they walked will be calculated and recorded. This test will be repeated
      both at baseline (pretest) and after 12 weeks (posttest).

      1.4.2.4. Quality of life measurements: Left Ventricular Dysfunction Scale (LVD-36) is a
      disease-specific quality of life scale developed by Leary and Jones (2000) to measure the
      quality of life in patients with heart failure.Scores between 0 and 100 are obtained from the
      scale and the quality of life decreases as the score obtained increases (Leary and Jones,
      2000; Özer & Argon, 2005).In this study, the scale will be administered to individuals at the
      beginning (pre-test) and 12 weeks later (post-test).

      1.4.3. Interventions: Tai-Chi exercises will be carried out for a total of 12 weeks, with 2
      sessions each week and one hour each session. In addition, initially, approximately 45
      minutes of heart failure education will be given to both the intervention and control groups.

      1.4.3.1. Tai-Chi procedure: Tai Chi movements will include the 10-form Yang style following
      the warm up movements (Qi-gong). The first and second weeks of the exercise protocol will
      include introducing the Tai Chi philosophy and teaching 10 forms of Yang style to patients.
      During the 12 weeks, individuals will practice 10 forms of Tai Chi exercises with a
      researcher in each session.

      1.4.3.2.Education protocol on heart failure: The scope of the education will include
      lifestyle changes, such as nutrition, exercise, weight management, smoking and inappropriate
      alcohol consumption, which are prepared by the researcher in the light of both literature
      information and evidence based information in the ESC diagnosis and treatment guide for heart
      failure. The education method will be reflected on the projection both on verbal expression
      and computer screen, and will be in the form of visual demonstration with visual materials.
    
  