
    
      This current protocol was established as part of an NIDDK initiative to further explore
      genetic factors associated with IBD. Specifically, the investigators are interested in
      identifying the genetic, environment and socio-economical components that contribute to the
      development of IBD in the African American population.

      IBD is believed to be caused by a combination of environmental and genetic factors. Genetic
      data will be examined alongside potential environmental factors such as smoking, medications,
      environmental exposures, and some dietary factors. Since IBD is known to predominantly affect
      Western, industrialized areas of the world, the investigators will also inquire about
      participants' socioeconomic background in hopes of identifying any previously unknown factors
      in the AA population that may increase the risk of IBD. These potential environmental factors
      will be important in association analyses using covariates as these factors can obscure
      potential associations or interact with genetic factors and thus contribute to genetic
      associations. The investigators will also obtain information as to ancestry of parents and
      grandparents as to best match cases with unrelated controls of similar ancestry (e.g.,
      Caribbean, recent European or recent African ancestry could cause genetic mismatch of a case
      and control). At the same time, the investigators will also collect similar information
      (smoking, medications, environmental exposures and dietary factors) from non-African
      Americans for the purpose of making direct comparisons for these parameters between the
      different racial groups to assess the contribution of non-genetic factors for susceptibility
      to the development of IBD.

      This study calls for recruiting AA patients and ethnically matched controls (friend or
      spouse). These persons will provide us with a blood sample and with information requested on
      a questionnaire asking the following: clinical course and history of their IBD or their
      general health, smoking history, socioeconomic variables and specific dietary factors known
      in some populations to be related to IBD etiology. Access to medical records will be used to
      confirm diagnoses. The clinical characteristics of IBD obtained from medical records will be
      summarized in a phenotyping form using a standardized NIDDK IBDGC Phenotyping Operations
      Manual. Controls will be asked health history to identify potentially unrecognized IBD. DNA
      and other biospecimens will be purified from blood. Samples and data will also be shared with
      the NIDDK IBDGC for use in IBDGC research projects and will be processed and maintained at
      NIDDK repositories.
    
  