
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine if targeted therapy + atezolizumab (cohorts 1-3) will lead to improved
      overall survival (OS) in patients with anaplastic thyroid carcinoma (ATC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and efficacy (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST]
      response rate, progression-free survival [PFS]) of targeted therapy + atezolizumab (cohorts
      1-3) in ATC and poorly differentiated thyroid cancer (PDTC).

      II. To determine the OS in patients with PDTC treated with targeted therapy + atezolizumab
      (cohorts 1-3).

      III. To determine the efficacy (RECIST/immune-related Response Criteria [irRC] response rate,
      progression-free survival [PFS]) and OS of ATC and PDTC patients treated with taxanes +
      atezolizumab (cohort 4).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate changes in the tumor-associated and systemic immune system biomarkers in ATC
      and PDTC patients treated with immunotherapy.

      II. To report radioactive iodine (RAI) uptake in patients who have a diagnostic whole body
      scan and therapeutic I-131 in cohort 2.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 4 cohorts.

      COHORT I (BRAF MUTATION): Patients receive vemurafenib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days
      1-21, cobimetinib PO once daily (QD) on days 1-21, and atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over
      30-60 minutes on days 1 and 15. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression and unacceptable toxicity.

      COHORT II (RAS, NF1, OR NF2 MUTATION including patients with MAPK activating mutations at or
      above MEK): Patients receive cobimetinib PO QD on days 1-21 and atezolizumab IV over 30-60
      minutes on days 1 and 15. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression
      and unacceptable toxicity.

      COHORT III (NON-BRAF/NON-RAS MUTATION): Patients receive atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes
      and bevacizumab IV over 60-90 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of
      disease progression and unacceptable toxicity.

      COHORT IV: Patients receive nab-paclitaxel IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 and
      atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Patients may receive paclitaxel IV over 30
      minutes on day 1 as a substitute for nab-paclitaxel. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the
      absence of disease progression and unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for years 1-2,
      every 6 months for years 3-4, then yearly thereafter.
    
  