
    
      Target heart rate will be calculated from the formula "(Maximal heart rate-resting heart
      rate) x% desired intensity ratio + resting heart rate".

      The target occlusion amount in the lower extremity will be calculated by calculating 45% of
      the complete occlusion rates reported by Michael et al. The proximal border of the thigh
      cuffs will be tied in line with the gluteal lines on both sides.

      Exercise tolerance and dyspnea condition; Measurement properties in COPD will be evaluated
      using a well-defined modified Borg scale (MBS). Individuals will use any bronchodilator that
      their doctor sees fit before trying.

      The target aerobic exercise intensity will be reached in the last minute of the first
      five-minute warm-up period by maintaining a 4-6 feeling of dyspnea in the MBS, by increasing
      pedal resistance and speed. In case of extreme shortness of breath, exercise intensity will
      be reduced to resting heart rate.

      In the event of oxygen desaturation (85%) during the intervention, the intervention will be
      terminated.

      Aerobic exercise training protocol; It was planned as 50 rpm speed and warming up at the
      lowest pedal resistance during the first 4 minutes, reaching the target exercise intensity
      range in the next 1 minute, aerobic training at the target heart rate range and appropriate
      MBS value for the next 20 minutes, cooling down in the last 5 minutes. The duration will be
      reduced in case of excessive shortness of breath, fatigue and muscle pain due to increased
      exercise volume. The distance, calories, and maximum speed values measured during the study
      will be recorded.

      Before and immediately after the study, all participants had rhabdomyolysis status (creatine
      kinase), risk of venous thromboembolism (D-dimer, CRP), anti-inflammatory response (IL-6),
      oxygen saturation, heart rate, systolic and diastolic pressure, respiratory rate, six-minute
      walking test parameters will be examined.

      Institution of the Study: Karabuk University Research Hospital Chest Diseases Clinic Center /
      Karabuk. The study would be conducted in the presence of a chest diseases specialist.
    
  