
    
      The trial is a phase II, dose investigation, parallel and multi-group, observer-blind,
      randomised, controlled, multicentre and non-inferiority trial.

      Three investigational reduced dose adjuvated IPV-Al SSI vaccines and full dose IPV SSI
      vaccine will be investigated in four parallel groups:

        -  1/3 IPV-Al SSI

        -  1/5 IPV-Al SSI

        -  1/10 IPV-Al SSI

        -  IPV Vaccine SSI (comparator)

      At Visit 1 (screening and 1st vaccination visit), written informed consent is obtained and
      the subject's eligibility is assessed according to the pre-specified in-/exclusion criteria,
      including measurement of axillary temperature. If the subject is included, a pre-vaccination
      blood sample is taken for polio antibody determinations, and the subject is randomly
      allocated into one of the four groups to be vaccinated.

      The subject is observed for ½ an hour after the injection of the investigational medical
      product (IMP) and any immediate adverse events observed are to be recorded. A diary,
      thermometer and ruler are handed out to the parents/guardians so that they can measure daily
      the injection site reactions and the axillary temperature the first 3 days and record any
      adverse event until the next visit.

      At Visit 2 (2nd vaccination visit), 28-42 days after Visit 1, contraindications are reviewed,
      the 2nd vaccination is given, the diary is collected and adverse events and concomitant
      medications are recorded in the eCRF. A new diary is handed out.

      At Visit 3 (3rd vaccination and blood sample visit), 28-42 days after Visit 2, a blood sample
      for immunogenicity assessment is taken, contraindications are reviewed, the 3rd vaccination
      is given, the diary is collected and adverse events and concomitant medications are recorded
      in the eCRF. A new diary is handed out.

      At Visit 4 (blood sample visit), 28-42 days after Visit 3, a blood sample for immunogenicity
      assessment is taken, the diary is collected, and adverse events and concomitant medications
      are recorded in the eCRF. The trial termination form is completed.
    
  