
    
      A Cochrane review (included 32 clinical trials and 3304 patients) concluded that there was no
      effective and safe treatment for pain relief in patients undergoing outpatient hysteroscopy.
      In the same way, The Gynecology and Obstetrics Spanish Society (SEGO) discourages the routine
      use of analgesics prior to the test or the use of local anesthesia or sedation, since neither
      improves the pain nor the satisfaction of the patients in this type of test.

      Nowadays, is knowed that acute pain requires cognitive attention for its perception, a
      patient's state of anxiety depends on the subjective capacity to cope with the process and
      that environments created with virtual reality can cause a cognitive distraction that
      diminishes the perception of pain as well as a subjective psychological illusion that
      diminishes the anxiety that motivates the procedure.

      With all this, the investigators intend to assess through this study if patients with medical
      indication for diagnostic hysteroscopy can benefit from the use of Virtual Reality for the
      decrease in their perception of pain, anxiety or increase in the degree of satisfaction with
      their performance.

        1. - Design: Randomized intervention clinical trial

        2. - Sample: by contrast of hypothesis, a sample size of 150 women with an established
           medical indication for outpatient hysteroscopy was determined. They were randomized
           using excel software. As criteria of inclusion, those of SEGO with ages between 18 and
           75 years were used. Criteria of exclusion those of the test, presenting some type of
           illness or disability that contraindicate the use of Virtual Reality (blindness,
           deafness, epilepsy, etc), voluntary wish of no inclusion or inability to understand the
           study.

        3. - Methodology:

             -  parameters to analyze:

                  -  the average decrease in the perception of pain in both groups using the Visual
                     Analogue Scale (VAS) with determinations at the end, at 15 and 30 minutes.

                  -  the average decrease in the perception of the state of anxiety using the
                     State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) questionnaire prior to the performance of
                     the test and after it.

                  -  Modifications in the degree of satisfaction with the test by means of a STAI
                     questionnaire included in the protocol of the Gynecology Service of El
                     Escorial University Hospital.

                  -  Changes in parameters such as blood pressure, heart rate and oxygen saturation
                     before, during and after hysteroscopy.

                  -  The influence of different circumstances such as age, parity, on the painful
                     perception, state of anxiety or degree of satisfaction in both arms of the
                     study.

             -  A 5 mm Bettocchi hysteroscope model will be used as a physiological serum
                distension medium and initial irrigation pressures of 75 mm Hg.

             -  Semi-rigid 5 Charr instruments (scissors, grasping forceps and biopsy).

             -  Oculus Go virtual reality glasses.

             -  The recruitment time will be that necessary to obtain the sample size.

             -  The patients will be given the STAI anxiety scale that will be completed prior to
                accessing the room. Once sitting on the examination table, a pulse oximeter will be
                placed on the left index finger, a cuff for measuring blood pressure on the right
                arm, and in the selected group virtual reality glasses, the first determination of
                blood pressure, heart rate and oxygen saturation is made at this time and will be
                repeated when accessing the endometrial cavity and immediately after removing the
                hysteroscope. After completing the test, still sitting and removed the virtual
                reality components will be given VAS for pain determination during the test. After
                dressing, the pain will be assessed using VAS at 15 and 30 minutes after the end of
                the test. Before leaving, a new STAI anxiety state will be delivered that will
                complete as well as respond to the two questions of the satisfaction protocol.
    
  