
    
      The gastrointestinal apparatus hosts a bacterial population that quantifies to around 1011
      microorganisms per gram of content with more than 400 different species. Its principal
      functions are: metabolic, trophic, and protective. The Lactobacillus reuteri (Reuterin®) is
      considered one of the few native species in the human intestinal tract. It is able to
      modulate the immune response CD4+ T-Helper to an ileum level. Lactobacillus reuteri isolated
      for the first time in 1980 is a heterofermantative species. Its probiotic activity is
      attributed to the ability to exercise an inhibitive effect on the pathogenic micro-organisms
      with a combination of mechanisms including the production of lactic acid, hydrogen peroxide,
      antimicrobic substances and bactericide. Moreover, Lactobacillus reuteri is in a position to
      produce various short chain-like fat acids such as the acetic acid from the fermentation of
      carbohydrates. At last, it is in a position to produce a powerful antimicrob substance known
      as Reuterina that is capable of inhibiting the growth of many bacterial species including
      Escherichia, Salmonella, Shigella, Proteus, Pseudomonas, Clostridium and Sfafilococcus as
      well as fungi and protozoa, many of which are pathogens for man.

      Among pathologies in which it is hypothesized that probiotics could have a possible
      therapeutic role, there is the diverticulosis disease. Approximately 20% of patients with
      colonic diverticula have intestinal disturbances and a reduction of the quality of life.
      Moreover approximately 20% of the patients with diverticulosis in the colon have at least 1
      acute diverticulitis attack, characterized by pain, fever, abdominal defence, increment of
      the VES and neutrophil leucocytosis. Usually the acute diverticulitis episode can be
      controlled by medical therapy, but repeated episodes in time often lead to greater
      complications in the perforation, from the abdominal abscesses, from the fistulas and from
      the stenosis. The prevention of acute diverticulitis episodes is therefore very important so
      as to prevent greater complications of such pathology.

      Until now, the scientific evidences have suggested the use of fibre and non-absorbable
      antibiotics (such as rifaximine) for the treatment of a non-complicated diverticular disease
      and for the prophylaxis of the feared complications. The extended use of antibiotics exposes
      to the risk of selecting resistant strains and there are no long-term studies on the outcome
      of the patients suffering from diverticulosis in continuous therapy with rifaximine and
      fibres. The therapy with Lactobacillus reuteri could be effective in the control of symptoms
      of the diverticular disease through its trophic action on coloncytes (thanks to the SCFA
      production), both through the modulation of the activity of the immune system and on the
      intestinal permeability. Moreover the antibacterial activity of Lactobacillus reuteri against
      the pathogenic bacteria could be useful in the prevention and the treatment of acute
      diverticulitis episodes. Finally, thanks to its trophic role on the intestinal epithelium,
      Lactobacillus reuteri could help the mucosal cure of acute diverticulitis episodes.
    
  