
    
      Shoulder pain is one of the most common causes of musculoskeletal disability in the adult
      population. Adhesive capsulitis is one of a multitude of pathologic entities that can cause
      shoulder pain and dysfunction. The condition is seen frequently in the clinics of primary
      care providers and orthopedic surgeons. Patients who develop adhesive capsulitis will
      typically present with complaints of pain and a progressive loss of active and passive motion
      of the shoulder.

      The disease course of adhesive capsulitis has been extensively studied. Despite this,
      controversy remains as to the natural history of the disease. It is generally believed that
      adhesive capsulitis is a self-limiting process typically lasting twelve to thirty-six months.
      In one retrospective study of 50 patients with 10 year follow up, Miller et al7 found
      significant improvement in range of motion and resolution of pain in all patients treated
      conservatively. In another study, it was shown that 90% of patients treated with a stretching
      exercise program alone reported satisfactory outcomes at a mean follow up of 22 months8. This
      would mean that up to 10% of patients suffer from long-term problems. Shaffer et al9,
      however, reported that 50% of patients treated nonoperatively still complained of some
      residual pain, stiffness, or both at an average follow up of 7 years. Despite evidence that
      the disease improves without any intervention, many patients do not want to wait potentially
      as long as two to three years for resolution. For these patients, it is not unreasonable to
      proceed with interventions aimed at resolution of pain and improvement of motion. Levine et
      al10 provided some insight into predicting which patients might benefit most from proceeding
      with surgery. He found that patients who report more severe symptoms, are younger in age at
      symptom onset, and continue to have a reduction in motion after at least four months of
      physical therapy were more likely to eventually require surgery.

      The course of progression of untreated adhesive capsulitis is described as a continuum of
      three clinical phases4. The first phase is characterized by pain and is termed the 'freezing'
      phase. In this phase, patients experience a gradual onset of diffuse shoulder pain that is
      progressive over a course of weeks to months. In general, pain will begin before any
      restriction of motion. Patients may report pain at night and often relate difficulty sleeping
      on the affected side. As use of the arm decreases secondary to pain, stiffness begins to set
      in. Phase two is characterized by stiffness and is known as the 'frozen' phase. This phase
      may last four to twelve months. Patients will see their pain slowly decrease, however, the
      limitation in motion continually increases. Phase three is known as the 'thawing' phase and
      may last from five to twenty-six months. This is characterized by resolution of pain and slow
      improvement in range of motion. Most authors agree that a longer 'freezing' phase is
      associated with a longer 'thawing' phase.

      Adhesive capsulitis is initially treated with nonoperative therapies. The goals of
      conservative management are control of pain and improvement or maintenance of range of
      motion. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications may be prescribed to help control pain.
      Physical therapy with or without a home exercise program is always employed. This should be
      done in a gentle manner and without causing too much pain. Treatment with oral or injectable
      corticosteroids makes theoretical sense given the proven inflammatory nature of the
      condition. Studies examining treatment with oral steroids versus placebo or no treatment have
      yielded only short-term improvement of a few weeks. No improvement has been shown at
      long-term follow up of six to eight months1. There have also been many studies examining the
      role of intra-articular steroid injections in the treatment of adhesive capsulitis.
      Similarly, these studies have also shown short term (3weeks) improvement in pain and function
      but this improvement does not hold up at longer follow up (3-6 months)1. Jones et al11 looked
      at the role of suprascapular nerve blocks as a treatment option and found significant
      improvement in pain and shoulder range of motion at three months follow up compared to the
      group of patients receiving an intra-articular injection of corticosteroid. This suggests a
      benefit in the short-term but there is no long-term data to reveal if this improvement is
      lasting. Limited investigation has been performed to determine a role for hydrodilation as a
      viable treatment option. This involves injection of enough fluid intra-articularly to cause
      capsular rupture. No level I studies have been performed and only one level II study has been
      done which suggests some improvement in pain and Constant score up to six months1. Closed
      Manipulation Under Anesthesia (MUA) has been tested in short and long-term follow up and is
      proven to be a beneficial tool in the treatment of adhesive capsulitis in patients who have
      failed other nonoperative therapies. In a report on the results of MUA performed for patients
      with stage 2 adhesive capsulitis, Dodenhoff et al12 reported that 94% were satisfied with the
      procedure at mean follow up of 11 months. In a look at long-term outcomes of MUA, Farrell et
      al13 showed improvement in pain and motion that was continued at an average of 15 year follow
      up via patient questionnaire. There has been a recent trend toward arthroscopic capsular
      release in the treatment of refractory adhesive capsulitis and this treatment option has now
      become more popular than MUA. This rise in popularity of arthroscopic capsular release has
      occurred because of the perceived benefits of improved outcome and lower risk of
      complications even though there have not been any higher level trials comparing the two
      options. Ogilvie-Harris et al14, in a level III study, reported on a cohort of his patients
      treated with arthroscopic capsular release. He noted that his patients were twice as likely
      to be pain free at 2 year follow up as a similar cohort who underwent manipulation under
      anesthesia. Pollock et al15 reported in a level IV study, 83% excellent or satisfactory
      results after arthroscopic debridement of the rotator interval had been performed
      concomitantly with MUA. Warner et al16 was able to demonstrate significant improvement in all
      of his patients treated with arthroscopic capsular release who had failed MUA. This level IV
      study was performed on patients being treated for postoperative shoulder stiffness, however;
      not adhesive capsulitis. Both surgical methods (MUA and arthroscopic capsular release are
      used in our practice.
    
  