
    
      Postpartum depression and anxiety (PPDA) is a prevalent condition, affecting about every 1 in
      5 families. This not only impacts the parent diagnosed with PPDA but also affects
      relationships with the rest of the family, ability to bond with her child, and can cause
      tension between the parents. Thus, it is important that steps are taken to effectively treat
      and support families affected by PPDA in a timely manner. On top of the struggles with a
      newborn baby, the Covid era has brought along some new challenges. One such challenge is that
      many healthcare providers and clinics have limited capacities or the care they provide may be
      limited due to lockdown and Covid-19. Another challenge is the decreased in-person support
      from family and other support systems, as well as having older children at home all the time
      due to childcare facilities being closed.

      As it is important to offer this population some support, this study is being conducted to
      see if continuing the clinical groups and turning them onto a distant, online format would be
      possible, and if it would work for both clinicians and the postpartum population.

      The aim of the study is to determine the feasibility of running online clinical mindfulness
      groups, particularly examining whether patients are able to access and continue with the
      online sessions. Feasibility will be assessed by frequency of technical difficulties faced by
      patients or clinicians and number of disruptions or episodes of parents leaving their screens
      (e.g. to calm their child), self-report items of how participants found attending online
      sessions and following the program, and attendance and drop-out rates. Secondary outcomes of
      this study include reasons for drop-outs, satisfaction and acceptability, couple
      interactions, and mental health outcomes.

      The mindfulness groups will be rooted in the evidence-based 8-week programs, including
      Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) and Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT), and
      adapted for this population needs. The mindfulness groups will run once a week, totalling 8
      sessions over the course of 8 weeks. These groups will be run by trained clinicians and
      mindfulness facilitators and will be a part of the RMH clinical program.
    
  