
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the clinical response in patients with recurrent or refractory, metastatic, or
           unresectable osteosarcoma treated with high-dose samarium Sm 153 lexidronam pentasodium
           (^153Sm-EDTMP) and autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation followed by
           external-beam radiotherapy.

        -  Correlate the amount of radiation delivered to a tumor with low-dose ^153Sm-EDTMP with
           that of high-dose ^153Sm-EDTMP in patients treated with this regimen.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the overall and progression-free survival of patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the long-term effects of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the predictive value of fludeoxyglucose F 18 positron emission tomography
           (FDG-PET), diffusion-weighted MRI, and magnetic resonance spectroscopy for evaluation of
           treatment response in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to resectability of the primary tumor (recurrent,
      refractory, or very high-risk disease vs unresectable primary tumor).

        -  Mobilization and collection of autologous peripheral blood stem cells (PBSCs)* :
           Patients receive ifosfamide IV daily for 5 days followed by filgrastim (G-CSF)
           subcutaneously daily. Patients then undergo leukapheresis for collection of autologous
           PBSCs until ≥ 2 x 10^6 CD34 (cluster of differentiation 34)-positive cells/kg are
           collected.

      NOTE: *Patients who have undergone PBSC collection before study entry proceed to high-dose
      samarium Sm 153 lexidronam pentasodium (153Sm-EDTMP) infusion without mobilization and
      collection of autologous PBSCs.

        -  153Sm-EDTMP infusion: Patients receive a trace dose of ^153Sm-EDTMP** IV over 1-2
           minutes and undergo bone scan 4, 24, and 48-72 hours later. Six weeks later, patients
           receive high-dose ^153Sm-EDTMP IV over 1-2 minutes and undergo repeat bone scans 4, 24,
           and 48-72 hours later.

      NOTE: **Patients may receive the trace dose on protocol JHOC (Johns Hopkins Oncology
      Center)-J0094.

        -  Autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT): Between 12-14 days after
           administration of high-dose ^153Sm-EDTMP, patients undergo autologous PBSCT. Beginning 2
           days later, patients receive G-CSF IV daily.

        -  External-beam radiotherapy: Patients then undergo external-beam radiotherapy to the
           sites of bulky disease.

        -  Surgery: Some patients may also undergo surgical resection of residual disease. After
           completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 54 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  