
    
      Each of the Population-based Research Optimizing Screening through Personalized Regimens
      (PROSPR) Center's projects is innovative and addresses the continuum of care. Project 1
      addresses transitions 1 and 3, employing novel, algorithmically driven tools in clinics to
      determine personalized optimized screening regimens for individual patients and track whether
      each has received the indicated guideline-based screening. Project 2 addresses all three
      transitions through a novel comparative effectiveness study of benefits, risks, and costs of
      two outreach strategies for promoting screening completion and guideline-appropriate
      follow-up. Project 3 addresses transitions 2 and 3 by focusing on organizational culture,
      structure, and protocols, using both quantitative and qualitative methods to elucidate
      factors influencing completion of effective screening processes. These projects address
      research priorities identified through a recent National Institute of Health (NIH) State of
      the Science Conference, including: implementing interventions proven effective at increasing
      colorectal cancer (CRC) screening (Projects 1 & 2), conducting research to assess
      effectiveness of tailoring programs to match characteristics and preferences of target
      populations (Project 1), implementing systems to ensure follow up of positive CRC screening
      results (Projects 1, 2 & 3), and conducting studies to determine comparative effectiveness of
      CRC screening methods in usual practice (Project 2).

      PROSPR Center's goals are to:

        1. Develop a Parkland-UT Southwestern PROSPR Center to promote coordinated,
           transdisciplinary research to evaluate and improve the CRC screening process in a large
           population-based safety-net.

        2. Conduct three projects that address the continuum of care for CRC screening and address
           these goals:

           Project 1- Employ innovative methods for assessing personalized guideline-based
           screening in the clinic setting to evaluate guideline-based, over- and under-screening;
           Project 2 - Compare benefits, harm, and costs of three system-level strategies for
           inviting patients to screening and promoting guideline-based follow up, with particular
           focus on completing an effective screening process.

           Project 3 - Examine specific organizational factors that contribute to completion of
           guideline-based screening processes and examine which organizational factors modify
           relationships between social disadvantage and completion of guideline-based repeat
           screening and follow up of abnormal test results.

        3. Contribute to a national PROSPR network by actively participating in network activities,
           including:

             1. collaborating with the National Data Coordinating Center regarding approaches for
                measuring screening effectiveness, (b) sharing algorithmically driven tools
                facilitating personalized screening regimes, (c) sharing electronic medical record
                (EMR) capabilities with other Epic institutions, and (d) becoming a leader in
                cancer screening processes in safety-net systems. While the SPDU will be
                exclusively responsible for all required PROSPR network data collection, processing
                and transfer activities, our complementary Shared Research Resources Core (SRRC)
                will serve as the local "data coordinating center" of our PROSPR center. The SRRC
                will work with Projects 1-3 to identify patients for recruitment; track study
                accrual; and manage, process, and analyze all Project data. The SRRC will also help
                assure consistent data definitions and terminology for harms, benefits, and other
                common domains across the screening process documentation unit (SPDU) and Projects.
                The SRRC and SPDU will work closely together as much of the required SPDU screening
                process data will be used by the SRRC to identify eligible patients for Projects
                1-3, and ascertain the processes and outcomes of the CRC screening process for
                study participants. An innovative activity of the SRRC will be to extract from Epic
                a novel set of electronically derived measures of social disadvantage previously
                developed by the Parkland Center for Innovation.27 This will empower Projects 1 and
                2 to examine the influence of these factors on the in-reach and out-reach programs,
                as well as provide Project 3 with critical explanatory variables to understand the
                impact of clinic-level organizational factors on the CRC screening process.
    
  