
    
      This will be a non-randomized, open-label, prospective study. Participants will be recruited
      in general and subspecialty obstetrics and gynecology clinics. Participants who meet all
      eligibility criteria, including providing written informed consent, will have three treatment
      visits and three follow-up visits in an outpatient setting. Participants will not be charged
      for any treatments.

      At each treatment visit, participants will be asked to complete questionnaires to assess
      their symptoms. The investigators will also take photographs of the affected area at each
      treatment visit. Photographs will include only the area of lichen sclerosus, such that
      individuals cannot be identified in the photographs. Participant photographs will be taken
      using the BIDMC PhotoConsult iOS application that allows providers to upload photographs to a
      patient's online medical record through a secure application.

      Women with biopsy-proven lichen sclerosus will be treated with the ProFractional hand piece
      using the sapphire plate stand-off (Sciton, Inc. Palo, Alto, CA). The laser energy is
      delivered in a scanning fractional pattern to ablate microchannels in tissue to allow faster
      healing. Treatment will be delivered in 3 sessions scheduled 4 weeks (+/- 1 week) apart.

      Prior to receiving treatment, topical 4% lidocaine anesthetic will be applied to the affected
      area for 20-30 minutes and then wiped away. The treatment area will be cleaned and dried of
      any moisture prior to treatment. The disinfected standoff with sapphire plate will then be
      applied to the ProFractional hand piece. Based on the biopsy results, the appropriate
      ablation depth will be inputted with 11% treatment density selected. Each treatment will
      include two passes of the laser over the affected area.

        -  Treatment visit 1, month 0: On the first pass, the depth of the laser will be from 300
           to 500 microns, or the thickness of 3 to 5 sheets of paper; the depth will be based on
           the biopsy that was used to diagnosis the lichen sclerosus. On the second pass, the
           depth will be 50 microns deeper than the first pass and the hand piece rotated 45˚.

        -  Treatment visit 2, month 1: The first pass of the laser will be the same depth as the
           second pass from the last visit. The second pass will be 50 microns deeper and the hand
           piece rotated 45˚.

        -  Treatment visit 3, month 2: The first pass of the laser will be the same depth as the
           second pass from the last visit. The second pass will be 50 microns deeper and the hand
           piece rotated 45˚.

      Participants will return for follow-up visits at 1, 3, and 6 months (months 3, 6 and 9 of the
      study) following the third treatment.

        -  Follow-up visit 1, month 3

             -  Participants will be asked to complete questionnaires to assess outcomes.

             -  The investigators will take photographs of the affected area.

        -  Follow-up visit 2, month 6

             -  Participants will be asked to complete questionnaires to assess outcomes.

             -  The investigators will take photographs of the affected area.

             -  Biopsy of area with lichen sclerosus; the biopsy will be done the same way as the
                one that was done to diagnosis your lichen sclerosus

        -  Follow-up visit 6, month 9

             -  Participants will be asked to complete questionnaires to assess outcomes.

             -  The investigators will take photographs of the affected area.
    
  