
    
      Though it has been said, "once a cesarean, always a cesarean," the current medical stance has
      changed and now encourages vaginal birth after cesaren (VBAC) in a select population of
      patients. VBAC has several advantages over a repeat cesarean including decreased recovery
      period, decreased risk of infection, avoidance of major abdominal surgery, and lessened blood
      loss. Predictors for success of VBAC include previous spontaneous vaginal birth, singleton
      pregnancy, and previous low transverse scar for C-section delivery. TOLAC is a reasonable
      option for select pregnant women and is associated with a 74% likelihood of VBAC. Risk
      factors for failure of VBAC include labor dystocia, advanced maternal age, maternal obesity,
      fetal macrosomia, gestational age (GA) >40 weeks, short inter pregnancy interval, and
      preeclampsia.

      While success of VBAC is associated with fewer complications, failure of VBAC may be
      associated with increased complications. A major concern for VBAC is the possibility for
      uterine rupture, which may result in hysterectomy and intrapartum fetal hypoxia/death.
      According to the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) guidelines,
      effective regional analgesia should not be expected to mask the signs and symptoms of uterine
      rupture, particularly because the most common sign of rupture is fetal heart tracing
      abnormalities. Adequate pain relief achieved with either CSE or epidurals may even encourage
      more women to opt for VBAC. The decision to proceed with TOLAC should occur only after
      appropriate discussion of the risks and benefits has occurred between the patient and her
      obstetrician and as long as no other contraindications exist. The final decision should be
      left up to the patient. There is no reliable way to predict risk of uterine rupture, but it
      may be associated with classical and low vertical uterine scars, induction of labor, and
      increased number of prior cesarean deliveries and risk may be decreased by previous vaginal
      birth. Other aspects of VBAC versus repeat cesarean pertaining to the fetus to consider
      include respiratory function, mother-infant contact, and initiation of breastfeeding, which
      may be delayed in cesarean deliveries.

      There is very little research concerning the effects of CSEs and epidurals on women
      undergoing TOLAC.There have been multiple studies comparing CSE and epidurals on nulliparous
      and multiparous women, but none have been done specifically on patients undergoing TOLAC.
      According to the American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) practice guidelines for
      obstetric anesthesia "nonrandomized comparative studies suggest that epidural analgesia may
      be used in a trial of labor for previous cesarean delivery patients without adversely
      affecting the incidence of vaginal delivery. Randomized comparison of epidural versus other
      anesthetic techniques were not found." They agree that neuraxial techniques improve the
      likelihood of vaginal delivery for patients attempting VBAC and suggest neuraxial catheter be
      placed in event of operative delivery. Because no study to date has compared CSEs and
      epidurals and their effects on the success of VBAC, this study aims to further investigate
      this arena.
    
  