
    
      Cryoablation involves image-guided insertion of single-use specialised needles or probes
      through the skin into a soft tissue or bone lesion. A mechanised unit is connected to the
      probe(s) and generates cyclical freezing and thawing of the tissues at the probe tip(s) via
      exchange of highly pressurised gases through the probe lumen(s), utilising the Joules-Thomson
      effect. Extreme freezing and thawing of the lesion causes permanent tissue destruction
      through both mechanical disruption of tissue membranes and a secondary immune response
      effect.

      Cryoablation is one of several minimally invasive ablative techniques used to reduce the size
      of or to eradicate soft tissue and bone lesions. Ablative techniques are now an accepted
      standard of care for many benign and malignant lesions in adult practice. Cryoablation is
      widely used in the management of renal cell carcinoma, with medium-term outcomes matching
      surgical resection.

      The advantages of cryoablation over surgery, particularly in a paediatric population, are:

        -  Minimally invasive approach, therefore suitable for day case procedures and almost
           scarless

        -  Significantly faster recovery times compared to complex surgical debulking

        -  Minimal complication rates compared to surgery (less risk to nerves, blood vessels and
           critical solid organ)

        -  Affords excellent pain relief (has an independent role in chronic pain management)

      To date the use of cryoablation in children remains novel and under reported.

      The purpose of this registry is to audit the current range of applications, technical success
      rate, safety profile, complication rate and efficacy of cryoablation procedures in children
      in the United Kingdom. This registry would, as a minimum, clarify current UK practice and
      outcomes within individual centres, allowing teams to audit and benchmark their own
      procedures and aiming to align UK practice amongst individual Trusts. A registry would aim to
      generate a body of evidence to establish parameters for best practice and may highlight
      conditions that respond better or worse than others to this novel therapy. The audit may lead
      to a clinical trial for the treatment of one or more specific conditions but in the interim
      would provide evidence for the efficacy and safety of the procedure and will aim to protect
      against indiscriminate use of this treatment modality in children in the future.

      Registry design: This is a prospective multi-centre, open, non-controlled repeat treatment
      registry and data collection in collaboration with individual UK NHS Trusts.

      The proposal is for a robust, UK multi-centre data collection system to support and establish
      the treatment pathway, safety parameters and outcomes of paediatric cryoablation. The number
      of procedures performed in each centre will be understandably small, given the specialist
      nature of this emerging modality and the small numbers of patients being offered this
      treatment. The registry aims to collect standardised data from all centres performing
      cryoablation in children to allow robust audit of this procedure. Multiple data sets will be
      collected and entered into an anonymised web based host.

      Upon completion of recruitment and follow up, the data will be subject to uni-variate and
      multi-variate analysis.

      The registry is designed with the patient at the centre of the data collection and outcomes.
      Anonymised data will be analysed collectively but will ultimately be owned and retained by
      individual trusts. Details of the full data set proposed are detailed in the attached study
      protocol.
    
  