
    
      Study rationale:

      Since the introduction of warfarin as the main oral anticoagulation therapy in patients with
      MS and AF, no other drug has been replaced/suggested by any medical community for this group
      of patients. Warfarin is considered a drug with marginal therapeutic effect, with a need for
      constant monitoring, with lots of known drug interaction and finally a great probability of
      adverse complication. Novel oral anticoagulation agents have resolved several of these
      drawbacks and has been recommended as a viable option as a substitute of warfarin in various
      clinical scenario. Until now, no trial has evaluated the potentiality of using novel oral
      anticoagulations (NOACs) in patients with MS accompanied by AF. In this trial investigators
      are intended to elaborate the efficacy and safety of rivaroxaban in patients with MS
      complicated by AF

      Background:

      Since the introduction of NOAC, their indication has been expanded in various type of
      diseases. From protecting against ischemic stroke in AF patients to treatment of venous
      thromboembolism (VTE) events, NOAC were both safe and effective compared to warfarin.
      Importantly this new class of drug have omitted some of the major drawbacks of warfarin;
      their predictable therapeutic level has permitted to prescribed them as fixed dosage without
      constant laboratory tests. Also their shorter half-life has made critical situation in which
      reversal of anticoagulation agents were needed, more manageable.

      There are solid evidences that AF is one of the major cause of cerebrovascular ischemic
      events, and anticoagulation therapy by decreasing thrombus formation reduces significantly
      these major adverse events. So there is no wonder that first studies on NOAC were performed
      on AF population. In the beginning AF caused by valvular heart diseases were judge to bear a
      much greater risk as cerebrovascular events are concerns, and consequently patients with
      valvular pathologies were eliminated from the earlier pivotal studies. However, through these
      years, there are lots of evidences showing the safety and efficacy of NOAC in valvular
      pathologies. Recently ENGAGE TIMI 48 Trial has showed the efficacy and safety of Edoxaban in
      patients with valvular heart diseases. By testing the theory in a large population, the
      ENGAGE TIMI 48 study emphasized on a greater risk of embolic events in patients with VHD and
      AF, but this increasing risk has no effect on the efficacy of edoxaban compared to warfarin.
      Interestingly the new agents had less major bleeding compared to warfarin.

      But still in all these trials, moderate to severe MS and mechanical prosthetic valves were
      omitted from the studied population. The rationale behind this omission was the significant
      higher risk of thrombosis in the two mentioned subgroups. However, investigators have several
      hypotheses that patients with MS are different from patients undergoing mechanical prosthetic
      valve replacement:

        -  Although there is a higher risk of thromboembolic events in MS comparing to other
           valvular heart diseases, this has not resulted in increasing the magnitude of protection
           with warfarin; the recommended levels of international normalized ratio (INR) in MS
           population is 2-3 as other pathologies.

        -  Apart from patients with mechanical prosthesis implanted in mitral valve position, there
           is no other subgroup of patients whom higher INR and level of anticoagulation with
           warfarin proved to be more efficacious.

      In conclusion, investigators think that the MS population might be a good target for NOAC and
      as other valvular heart disease, they could benefit from the advantages of these drugs.
    
  