
    
      Background: Familial exudative vitreoretinopathy (FEVR) is a rare hereditary disorder of the
      retinal vasculature characterized by abrupt cessation of the growth of peripheral retinal
      capillaries. FEVR seems to exhibit significant phenotypic and genotypic variability but since
      this is a rare disease the clinical and genetic characteristics of the disease have not been
      extensively studied so far. Correlation of phenotypes with certain genotypes have not been
      made yet. Clinical findings can vary from very mild disease with only subtle changes of the
      peripheral retinal vasculature without symptoms to severe disease with retinal
      neovascularization, retinal exudates, vitreoretinal adhesions, peripheral vitreous opacities,
      retinal folds and tractional retinal detachment. The condition remarkably resembles
      retinopathy of prematurity but affected patients do not have a history of prematurity or
      supplementary oxygen use.

      The disorder is usually inherited as an autosomal dominant trait but few families show
      x-linked or autosomal recessive inheritance. A significant number of patients with autosomal
      dominant FEVR show linkage to 11q13-q23 (EVR1). Two genes in this locus have recently been
      shown to be associated with the disease. FZD4, the gene that encodes for Frizzled-4, the Wnt
      receptor, is one of them. It has been estimated by recent studies that 20-30% of patients
      with autosomal dominant FEVR show mutations in FZD4. LRP5 (low-density-lipoprotein
      receptor-related protein 5), a Wnt co-receptor, was recently shown to be mutated in
      approximately 15% of cases. One large autosomal dominant pedigree has shown linkage to
      11p13-p12 locus (EVR3) and this gene has not yet been identified. It now becomes obvious that
      more genes are associated with the autosomal dominant type of the disease. Most of the
      patients with the x-linked type have mutations in the Norrie disease gene (EVR2). The
      autosomal recessive form of the disease is much rarer and linkage studies have not yet been
      performed.

      Aims: The objectives of this protocol are to study the clinical characteristics of FEVR, and
      also to assist in identifying the location and sequence of corresponding genes. Since one of
      the genes so far identified, LRP5, is also causing the osteoporosis-pseudoglioma syndrome, an
      inherited disorder with severe osteoporosis, we would also like to know if FEVR patients,
      especially those with mutations in LRP5 also have some degree of osteoporosis. Localization
      and identification of the responsible gene will help us understand the pathogenesis of FEVR
      and possibly the mechanism of retinal angiogenesis and lead to potential treatments.

      Methods: Patients as well as available family members are to be evaluated by physical
      examination and fluorescein angiography, in order to clinically characterize the inheritance
      pattern in each family. Blood will be obtained by all participating subjects for the
      molecular studies.
    
  