
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Many studies of allogeneic marrow transplantation have shown that a higher dose of marrow
      cells correlates with more robust hematopoietic engraftment and lower mortality from
      infectious complications. Peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) collected after mobilization
      with granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) contain a larger number of CD34-positive
      (CD34) progenitors and total cells than bone marrow. These observations led to the hypothesis
      that transplantation of PBSC would lead to lower mortality compared to transplantation of
      marrow. In addition, PBSC grafts have a higher T cell content, predicting a possibly more
      powerful anti-leukemia effect. However, the higher T cell content of PBSC may also lead to
      increased incidence and severity of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). This
      concern is especially serious when the donor is unrelated to the recipient. This prospective,
      randomized, multicenter clinical trial of unrelated donor transplantation will test the
      hypothesis that transplantation of PBSC leads to similar patient survival compared to
      transplantation of marrow.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This is a Phase III randomized, open label, multicenter clinical trial sponsored by the
      National Marrow Donor Program (NMDP) and the National Institutes of Health (NIH). The
      objective of the trial is to test the null hypothesis that there is no difference in overall
      survival after PBSC versus marrow transplants from HLA compatible unrelated donors. The study
      will compare G-CSF-mobilized PBSC transplantation with bone marrow transplantation from
      HLA-compatible unrelated donors for patients with leukemia, myelodysplastic or
      myeloproliferative syndromes. Conditioning and GVHD prophylaxis regimens will vary by center
      and within centers, however, the center must declare before randomization what regimens will
      be used for each patient. The primary endpoint of this trial is 2-year survival following
      randomization. Secondary analyses will consider neutrophil and platelet recovery, acute and
      chronic GVHD, time off all immunosuppressive therapy, relapse, infections, adverse events and
      immune reconstitution. The trial will include evaluation of patient and donor quality of
      life, composition of the graft, and immune reconstitution. Accrual is anticipated for 3 years
      with a follow-up period of 3 years.
    
  