
    
      The research questions for the primary outcome are formulated in 5 zero hypotheses:

      Zero hypothesis 1: there is no difference in anxiety levels measured as mYPAS-SF on T1
      between the two groups.

      Zero hypothesis 2: there is no difference in anxiety levels measured as mYPAS-SF on T2
      between the two groups.

      Zero hypothesis 3: there is no difference in anxiety levels measured as ICC on T2 between the
      two groups.

      Zero hypothesis 4: there is no difference in anxiety levels measured as VAK 4-12 on T0
      between the two groups.

      Zero hypothesis 5: there is no difference in change in anxiety levels measured as difference
      between mYPAS-SF on 2 moments (T1 versus T2) between the two groups.

      The research questions for the secondary outcomes are formulated Zero hypothesis 6: there is
      no difference in level of emergence delirium (ED) measured during the postoperative period
      (T3) in the recovery room, at 4 moments, as PAED scale, between the two groups.

      Zero hypothesis 7: there is no difference in level of postoperative pain measured during the
      postoperative period in the recovery room, as FPS-R scale and OPS scale, between the two
      groups.

      Zero hypothesis 8: there is no difference in level of pain as FPS-R scale and problematic
      behaviour (PB) as modified and simplified version of the PHBQ questionnaire on day 2 and at
      the end of week 1 after the operation.

      Design The design of the study will be a single blinded randomized clinical trial. Children
      will be divided in 2 research groups: an intervention group (children who will play the game
      HospiAvontuur as a non-pharmacological at home preparation prior to the hospital admission.
      These children will not receive any pharmacological preparation - Midazolam - at the
      hospital) and a control group (children who do not play the game at home and do receive a
      pharmacological preparation - Midazolam - at the hospital). Participants will be randomly
      assigned to the intervention group or the control group using a computer-generated random
      allocation sequence, created by the study investigator (F.V.). Each patient will receive a
      unique randomized test number.

      Outcome measures As primary outcome for this research project, 2 kinds of anxiety will be
      measured. First the trait anxiety will be measured. Therefore the VAK 4-12 (Vragenlijst Angst
      Kinderen - attachment 1) will be used. To measure the state anxiety, the mYPAS-SF and the ICC
      will be used.

      Emergence delirium: ED will be measured in the recovery room, using the five-point Pediatric
      Anesthesia Emergence Delirium Scale (PAED).

      Pain will be measured in the recovery room, using the four-point Objective Pain Scale (OPS),
      at two time moments: the time of the first awaking of the child and the moment of discharge
      from the recovery room. For the purpose of this study, the FPS-R (Faces Pain Scale -
      Revised), a self-reporting pain scale, will also be used on the same time moments. This
      instrument will be used by a researcher.

      On two time moments: 2 days after surgery and at the end of the first week after surgery,
      parents will receive a phone call from one of the doctors from the anesthesia department or
      the study investigator.

      Both postoperative pain and problematic behaviour will be questioned during a semi-structured
      interview. The FPS-R will be used for pain measurement and 10 questions will be asked in
      order to get a good impression of the child's postoperative behaviour (table 1).

      One version of the FPS-R will be handed over to the parents and the child at the moment of
      discharge from the hospital. Parents will be informed that they can expect a phone call from
      a researcher or an anesthesia staff member and that some questions including the pain
      perception will be asked.

      Power analysis

      Based on the duration of the research project, the expected subjects that could be included
      in the study, the controlling of the variables and based on previous research from Marechal
      et al (2016), the following power analysis was calculated:

      A total research population of 164 subjects (82 subjects per group), would be required to
      demonstrate a 8 point difference in m-YPAS score at time of induction (level of significance
      of p < 0.05 and power of 80%). The mean mYPAS score at time of induction, after MDZ
      premedication in the study of Marechal et al (2016) was 43.74 (SD = 18.32).

      Data received from the OR database (1/12/2015 - 30/11/2016) show that approximately 300
      children undergo ORL surgery over 12 months. Our study will start at 01/09/2017 and will end
      on 31/05/2018 (a period of 9 months). During this period approximately 225 children will be
      operated in the OR. As surgeons are able to set parents at ease to participate in the study
      because no harm will done to the child and since children nor parents won't notice the
      presence of the researcher in the OR (performing the observations), it is expected that most
      parents and children will participate. However, some parents are not keen on scientific
      studies. Others will not be interested in participating because their mind is set on the
      child that needs surgery rather than on other things. Moreover, the number of children
      undergoing ORL surgery is not always constant and there is also a risk of loss-to-follow-up.
      Therefore, the sample size of 164 patients will be inflated to 90 participants per group (180
      in total) to account for a possible 10% loss-to-follow-up.

      Statistics The significance of the differences between the two groups for the scores of
      VAK4-12, mYPas at T1, mTPAS at T2, ICC will be tested with Mann-Whitney U-tests. The
      significance of the differences between T2 and T1 for the two groups will be measured with
      two-way ANOVA. All statistical analyses will be done in the package SAS.

      Ethics During the recruiting of the participants it is important that both parents and
      children are fully informed about the randomization process. In general, playing a serious
      game is considered to be a pleasant activity and children who are assigned to the
      intervention group may consider themselves to be lucky. On the other hand parents may think
      that playing a game and therefore not receiving the standard pharmacological treatment may be
      considered as unfavourable. When providing information to parents it is crucial to make it
      clear that both the non-pharmacological as the pharmacological strategies have a scientific
      basis and that no harm will be done to the children.

      The non-pharmacological preparation of children before surgery is considered standard
      procedure in many hospitals. At the Jessa Hospital this is not yet the case although
      questions about this issue have been risen some time ago, according to the anaesthesia
      department. At this moment there is no specific non-pharmacological alternative in use.
      Therefore this research project could be an answer to this issue. The results from the study
      could support the decision in whether a non-pharmacological preparation program could be
      introduced.

      During the observations of the children in the preoperative holding area and in the operating
      room during anesthesia induction, it is possible that the researcher or the anesthesiologist
      can happen to hear some information from the child or the parent about gaming experiences.
      This can be the case when the child recognizes specific information in the OR that he/she has
      experienced during the gameplay. When this is the case, the researcher and/or the
      anesthesiologist should make a remark on the observation form. Even if this is the case, the
      objective observation and scoring on the scale should continue as planned.
    
  