
    
      After agreeing to participate in this study, the patient will be asked to undergo some
      screening tests or procedures to find out if he/she is eligible. Many of these tests and
      procedures are likely to be part of regular cancer care and may be done even if it turns out
      that the patient does not take part in the research study. If the patient has had some of
      these tests or procedures recently, they may or may not have to be repeated. These tests and
      procedures include: a medical history, physical exam, performance status, electrocardiogram,
      assessment of tumor, blood tests, urine test, pregnancy test and optional research biopsy. If
      these tests show that the patient is eligible to participate in the research study, he/she
      will begin the study treatment. If the patient does not meet the eligibility criteria, he/she
      will not be able to participate.

      If the patient takes part in this research study, he/she will be given a sorafenib study
      drug-dosing diary for each treatment cycle. Each treatment cycle lasts 28 days (4 weeks),
      during which time the patient will be taking the study drug twice daily. The diary will also
      include special instructions for sorafenib.

      There will be a 2-week Lead-in period, in which the patient will receive sorafenib alone for
      the first two weeks of the study. Cycle 1 will begin once the patient receives the
      combination sorafenib and FOLFOX.

      For FOLFOX, all three chemotherapy drugs will be injected through a central vein in the
      patient's chest (portacath) and will be given once every two weeks (14 days), starting on Day
      15 of Cycle 1. The patient will receive oxaliplatin first as a 2-hour infusion, followed by
      leucovorin, and then 5-FU. The 5-FU infusion can last up to 46 hours and will be given
      through a small portable pump. The investigator will ask the patient to come back to the
      clinic on day 3 (46 hours after begin 5-FU dose) for pump discontinuance.

      During all cycles the patient will have a physical exam and the patient will be asked
      questions about his/her general health and specific questions about any problems that he/she
      might be having and any medication he/she may be taking.

      As part of the research study the patient will undergo research blood tests that will measure
      certain proteins in the blood to learn what affect the study treatment may have on you and
      your disease. About 1 teaspoon of blood will be drawn on Days 3 and 14 during your first two
      weeks of sorafenib alone, again on Days 14 and 28 post-treatment with FOLFOX-sorafenib and,
      if available, at the time of progression (if the patient's disease gets worse).

      The patient's blood pressure will be monitored once every week for the first 6 weeks of the
      study (once a week during sorafenib lead-in period and Cycle 1). The investigator will asses
      the patient's tumor by chest, abdominal and pelvic CT or MRI scan once every 8 weeks
      throughout the study.

      After the final dose of the study drug the investigator will ask the patient to come back to
      the clinic to repeat the following procedures: medical review, physical examination, blood
      tests, pregnancy test and tumor assessment by CT or MRI. The investigator would like to keep
      track of patient's medical condition for the rest of his/her life. The investigator would
      like to do this by calling the patient on the telephone once a year to see how the patient is
      doing. Keeping in touch with the patient and checking his/her condition every year helps the
      investigator look at the long-term effects of the research study.
    
  