
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        1. Primary

           - Investigate the optimal timing of PORT for completely resected pathologic stage
           IIIa(N2) NSCLC by comparing the disease-free survival of patients with high risk of LRR
           treated with PORT-first vs PORT-last strategy.

        2. Secondary

             -  Determine the overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

             -  Compare the locoregional recurrence-free survival in patients treated with these
                regimens.

             -  Compare the distant metastasis-free survival in patients treated with these
                regimens.

             -  Determine patterns of failure in patients treated with these regimens.

             -  Determine the toxicity, in particular cardiac and pulmonary toxicity, of these
                regimens in these patients.

             -  Determine the prediction models for locoregional recurrence and brain metastasis
                based on the clinical, pathological, radiological, genetic, tumor
                microenvironmental and immunological data.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, randomized study. The clinical risk prediction model for LRR
      has been established based on our large institutional database. On multivariate analysis,
      heavy cigarette smoking history, cN2 status, and number of involved lymph nodes>4 were
      independently significant factors predicting high risk of LRR. The Prognostic Index (PI)
      equation was built including the three categorical variables and coefficients based on their
      level of significance: PI＝(0.9×smoking history)＋(0.5×clinical N status)＋(0.8×number of
      involved lymph nodes). Patients with the PI score≥3.5 were considered as high risk of LRR.

      Patients are stratified according to participating center, EGFR mutation status (EGFR 19del
      or 21L858R mutations vs others), and use of pretreatment positron emission tomography scans
      (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (PORT-first strategy): Concurrent chemoradiotherapy + sequential POCT or PORT +
           sequential POCT Participants in the Arm I will receive PORT at the first day of therapy.
           For lung adenocarcinoma, the first day of radiotherapy will be administered concurrently
           with POCT (two cycles of chemotherapy given during radiotherapy); then continue to give
           two cycles of sequential chemotherapy. For squamous cell lung carcinoma, PORT will be
           administered first followed by subsequent four cycles of sequential POCT.

        -  Arm II (PORT-last strategy): Four cycles of POCT + sequential PORT Participants in the
           Arm II will receive four cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy and after that, sequential
           adjuvant thoracic conformal radiotherapy (50.4 Gy, 1.8 Gy once daily over 5.5 weeks)
           will be administered.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1094 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  