
    
      Anorexia nervosa (AN) is a comparably low-prevalent, yet due to its somatic and mental
      consequences serious illness. Chronic courses are often and the mortality rate of patients
      with AN is higher than in any other mental illness.

      A major influence on the course of the illness is the interval between the onset of AN
      symptoms and the beginning of an adequate treatment (duration of untreated illness, DUI).
      That is, patients with AN have a better prognosis if treated early. Previous large-scale
      interventions have not shown the desired positive effects on the DUI. Therefore, an important
      starting point seems to be a better initial understanding of the factors influencing the DUI,
      which is the major aim of this project. Based on this evidence, this study aims to derive
      recommendations for effective secondary prevention.

      To our very best knowledge this is the first study investigating factors influencing the DUI
      using a multi-informant strategy, that is exploring the perspective of patients with AN,
      their significant carers and involved physicians. Furthermore, the study will avoid the
      confounding of patients with different eating disorder diagnoses, i.e. it will include
      exclusively patients with AN. Finally, there will be a clear focus on factors which are
      modifiable and precise in their definition.

      The planned mixed-method study is divided in three consecutive sub-studies. The first
      substudy aims to identify modifiable factors influencing the DUI using semi-structured
      interviews and a multi-informant approach (patients, carers, physicians). As a result of this
      qualitative analyses using Grounded Theory the most relevant factors will be determined. The
      motivation of the second substudy is to condense the factors identified to influence the DUI
      into a checklist and to conduct a first psychometric evaluation of this newly developed
      instrument. The third substudy aims to quantitatively determine the magnitude of the effects
      of a) a priori determined non-modifiable factors and b) the modifiable checklist-factors
      using a multi-informant approach (planned n for each informant = 130; 13 co-operating
      specialized clinics and 6 cooperating outpatient partners). Additional outpatient partners
      may be recruited during the course of the study.

      In conclusion, the study aims to derive recommendations for effective secondary prevention.
      Thereby, the study might ultimately contribute to earlier treatment initiation of patients
      with AN, and to the prevention of chronic courses and the associated high health care costs
      and individual burden.
    
  