
    
      Background

      Extensive bone loss after orbital trauma requires reconstruction to preserve ocular function
      and aesthetics. The optimal material for orbital reconstruction remains controversial. Today
      a multitude of both autogenous and alloplastic materials have been used for orbital
      reconstruction, including methylmethacrylate, Teflon, silicone, Supramid, Marlex, Silastic,
      gelatin film, bioactive glas, bone and cartilage (Haug 1999). The use of alloplastic
      materials has been tempered by complications such as infection, displacement and extrusion,
      fistula and cyst formation. During the past two decades, autogenous bone grafts have become
      increasingly popular for orbital reconstruction. Unfortunately, problems with bone grafts can
      occur and include unpredictable rates of bone resorption and the risk of subsequent dystopia
      or delayed enophthalmos, donor site complication, time consumption with harvesting and
      variable graft thickness and irregularities along with difficulty in graft contouring (Park
      2001). These problems have revived interest in alloplastic alternatives, particularly in
      titanium and its alloys (Park 2001). Titanium shows a low infection rate, related in part to
      its excellent biocompatibility, which manifests as osseointegration. This circumstance is
      thought to lessen the rate of infection.

      During the past decade, different studies have examined a titanium meshes for orbital repair.
      Plates used in these studies demonstrate a minimum profile height of 0.25mm.

      Objective

      Assess the use and accuracy of the low profile titanium mesh for primary internal orbital
      reconstruction

      Methods

      Clinical assessment prior to operation by a maxillofacial surgeon with regards to bone and
      soft tissue lesions as well as concomitant injuries. An ophthalmologist then assessed eye
      lesions and quantified eye mobility (in mm), bulb positioning (Hertel's exophthalmometry, in
      mm) as well as the field of binocular vision (Goldmann perimetry, in % of the total).

      Preoperative 1mm CT-scans were obtained to analyse size and location of the defect as well as
      extend of muscle entrapment. The fractures were classified according to the scores introduced
      by Jaquiery(Jaquiery 2007).

      Follow up by at 2, 6 and 12 weeks after the operation (assessments see above), including
      postoperative CT-scan within 12 weeks. Volume analysis of CT comparing the two orbits (OsiriX
      Medical Image Software (Version 3.7.1, www.osirix-viewer.com).
    
  