
    
      This study will include patients presenting to a single centre - the Edinburgh Orthopaedic
      Trauma Unit, Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh - with an isolated fracture of the humeral shaft.

      All patients will be treated in the Emergency Department (ED) with closed reduction and
      application of a U-slab or hanging cast, and then referred to the Orthopaedic service. This
      referral will occur just prior to discharge from the ED, and will either be immediate (via
      the on-call team, for example where the patient requires in-patient admission) or delayed
      (via the Trauma Triage Clinic system, in which patients are discharged home and subsequently
      given an outpatient appointment).

      Patients will be considered for the study if the following initial criteria are met:

        1. The patient has sustained a fracture of the humeral shaft (defined as any fracture in
           which the major fracture line does not extend to within one metaphyseal width/'Müller
           box' of either the shoulder or elbow joint);

        2. The patient is aged 16 years or older;

        3. The patient is able to comply with post-operative data gathering, including attending
           local follow-up appointments and completing questionnaires in English.

      Complete inclusion and exclusion criteria are provided in the 'Eligibility' section.

      All adult patients presenting with a humeral shaft fracture that satisfy the inclusion
      criteria will be invited to participate in the study. Patients are eligible for enrolment in
      the study regardless of sex, race or ethnicity. Vulnerable populations, including patients
      unable to give informed consent and complete post-operative questionnaires in English, will
      not be recruited.

      Patients will be predominately recruited either in the ED, on the Orthopaedic ward (if they
      are admitted), or at the first outpatient clinic appointment (approximately 1-2 weeks
      following their injury). The treating clinical team will introduce appropriate patients to
      the study and initiate the process of informed consent. A patient information sheet will be
      provided for them to read before agreeing to take part.

      Whether potential participants are identified and introduced to the study in the ED, on the
      Orthopaedic ward, or in the outpatient clinic (which the investigators anticipate to be the
      most common scenario), they will have until 2 weeks post-injury to decide whether or not to
      take part. For practical reasons, performing surgery on a humeral shaft fracture that is
      older than 3 weeks is more challenging (as the healing process has already begun), and
      therefore the investigators ask any potential participants to make their decision by the
      2-week mark so that surgery can be scheduled (if appropriate).

      If the patient agrees, a member of the research team will review the study protocol in detail
      and address any questions the patient may have. If the patient is willing to participate, the
      research team member will complete the informed consent process. If this is during an
      out-of-hours period, consent will be taken by the appropriately qualified on-call Orthopaedic
      trainee or consultant. All trainees and consultants within the Unit will have ongoing
      briefing regarding the aims and methodology of the study. With the permission of the patient,
      a letter will be sent to their General Practitioner informing them of their involvement in
      the study.

      Patients will be given a copy of their consent form, and informed that their participation is
      voluntary and that they can withdraw at any time during the study without any detriment to
      their normal care. Patients may take as long as they like to consider participation, provided
      they still meet all the inclusion criteria (below) and surgery (if appropriate) can be
      performed within 3 weeks of injury. Patients requiring a longer period of time consider their
      participation than is feasible at the first meeting will be contacted the following day for a
      further discussion, either face-to-face or over the telephone. They will also be given the
      contact details of an Orthopaedic specialist independent of the study, to allow them access
      to further information if they so require.

      Upon agreeing to take part, patients will be randomised to either operative or non-operative
      management of their humeral shaft fracture. On enrolment, a data collection form will be
      started with demographic and injury-related information collected. Regardless of the
      treatment arm, patients will be followed-up in person at the following post-intervention
      stages: 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 12 weeks, 26 weeks and 52 weeks.

      Patients randomised to operative management of their humeral shaft fracture will undergo
      surgical fixation using a standard technique of plating and screw fixation. The exact
      surgical approach and fixation technique utilised will be at the discretion of the treating
      surgeon. Similarly, post-operative immobilisation and range-of-motion restrictions will be at
      the discretion of the treating surgeon. This is determined by a number of factors including
      the injury/fracture pattern, bone quality, co-morbidities and patient compliance.

      Patients randomised to non-operative management will be managed as per current standard
      practice for our Unit. This involves a period of immobilisation in a U-slab or hanging cast
      for up to 2 weeks, before application of a lightweight prefabricated humeral brace in the
      outpatient clinic. Patients will be permitted to start passive pendular shoulder exercises
      with full elbow, wrist and hand mobilisation as soon as the humeral brace has been applied.
      Post-operative physiotherapy will be arranged at the discretion of the treating surgeon, as
      occurs in everyday clinical practice.

      The primary outcome measure is the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) score at
      3 months post-intervention. Prior to study commencement, a prospective power calculation was
      used to determine the number of patients required in each treatment group. The minimal
      clinically-important difference in the DASH score is reported to be 10 points, and the
      assumed standard deviation is 12 points for both the operative and non-operative groups.
      Thus, using a 2-sided t-test with a 5% significance, a total of 70 patients (35 in each
      group) are required to produce a 90% power to detect a meaningful difference in the DASH
      score at 3 months between the 2 groups, assuming a 10% loss-to-follow-up. Statistical
      analysis for the study will be performed by an independent statistician, employed through the
      local University Statistics department.

      Further details regarding the primary outcome measure and secondary outcome measures are
      provided in the 'Outcome Measures' section.

      All follow-up assessment will take place during outpatient clinic visits, initially with the
      treating consultant surgeon's team. Follow-up assessment will be undertaken over a one-year
      period (2 weeks, 6 weeks, 12 weeks, 26 weeks and 52 weeks). Routine follow-up in our
      institution for patients with a humeral shaft fracture is outpatient review with radiographs
      at 2 weeks, 6 weeks and 12 weeks, although additional follow-up is sometimes required if
      there are problems with ongoing pain or inadequate fracture healing. At most, therefore,
      study participants will attend 2 additional clinic appointments compared to patients treated
      outwith the study.

      At each clinic visit, the treatment group (i.e. operative or non-operative) will be
      specified, a physical examination will be performed, and treatment complications and the need
      for re-operation will be recorded. Patients will be given time to complete a self-reported
      questionnaire, which will generate clinical outcome scores.

      The investigators will also review electronic patient records, to assess whether any patient
      underwent subsequent surgery on the affected arm during the study period. This would include
      debridement/irrigation for infection and/or removal of metalwork.
    
  