
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the progression free survival (PFS) between two study arms, i.e., olaparib
      monotherapy (arm 1) and olaparib + atezolizumab in combination (arm 2) based on normal
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria in patients with locally
      advanced or metastatic non-HER2-positive breast cancer harboring homologous deoxyribonucleic
      acid (DNA) repair (HDR) through BRCA 1/2 mutation.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the progression free survival (PFS) between the two study arms based on immune
      response criteria.

      II. To compare the time to treatment failure (TTF) between the two study arms based on immune
      response criteria and normal RECIST.

      III. To compare the overall response rate (ORR) between the two study arms based on immune
      response criteria and normal RECIST.

      IV. To compare the duration of response (DoR) between the two study arms based on immune
      response criteria and normal RECIST.

      V. Determine the changes in extent of mutational burden in BRCA 1/2 mutated tumors at
      baseline and at progression.

      VI. Evaluate and characterize changes in the extent of PD-L1 expression and tumor immune
      infiltrates.

      VII. Retrospectively evaluate tumors with limited immune infiltrate (e.g. "non-inflamed") to
      determine if PARPi increased immune infiltration.

      VIII. Determine the immune-related best overall response (irBOR) of olaparib in combination
      with atezolizumab in locally advanced or metastatic non-HER2+ breast cancer harboring HDR
      through BRCA 1/2 mutation.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate changes in candidate neoantigen profiles and immune/inflammation signatures using
      DNA and ribonucleic acid (RNA)-sequencing in serial tumor biopsies.

      II. Evaluate and characterize circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) and immune parameters in blood.

      III. Test the hypothesis that DNA repair status affects the tumor-immune interaction.

      IV. Characterize mechanism of action of the PARP inhibitor olaparib. V. To explore the
      inclusion of patient reported symptomatic adverse events. VI. To use anti-Kynurenine
      antibodies for immunohistochemistry (IHC) as well as unbiased metabolome studies on plasma to
      understand the metabolic consequences of PARP-inhibition and their effects on immune
      infiltrates.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21. Cycles repeat
      every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with
      disease progression may cross-over to Arm II.

      ARM II: Patients receive olaparib as Arm I and atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60
      minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up monthly.
    
  