
    
      Whole exome and whole genome sequencing (WGS) have expanded the ability to determine the
      genetic etiology of previously undiagnosed disorders. This study is a multicenter prospective
      cohort study to evaluate the emerging technology of sequencing for the management of fetuses
      with structural anomalies. The hypothesis is that a significant subset of fetal structural
      anomalies has a genetic etiology identifiable by sequencing and that prenatal knowledge of
      this information will improve perinatal care, reduce unnecessary diagnostic testing, reduce
      the cost of care, and improve quality of life for both the child and the family. The aims of
      this study are to investigate these multiple aspects of prenatal sequencing in a single study
      with an innovative integrated prospective design, which will permit a robust evaluation of
      the benefits and risks of delivering diagnostic and prognostic genetic testing results in a
      prenatal setting.

      The study will determine, in a sequential population of pregnancies with selected fetal
      structural anomalies and a negative or non-causal chromosomal microarray (CMA), the frequency
      of pathogenic, likely pathogenic, and uncertain genomic variants identifiable by sequencing.
      To determine the impact of this information on clinical care, a control population of
      unsequenced pregnancies with similar structural anomalies will be prospectively recruited and
      the infants from both cohorts will be followed up to 1 year of age. This study component will
      evaluate differences in healthcare management and cost through discharge from hospital
      post-delivery, and perinatal and infant outcomes through 1 year of life. The educational,
      counseling and psychosocial impact of sequencing results during the prenatal period, in the
      nursery and through 1 year of life also will be evaluated. Since the analytical and clinical
      tools needed for the full translation of sequencing into care are still developing,
      optimization of bioinformatic tools to improve identification of pathogenic and likely
      pathogenic mutations associated with prenatal phenotypes of established disease genes will be
      investigated, as well as identification of new genes associated with presently undiagnosed
      fetal/neonatal phenotypes. This study will provide an in-depth evaluation of the prenatal
      diagnostic value of sequencing prior to its responsible introduction into practice and will
      provide independent data to guide its translation.
    
  