
    
      The VEP and PERG have been proven and accepted as a viable clinical tool in the assessment of
      diseases of the retina ganglion cells. The Diopsys® Neuro Optic Vision Assessment Vision
      (NOVA) Testing System generates a battery of retinal responses evoked by viewing
      horizontal/checkerboard grating patterns with optimized contrast levels and visual field
      sizes.

      Electrophysiological tests evaluate the function of the different structures constituting the
      visual nervous pathways (retina, optic nerve, optic tract, and chiasm, radiation and cerebral
      cortex). Among the various electrophysiological examinations, two very important tests are
      Electroretinograms (ERGs), which study the various retinal components, and Visual Evoked
      Potentials (VEPs) which study the visual pathway. These tests provide objective information
      on the function of the visual system even in those cases in which opacities of dioptric means
      (cataract, corneal leukoma) do not allow the direct observation of the retina and optic
      nerve, and may provide functional information in advance of structural changes.

      Maculopathy and neuropathies are included in the long list of diseases of the visual pathway
      that permanently impair visual function. As there are considerable evidences related to the
      nature and evaluation of maculopathy and glaucomatous neuropathy, objective and reliable
      techniques are needed for visual function evaluation. By using PERG recordings, doctors are
      able to differentiate between normal subjects and subjects with ocular hypertension
      notwithstanding a normal optic disc and VF. PERG can provide important diagnostic information
      regarding the functional integrity of the macula and ganglion cells.

      Based on a longitudinal study from Bascom Palmer Eye, abnormal retina function was recorded
      by PERG eight years before structural damage to the RNFL was detected. The study suggests
      that for glaucoma suspects it takes two years for a 10% change in PERG amplitude while it
      takes ten years for 10% change in RNFL.

      The Diopsys® NOVA-pERG is a retinal biopotential that is evoked when a temporally
      phase-reversed horizontal/checkerboard grating pattern of constant total luminance is viewed.
      The contrast and viewing angle of the stimulus is optimized to elicit detection of
      dysfunction of the macula or the retinal ganglion cells selectively. The two NOVA-PERG
      reporting protocols are Contrast Sensitivity (CS) and Concentric Stimulus Fields (CSF). CS is
      optimized to detect dysfunctions of the retina that are sensitive to discrimination between
      different contrast levels while the CSF is optimized to localized pathologies in specific
      regions of the retina such as central vision and macula. Currently both protocols utilize
      steady-state technology.

      The advantage of the Diopsys ERG as compared to traditional PERG is that it is non-invasive
      electrodes are attached to the eyelid and not the conjunctiva, and takes ten minutes to
      perform instead of 45. Patients do not been to be dark-adapted.

      VEPs will be generated using a commercially available Diopsys NOVA System utilizing a fixed
      protocol. The stimulus will be presented on a 17-inch LCD monitor, running at 75 frames/s.
      Commercially available skin preparation and EEG paste will be used for recording of the
      SD-tVEP. Synchronized single-channel VEPs will be recorded, generating a time series of 1024
      data points per analysis window. The room luminance will be maintained at scotopic conditions
      (<0.3 NITS). Preadaptation will be unnecessary for the SD-tVEP recordings. Multiple tests are
      run to comprise one SD-tVEP protocol. One complete NOVA-VEP (FP) presents a stimulus for a
      maximum of 1 minute and 46 seconds.

      In all cases, the display will be viewed through natural pupils (undilated) with optimal
      refractive correction in place. The viewing distance will be set to 1 m, yielding a total
      display viewing angle of 15.5 degrees. The square black/white checkerboard pattern reversal
      stimulus has a height and width of 27 cm with a red circular ring used as a fixation target.
      The diameter of the target is approximately 1.5 cm with a ring thickness of 1.5 mm. The
      target ring will be centered on the stimulus. The check size will be 29.0 minutes of arc. Two
      pattern contrasts will be used in the study, based on earlier studies that suggested that
      differential contrast stimulation could affect the NOVA-VEP (FP) waveforms. The first pattern
      will have a Michelson contrast of 15%. The second pattern will have a Michelson contrast of
      85%. These two patterns are referred to as LC (Low contrast) and HC (High contrast)
      respectively.

      During a recording session, the contrast polarity of each stimulus check will be temporally
      modulated at a reversal frequency of 1 Hz (2 pattern reversals equates to 1 reversal cycle);
      therefore, each reversal occurs at 2 Hz or twice per second. This stimulus is termed a
      pattern reversal stimulus and has a duty cycle of 50%. The 15% and 85% contrast stimuli will
      be presented for each eye (the fellow eye was covered) for 15 seconds. The right eye will be
      the first one to be tested for all patients.

      In preparation for recording, the skin at each electrode site will be scrubbed with Nuprep
      using a cotton gauze pad. Electrodes will be fixed in position with Ten20 conductive paste
      and secured with a small gauze pad with conductive paste applied. Electrode impedance will be
      maintained below 10 kohm and typically kept below 5 kohm.

      The Pattern Electroretinogram (PERG) will be recorded using a commercially available system
      Diopsys® NOVA (Diopsys, Inc. Pine Brook, New Jersey). The testing protocol will include the
      Concentric Stimulus Field (CSF).

      Subjects will be fitted with the appropriate correction for a viewing distance of 24 inches
      and will be instructed to fixate on a target at the center of stimulus monitor. The test will
      be performed in a dark room to standardized environment luminance, free of visual and audible
      distractions. The subject will be comfortable seated facing the stimulus monitor. The
      patient's seated height will be adjusted so the eye stays in a horizontal plane with the
      center of the monitor. The test will be performed without pupil dilation and subjects will be
      allowed to blink freely.

      The PERG will be recorded from the study eye by means of hypoallergenic skin sensors
      Silver/Silver Chloride ink (Diopsys® proprietary Skin Sensor) on the lower eyelids. The
      reference sensor will be located in the contralateral eyelid and ground sensor in the central
      forehead area (Fz). The skin will be prepared by cleaning with eyelid cleanser (OCuSOFT®) to
      ensure good and stable electrical conductivity, keeping the impedances bellow 5 kohm.

      The stimulus will be presented on a gamma corrected Acer V173BM 17-inch LCD monitor, having a
      refresh rate of 75 frames / second. The CSF pattern stimulus will consist of black/white
      horizontal gratings (24° and 16° circular field, 98% contrast and 102.28 candelas/m2 mean
      luminance), reversing at 15 reversals/second) with a duration of 25 seconds. A red spinning
      ring will be used as a fixation target with a diameter of 1 cm and 1 mm of thickness. This
      target ring will be at the corner of four checks, centered on the stimulus field.

      A test will be categorized as non-reliable if Phase Variance is greater than 0.4 and/or if
      the Magnitude Variance to Magnitude Ratio (VMR) is greater than 2.9 and/or if more than 4
      artifacts are detected. The FERG test results will be saved in an SQL database and presented
      in a report form to be used for analysis.
    
  