
    
      Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) that includes a protease inhibitor (PI) or a
      non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) has become the standard treatment of
      HIV-infected adults and children. When effective, HAART decreases the viral population,
      increases the body's immune responses, and leads to decreased disease progression and
      increased survival. However, several factors including poor adherence, drug toxicities, and
      drug resistance complicate HIV management and allow for children and adolescents to develop
      resistance to multiple drug classes, leaving them with very limited therapeutic options.
      Fortunately, drugs with new mechanisms of action, such as HIV entry inhibitors, demonstrate
      activity even in people with resistance to the currently available reverse transcriptase and
      protease inhibitors.

      The purpose of this study is to test the effectiveness and safety of Vicriviroc (VCV), an HIV
      entry inhibitor. Vicriviroc targets the CCR5 chemokine receptor, which HIV uses to bind and
      enter CD4+ cells.

      This study is a two-stage, age-stratified, non-comparative study to explore the safety,
      tolerability, pharmacokinetic profile and antiviral activity of the investigational CCR5
      inhibitor Vicriviroc in HIV-infected treatment experienced children and adolescents.

      In Step I participants will be screened for the co-receptor CCR5 to assess whether they can
      enter Step II. Only participants with CCR5-tropic virus are eligible for Step II - the main
      portion of the study to evaluate the study outcome measures. Those participants who continue
      to Step II will be assigned to one of four age-stratifies cohorts which will receive varying
      forms, either liquid or tablet, of Vicriviroc:

      Cohort I: 12 years to less than 19 years of age, to receive tablet formulation of VCV

      Cohort II: 6 years to less than 12 years of age, to receive tablet formulation of VCV

      Cohort III: 6 years to less than 12 years of age, to receive liquid formulation of VCV

      Cohort IV: 2 years to less than 6 years of age, to receive liquid formulation of VCV

      Dose strengths of 20 mg and 30 mg will be used, or in liquid formulation at a concentration
      of 1mg/mL.

      Step II is composed of Stage I and Stage II. Stage I is a dose ranging study designed to
      explore how the body responds to different doses of vicriviroc, including safety factors
      associated with dosage. After optimal dosage information and safety measures have been
      assessed for the different cohorts in Stage I, Stage II will open. Stage II will evaluate the
      long term safety, tolerability and effectiveness of vicriviroc.

      The study, including Steps I and II will last for approximately 48 weeks. Follow-up for all
      subjects exposed to vicriviroc will last for 5 years after initial exposure. Visits will be
      every 3 months for subjects on study provided vicriviroc and every 6 months for subjects who
      discontinue vicriviroc.

      The study was terminated shortly after the initiation, when the drug company decided to
      discontinue development of the study drug. As of study termination, nine participants had
      enrolled under Cohort I in Step I, but only 4 participants had CCR5 tropism and received the
      study medication under Step II. All 4 participants had limited post-baseline data.
    
  