
    
      Diabetic macular edema (DME) is the most common cause of vision loss in young patients with
      diabetes. Its pathophysiology starts with decreased retinal oxygen tension that manifests as
      retinal capillary hyperpermeability and increased intravascular pressure mediated by vascular
      endothelial growth factor (VEGF) upregulation and retinal vascular autoregulation,
      respectively. Spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) is the cornerstone of
      clinical assessment of DME. The foundation of treatment is metabolic control of hyperglycemia
      and blood pressure. Specific ophthalmic treatments of DME include intravitreal anti-VEGF drug
      injections, in the form of intravitreal Bevacizumab (Avastin), Ranibizumab (Lucentis), and
      Aflibercept (Eylea). Intravitreal corticosteroid injections, focal laser photocoagulation,
      and vitrectomy are other treatment options. A substantial fraction of eyes respond
      incompletely to all of these modalities resulting in visual loss and disordered retinal
      structure and vasculature visible on SD-OCT and OCT angiography. There is currently no
      consensus on when to switch from one treatment to another in the context of a suboptimal
      response. Our hypothesis is that patients who are switched early to Ozurdex and achieve an
      OCT proven dry state, achieve better functional outcomes than those patients who are switched
      late or not at all, by limiting exposure of the retina to potentially damaging inflammatory
      markers, and the merits associated with less frequent injections.

      Suboptimal DME is defined as a central subfoveal retinal thickness of > 300 and the presence
      of intra or sub-retinal fluid with a minimum BCVA of 20/25 or worse after 3 injections of
      intravitreal aflibercept, from here on referred to as Eylea. Furthermore, there is some
      evidence that a subset of patients with refractory DME respond well to intravitreal
      corticosteroids, specifically, Ozurdex, which is a biodegradable, sustained-release
      intravitreal dexamethasone implant, designed to be potentially injected between 2-6 months.
      This medication is currently not covered by the Ontario health benefits plan for patients
      with DME and comes at a significant cost to patients.

      Moreover, recent studies have confirmed the important role of inflammatory ocular cytokines
      in patients' response to intravitreal treatments in DME, much the same as neovascular
      age-related macular degeneration. However, it is not known which ocular cytokines determine
      the degree of response to various treatment modalities for DME.

      Here, investigators aim to study the anatomic and visual outcomes, as well as the cytokine
      profile of patients with suboptimal DME in response to early vs. late switch to intravitreal
      Ozurdex treatment.
    
  