
    
      This is an early feasibility Phase I clinical trial for safety. The total enrollment for this
      study is 60 patients (30 per phase). The study is split in a phase IA (short duration of
      implantation with no other cancer therapy planned prior to excision) and a phase IB (duration
      of implantation for up to 52 weeks while receiving neoadjuvant radiation therapy or systemic
      therapy prior to surgical excision), as described below.

      The initial 6 patients will have the OxyChip placed for a short duration (up to 4 weeks)
      after which the OxyChip will be removed when the tumor mass is resected, prior to delivery of
      any further therapies. After the successful implantation, removal, and evaluation of the
      OxyChip in the first 6 Phase IA patients, enrollment will be opened to an additional 24 Phase
      IA patients and to 6 Phase IB patients who will either receive neoadjuvant radiotherapy or
      systemic therapy (chemotherapy, biologic therapy, or endocrine therapy) while the OxyChip is
      in place. After the successful implantation, removal, and evaluation of the OxyChip in the
      first 3 Phase IB patients receiving radiation therapy or systemic therapy, enrollment will be
      opened to an additional 24 Phase IB patients. Up to five oxygen measurements per week will be
      made during the course of radiation or systemic therapy. The OxyChips will be removed at
      surgery. Patients receiving radiation or systemic therapy will be evaluated at least weekly
      for assessment with respect to any adverse events for the primary objective and oximetry
      measurements will be taken periodically at least one day after implantation and up to its
      removal at the planned tumor excision to assess the secondary objective. Following resection,
      the tissue surrounding the OxyChip will be examined for any adverse events for the primary
      objective. For the exploratory objectives, the tissue will also be examined for biomarkers
      associated with hypoxia or growth.
    
  