
    
      Rationale: Surgical lobectomy is the treatment of choice for patients with early stage lung
      cancer. In some centres, video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) lobectomy is preferred, where
      other centres hold on to the conventional open lobectomy via a thoracotomy. Although several
      studies have demonstrated fewer postoperative complications and shorter hospital length of
      stay for the VATS procedure, others have reported concerns regarding oncologic equivalence,
      mainly based on incomplete lymph node staging. Convincing randomized evidence from the
      literature is lacking. The aim of this randomized multicentre study is to compare quality of
      life, oncologic endpoints and cost-effectiveness between VATS- and open (thoracotomy)
      lobectomy.

      Objective: To compare quality of life, cost-effectiveness and number of dissected mediastinal
      lymph nodes between open,VATS and ROBOT-assisted lobectomy.

      Study design: A prospective multi-centre randomized trial with a prospective registry arm
      Study population: Adult patients of either gender, selected by the pulmonary oncological
      multidisciplinary team to undergo surgical lobectomy for early-stage lung carcinoma.

      Intervention: One group is assigned to the open procedure: posterolateral thoracotomy for
      lobectomy with mediastinal lymph node dissection. The other group is assigned to the VATS
      procedure: thoracoscopic minimally invasive lobectomy with thoracoscopic mediastinal lymph
      node dissection. All patients that do meet the inclusion criteria but are not participating
      in the randomized trial can be included in the prospective Cohort arm of the study evaluating
      clinical assignment to OPEN- VATS or ROBOT-assisted lobectomy.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Primary endpoints are postoperative quality of life, and
      hospital length of stay. Secondary endpoints include cancer specific quality of life, number
      of dissected mediastinal lymph nodes and stations, procedural complication rates, pulmonary
      function, overall costs and survival.

      Centres participating in this study currently perform the open- and VATS and/or
      ROBOT-assisted lobectomy in daily clinical practice.
    
  