
    
      The primary purpose of this three arm, randomized clinical trial is to test the hypothesis
      that preoperative injections along the levator ani muscles and pudendal nerve with
      bupivacaine and dexamethasone improve pain control after vaginal native tissue apical
      reconstructive surgery.

      Hypothesis: concurrent bilateral transobturator levator ani muscle injections and
      transvaginal pudendal nerve blocks with bupivacaine and dexamethasone performed prior to
      vaginal apical support procedures will result in improved pain scores at 24 hours
      postoperatively.

      Participants will be randomized to three arms: bupivacaine/dexamethasone group, bupivacaine
      group, and placebo group. Block randomization will occur and will be stratified by surgery
      type to ensure that similar numbers of each procedure are randomized to each study arm.

      All 3 groups will receive pudendal nerve blocks and transobturator levator ani muscle
      injections as outlined in detail below (with either bupivacaine/dexamethasone, bupivacaine
      alone or saline depending on randomization). The interventions will be performed after the
      participant is positioned in lithotomy position and after sterile preparation of the vagina
      and perineum per standard protocol. These injections will be performed at the start of the
      procedure prior to any vaginal repair and be administered by either the attending surgeon or
      the urogynecology fellow. After the interventions below, the vaginal reconstructive
      procedures will be performed as usual by the attending surgeon and surgical team. There are
      both fellows and residents who participate in these vaginal reconstructive surgeries, however
      for study purposes, resident physicians will not be permitted to administer either the
      pudendal nerve block or the transobturator injections. There are four attending surgeons and
      four fellow physicians who will be administering the injections. While all surgeons are
      familiar with the anatomy and have performed these procedures, each physician will be
      instructed on the intended procedures and additionally will be directly observed in the
      operating room for at least one procedure to ensure consistency in technique. All
      participants will undergo a standardized general anesthesia regimen.

      After the study intervention, all participants will then undergo the scheduled vaginal
      reconstructive procedure as standard. Infiltration of the vaginal epithelium with lidocaine
      is common in vaginal repairs. The maximum doses of lidocaine and bupivacaine are additive.
      The amount of local infiltration to 50 milliliters of 0.5% lidocaine with epinephrine. This
      dose is equal to 250mg of lidocaine which, when also taking into account the 50mg of
      bupivacaine, is within a safe dosing range for a participant weighing 50kg.

      Administration of all four injections involved in the study protocol and described above take
      approximately 5 additional minutes in total at the start of the case. After the injections
      are performed, there will be no further interventions.

      Other assessments that will be performed as part of the study protocol are outlined below:

      Baseline assessments: Pain assessment, assessment of presence of any baseline nausea or
      vomiting, baseline activities assessment will all be performed in preoperative area on the
      day of surgery prior to randomization.

      Postoperative pain score assessment: 3 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 72 hours, and 1 week
      postoperatively. Postoperative pain measured by the numerical rating scale (NRS). The NRS is
      a publicly available pain assessment tool that consists of an eleven point scale ranging from
      0 to 10 (0 = no pain and 10 = worst possible pain) presented visually on a horizontal line.
      Participants are asked to report a number or mark on the scale. Previous studies have
      demonstrated its reliability, validity and ease of administration. The NRS was chosen because
      a systematic review article demonstrated higher compliance rates, better responsiveness and
      ease of use relative to visual analog scales. Additionally, the NRS has been shown to have
      strong validity and low error rates when used in an elderly (>60 years) postoperative patient
      population.

      Postoperative nausea and vomiting assessment: 3 hours postoperatively The intensity of
      postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) using the PONV Intensity scale. The PONV scale is a
      four question assessment designed to measure clinically significant nausea and vomiting. It
      was initially validated in a general surgery population and has been validated in early
      postoperative gynecology patients. Clinically important nausea and vomiting is defined as a
      score greater than or equal to 50. This scale takes approximately 1 minute to complete and is
      publicly available. The amount of inpatient anti-emetic consumption will also be assessed.
      Any anti-emetic administered from surgery end time will be recorded as well as the dosage.
      Anti-emetic type and dosage will be recorded until the time of discharge.

      Voiding status at time of foley catheter removal. All patients routinely have some assessment
      of voiding function prior to discharge. Whether each participant passed or failed a voiding
      trial after surgery will be recorded in the database. If a participant fails, the standard of
      care is do be discharged to home after learning self-catheterization or with a foley
      catheter. In the event that a participant fails a postoperative voiding trial, whether
      participants receive a foley catheter or were performing self-catheterization will be
      recorded. As this is a routine part of postoperative care, the research protocol will not
      interfere with the performance or outcomes of a voiding trial. Results will be documented,
      however no specific assessment tool will be used.

      Time to resume normal activities measured by the activities assessment scale (AAS): 1 week, 2
      weeks, 6 weeks and 12 weeks postoperatively The AAS was initially designed to assess
      functional activity in the perioperative period in the general surgery population. It has
      since been deemed a valid and reliable measure to assess postoperative activity level in a
      Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery patient population. It has the ability to
      measure perioperative function and takes approximately 3-5 minutes to complete. It consists
      of a 13 item questionnaire assessing various types of physical activity and the degree of
      difficulty associated with each activity. The types of activities assessed fall into three
      subscales: sedentary activities (questions 1-4), ambulatory activities (questions 6-8), and
      work or exercise activities (questions 11-13). Respondents also have the option to indicate
      that these activities were not performed for another indication (this item is not scored).
      The time frame for all questions is the previous 24 hours. Given that many patients are
      instructed to avoid strenuous work or exercise activity in the postoperative period, the
      subscales of sedentary activities and ambulatory activities, which patients are encouraged to
      perform as tolerated in the postoperative period, will be of most interest.

      Consumption of analgesic medications: during inpatient hospital stay and for first 72 hours
      postoperatively Narcotic consumption will be measured in morphine equivalents. The amount of
      narcotics will be obtained from the inpatient hospital record. All narcotics received from
      the surgery end time to the time of discharge will be included. Morphine equivalents will be
      calculated with online calculator available at
      http://www.agencymeddirectors.wa.gov/Calculator/DoseCalculator.htm. Similarly, the amount of
      NSAIDs will be obtained from the inpatient hospital record. All NSAIDs received from the
      surgery end time to the time of discharge will be included. To assess both the amount of
      narcotic and NSAID consumption after discharge, the participant will be provided with a diary
      form to record how many daily tablets of narcotic and NSAIDs are taken. This form will be
      completed from postoperative days 1-3.

      For all forms, the participants will be instructed to mail the forms back to the office once
      completed (in a pre-address envelope provided as part of the study). Participants will also
      have the option of brining the forms in to the office at the time of a participant's
      postoperative visit.

      Participants, physicians and any nursing personnel involved in patient care will remain
      masked until 12 weeks postoperatively.
    
  