
    
      The study would be conducted at a single site: the University of British Columbia. This study
      would involve the recruitment of out-patient responders to quetiapine who previously had the
      diagnosis of bipolar disorder, depressed phase. These patients could then be randomized to
      receive either serotonergic or catecholinergic depletion, through tryptophan or tyrosine
      depletion respectively.

      Baseline assessments would be conducted prior to the subjects being entered into the active
      phase of depletion. As the depletion phase is short, i.e. a number of days, this phase of the
      trial would be relatively short (i.e. one week).

      Participants will see a clinician at a pre-depletion screening visit that occurs (maximum) 7
      days prior to commencing depletion. In addition the a physical examination and taking medical
      history, inclusion/exclusion criteria will be verified, an ECG will be taken by a hospital
      cardiologist, and blood and urine samples will be collected for standard
      haematology/urinalysis, and a baseline assessment of amino acid and neurotransmitter levels.
      Patients would be maintained on their original dose of Quetiapine throughout the course of
      the study.

      Amino acid and neurotransmitter concentrations will be determined on-site, by means of HPLC.

      All depletion drinks will be mixed with 300ml of juice, to cover the taste of the amino acid
      mixture prepared. Male participants receiving a tyrosine-free formula, will drink a mixture
      of amino acids as administered in work by Sheenan et al (1996): L-isoleucine (7.5g);
      L-leucine (11.25g), L-lysine monohydrochloride (8.75g), L-methionine (2.5g), L-valine
      (8.75g), L-threonine (5g); L-tryptophan (1.25g). Female subjects will receive drinks of the
      same composition, but 20% less by weight of each amino acid. Similarly, the tryptophan-free
      formula for males will be as prepared by Hughes et al (2000, (Hughes, Dunne & Young 2000)),
      and formula that is 20% less, by weight, of amino acids will be used for females: L-alanine
      (5.5g); L-arginine (4.9g); L-cysteine (2.7g); L-glycine (3.2g); L-histidine 3.2g);
      L-isoleucine (8g); L-leucine (13.5); L-lysine monohydrochloride (11g); L-methionine (3g);
      L-phenylalanine (5.7g); L-proline (12.2g); L-serine (6.9g); L-threonine (6.5g); L-tyrosine
      (6.9g); L-valine (8.9g).

      The depletion and post-depletion monitoring will occur daily for five (5) days, so depletion
      will begin on a Monday, unless circumstances require otherwise. Participants will be
      instructed to have a low-protein diet in the day prior to their second visit (total content
      of less than 20g), and fast from midnight until their visit. Subjects will arrive at the
      clinic at 9AM on day 1 and commence depletion, under the supervision of the screening
      physician, who will monitor the subject over the next four days, including at 0- and 4-hours
      post-depletion. At 24 hours post-depletion, a blood sample will be drawn for analysis of
      amino acid and neurotransmitter levels (5mL). Subjects will not be hospitalized during their
      participation, unless it is deemed necessary by clinician's judgment, but will be given
      24-hour contact information for the attending physician. The same physician will see a given
      subject for the duration of their participation, and all raters involved in this study will
      have previously demonstrated an inter-rater reliability of 0.85 for all scales. At all visits
      (1-5), subjects will have mood assessed using a Visual Analog Scale, for self-rating, and by
      the Hamilton Rating-Scale for Depression. Concomitant medications will also be recorded.

      At the final visit (96-hours post-depletion), a follow-up physical examination will be
      performed.
    
  