
    
      Laparoscopic surgery is being increasingly recognized for its advantages of minimal
      invasiveness. mild postoperative pain, short length of hospitalization and rapid recovery and
      is widely used in general surgery, obstetrics. gynecology and urology. Laparoscopic
      cholecystectomy (LC) has become the gold standard for surgically treating benign diseases of
      the gallbladder.

      During carbon dioxide (CO2) pneumoperitoneal laparoscopic surgery, CO2-pneumoperitoneum
      activates the sympathoadrenomedullary system to increase the release of catecholamines such
      as epinephrine (E) norepinephrine (NE) and dopamine (DA). During stress, E and NE are
      secreted by the adrenal medulla into blood circulation to promote glycogenolysis to increase
      blood glucose, speed up lipolysis and accelerate heartbeats. Stellate g anglion block (SGB)
      reters to the blockade of sympathetic nerves including the large area covered by middle
      cervical, vertebral arterial. stellate ganglions and ther pre- and post- ganglions. SGB
      affects both peripheral and central nervous systems. In the peripheral system. the
      sympathetic pre- and post-ganglionic fibers in the innervated areas of stellate ganglion are
      affected. Therefore, the control of vascular dilatation and constriction, muscular movement,
      bronchial smooth muscle relaxation and contraction, and pain conduction, by sympathetic
      nerves is inhibited. In the central nervous system, the hypothalamus is mainly involved in
      the regulation of systemic autonomic nervous, immune and endocrine systems, and to maintain
      homeostasis.

      CO2-pneumoperitoneum causes severe stress-related homeostatic disorders including arrhythmia
      and blood pressure changes. This study will examine the effects of stellate ganglion block
      (SGB) on hemodynamics and stress response in patients undergoing CO-pneumoperitoneal surgery.
    
  