
    
      Glucocorticoids are the first-line antiinflammatory treatment for asthma. Their multiple
      inhibitory properties, including the inhibition of Th2 cytokine synthesis, are likely to
      contribute to clinical efficacy. Glucocorticoids also enhance IL-10 production in vitro by
      human CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, and glucocorticoid treatment induces the synthesis of IL-10 by
      airway cells in asthmatic patients. IL-10 is a potent antiinflammatory and immunosuppressive
      leading to profound inhibition of Th1 cell-mediated immunity. A proportion of asthmatic
      patients fails to benefit from oral glucocorticoid therapy and are thus denoted as having
      glucocorticoid-resistant (SR, derived from "steroid resistant") or insensitive asthma. It has
      been demonstrated that CD4+ T cells from SR asthma patients fail to induce IL-10 synthesis
      following in vitro stimulation in the presence of dexamethasone as compared with their
      glucocorticoid-sensitive counterparts (SS, derived from "steroid sensitive"), suggesting a
      link between induction of IL-10 synthesis and clinical efficacy of glucocorticoids. One
      potential source of IL-10 is Tregs, which control the function of effector T cells.
      Glucocorticoids enhance the production of IL-10 by polyclonally stimulated T cells and these
      cells inhibit IFN- production by human CD4+ T cells in an IL-10-dependent manner. In both
      mouse and human a combination of dexamethasone and calcitriol, the active form of vitamin D3,
      induced high numbers of IL-10-producing T cells that made negligible amounts of Th1 and Th2
      cytokines.

      Xystrakis et al. (57) showed that IL-10-secreting Tregs inhibit cytokine production by
      previously activated allergen-specific Th2 cells and that pretreating T cells with IL-10 or
      adding vitamin D3 to the cell cultures can reverse the defect and enhance IL-10 production by
      Tregs from asthmatic patients who were resistant to glucocorticoid therapy. These
      manipulations increase IL-10 production to levels comparable to those observed in patients
      who do respond well to therapy. IL-10 increases glucocorticoid receptor expression, and the
      authors proposed that this is the mechanism by which IL-10 overcomes the
      glucocorticoid-resistant patient defect in IL-10 synthesis. This strongly suggests that
      vitamin D3 could potentially increase the therapeutic response to glucocorticoids in SR
      patients.

      We want to test the hypothesis, that vitamin D3 improves pulmonary function and quality of
      life in patients with asthma relatively resistant to glucocorticoids.
    
  