
    
      Research Design: Pilot study of patients presenting to vascular clinic with chronic venous
      disease with varicose veins and/or edema will be randomized 1:1 in one of two compression
      garment groups. Measurements of edema and the interface compression applied at the ankle will
      be determined. The venous clinical severity scoring system and quality of life are assessed.
      After 4 weeks of treatment patients will have repeat objective studies and clinical outcomes
      determined.

      Methodology: Patients with venous disease and edema and non-venous edema will be evaluated by
      clinical exam and venous duplex ultrasound. Patients eligible for the study will be
      randomized to knee-high 20-30 Hg graded compression stockings or anti-embolism (13-18 mm Hg)
      compression stockings. Patients will have limb quantitative edema assessment, a severity
      score and quality of life determination. Compression will be assigned to each treatment group
      with instruction on proper wear and duration, and the interface pressure of compression at
      the skin surface at the ankle level determined. Following 4 weeks of compression, patients
      will return for evaluation in the following areas: quantify limb edema, quantify compression
      at the ankle, venous clinical severity score, and venous disease specific quality of life.
      Data will be analyzed and presented as mean±sd. Data are analyzed using ANOVA followed by
      Scheffe's F test for comparison of multiple means. Student's t-test for unpaired and paired
      data will be used for comparison of two means. Differences are considered statistically
      significant if P < 0.05.

      Significance: Utilizing objective measures of leg edema and applied interface pressure with
      two different compression garments, the data will provide the important relation between
      compression (mm Hg) and function of an appropriate graded compression stocking in improving
      limb edema and symptoms. In addition, measuring clinical outcomes before and after
      compression will validate the usefulness of proper compression. This study is intended to
      identify important quantifiable parameters that may be useful in assessing treatment end
      point including: clinical improvement, length of treatment, daily treatment utilization,
      prognosis, and clinical guidelines for compression in a specific clinical setting.
    
  