
    
      Leg ulcers are a serious and debilitating complication of sickle cell disease (SCD). This
      study will explore microbial, genomic, and environmental (social and physical) factors, that
      may influence the onset and progression of leg ulcer formation and delayed healing in
      individuals living with SCD. There is variation in the incidence and duration of SCD leg
      ulcers.

      They are often very painful, resistant to treatment, and recurrent in nature. The etiology of
      SCD associated leg ulcers is unclear, and we hypothesize that predisposition to developing
      leg ulcers is multifactorial. This multisite study is an exploratory study of the microbiome
      and environment of individuals living with sickle cell disease leg ulcers. The study's
      objective is to identify triggers that may be integral in leg ulcer onset and progression.
      The central goal of this study is to obtain an improved understanding of the participants
      clinical phenotype, leg ulcer microbiome and the psychosocial and environmental factors that
      may impact this complication. To achieve these goals, we will: (1) characterize the leg skin
      microbiome of SCD participants living with and without leg ulcers within the United States
      and Sierra Leone; (2) collect and analyze psychosocial and physical environmental data of
      individuals with SCD without leg ulcers and with leg ulcers; (3) examine the psychosocial
      impact of leg ulcers on individuals with SCD by conducting a qualitative phase to explore the
      individual experiences to understand the physical function, stigma, and self-esteem
      associated with those with active, recurrent, or single-occurrence presentations of leg
      ulcers; and (4) explore what factors influence psychological resilience, to examine the
      relationship of psychological resilience to the health outcomes of an adult population living
      with sickle cell disease in the U.S. and in Sierra Leone. This will provide us the
      opportunity to understand the complexity of participants' health, health care experiences and
      quality of life.
    
  