
    
      OVERVIEW: This is a large pragmatic trial of the Jumpstart intervention designed to promote
      goals-of-care discussions for older, seriously ill, hospitalized patients. The trial recruits
      consecutively eligible patients from three UW Medicine hospitals. The Jumpstart Guide is a
      communication-priming intervention that addresses hospitalized patients' goals of care. It
      includes information, drawn from the electronic health record (EHR), identifying the dates
      and locations of prior advance care planning documents (e.g. living wills, healthcare
      directives, durable power of attorney for healthcare, and Physician Orders for Life
      Sustaining Treatments (POLST)). This information is provided by email and in-person to
      patients' clinicians. The Jumpstart Guide includes tips to improve this communication. The
      trial will assess the effectiveness of the EHR-based clinician Jumpstart as compared with
      usual care.

      SPECIFIC AIM (Trial 1): Evaluate the EHR-based clinician Jumpstart compared to usual care.

      Intervention. Step 1- Subject Identification/Recruitment/Randomization: The investigators
      will use automated methods with EHR data, including natural language processing/machine
      learning (NLP/ML) approaches, to identify hospitalized patients with serious illness during
      the first 2-3 days of this specific admission. Screening reports will be produced daily and
      include all likely eligible patients. Study staff will use these daily screening reports to
      review individual records of eligible patients for inclusion and exclusion criteria (i.e.
      verify eligibility). Patients will not be approached for consent. Eligible patients will be
      assigned to intervention or comparator in a 1:1 ratio. Patients are randomized using variable
      size blocks and stratified for hospital and ADRD vs. no ADRD.

      Step 2- EHR-based Clinician Jumpstart Guide: The Jumpstart guide is developed by applying
      NLP/ML algorithms to both inpatient and outpatient EHR notes (e.g., progress notes, specialty
      consult notes, alerts and care plans) preceding the current hospitalization. It summarizes
      the presence/absence patients' prior goals-of care discussions and the presence/absence of
      POLST, advance directives and DPOA (durable power of attorney) documentation. It also
      provides general recommendations to initiating goals of care discussions. Jumpstart guides
      are prepared for the intervention group only.

      Step 3- Delivery of the intervention: For the intervention group, the investigators deliver
      the Jumpstart guide to the primary hospital team (all attending and resident physicians and
      advanced practice providers) via secure email, or in person delivery. The Jumpstart guides
      are delivered within 1 business day of patient randomization. Study staff monitor the care
      team of the patient, and if there are any changes, ensure that any new providers receive the
      Jumpstart guide as well.

      Comparator: The hospital teams for patients in the control group do not receive Jumpstart
      guides.

      Outcome Assessment. Outcomes are obtained from the EHR and use, in part, NLP/ML methods. The
      primary outcome is EHR documentation of goals-of-care discussions in the 30 days following
      randomization. Secondary outcomes are measures of intensity of care, including utilization
      metrics (i.e., ICU admissions, ICU and hospital lengths of stay, 30-day hospital
      readmissions), costs of care during hospital admission, and estimated costs of implementing
      the intervention.

      SPECIFIC AIM (Trial 1): Evaluate implementation of the Jumpstart Guide and identify barriers
      and facilitators to future implementation.

      Clinician recruitment: Study staff will recruit clinicians who were involved with the study
      to participate in a short interview after the clinician's study involvement with the enrolled
      patient has ended. Clinician participants will be selected using purposive sampling to ensure
      a diverse group (e.g., age, race/ethnicity, gender, specialty, year of training).

      Interview: Using an interview guide developed specifically for this project, interviewers
      will assess respondents' experience with the intervention and gather suggestions for ways to
      improve the intervention's content, delivery and implementation, including implementation
      outcomes (e.g., acceptability, fidelity, penetration, maintenance) that will guide future
      dissemination of the intervention.

      Assessment: Interviews are audio recorded, transcribed, and analyzed using thematic analytic
      methods. To ensure trustworthiness, interviewers will perform a "member check" of the results
      with a subset of participants selected for diversity of participant type.
    
  