
    
      1. Stress Urinary Incontinence (SUI) is a disease in which urine outflows involuntarily
           because of slack and weak urethral sphincter when patient's intra-abdominal pressure
           increases or patient stands upright or walks. 90% of SUI are caused by urethral
           hypermobility.

        2. So far, however, there is no urinary incontinence vaginal tape developed independently
           by Chinese. By mid-2012, there are more than 10 kinds of vaginal tapes for SUI approved
           by China Food and Drug Administration(CFDA) and all of them are imported and expensive
           (price for hospital: 5500-18000 Yuan). By October 18, 2013, all products for SUI
           treatment approved by CFDA are made in weaving techniques. The main product material is
           polypropylene, a non-absorbable synthetic mesh. Polypropylene vaginal tapes have good
           biocompatibility, but Polypropylene vaginal tapes also have many problems. Eckhard
           Petri's study on the complications of female patients with SUI treated by polypropylene
           vaginal tape showed that postoperative complications often occur in the 5th year after
           the surgery. The most common complications include mesh exposure, pain, infection and
           sexual dysfunction. The causes of these complications are mainly related to the
           material's biocompatibility and rejection reaction etc in addition to surgical factors.

        3. The Regen Sling developed by Medprin Regenerative Medical Technologies Co., Ltd. adopts
           the high-biocompatibility Polyvinylidene Fluoride (PVDF) as the material and
           electro-spinning technique is adopted for its production. It is highly flexible,
           non-erosive, permanent and non-degradable.In addition, it can induce rapid ingrowth of
           fibroblasts and new blood capillary formation, thus achieving perfect remediation effect
           and long-term safety. The Regen Sling can effectively prevent the various problems of
           the existing products occurred in clinical use and overcome the deficiencies of existing
           polypropylene weaving products such as poor comfortable sensation, easy to induce
           erosion and exposure etc.

        4. Given the technical advantages and development potentials of Regen Sling and the market
           demands, Sponsor plan to apply for the registration of the product in the United States
           (FDA) in addition to domestic application for registration; besides, Sponsor plan to
           conduct European unification(CE) certification for the product in the European Economic
           Area and apply for registration in other potential countries or regions.

        5. Product Mechanism and Trial Range 5.1 Product Mechanism Pathogenesis of SUI include
           urethral hypermobility and internal sphincter disorder, 90% of SUI are caused by
           urethral hypermobility. Delancey created the Hammock Theory in 1994 and pointed out that
           the key of SUI treatment is to restore the supporting tissue around urethra instead of
           changing the positions and included angle of bladder and urethra. Mid urethral sling is
           the generic term of the surgical methods for female SUI treatment derived from the
           theory. It is effective and minimally invasive and becomes the internationally
           recognized first line treatment of SUI. In Regen Sling treatment, vaginal tape is placed
           at the middle section of urethra without tension through puncture method, so the dynamic
           urethral resistance is obtained in abdominal pressure increasing state, thus achieving
           urinary control effect.

           5.2 Trial Range Female patients with moderate or severe SUI

        6. Product Indications and Function 1) This product is applicable for female patients with
           moderate or severe SUI; 2) Moderate to severe SUI caused by internal sphincter disorder;
           3) Mixed urinary incontinence.

        7. Research Method The study is a multi-center, randomized, single-blind, positive parallel
           controlled, non-inferiority validation clinical trial.

      7.1. Investigators shall observe and determine whether the hospitalized patients planning to
      undergo female stress urinary incontinence surgery meet the inclusion criteria or not. If the
      patients meet the inclusion criteria, the investigators shall explain Informed Consent Form
      to the patients. If the patients agree to participate in the clinical trial, they can become
      the subjects of the trial only when the Informed Consent Form is signed by the patients
      and/or patients family member.

      7.2. The investigators shall screen out and register the subjects, complete relevant
      examinations in baseline period; for the patients meeting inclusion criteria without
      rejecting the Informed Consent Form, investigators shall allocate random number to the
      patients in chronological order (random number allocation method: Small to large).

      7.3. All subjects shall undergo routine preoperative examinations including Blood Routine,
      Urine Routine, Blood Type and Rh antibody , Liver and Kidney Function, Blood Coagulation
      Function, Hepatitis B Five Items, Hepatitis C Virus(HCV) Antibodies, Treponema Pallidum
      Antibodies, Preliminary HIV Screening, Electrocardiogram, Chest Radiography, Pelvic Cavity B
      Ultrasound etc and preoperative pelvic floor function assessment and preoperative
      questionnaire.

      7.4. During the operation of vaginal tape, investigators shall place the control samples and
      test samples in accordance with standard operations and complete relevant surgical records.

      7.5. Follow-up Observation: outpatient follow-up shall be conducted in the 3rd month, 6th
      month and 12th month after the surgery. According to the clinical requirements, in the 3rd
      month after the surgery, investigators shall examine surgery's anti-urinary incontinence
      effect and encourage the patients to recover sexual life; in the 6th month after the surgery,
      investigators shall conduct follow-up visits on sexual life situation and vaginal tape
      erosion situation; in the 12th month after the surgery,investigators shall know about the
      improvement of patients' symptoms .
    
  