
    
      Purpose The aim of the present study is to test the H0-hypotheisis of no difference in
      implant treatment outcome after MSFA in partial edentulous diabetic patients with
      particulated autogenous bone graft compared with APRF after five years of functional implant
      loading.

      Objective

      The objective is to test the H0 hypothesis of no differences in:

        -  Survival of suprastructures and implants.

        -  Volumetrical stability of the graft material.

        -  Peri-implant marginal bone level.

        -  Implantat stability quotient.

        -  Effect of implant placement and graft material on hematological and inflammatory
           parameters.

        -  Patient-reported outcome measures.

        -  Biologic and technical complications.

      Outcome measures

        -  Survival of suprastructures. Loss of suprastructures is defined as a total loss because
           of a non-treatable mechanical/or biological complication.

        -  Survival of implants. Loss of implants is defined as removal of a non-integrated
           implant, mobility of previously clinical osseointegrated implant, and removal of
           non-mobile implants due to progressive peri-implant marginal bone loss and inflammation.

        -  Volumetric changes of the graft material.

        -  Peri-implant marginal bone level.

        -  Levels of hematological and inflammatory parameters.

        -  Patient-reported outcome measures.

        -  Biologic and technical complications e.g. loosening of crown and fractures of veneer
           ceramic.

      Materials and methods Study population Forty consecutive insulin-dependent diabetes patients
      with missing posterior maxillary tooth/teeth will be included and randomly allocated to MSFA
      with particulated autogenous bone graft (control group) or APRF (test group). The study will
      be conducted at the Department of Odontology, Sections of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery and
      Periodontology, University of Copenhagen and Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery,
      Copenhagen University Hospital (Rigshospitalet) and Aalborg University Hospital, Aalborg,
      Denmark.

      Ethical considerations, perspectives and informed consent The study has been approved by The
      North Denmark Region Committee on Health Research Ethics and will be performed according to
      the Declaration of Helsinki on clinical research. All patients will receive verbal and
      written information about the study by the investigators at a clinical visit prior to
      surgery. Written informed consent is mandatory for inclusion in the study and will be
      obtained by the investigators prior to surgery from each patient.

      Initial examination

      The initial examination of the patient will include:

        -  Clinical examination and assessment of the periodontal health status:

        -  Missing one posterior maxillary tooth (>4 months).

        -  Need of one implant in the posterior part of the maxilla.

        -  Adjacent tooth in opposite jaw in contact with planned crown.

        -  Plaque and gingival index, probing pocket depth, and probing attachment level of the
           adjacent tooth/teeth.

        -  Radiographical examination of the residual alveolar bone height based on CBCT.

        -  Orthopantomography to document the pre-treatment status.

        -  Blood samples.

        -  Patient will fill out the OHIP-14 questionnaire.

      Surgical procedure The surgical procedure will be performed in local anesthesia with or
      without oral sedation or in general anesthesia. Implant installation and fabrication of the
      subsequently prosthetic solution will be performed according to manufacturer's
      recommendations. Prior to surgery, patients are pre-medicated as outlined in Table I.
      Patients will rinse with 0.12% chlorhexidine solution for one minute immediately before
      surgery. A sealed randomization envelope is opened in order to allocate patients to
      particulated autogenous bone graft from the zygomatic buttress (control) or APRF (test).
      Venous blood is collected from all the included patients via venipuncture of the forearm. The
      first 30 ml venous blood is discarded to prevent infection. A venous blood sample (80 ml,
      distributed in eight 10-ml glass-coated plastic tubes) via puncture of a vein in the cubital
      fossa is collected and centrifuged (A-PRF 12, Process, Nice, France) according to a
      previously described method. The blood samples are centrifuged at 200 g for 14 min. The tubes
      containing the centrifuged blood are placed to rest for approximately 25 min to give the
      fibrin clot a firmer consistency before collecting it for the final membrane preparation.

      The maxillary sinus wall is exposed by an intraoral marginal incision from tuber maxillae to
      the first premolar with a vertical releasing incision. A 1 x 1 cm bony window to the
      maxillary sinus is created maintaining an intact Schneiderian membrane. The Schneiderian
      membrane is elevated from the sinus floor as well as the lateral sinus wall and displaced
      dorsocranially with blunt dissector. An implant bed is successively prepared on the top of
      the alveolar crest following manufactory's recommendations. An implant (AstraTech, 13 mm) is
      inserted with a cover screw. The implant stability quotient is measured for all inserted
      implants (Penguin, Integration Diagnostics Sweden AB, Göteborg, Sweden). Autogenous bone
      graft is harvested with curved SafeScraper from the zygomatic buttress. Specially prepared
      stainless steel cup are used to estimate 2 cm3 of particulated autogenous bone graft, which
      is packed around the inserted implant. In the test group, the sinus is filled with APRF
      membrane around the inserted implant. The bony window to the maxillary sinus is covered with
      a barrier membrane to seal the opening to the maxillary sinus. Periosteum and mucosa are
      sutured with a monofilament 4-0 suture. Minor perforations of sinus membrane will be covered
      with a membrane. If the sinus membrane is largely perforated, the procedure will be
      cancelled, and the patient will be withdrawn from the study. No provisional restoration is
      inserted during the healing period. Patients will be instructed to rinse with 0.12%
      chlorhexidine solution twice a day until suture removal has taken place after 7-10 days.
      Postoperative medication is outlined in Table I. Patient questionnaire will be filled out
      after one week and one month

      Abutment surgery After six months of healing, abutment surgery is performed. The implant
      stability quotient is measured for all inserted implants. The implant is rinsed with saline
      and a prefabricated healing abutment is placed. The implants are manually tested for mobility
      and osseointegration by percussion. Mucosa is adapted and sutured with a monofilament 4-0
      suture. The prosthetic restoration will be initiated three weeks after the healing abutment
      has been placed.

      Prosthetic restoration Prosthetic restoration will include an individualized abutment and a
      fixed restoration performed by experienced prosthodontists with extensive clinical experience
      with implant-based prosthetics.

      Clinical assessment

      Patients will be scheduled for a postoperative clinical examination at baseline, one year,
      three year and five years after loading. The following parameters will be recorded at each
      visit:

        -  Plaque and gingival index, probing pocket depth, and probing attachment level.

        -  Oral health related quality of life - OHIP-14.

        -  Patient satisfaction (VAS).

      Oral health related quality of life - OHIP-14 and patient satisfaction Oral Health Impact
      Profile (OHIP) is a questionnaire designed to measure impairment of oral health related
      quality of life and focuses on the frequency of complaints regarding the general dentition
      over a course of time. OHIP has been translated to and validated in several languages,
      including Danish. However, OHIP states the patient's overall oral impairment, and does not
      take a specific treatment site into account. Therefore, additional questionnaire including
      VAS may be used to evaluate the area of a missing tooth and/or a tooth replacement. The total
      implant treatment, peri-implant soft tissues, implant crown, and implant function at the
      follow-up examination will be assessed using a systematic questionnaire. Each question will
      be scored on a 100-mm VAS with 0 indicating extreme dissatisfaction and 100 indicating
      complete satisfaction. The VAS scores will be measured to the nearest mm by a ruler.

      Hematological and inflammatory parameters The inflammatory assessment will include six blood
      samples obtained at inclusion, intraoperatively, one month postoperatively, at baseline, one
      year and five years after functional implant loading. Serum level of high sensitivity CRP
      (hsCRP9 (reference value 0-5 mg/L), fibrinogen (reference value 200-400 mg/dL), serum level
      of total cholesterol (standard ≤ 190 mg/dL), low-density lipoprotein (LDL-C) (standard ≤ 115
      mg/dL), high-density lipoprotein (HDL-C) (standard for men > 40 mg/dL, for women > 46 mg/dL),
      leukotriene B4, prostaglandin E2, penetraxin-3, surfactant protein-D and serum levels of
      complement components C1, C3 and C9. White blood cell count (WBC) will be determined in blood
      from the heparin tube (standard 4.0-11.0 × 103 μL) following fractionation. Moreover, plasma
      levels of interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-6, IL-10, tumor necrosis factor-alfa (TNF-alfa),
      transforming growth factor beta-1 (TGF-beta1), receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-B
      ligand (RANKL) and osteoprotegrin (OPG), will be determined from plasma.

      Radiographical assessment Radiographical evaluation will include seven sets of periapical
      radiographs and CBCT (I-Cat, Cone Beam 3-D Imaging System, Imaging Sciences, International
      Inc. Hatfield, USA) obtained preoperatively, immediately postoperatively, after abutment
      connection, at baseline, one year, three years and five years after loading. To provide
      blinding of the radiographical evaluation, the CBCT-scans are coded. Volumetrical changes of
      the grafts are estimated by point counting and the method described originally by Cavalieri.
      The original outline of the maxillary sinus before implant installation is recorded and
      superimposed on the corresponding images. A point grid test system is superimposed at random
      on all images, allowing 100-200 points to hit the graft of each maxillary sinus. The numbers
      of intersections over the graft are counted on each selected image. Cavalieri volume
      estimation principle is used to estimate the total volume of the graft.

      Peri-implant marginal bone changes are evaluated by linear measurements on digital periapical
      radiographs and will be done on radiographs obtained at implant placement, baseline, 3-years
      and 5-years after loading. The distance from the implant-abutment connection to the marginal
      bone level will be measured mesially and distally parallel with the long-axis of the implant.

      Data management and analysis, including calculation of sample size Data management and
      analysis including calculation of descriptive statistics are done using STATA (Data analysis
      and statistical software, version 13, StataCorp P, Texas, USA). A power calculation are based
      on differences in marginal bone level changes preformed in a previous study involving
      replacement of a single tooth with 2 different protocols of implant treatment.38 The
      calculation is based on the observed changes in marginal bone level from insertion of the
      implant to abutment connection (a change of 0.65 mm and a standard deviation of 0.65), 17
      patients in each group reaches a power of 97% at the 5%-level. With 15% to cover drop-outs,
      each treatment group should include 20 patients. The statistical evaluation is performed by
      analysis of variance. Scheffe´s multiple comparison test is used post hoc to determine the
      relative effect of the various graft types. Level of significance is 0.05.
    
  