
    
      Severe acute brain injury (SABI), including large artery acute ischemic stroke, intracerebral
      hemorrhage, and severe traumatic brain injury continue to be the leading cause of death and
      disability in adults in the U.S, accounting for more than 200,000 of the acute brain
      injury-related deaths in the U.S. annually. Patients with SABI are critically ill and most
      commonly require mechanical ventilation and supportive medical care with artificial nutrition
      to ensure survival. However, due to concerns for a poor long-term quality of life, withdrawal
      of mechanical ventilation and supportive medical care with transition to comfort care is by
      far the most common cause of death in SABI but occurs at a highly variable rate (for example
      in TBI 45-90%) at different trauma centers. Shared decision making is a collaborative process
      that enhances patients' and surrogates' understanding about prognosis, encourages them to
      actively weigh the risks and benefits of a treatment, and to match them to patient
      preferences, thereby decreasing decisional conflict and improving decision quality and health
      related outcomes. Decision aids (DAs) are shared decision-making tools which have been
      successfully implemented and validated for many other diseases to assist difficult decision
      making. No DA currently exists for goals-of-care decisions in SABI. Such a patient- and
      family-centered DA has the potential to improve decision-making for SABI patients by ensuring
      proxies receive consistent, evidence-based prognostication while also addressing patients'
      preferences and values. The investigators have developed a pilot DA for goals of care
      decisions by surrogates of SABI patients using qualitative research using semi-structured
      interviews in surrogate decision makers of TBI patients and physicians, followed by an
      iterative feedback process with feedback by surrogates, physicians, and other stakeholders
      (ICU nurses). The investigators now propose to pilot-test a DA for surrogates of SABI
      patients in a feasibility trial.
    
  