
    
      Neck pain is one of the most common musculoskeletal diseases after low back pain in the
      community. The incidence of neck pain was reported as %37,2. Neck pain can be caused by
      trauma, poor posture, degenerative diseases, tumors, muscle stress, wiplash injuries,
      cervical myelopathy, cervical ligamentous instability, fracture, vascular insufficiency or
      systemic diseases. Neck pain is classified as acute (less than six weeks), subacute (six to
      twelve weeks) or chronic (lasting more than twelve weeks). While neck pain is treated in
      physiotherapy clinics, it is also supported by home exercises during and after treatment.

      It is emphasized that home exercise programs for neck pain are effective, but exercise
      adherence is an important factor. Nowadays, with the rapid development of mobile healthcare
      applications, digital based exercise applications have started to be used in physiotherapy
      and rehabilitation. Although it has been shown to be useful in studies examining the
      effectiveness of mHealth applications for different musculoskeletal problems, these studies
      are quite limited. Several studies have identified the beneficial effects of digital-based
      exercises, but no clear evidence of superiority over written or oral home exercise programs.
      In 2019, a mobile exercise application (Neck Exercise) for neck pain patients was developed
      as a thesis study at Marmara University Health Sciences Institute. The availability of this
      mobile application is shown on healthy people. However, its efficacy has not been studied in
      patients with chronic neck pain. This mobile app includes for the neck spinal stabilization ,
      posture, breathing exercises and exercises for scapula circumference. Each exercise is
      explained with video. In addition, this application gives reminder signals at user-defined
      time intervals. Participants with chronic neck pain aged between 18-65 years will be included
      in the study and randomly divided into two groups. One group will be given home exercises via
      brochure to the other group via mobile application. Participants will be asked to do home
      exercises 3 days a week for 6 weeks. Pain, disability and exercise adherence of the
      participants will be evaluated. The Nordic Musculoskeletal Questionnaire, VAS, neck
      disability index and exercise adherence scale will be used in the evaluation. Our thesis will
      be the first study examining the effect of a mobile application developed for neck pain on
      adherence to home exercises. As a result of study, the researchers aim to save paper by
      prescribing home exercise programs via mobile application and to promote a platform where
      users can better understand the exercises.
    
  