
    
      In clinical practice, the conventional examination of the VA does not take into account the
      patient's reading speed, and does not reflect the requirements of everyday life (e.g.
      driving, watching subtitles on TV), in which each individual has limited time to react. In
      addition, the VA measured with the conventional method differs significantly among the
      different examiners, since there is no standard time limit for the patient to read the chart
      symbols.

      However, the consideration of the speed for the recognition of the VA charts' symbols leads
      to the more accurate and comprehensive assessment of the visual capacity. Therefore, primary
      objective of this study is to develop and validate a new parameter for the more comprehensive
      evaluation of visual capacity: the critical visual acuity (CVA), and to determine normal
      values of population according to age. CVA takes into account the speed of recognition of the
      symbols of the distance visual charts.

      Participants are recruited from the outpatient service of the Department of Ophthalmology of
      the University Hospital of Alexandroupolis in a consecutive-if-eligible basis. At first, each
      participant performs the conventional VA test monocularly. Then, he/she performs the CVA test
      with the same eye. Two different printed Landolt ring charts are used, the first one for VA
      and the second one for CVA assessment for all participants to avoid memorization. The VA and
      CVA are evaluated for all participants under the same environmental lighting conditions.

      Regarding the VA and CVA examination procedure, the investigator masks the chart lines using
      a blank piece of paper and reveals one line each time. The investigator instructs the patient
      to read aloud the 5 letters of the Landolt chart, as quickly and accurately as possible,
      after hearing the words "Ready!… Go!". At the same time, a second examiner starts a stopwatch
      to record the reading time (in seconds, to the nearest 0.01 s) when the examiner fully
      reveals the line and the patient starts to read it. The first examiner counts the number of
      errors for each line and the second one enters the reading time for each line in a data file.
      The reading time of each line is compared with the automatically calculated average reading
      time of the larger lines minus 1.96 (for CVA) or 2.58 (for VA) times the standard deviation
      (SD) of the reading time of these lines.

      Testing stops when the letters are too small for the examinee to discriminate and/or they are
      read with a speed lower than the maximum reading speed (MRS) of each examinee.
    
  