
    
      In 2010, HIV/AIDS accounted for up to 29% of all deaths and 24% of all disabilities in Kenya.
      There is a particular need to concentrate HIV education, testing, and linkage-to-care efforts
      among high-risk adolescents; by age 18, 47% of women and 58% of men have had sexual
      intercourse. Only one in four young Kenyans used condoms the first time they had sex, and
      only half of 15-24 year olds had comprehensive HIV knowledge. The goal of this intervention,
      Project TEACH-Kenya, is to adapt two proven HIV interventions, Project BRIEF and STEP, to an
      urban setting in the Kasarani District of the Nairobi Province, Kenya. According to the US
      President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) Five-Year Strategy, a successful
      prevention program brings together a combination of evaluated, tailored interventions, to
      stem the spread of HIV infection among high-risk populations. This synergistic model,
      referred to as combination prevention, serves as the basis for adapting the current
      intervention encompassing HIV testing and counseling, risk behavior reduction programs, and
      linkage to care and ART initiation to the Kenyan context. Project TEACH-Kenya will develop
      tailored, theory-based educational videos, linkage procedures, and a tailored prevention
      program for adolescents 13-18 years old and pilot and test the intervention at St. Francis
      Community Hospital, a high volume community-based hospital in Kasarani. The majority of
      adolescents that access St. Francis's services are orphan and vulnerable children affected by
      HIV/AIDS (OVC-HIV) who are disproportionately poor and malnourished and are at increased risk
      for acquiring HIV, stressing the need for this intervention. The outcome of this project will
      be a feasible, evidence-based, cost- and time-effective program to improve HIV education and
      increase testing and linkage-to-care rates among adolescents in Kenya.
    
  