
    
      Atopic dermatitis (AD), an itchy eczema with a chronic relapsing course, is the most common
      clinical manifestation of atopy in the first years of life.

      On the basis of the available knowledge, AD is produced by an alteration of the skin barrier
      which triggers an inflammatory reaction. Such reaction is characterized by an early phase
      with abundance of Th2 cytokines (IL-4, IL-5) and eosinophils and by a later phase with
      predominance of Th1 cytokines (IL-2, IL-12 and IFN-gamma).

      Emollients, possibly supplemented with ceramides, represent the first step of the treatment
      of AD. Corticosteroids are the most effective topical drugs. The use of topical
      immune-modulators (tacrolimus and pimecrolimus) offers an alternative to steroid therapy for
      long-term treatments. Severe cases require systemic therapy with steroids and cyclosporine
      and phototherapy with narrowband ultraviolet (UVB) and psoralen-ultraviolet A (PUVA)
      phototherapy.

      The use of probiotics for the treatment of AD has attracted much interest in recent years but
      the available data are not conclusive. Probiotic-like effects can be obtained from
      inactivated bacteria or isolated bacterial components so that an extensive definition of
      probiotics has been proposed as bacterial cells or bacterial components that have a
      beneficial impact on the health and well-being of guests.

      Using a repeated-measure cohort design, the investigators have recently shown that the
      administration of the fermented-rice flour obtained from Lactobacillus paracasei CBA L74 was
      associated with a decrease of SCORAD (score for atopic dermatitis) in children with AD.

      SCORAD is the most commonly employed indicator of AD activity and its minimal clinically
      important difference is known, making it a suitable metric for clinical trials.

      The fermented rice flour, obtained from Lactobacillus paracasei CBA L74 (Heinz Italia SpA,
      Latina, Italy), does not contain live bacteria. Lactobacillus paracasei CBA L74 belongs to
      the list of microorganisms with qualified presumption of safety compiled by the European Food
      Safety Authority (EFSA), is tested for the absence of antibiotic resistance genes in
      accordance with EFSA, and is genetically characterized by repetitive extragenic palindromic
      polymerase chain reaction.

      Pre-clinical studies have shown anti-inflammatory effects of matrices fermented with
      Lactobacillus paracasei CBA-L74 in terms of production of IL-10 and reduction of IL-12 in
      response to bacterial stimulation. Such pre-clinical data were obtained on dendritic cells,
      on intestinal biopsies and on murine models.

      The present randomized, double-blind, controlled trial is aimed at testing whether the
      fermented rice flour obtained from Lactobacillus paracasei CBA L74 is effective in reducing
      SCORAD in children with moderate to severe AD using placebo as comparator.
    
  