
    
      Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a chronic metabolic disease defined by persistently increased blood
      glucose levels with fasting blood glucose ≥ 126 mg/dl, random plasma glucose ≥ 200mg/dl and
      HbA1c ≥ 6.5%.

      Diabetes has emerged as a great socioeconomic burden for the developing world. In 2017,
      globally, 451 million people were affected with diabetes. In Pakistan, the prevalence of type
      2 diabetes is 16.98% which differs significantly with age, education, body mass index (BMI),
      obesity, family history and blood pressure. DM is classified into type 1 diabetes (T1D) and
      type 2 diabetes (T2D). T1D occurs due to an autoimmune pancreatic beta cell destruction with
      consequent insulin deficiency whereas T2D occurs due to predominantly insulin resistance with
      relative insulin deficiency or defective secretion. T2D cause serious and chronic
      microvascular and macrovascular complications. One of the most prevalent microvascular
      complication is diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN). DPN is defined as distal, symmetric
      sensorimotor polyneuropathy as a result of hyperglycemia and microangiopathy. It is a
      demyelinating disease of peripheral nerve fibers that manifests as parasthesias, impairment
      of sensations of vibration, proprioception, touch, pressure, pain and temperature.

      Risk factors of DPN are age, duration of diabetes, HbA1c >7.0%, increased BMI, hyperlipidemia
      and hyperglycemia. Treatment of T2D is targeted towards good glycemic control that includes
      life style modifications i.e. diet and exercise, oral hypoglycemic agents (OHAs) and
      subcutaneous insulin administration. In life style modification, variety of exercises are
      recommended that help to slow the progression of peripheral neuropathy.These include; aerobic
      training, weight-bearing, static and dynamic balance training and strength training exercises
      which improve the gait speed, stride length and nerve conduction velocities (NCVs) of sensory
      and motor nerves while flexibility exercises improve the range-of-motion in ankle, hip and
      shoulder joints and keep them flexible. Importance of dietary modification is enhanced if it
      is synchronized with the circadian rhythm of the body. Therefore, Synchronized Lifestyle
      Modification Program (SLP) is a personalized, homeostasis restoring, liver centric lifestyle
      modification program that works through the correction of body clock rhythm. Lifestyle
      medicine is defined as the discipline of studying how daily habits and practices impact both
      on the prevention and treatment of disease. Its key aspects are: regular physical activity,
      proper nutrition, weight management, avoiding tobacco and a sound mental health. Lifestyle
      modification in diabetics is believed to enhance the function of pancreatic islet cells and
      induce glucose-stimulated insulin release.Regarding pharmacological treatment, following OHAs
      are used which are; biguanides, insulin secretagogues, alpha-glucosidase inhibitors,
      thiazolidinediones, dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP4) inhibitors and sodium glucose
      co-transporter-2 inhibitors. Now a days, an injectable agent i.e. Glucagon like
      peptide-1(GLP-1) receptor agonist is used with OHAs and is effective in decreasing blood
      glucose levels with a low risk of hypoglycemia in elderly patients.

      Limited data is available which supports the combined effect of Synchronized Lifestyle
      modification Program (SLP) and Physiotherapy in the progression of DPN in T2D patients taking
      OHAs and GLP-1.
    
  