
    
      BACKGROUND:

      There is a very high mortality especially from cardiovascular disease among patients who are
      on dialysis. Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) is a leading contributor to the
      high morbidity and mortality among end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients, accounting for 36
      percent of ESRD deaths (total annual mortality of 23 percent). The high mortality among
      dialysis patients is a major public health problem and the ability to identify and treat risk
      factors that may reduce morbidity and mortality would be of substantial benefit. There are
      well-known risk factors for cardiovascular disease that certainly are related to morbidity
      and mortality among dialysis patients, i.e., relationship to hypertension, diabetes, smoking,
      etc. However, some of the new risk factors could also contribute to the excess mortality.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The prospective study tested the hypothesis that higher levels of several novel risk factors
      (Lp(a) levels and apo(a) isoforms; homocysteine and related vitamins; Chlamydia pneumoniae
      and cytomegalovirus; and C-reactive protein and fibrinogen) and traditional risk factors
      predicted higher risk of ASCVD in 925 incident dialysis patients recruited within three
      months of starting dialysis. Although these factors had been implicated in the etiology of
      ASCVD in ESRD patients, little prospective data existed. The cohort had already been
      recruited through a collaboration between Johns Hopkins and 80 Dialysis Clinics Incorporated
      (DCI) clinics; many of the important predictors and possible confounders had been measured.
      Long-term follow-up was obtained by extending mean followup of 2.4 years by four more years.

      The investigators 1) extended specimen collection, and follow-up, and instituted standardized
      review of ASCVD events; 2) characterized baseline associations of novel and traditional
      factors with each other, dialysis modality and dose, nutritional status, and ASCVD prevalence
      in the full cohort using a cross-sectional design; 3) determined whether baseline levels of
      risk factors predicted subsequent incidence of ASCVD events, and total mortality using a
      prospective cohort study design and tested a priori hypothesized interactions between risk
      factors and the risk of ASCVD; 4) studied the variability of risk factors over time using
      annual measurements in a random subset of 180 patients (subcohort) using a longitudinal
      design; and lastly, 5) used a case-cohort design, utilizing the subcohort, to test whether
      the most recent level before an ASCVD event, the baseline level, or the mean level of each
      risk factor was most predictive of ASCVD risk. Baseline data collection included a patient
      health questionnaire and a standardized review of comorbidity using dialysis chart records.
      Serum, plasma and DNA were stored at -80 degrees C. from patient visits at recruitment (month
      0), and followup (months 1,2,3,6,12,8,24, etc.). ASCVD was assessed by review of hospital
      charts, patients and care providers questionnaires, and HCFA death forms.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  