
    
      Likely because of the highly complex nature of aging, there has been little success reducing
      age-related physical and cognitive deterioration. The predominant approach has been to manage
      emergent symptoms rather than mitigate the cellular mechanisms driving the degenerative
      processes underlying aging. Additionally, the multifaceted and complex etiology of aging
      makes it extremely difficult to provide effective interventions within current treatment
      paradigms. The medical community has established that preventative measures are the most
      effective means of slowing the progression of age-associated deterioration, however effective
      methods or interventions have not been established.

      The Multi-Target Dietary Supplement (MTDS) was designed to simultaneously target and support
      the cellular processes implicated in the progression of the aging phenotype (oxidative
      stress, inflammatory processes, insulin resistance, and membrane and mitochondrial
      deterioration). The MTDS is unique in that it was specifically designed as a multi-target
      intervention to support the complex cellular perturbations associated with aging. Components
      of the formulation were chosen based on scientific consensus of documented effectiveness for
      one or more of the targeted processes, long-term evidence of safety, and synergistic or
      additive interactions between components.

      In more than 20 years of pre-clinical research, the MTDS has demonstrated significant
      beneficial impacts in animal models of aging and age-associated disease. The MTDS has
      resulted in significant reductions in both acute and chronic oxidative stress, greatly
      improved mitochondrial function and efficiency, significantly reduced inflammatory processes
      and improved glucose metabolism. Signal transduction is normalized to youthful levels in aged
      animals, including key pathways implicated in aging (unpublished data). On a functional
      level, MTDS treatment has resulted in increased longevity of 10 to 28% in normal and
      accelerated aging phenotypes, respectively. Concomitant improvements in mobility, activity
      levels, muscle strength (exercise mimetic) and overall body condition in aged animals were
      observed. Dramatic reductions in the incidence of muscle wasting, arthritic processes, and
      cataracts were also observed. Sensory and cognitive acuity were protected and frequently
      enhanced in aged animals, with significant improvements in visual and olfactory function
      observed in a broad range of tasks. MTDS treatment has demonstrated profound sparing from
      age-related neuronal losses and corresponding protection of neurogenesis and enhanced
      synaptogenesis, resulting in dramatically improved cognition in aged animals. The quantity of
      data indicating MTDS efficacy in pre-clinical studies is considerable, however the effects of
      the MTDS in humans, although positive, remains anecdotal. This tolerability study is the
      critical first step to begin assessment of the efficacy of the MTDS in human populations. If
      even a portion of these protective effects of the MTDS are translatable from mice to humans,
      the positive impacts for the aging population and Ontario's healthcare system could be
      profound.

      This is a multi-center, three-arm study designed to evaluate the safety of a dietary
      supplement at three dosing regimes for 90 days. Initially, 45 healthy volunteers will be
      randomly assigned to one of three dose regimes: 1) 100% of recommended daily dose (RDD), 2)
      80% of recommended daily dose or 3) 60% of recommended daily dose. Dosing regimes are based
      on levels of the MORNING tablet doses, all groups will receive the full recommended dose for
      both EVENING and OMEGA doses. Written informed consent will be obtained and a medical history
      and health assessment will be performed. The investigator will determine whether the subject
      meets all inclusion and exclusion criteria. Health assessments will be made at baseline, 30
      days and 90 days. Adverse events, concomitant medications, and product administration will be
      recorded throughout the study.

      Compliance, safety, and tolerability parameters are the primary focus of this study; however
      the probability of serious adverse events is extremely low given the long safety history of
      safety of the vitamins and nutraceuticals that comprise the MTDS.

      The primary objective is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of the MTDS regimen in terms
      of its administration at 3 dosing regimes for 90 consecutive days with respect to
      micronutrient levels, laboratory tests and adverse events.

      The secondary objectives include:

        1. monitoring compliance of taking the MTDS,

        2. monitoring wellness as measured by the 36-Item Short Form Survey (SF-36) scale and daily
           journal, over the 90-day administration of the MTDS, and

        3. to assess MTDS absorption through plasma micronutrient testing, at baseline, 30 days and
           90 days following administration of the test agent.
    
  