
    
      Background Hip Osteoarthritis (OA) is one of the most common diseases affecting the ageing
      population. No specific and safe treatment slowing the development of hip OA as reflected in
      reduced joint space narrowing has been developed so far. Implantation of hip prosthesis has
      been a great success, but is expensive and puts a great financial pressure on hospitals and
      national healthcare programs. It also poses risks of serious complications. Current
      non-surgical treatment options focus on pain management and physiotherapy.

      Bisphosphonates have been shown to exert multiple beneficial effects in OA, not only through
      effects on subchondral bone, but also through chondroprotection and possibly by inhibiting
      synovitis. Animal studies have demonstrated that bisphosphonates protect against subchondral
      bone degradation and preserve articular cartilage in mice and rats with OA. Efforts to
      further improve subchondral bone using a combination of zoledronic acid (ZA) and parathyroid
      hormone (PTH), was, however, shown to be ineffective.

      Rationale for study Effects of bisphosphonates in OA

      Bisphosphonates may target Pain and OA development by several different mechanisms:

      Anti-osteoclastic action:

      Increased bone turnover in OA causes bone loss and osteoporosis of subchondral bone beneath
      the thickened subchondral plate, which alters flexibility, and increases the risk of
      microfracture, which may cause of bone marrow lesions (BMLs) in OA. Bisphosphonates may also
      increase the strength of subchondral bone by reducing turnover and improve bone material
      properties.

      Osteoclasts mediate the extension of channels from marrow spaces into the non-calcified
      articular cartilage. This leads to loss of integrity at the osteochondral junction exposing
      subchondral nerves to proinflammatory and pain inducing factors from the synovial fluid. This
      action has also been shown to induce sensory nerve growth into the non-calcified articular
      cartilage.

      Osteoclasts may also reduce pH at the osteochondral junction, thereby sensitizing and
      activating sensory nerves through actions on ion channels on their peripheral terminals.

      Effects on synovitis Synovitis is an integral part of OA pathogenesis. Multinucleated giant
      cells have been reported in synovitis, these cells are targets for bisphosphonates as are
      osteoclasts, and may be responsible for the positive effects noted in synovitis. Indeed
      bisphosphonates have been shown to inhibit macrophage activation in the synovium and reduce
      synovitis Effects on Bone marrow lesions The formation of bone marrow edema (BME, Bone marrow
      lesions) is part of OA pathogenesis, and is associated with progressive disease and
      disability. Several studies have demonstrated that increased remodeling activity in the
      subchondral region is associated with increased cartilage lesions and the investigators own
      studies supported by a grant from HSØ (South-East Health Region of Norway), have demonstrated
      that the presence of increased remodeling activity and vascularization of bone marrow lesions
      also show association with cartilage degradation. Bisphosphonates may target both the
      turnover increase, but also angiogenesis as bisphosphonates, and ZA in particular; exert
      pronounced anti-angiogenic effects.

      Direct effects on chondrocytes Chondroprotection with less fibrillation and ulceration has
      been demonstrated for ZA in an OA models in rabbits and dogs and it has been hypothesized
      that bisphosphonates may exert an anabolic effect on chondrocytes. In humans, several
      bisphosphonates have been shown to reduce cartilage degradation as reflected in the biomarker
      CTXII (C-terminal telopeptides of type 2 collagen).

      Clinical trials testing bisphosphonates in OA Bisphosphonates have been tested prospectively
      as treatment modalities in previous human clinical trials with equivocal results. One trial
      tested the effects of a less potent bisphosphonate (risedronate) with 4 different doses (5
      and 15 mg daily, 35 and 50 mg/week) in knee OA. Joint space width in the placebo group
      decreased non-significantly by 8 mm vs. 4 and 1mm in the 5 and 15 mg groups, respectively and
      pain scores did not show significant reductions. Furthermore, serendipitously, the placebo
      group in the Risedronate trial was very healthy, as it did not exhibit worsening of symptoms
      over the trial period. This may further have jeopardized the trial outcome. Markers of
      cartilage degradation, however, revealed significant reductions. In a Japanese study looking
      at the effects of another oral bisphosphonate, Alendronate, however, Nishii et al.
      demonstrated significant reductions in VAS and WOMAC pain scores for up to 24 months.

      The lack of efficacy of oral bisphosphonates in OA have been primarily ascribed to their poor
      absorption resulting in lower Cmax after administration (24). Therefore, more recent trials
      have focused on iv administration, where Cmax will be much higher. Varenna et al randomized
      64 patients with OA and demonstrable BML's on MRI to receive either 4 iv. doses (100 mg per
      infusion of the bisphosphonate Neridronate or placebo. They demonstrated significant
      reductions in pain, reduced use of analgesics and improved QoL after 50 days. Similar
      improvements have been reported 5 weeks after intraarticular administration of the
      bisphosphonate clodronate. Data from the Osteoarthritis initiative demonstrated that patients
      treated with the iv bisphosphonate zoledronic acid for osteoporosis revealed significant
      reduction in OA pain scores for up to 3 years. In a later study, Laslett et al demonstrated
      significant effects on bone marrow edema size and pain in OA over a 1 year period. The doses
      given in the intravenous trials have been much higher than in the trials using oral
      administration.

      Rationale for dosage and placebo It seems that the dose required for effect on OA should be
      higher than that which is used for treatment of osteoporosis shown by Varenna et al.
      Therefore, in this study the investigators choose to treat with two doses of ZA.

      As there is no curable treatment for OA, best standard of care is alleviation through
      paracetamol, NSAIDs or in some cases opioids. Many patients already use one or more of these
      when they are referred to surgical evaluation. One of the endpoints of this study is to
      register use of these medications before and after treatment. Using paracetamol instead of
      placebo could potentially lead to overuse as it can be bought over the counter.
      Contraindication to NSAID's is common in the elderly population and could exclude many
      participants.

      Simulating the active phase reaction commonly seen with ZA infusion with an active placebo is
      difficult. However, administration of prednisolone and NSAID's should minimize symptoms.

      The investigators experience Based on the published experience with zoledronic acid in OA,
      the investigators administered two doses of IV. Zoledronic acid (5 mg) with a 3 month
      interval to patients with osteoporosis and OA of the hip and knee and demonstrable BML on
      MRI. The dosing regimen was based on previous studies reporting effects of zoledronic acid on
      bone marrow edema in transient osteoporosis. The patients achieved significant pain reduction
      as assessed by VAS within a period of 3 and 6 months. VAS decreased 85% from 6,8 (SD 1,8) at
      baseline to 1,0(0,9) at month 3 and 0,9(0,9) at month 6 (ANOVA p > 0,001). Among these were 3
      patients scheduled for surgery. 80% of the patients have been followed for more than 1 year
      and still exhibit the same degree of pain reduction and increased mobility.

      Risk versus benefits The risks of implant surgery are numerous, including infection,
      thrombosis, dislocation, fracture and in rare instances death. Therefore, a safe and
      effective conservative management can save the patient from unnecessary complications. The
      survivorship of hip implants has improved considerably over the last decades, but younger
      patients are at risk of needing one or more revisions during their lifetime. Revision
      surgeries are more prone to complications.

      The goal of this treatment is to delay or prevent the need for implant surgery. To
      participate, patients will delay a possible operation for 12 months. Those that are included
      in the placebo group will not receive any active treatment and cannot expect any better
      function other than placebo effect. Patients can withdraw from the study at any time.

      Although ZA is not approved for treatment of OA, it is regarded as safe for use in adults.
      The side effects of ZA are rarely serious. Known side effects such as atypical femur fracture
      and osteonecrosis of the jawbone is extremely rare (1/10.000-1/100.000). Acute phase
      reactions are common (30%), but usually mild to moderate and lasts 1-3 days. The symptoms can
      be alleviated with paracetamol, NSAID's or prednisolone.

      Microindentation includes injection of local anesthetics and a needle puncture on the tibial
      bone. No serious adverse events have been recorded.

      Magnetic resonance imaging poses no risks given that the participant has no contraindications
      to imaging such as metal or electronic implants sensitive to magnetic forces.
    
  