
    
      Stroke is the leading cause of long-term disability in the U.S. Individuals with hemiparesis
      due to stroke often have difficulty bearing weight on the paretic lower extremity and
      transferring weight from one leg to the other. Impaired weight transfer and limb loading
      contribute to lateral instability and are associated with decreased walking speed and
      increased risk of falling. Consequently, restoring limb loading ability is an important goal
      for rehabilitation post-stroke. Despite considerable rehabilitation efforts aimed at
      enhancing paretic limb loading, their effectiveness on improving neuromotor and functional
      outcomes remains limited possibly due to poorly understood limb loading mechanisms and the
      reluctance to use the paretic limb. The coordination of neuromuscular actions to regulate
      loading force during weight acceptance is an important component of functional limb loading.
      Because altered neuromuscular control is common in persons with stroke, it is possible that
      these abnormalities may impair limb loading ability. The long-term objective of this project
      is to develop a mechanism-based framework for designing and testing the effectiveness of
      novel rehabilitation interventions to enhance lower limb weight transfer and limb loading to
      improve balance and mobility. This project aims to (1) identify the neuromuscular and
      biomechanical abnormalities in limb loading responses in individuals post-stroke, (2)
      determine the underlying mechanisms responsible for the deficits in limb loading, and (3)
      test the short-term effectiveness of a 6-week perturbation-induced limb load training program
      on improving limb loading responses and mobility function. The investigators propose to apply
      a sudden unilateral lowering of the supporting surface to induce lateral weight transfer that
      forces limb loading. Kinetic, kinematic, and lower extremity muscle activation patterns will
      be recorded. The investigators expect that, compared to healthy controls, individuals with
      stroke will show increased muscle co-activation of the knee musculature with decreased knee
      flexion and torque production, and irregular impact force regulation during loading that will
      disrupt weight transfer and loading of the paretic limb. Furthermore, the investigators
      hypothesize that compared to a conventional clinical weight-shift rehabilitation training
      program, the imposed limb loading group will show greater improvements during voluntary
      stepping and walking following training. Specifically, the investigators expect the knee
      muscle co-activation duration will be reduced, with increased knee joint torque, and the
      paretic single stance/double support time will increase, reflecting improved paretic limb
      loading ability during gait following training.
    
  