
    
      Some of the novel advances for type 1 diabetes treatment include continuous subcutaneous
      insulin pump therapy (CSII) and continuous glucose monitoring (CGM). A step further is the
      combination of both technologies, i.e. closed-loop insulin system, also referred to as the
      "artificial pancreas" (AP), where insulin delivery is modified based on glucose readings from
      CGM. Multiple studies have shown the benefit of closed-loop insulin systems on glycemic
      control, with their strength being nocturnal euglycemia, while post-prandial hyperglycemia
      remains a challenge due to decreased insulin absorption.

      Novel medication therapies previously used for type 2 diabetes are also under investigation
      for type 1 diabetes. Sodium glucose-linked cotransporter inhibitors (SGLT2i's) increase
      urinary glucose excretion and, in doing so, euglycemia. Their use is predominantly in type 2
      diabetes for glucose control and for cardiovascular and renal protection, though various
      studies have demonstrated improved glycemic control with SGLT2i use as adjunct to insulin
      therapy in the treatment of type 1 diabetes. The use of both closed-loop insulin therapy in
      conjunction with SGLT2i therapy is thus a novel treatment for optimizing glycemic control in
      type 1 diabetes, in particular those who do not yet reach target glucose levels despite being
      on a closed-loop system. Our research group has previously studied the impact of a hybrid
      closed-loop insulin system with empagliflozin 25 mg, which increased the time in target
      glucose range of 3.9 to 10.0 from 70% to 84%. Notably, the EASE-3 (Empagliflozin as
      Adjunctive to inSulin thErapy) trial had previously shown a beneficial glucose effect with
      empagliflozin 2.5 mg without increasing the risk of diabetic ketoacidosis.

      The objective of the study is to assess the effectiveness of low-dose empagliflozin (2.5 mg
      and 5 mg) on glucose control in adult patients with type 1 diabetes on a closed-loop insulin
      pump system, who would not otherwise be within a percentage of time in range (TIR) by blood
      glucose of 3.9 to 10 mmol/L of > 70% on the system.

      Hypothesis

      The primary hypotheses of the study are the following:

        1. The use of empagliflozin 2.5 mg daily will increase time in range compared to placebo
           for those on the closed-loop system.

        2. The use of empagliflozin 5 mg daily will increase time in range compared to placebo for
           those on the closed-loop system.

      There will also be secondary hypotheses, based on quality of life measures, the effect of
      both doses of empagliflozin on time spent in various ranges of blood glucose, average total
      daily insulin dose, and average change in ketone levels. It is hypothesized that either dose
      will increase the time spent in a favourable glucose range, with less time spent hypo- and
      hyper-glycemic, with improved quality of life measures and lower total daily doses of insulin
      without increase in ketone levels.

      Methods This is a three-way, randomized, cross-over double-blinded outpatient trial to
      compare the effect of glycemic control for adult participants with type 1 diabetes taking
      placebo, empagliflozin 2.5 mg daily, and empagliflozin 5 mg daily while using a hybrid
      closed-loop insulin system (i.e. the McGill Artificial Pancreas (MAP), used in over 20
      studies thus far). Adult participants meeting inclusion criteria after baseline laboratory
      investigations and training will use the MAP during a run-in period of 14 days to identify
      those with TIR < 70%. The chosen participants will have a randomized sequence of
      interventions (placebo, empagliflozin 2.5 mg, or 5 mg), each intervention lasting 14 days,
      with a washout period of 7 - 21 days in between. Optimization of MAP insulin parameters will
      be adjusted on approximately Day 4 so that the last 10 days of CGM with each intervention
      will be used for data analysis. During each intervention, ketone levels will be measured
      daily. Questionnaires assessing quality of life will be filled out after each intervention.
      There will be a visit at the end of the study to assess participant satisfaction. Data
      analysis will be conducted to compare the differences in each intervention for each
      participant of the following : CGM data of the last 10 days of each intervention, daily
      ketone levels, total daily dose of insulin, and scores of quality of life questionnaires.
    
  