
    
      1. STUDY OBJECTIVES AND ENDPOINTS

      1.1. Objectives

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of balloon
      kyphoplasty treatment for painful, acute, VCFs as compared to standard non-surgical therapy
      in patients with cancer.

      1.2. Primary Endpoint

      The primary endpoint of the study is the improvement in functional status, as measured by the
      Roland-Morris Disability Questionnaire (RDQ) at 1 month. The primary hypothesis of the study
      is that the mean improvement will be larger in subjects initially assigned to management with
      balloon kyphoplasty. Note that all subjects will undergo 12 months of follow-up after initial
      treatment assignment.

      1.3. Secondary Endpoints

      The following secondary endpoints will also be examined. Comparisons will be made at each
      follow-up visit.

      Safety:

        -  Rate of study treatment-related adverse events

        -  Change in neurological status

      Clinical:

        -  Change in functional status as assessed with Karnofsky Performance Scale

        -  Change in quality of life as assessed by the SF-36v2™ Health Survey

        -  Change in back pain, as measured by a 10-point Numerical Rating Scale (NRS)

        -  Change in back-pain analgesics used

        -  Change in ambulation status

        -  Changes in activities of daily living

        -  Time to treatment failure

      Radiographic:

        -  Change in spinal deformity, defined as the degree of spine angulation as assessed by an
           independent radiologist at the core laboratory

        -  Rate of subsequent vertebral body fractures, as assessed by independent radiologists at
           the core lab

      In each case, the study hypothesis is that treatment with balloon kyphoplasty will result in
      an improvement in clinical or radiographic outcomes compared to baseline and compared to
      non-surgical treatment, with a preservation of outcomes in long-term follow-up.
    
  