
    
      1. Introduction

           At the end of treatment, breast cancer patients are confronted with the short- and
           long-term physical (e.g., fatigue, pain, hot flashes) and psychological (e.g., anxiety,
           fear of recurrence, depressive symptoms) consequences of cancer diagnosis and treatment
           (Costanzo et al., 2007 ; Stanton et al., 2005). Emotion dysregulation (e.g., anxiety,
           fear of recurrence (Devine & Westlake,1995), depressive symptoms (Stanton, 2006)) is,
           with fatigue (Jacobsen & Jim, 2008) and cognitive dysfunctions (Duijts et al., 2011),
           one of the three most common complaints. Nevertheless, few psychological interventions
           have focused on this period (Jacobsen & Jim, 2008 ; Stanton et al., 2005 ; Stanton,
           2006) and no intervention has specifically addressed emotion regulation of breast cancer
           survivors (Devine & Westlake, 1995 ; Duijts et al., 2011 ; Sheard & Maguire, 1999).

           Little is known about the required components of psychological interventions designed to
           support patients facing these challenges. Meta-analyses (Naaman et al., 2009 ; Osborn,
           2006 ; Sheard & Maguire, 1999) and one review (Traeger et al., 2012) have described
           various components of interventions used to address anxiety and depressive symptoms in
           cancer care, such as mindfulness (Lengacher et al., 2009 ; Würtzen et al., 2013),
           education (Björneklett et al., 2012 ; Dolbeault et al., 2009 ; Duijts et al., 2011 ;
           Fors et al., 2011 ; Osborn, 2006 ; Scheier et al., 2005), cognitive-behavioral therapy
           (Dolbeault et al., 2009 ; Duijts et al., 2012 ; Fors et al., 2011 ; Osborn, 2006 ;
           Savard et al., 2005 ; Savard et al., 2005), support groups (Björneklett et al., 2012 ;
           Fors et al., 2011 ; Montazeri et al., 2001), and relaxation training (Björneklett et
           al., 2012 ; Elsesser, Van Berkel & Sartory, 1994 ; Hidderley & Holt, 2004). These
           interventions taken individually presented moderate effect sizes (Naaman et al., 2009),
           suggesting the need to combine components.

           During the last four years, our team conducted a study designed to compare the benefits
           in terms of emotion regulation of a 15-session single-component group intervention (SGI)
           based only on support with those of a 15-session multi-component group intervention
           (MGI) combining support with cognitive-behavioral and hypnosis components. The
           cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) components were chosen because interventions using
           such components have shown larger effect sizes than interventions using other components
           in previous studies on the treatment of anxiety-related conditions (Chambless &
           Ollendick, 2001 ; Deacon & Abramowitz, 2004 ; Norton & Price, 2007 ; Osborn, 2006 ;
           Stewart & Chambless, 2009). The hypnosis component was chosen because some reviews have
           suggested that self-hypnosis training is a rapid, cost-effective, and safe alternative
           to medication for the treatment of such conditions. Moreover, a meta-analysis showed
           that the addition of hypnosis to cognitive-behavioral component enhances effect sizes of
           interventions (Kirsch, Montgomery & Sapirstein, 1995) . Results of this study have shown
           the acceptability of such an intervention after active treatment (Merckaert et al.,
           2015). They have also indicated that an MGI combining support with CBT and hypnosis is
           clinically useful for patients with breast cancer after radiotherapy. Our results
           confirm the need to design specific interventions targeting anxiety regulation, fear of
           recurrence, and depressive symptoms. They also underline the necessity of intensifying
           interventions through including other components (e.g., emotion regulation, repetitive
           exposures to fear, treatment of intrusive thoughts, attention reorientation).

        2. Objectives of the study

           The primary aims of this study are to evaluate in a randomized controlled trial (RCT)
           the efficacy of an 8-session multi-component group intervention extended over 4 months
           in promoting emotion regulation (in an emotion regulation task and in everyday life) and
           patient emotional well-being compared with a waiting-list control group. The secondary
           aims are to evaluate patients' satisfaction with the program, hypnosis/relaxation
           practice in everyday life, mental adjustment, and changes in patients' level of
           attentional bias toward cancer threat and physical activity.

        3. Participants

           Patients who have been treated for a non-metastatic breast cancer will be approached at
           the end of active cancer treatment (i.e., surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy) in
           order to be screened for emotion dysregulation. Patients experiencing moderate to high
           emotion dysregulation (one to four scores = or > 4 on a 11-point Likert adapted Edmonton
           symptoms evaluation scale assessing anxiety, fear of recurrence, depression, and
           intrusive thoughts) will be offered the intervention.

        4. Intervention

      4.1. Theoretical framework

      This is a multi-component group intervention integrating an emotion regulation and an
      exposure to fear component.

      4.1.1. The emotion regulation component builds upon the Adaptive Coping with Emotions Model
      which was developed to provide a conceptualization of adaptive emotion regulation. It aims to
      help patients to better identify their physical, emotional and behavioral responses to their
      positive and negative emotions in order to be able to better regulate or acknowledge those
      emotions. This component integrates a self-regulation component. The self-regulation
      component relies on a phone app-based coaching intervention aiming at promoting changes in
      patients' ability to regulate their emotions in their everyday life. It aims at promoting
      patients' self-awareness of their internal states, orientating their attention consciously
      toward positive stimuli and at developing physical activity. Hypnosis is used as
      hetero-hypnosis in each session and aims at deepening the development of patients' emotion
      regulation skills. Recordings of the exercises done in session are transmitted to the
      patients in order to promote use of the technique at home. Helping patients develop
      autohypnosis skills is important as it may allow them to better regulate their emotions in
      everyday life.

      4.1.2. The exposure to fear component aims at helping patients deal with their fear of death.
      Just as anxiety is a normal emotion, anxiety concerning death is also a normal experience.
      The modest level of death anxiety that most people experience in everyday life may increase
      dramatically when one experiences a period of health problems, illness, or death of someone
      close (Kastenbaum, 2000). This part of the intervention will be based on worry exposure. This
      part of the intervention targets cancer-related worry and is based on Borkovec's avoidance
      theory of worry (Borkovec et al., 1998). Worry is a predominantly cognitive-verbal activity
      that inhibits full emotional processing. As a result, disturbing emotional meanings of
      potentially dangerous and anxiously anticipated events cannot be fully tested or altered,
      making the repetitive processing of the feared stimuli probable (Foa & Kozak, 1986). Given
      that cancer-recurrence related-worry is typically characterized by the focus on one
      hypothetical future event, it follows that exposure with imagined stimuli could be a crucial
      component of the treatment of fear of recurrence. The intervention will be based on two
      exercises. In the first, patients will be accompanied through a hypnosis based exposure to a
      major trigger of fear of recurrence that is the anticipation of the cancer check-up. This
      exercise is designed to help patients experience the emotions which may arise in this context
      while being guided through their resolution and regulation. The second exercise aims at
      helping them overcome their fear of recurrence through discussing their worst-case scenario
      in the group. The scenario are then discussed in order to highlight which part of them could
      be modified because it is unrealistic or because patients have more resources than they
      anticipate.

      4.2. Study design and assessment schedule

      This is a two-armed, randomized, waiting-list controlled trial. Patients who agree to
      participate will be randomly assigned to two groups: 1) the experimental group (EG) where six
      patients will receive one individual pre-group session and 8 sessions of group intervention
      combining cognitive-behavioral therapy and hypnosis; and 2) the waiting-list control group
      (CG) where six patients will receive the same intervention 4 months later. Patients will be
      assessed at three time points: 1) at baseline (T1), 2) 4 months later (T2), that means just
      after the intervention for the experimental group (EG) and just before the intervention for
      the control group (CG), and 3) 4 months later (T3), that means 4 months after the T2 for the
      experimental group and just after the intervention for the control group (CG).

      4.2.1. Pre-assessment screening

      Before inclusion in the study, during the last weeks of treatment (T0), approached patients
      will complete a socio-demographic questionnaire, a screening of life habits and difficulties
      questionnaire, an adapted Edmonton symptom evaluation scale (Chang, Hwang & Feuerman, 2000)
      (assessing pain, fatigue, sleep disturbances, fatigue, difficulty concentrating, memory loss,
      feeling of malaise, hot flashes, depression, anxiety, fear of recurrence, and worry), the
      Hospital anxiety and depression scale (HADS) (Zigmond & Snaith, 1983), and the Fear of Cancer
      Recurrence Inventory Severity sub-scale (Simard & Savard, 2009). Patients will report medical
      information about their disease, previous and current treatment and prognosis. This screening
      allows checking for inclusion and exclusion criteria and comparing patients who accept and
      refuse the intervention.

      4.2.2. Assessment procedure

      Each assessment procedure (i.e., T1, T2, T3) includes three parts: an emotion regulation
      task, an ecological momentary assessment and an attentional bias task. Two months after T1
      and T2, the experimental (EG) and control (CG) groups will be contacted once by phone to
      complete a phone-based questionnaire to assess their usual care use.

      4.2.2.1. Emotion regulation task

      This assessment procedure has been used in a previous project and provides a dynamic picture
      of patients' emotion regulation. Each assessment session will first involve completion of
      questionnaires and two emotion regulation exercises: (1) 4 min exposure to anxiety triggers
      through completion of the Mental Adjustment to Cancer Scale (Watson et al., 1988), followed
      by a 12-min self-relaxation exercise in which patients will be asked to relax by using their
      own strategies; and (2) 4 min exposure to anxiety triggers through completion of the Impact
      of Cancer Questionnaire (Zebrack et al., 2006), followed by a 12-min guided hypnosis exercise
      in which patients will be asked to listen to an audio recording of a hypnotic induction
      script. The subtasks will be separated by a period of questionnaires completion. Patients'
      emotion regulation will be measured physiologically (heart rate measurement) and
      psychologically (anxiety, sadness, fear of recurrence and energy state-levels).

      4.2.2.2. Ecological momentary assessment (EMA)

      Patients' emotion regulation in their everyday life will be assessed during 9 days through an
      ecological momentary assessment (EMA) procedure. Firstly, patients will be asked 5 times a
      day to select on a list of 20 emotions the 2 or 3 that they were experiencing during the
      minutes before they saw the notification. For each emotion experienced, they will have to
      report its intensity on a 10-point Likert scale ranging from 1 to 10. They will have to
      report to what extent they have felt able to control those emotions and have felt submerged
      by those emotions. They will report whether during those minutes they had been thinking about
      something other than what they were currently doing. They will have to answer with one of
      four options: no; yes, something pleasant; yes, something neutral; or yes, something
      unpleasant (Killingsworth & Gilbert, 2010). Finally, they will be asked their level of
      fatigue and energy. Prompts will be sent randomly from 9 AM to 7,5 PM through the use of the
      software from http://www.lifedatacorp.com/. Secondly, each evening for 9 consecutive days,
      patients will have to indicate on the same list of 20 emotions (10 positive and 10 negative
      emotions), the extent to which they have felt each of the 20 emotions in the past 24 hours
      and their level of fatigue, from 0 (not at all) to 4 (extremely) (Fredrickson et al., 2003).
      In order to insure confidentiality, subjects will be provided with an iPod Touch. The two
      first days of data collection will be used as a training for participants and only their
      responses on the 7 following days will be taken into consideration. Thirdly, patients will be
      provided with an armband to continuously record during those 9 days, their heart rate levels,
      physical activity levels (pedometer and accelerometer) and sleep patterns (Garmin vívoactive
      HR).

      4.2.2.3. Attentional bias task

      Patients will complete an attentional bias computer task assessing attentional orientation
      toward emotional information. An adaptive function of biased attentional orientation toward
      negative information is to facilitate detection of danger in the environment and to help the
      organism respond effectively to threatening situations (Bar-Haim et al., 2007). When anxiety
      symptoms become excessive, biased attentional orientation toward negative information may
      have detrimental effects on patients' cognitive (e.g., intrusive thoughts,
      misinterpretation), behavioral (e.g., body screening, future planning difficulties),
      emotional (e.g., negative affects, panic attacks), and physiological status (e.g.,
      physiological stress activation), and may play a prominent role in the etiology and
      maintenance of anxiety disorders (Bar-Haim et al., 2007). Computer tasks have been used to
      study the threat-related attentional bias in anxiety.
    
  