
    
      This study is an unblinded, prospective, multicenter, single arm study in Taiwan. Eligible
      subjects (see inclusion and exclusion criteria in Section 5.2) will receive standard of care
      (which includes dietary counseling) and ONS supplementation (1-2 servings/day depending on
      subject's needs) for 24 weeks (6 months). A follow up visit (phone call/medical chart review)
      will occur 12 months after the study intervention has ended to collect mortality data, to
      determine whether or not dialysis was initiated, and if ONS use continued.

      Subjects will be informed of the study results when available. Subjects may continue use of
      the commercially available study product if it is recommended by their nephrologist, primary
      care physician, dietitian, or if the subject chooses.

      For this study enrollment is defined as when the subject is stratified and begins to consume
      the study product (Study Visit 1, Month 0).

      The target population described above may be stratified into the following groups (n=18
      evaluable/group):

        1. Male CKD Stage 3b-5 without T2DM

        2. Male CKD Stage 3b-5 with T2DM

        3. Female CKD Stage 3b-5 without T2DM

        4. Female CKD Stage 3b-5 with T2DM

      In addition, for those subjects enrolled, retrospective data (previous 6 to 12 months)
      identical to the study variables will be collected. Retrospective data collection will focus
      on the following measures, however, all data points are not expected to be available:

        -  Serum albumin

        -  SGA

        -  Compliance to protein intake guidelines

        -  Compliance to energy intake guidelines

        -  Hand grip strength

        -  Anthropometrics (weight, height, BMI)

        -  Quality of Life (WHOQOL-BREF Taiwan Version)

        -  eGFR (whichever equation is used as standard of care)

        -  Serum creatinine

        -  Proteinuria (retrospective - if available on medical records)

        -  BUN

        -  Body composition data from BIA (especially fat mass and muscle mass, units or exact
           terminology will be model specific)

        -  C reactive protein (CRP)

        -  Blood chemistries,
    
  