
    
      The present research project aims to improve the current treatment for high risk prostate
      cancer, evaluating the safety and feasibility of a new RT scheme of a carbon ions boost
      followed by pelvic photon RT.

      A total of 65 consecutive patients will be enrolled in a prospective phase II trial. The
      patients will be enrolled either at Centro Nazionale di Adroterapia Oncologica (CNAO), Pavia,
      Italy, at the Division of Radiation Oncology of the European Institute of Oncology (IEO),
      Milan, Italy, or at the Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale Tumori (INT), Milan, Italy.

      The treatment will include a boost phase on the whole prostate with carbon ions performed at
      CNAO followed by a pelvic photon IMRT performed with conventional fractionation of 1.8 Gy per
      fraction up to 45 Gy to the pelvic lymph nodes, prostate and seminal vesicles. All the
      patient data will be collected in a common database accessible from the 3 Institutions.

      At CNAO, carbon ions beam is available for patient treatment since 2011. In comparison to the
      Japanese Center NIRS, the facility relies on active beam delivery using the rasterscan
      technique, which offers not only physical advantages with better sparing of normal tissues in
      the entrance channel, but also enables biologic plan optimization. The facility has the same
      equipment as the Carbon Ion Treatment Center in Heidelberg, Germany. At CNAO, 3D - 4D patient
      target localization is verified at each fraction by integrating orthogonal X-ray images and
      3D real time optical tracking system.

      At IEO and INT, the IMRT phase will be performed with the same treatment modality:
      volumetric-IMRT RapidArc by Varian Trilogy (IEO) and Varian DHX (INT) linacs, Varian Medical
      Systems, Palo Alto, CA, USA, with treatment based on the isocentric beam delivery, and
      pre-treatment image guidance for patient alignment via cone beam CT or portal imaging.

      In phantom, quality assurance (QA) of each treatment will be performed before patient RT, in
      order to verify the consistency between calculated and delivered dose.
    
  