
    
      Background:

      Human papilloma virus (HPV) is one of the most common sexually transmitted diseases and a
      significant cause of cutaneous genital warts and anogenital cancer.

      Infection with high-risk, oncogenic HPV types, most commonly types 16 and 18, is associated
      with low and high-grade cervical cellular abnormalities that are precursors to invasive
      cervical cancer, as well as vulvar and anal cancer, while HPV types 6 and 11 are associated
      with genital warts.

      Persistence of HPV infection is more common in individuals with or at risk for chronic
      immunosuppression and HIV-infected individuals have a higher prevalence of HPV infection and
      HPV-associated anogential disease compared to age-matched HIV-negative controls.

      Study Objectives:

      To assess the safety and immunogenicity of quadrivalent human papillomavirus (types 6, 11,
      16, 18) recombinant vaccine in HIV-infected preadolescents, adolescents and young adults
      12-26 years of age.

      To determine whether there are differences in HPV vaccine immunogenicity between HIV-infected
      and HIV negative age-matched controls.

      To determine whether there are differences in HPV vaccine immunogenicity between HIV-infected
      patients receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) and those not receiving HAART
      with similar CD4 and viral load parameters at entry.

      To determine whether HPV vaccination alters HIV-1 RNA levels.

      To investigate the impact of CD4 count and HIV-1 RNA levels on HPV vaccine immunogenicity.

      To characterize HPV DNA positivity in the study cohort populations through oral/buccal and
      anogenital sampling at baseline.

      To characterize HPV and HIV knowledge and risk and sexual behaviors in the study cohort
      populations.

      Eligibility:

      Individual Cohorts

      Cohort 1: HIV-positive, CD4 cell count greater than or equal to 350 cells/mm3, HIV-1 RNA
      level by RT PCR less than or equal to 20,000 copies/ml, on stable HAART regimen for greater
      than or equal to 6 months.

      Cohort 2: HIV-infected, CD4 cell count greater than or equal to 500 cells/mm3, HIV-1 RNA
      level by RT PCR less than or equal to 20,000 copies/ml, on no antiretroviral treatment.

      Cohort 3: healthy, HIV-negative controls All Cohorts

      Females and males age 12 to 26 years

      Patients must have a hemoglobin greater than or equal to 10.0 gm/dL, neutrophil count (ANC)
      greater than or equal to 1500/mm3, platelet count greater than or equal to 75,000/mm3 and PT
      or PTT less than or equal to 1.5x ULN (with the exception of patients with known clotting
      disorders or lupus anticoagulant); SGPT/SGOT < 2/5x ULN, total bilirubin less than or equal
      to 1.5x ULN unless attributable to protease inhibitor therapy.

      Patients must test negative for hepatitis B virus and hepatitis C virus, unless the result is
      consistent with prior vaccination or prior infection with full recovery.

      No use of investigational agents within 4 weeks of study enrollment or use of
      immunosuppressive or immunomodulating agents within 8 weeks of study entry.

      Study Design:

      This is a non-randomized, prospective, phase I study of quadrivalent human papillomavirus
      (types 6, 11, 16, 18) recombinant vaccine.

      The study includes 3 cohorts of pre-adolescents, adolescents and young adults 12-26 years of
      age as outlined under Eligibility Criteria. Each cohort will enroll 35 patients.

      All study subjects will receive three doses of HPV vaccine at 0, 2 and 6 months administered
      IM.

      Study participants will be monitored at months 0, 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, and 12 (+/- 2 weeks for each
      visit, and every 6 months (+/- 30 days) thereafter for 48 months total.
    
  