
    
      Brief Balance Evaluation Systems Test (Brief-BESTest) is a short version of the Balance
      evaluation systems test (BESTest). Balance assessment systems test (BESTest) The balance
      assessment systems test developed by Horak consists of 6 sub-sections that evaluate the
      systems related to balance; 1) biomechanical limitations, 2) stability limit, 3) postural
      responses, 4) intuitive postural adjustments, 5) sensory orientation and 6) walking. It
      consists of 36 tests in total. Each question is rated between 0-3. The highest score that can
      be obtained is 108. Low test scores show that the balance is disturbed. BESTest has been
      found to be reliable among raters evaluating a cohort of individuals with and without various
      neurological diagnoses. In studies conducted, it was stated that BESTest is reliable when
      compared to other scales evaluating balance.

      The necessary permissions have been obtained from the authors for Short BESTest, whose
      validity and reliability features will be tested, and the translation process to Turkish has
      been completed and the survey has been finalized. The basis for the use of special tools such
      as the scale is to prove the usability of the tool in the sample group to which it will be
      applied. The first step for this is the translation stage from the original language to the
      other language.

      At the stage of translation into Turkish, two experts who knew a good level of English
      translated the questionnaire from English into Turkish. These translations have been
      translated back into Turkish by two native speakers of English and distant medical subjects.
      In addition, these translations were re-examined by the researchers and turned into a single
      form. This form was sent to five specialists in the field, checking the content and
      compliance with Turkish was evaluated. With the opinion of experts, the scale was finalized.

      The study will include individuals over 40 years of age who have been diagnosed with an
      ischemic or hemorhagic stroke, who applied to the Kırıkkale University Faculty of Medicine
      Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation Hospital.
    
  