
    
      Fluid overload leading to increased PA pressure is one of the primary causes of HF related
      hospitalizations in HFpEF. Signs and symptoms of fluid overload are not sensitive enough to
      reflect early pathophysiologic changes that increase the risk of decompensation. Elevations
      in PA pressure may increase several days or weeks before signs and symptoms manifest.

      The CardioMEMS device is a small wireless sensor that is permanently implanted in the PA via
      a catheter inserted through the femoral vein. The sensor measures PA pressure and is paired
      with a portable electronic transmitter. The system allows patients to wirelessly transmit
      pressure readings to a secure online database from which treating physicians can access the
      data and adjust medication in response to PA pressure changes.

      The CHAMPION trial was a single blind randomized clinical trial that showed a significant and
      large reduction in hospitalizations in patients with NYHA class III HF who were managed with
      a the CardioMEMS device.

      More recently, real life clinical practice has confirmed the value of PA pressure-guided
      therapy for HF. PA pressures were reduced, lower rates of HF hospitalizations and all-cause
      hospitalization, and low rates of adverse events across a broad range of patients with
      symptomatic HF and prior HF hospitalizations were reported.

      The angiotensin receptor-neprilysin inhibidor (ARNI) led to a reduced risk of hospitalization
      for HF or death from cardiovascular causes among patients with HF and reduced ejection
      fraction in the PARADIGM-HF trial. However it did not result in a significantly lower rate of
      total hospitalizations for HF and death from cardiovascular causes among patients with HF and
      an ejection fraction of 45% or higher in the PARAGON-HF trial, despite there was suggestion
      of heterogeneity with possible benefit with sacubitril-valsartan in patients with lower
      ejection fraction and in women.

      ARNI reduced pulmonary pressures and vascular remodeling in an animal model of pulmonary
      hypertension (PH) and may be appropriate for treatment of PH and right ventricle dysfunction.
      Data are lacking on the hemodynamic effects of ARNI on pulmonary hypertension in patients
      with HFpEF.

      This study will assess the impact of sacubitril/valsartan on PA pressures measured using an
      implanted PA monitoring device. The device will be used according to approved indications.
    
  