
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the objective response rate in patients with neuroendocrine tumors treated
           with capecitabine and streptozocin with or without cisplatin.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the overall response rate, including both objective and biochemical
           responses, to these regimens.

        -  To determine the functional response to these regimens.

        -  To determine the toxicity of these regimens.

        -  To identify the optimal drug doses in each regimen to be recommended for a subsequent
           phase III trial.

        -  To determine the progression-free and overall survival of patients receiving these
           regimens.

        -  To determine the quality of life of these patients.

        -  To determine molecular markers predictive of response to chemotherapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to site of origin
      (known vs unknown primary site), prior antitumor treatment, tumor function (functional vs
      nonfunctional), and study center. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive streptozocin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and oral capecitabine
           twice daily on days 1-21.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and streptozocin and
           capecitabine as in arm I.

      In both treatment arms, treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients complete the EORTC QLQC30 questionnaire and EORTC QLQ-GI.NET21 module for
      quality-of-life assessment at baseline, every 9 weeks during treatment, and at 12 weeks
      post-treatment.

      Tumor tissue is obtained at baseline and assessed for Ki67 and mitotic index. Novel
      tissue-specific transcription factors (e.g., CDX2) are also assessed. Blood samples are
      collected at baseline and 9 weeks and examined by DNA, RNA, and proteomic analysis.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 12 weeks.
    
  