
    
      Surgery is the only effective treatment for morbid obesity and can be divided into
      restrictive surgeries (Lap Band and Sleeve gastrectomy), malabsorptive surgeries (Biliary
      pancreatic deviation and duodenal switch) or a combination of both (RYGBP).

      This later technique is the most common and most effective surgical procedure performed
      worldwide and has been processed to be an effective treatment of morbid obesity and its
      complications, achieving excess weight loss of 65 to 80 % ; 1-2 years after surgery.1
      Vertical gastric plication is a novel surgical approach for reducing the stomach capacity.
      Anterior surface plication and greater curvature plication are variations of vertical gastric
      plication that reduce the gastric capacity through infolding of the anterior surface or
      greater curvature of the stomach, respectively. These approaches have been tested, with
      positive results. 3 A transoral or endoluminal approach (ie, a procedure that requires no
      incision, because access is granted through the mouth) offers the potential for additional
      benefit to the patient, because the procedures continue to become more and more minimally
      invasive.

      Advances in endoluminal devices are now allowing clinicians the ability to begin exploring
      bariatric procedures performed via flexible endoscopy. Although these procedures may not be
      as effective as their surgical counterparts, these less-invasive options may relieve patients
      of the significant risks associated with surgery. 4

      Endomina (Endo Tools Therapeutics, Nivelles, Belgium) is CE mark robot driven device that may
      be attached to an endoscope inside the body and allows remote manipulation of the arms of
      devices during a peroral intervention. It offers the possibilities of making transoral
      surgical full thickness sutures and may allow performing, via a transoral route.

      Study design Prospective, non-randomized, open-label, single-center safety and feasibility
      study

      Objectives:

      Study to evaluate safety and feasibility of an endoluminal vertical gastroplasty (EVG) using
      an endoluminal-suturing device.
    
  