
    
      1. Background (Introduction):

           An excessive elevation of the eyeball on adduction, both on horizontal movement and in
           upgaze, is often due to inferior oblique over action (IOOA). It is a common disorder of
           ocular motility, and is usually bilateral and asymmetrical. The asymmetry may be due to
           difference in time of onset or difference in degree of severity of the IO overaction in
           the two eyes.

           IOOA may be primary and of unknown etiology, or secondary to a congenital superior
           oblique palsy. Primary IOOA is commonly associated with congenital esotropia, with the
           oblique overaction usually presenting after one year of age. In addition to congenital
           esotropia, primary IO overaction may be associated with exotropia or may occur as an
           isolated IO overaction without other strabismus.

           IOOA can be isolated or combined with other types of deviations. Primary IOOA has been
           reported to develop between one to six years of age in up to two-thirds of patients with
           infantile esotropia, and is usually bilateral. The cause is unknown. IOOA may be seen in
           70% of patients with esotropia and in 30% of patients with exotropia. Secondary IOOA is
           often unilateral and is caused by paresis or paralysis of the superior oblique muscle.

           Depending on severity, IOOA is graded as: (+1) to (+4) overaction. A (+1) overaction
           indicates slight over elevation in adduction, and (+4) overaction indicates severe over
           elevation in adduction. It has been suggested that (+1), (+2), (+3) and (+4) overactions
           roughly translate to 5, 10, 15 and 20 prism diopter (PD) of hypertropia on side gaze.

           Clinically, in addition to the excessive elevation of the eye ball on adduction, IOOA
           may be associated with "V" pattern of strabismus and vertical deviation in primary
           position. A "V" pattern is relative divergence on the up gaze and convergence on down
           gaze. When the eyes converge more than 15 PD from upgaze to downgaze, the "V" pattern is
           said to be significant. With the eyes in the lateral gaze to the opposite side,
           alternate cover testing shows that the higher eye refixates with a downward movement and
           that the lower eye does so with an upward movement.

           Although patients with IOOA present with an excessively elevated eye in adduction, there
           is little vertical deviation in the primary position, when the condition is bilateral
           and symmetrical. In contrast, unilateral IOOA or bilateral and asymmetrical IOOA is
           associated with a significant vertical deviation in the primary position.

           All patients with strabismus undergo full ocular and orthoptic examinations. The angle
           of strabismus is measured by prisms and alternate cover test for distant and near in
           primary position of gaze. In distance fixation, the strabismus angle is also measured in
           secondary positions of gaze to detect presence of pattern deviation or incomitance.
           Surgery to weaken the IO muscle is indicated when the muscle is overacting and is
           associated with a significant "V" pattern or vertical deviation.

           There are various surgical techniques for weakening an overacting IO muscle. Most
           commonly used techniques these days are IO myectomy, graded recession and
           anteriorization. Normalization of the IOOA, vertical ocular alignment within + 5 PD of
           orthotropia and collapse of pattern are considered ideal outcomes for the surgery.

           There are many studies comparing IO myectomy and IO recession and all have concluded
           that they have a similar success rate. However, no study has been conducted to evaluate
           the effectivity of symmetrical weakening procedures (bilateral myectomy or bilateral
           equal graded recession) vs asymmetrical procedures (myectomy - recession / bilateral
           recession of different amounts) in achieving ocular alignment in patients with
           asymmetrical IOOA. The effect of presence of superior oblique underaction preoperative
           vertical deviation on the outcome of the surgery has also not been studied to date.

        2. Aim of the study :

           To compare the effect of symmetrical vs asymmetrical Inferior oblique (IO) weakening
           procedures when employed in the treatment of asymmetrical Inferior oblique over action
           (IOOA) in :

           Primary objective:

           Normalizing IO action

           Secondary objectives:

           Correcting vertical deviation and "V" pattern

        3. Material and Methods:

           A randomized, interventional clinical trial. All Patients with asymmetrical IOOA,
           requiring surgical correction (IO weakening procedure) from July 2017 to June 2020 will
           be prospectively recruited. Prior to surgery all patients will undergo full
           comprehensive ocular examination, standard orthoptic evaluation and cycloplegic
           refraction. Minimum of two investigators will assess the preoperative angles of
           strabismus in a standard manner for each patient. Standard 9-gaze photos will be taken
           for each patient.

           Standardized surgical procedure will be followed in all patients according to the grade
           of IOOA, extent of the "V" pattern and the degree of vertical deviation in primary
           position. Only patients with a minimal period of 3 months of follow up will be selected
           for analysis.

        4. Randomization:

           Patients will be randomly allocated to symmetrical or asymmetrical surgery using
           permuted block randomization of sizes 2, 4 or 6 (SAS 9.1.3).

           If symmetrical surgery is planned, then surgical plan for more severe IOOA will be
           considered for both eyes.

        5. Sample size:

           The study is designed to show that symmetrical surgery is non inferior to asymmetrical
           surgery. Sample size was estimated considering a study power of 0.8 with an alpha error
           of 0.05, aiming to detect a difference of 5 PD in the angle of strabismus between the
           two groups and a postoperative standard deviation (SD) of 5.3. Based on this estimation,
           a total of 14 patients was found to be adequate in each group.

        6. Statistical analysis:

      The baseline quantitative variables will be expressed using mean with SD across the two
      groups if the distribution of the variables are symmetric. If not, then median with
      interquartile range will be presented across the groups. The baseline categorical variables
      will be presented using frequencies and percentages across the groups.

      Primary outcomes: The difference in pre- and post-operative measurements (mean and SD) will
      be calculated for both the groups. The 95% confidence interval (CI) for the difference in
      change will then be calculated. If there are any clinical differences in the baseline
      parameters, then analysis of co-variance will be used to compare the change across the groups
      adjusted for the baseline values. If the lower limit of the CI is within 5 units, then
      symmetrical surgery will be concluded non-inferior to asymmetrical surgery. Intention to
      Treat and per-protocol analysis will be done for the primary outcome.

      Secondary outcomes: The secondary outcomes will be compared across the groups using
      independent t-test or Wilcoxon rank sum test depending on the distribution of the continuous
      variables. Fisher's exact test will be used to compare categorical variables across the
      groups.
    
  