
    
      The closely related disorders, Stevens Johnson Syndrome (SJS) and Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis
      Syndrome (TENS), represent rare but severe hypersensitivity responses to a systemic
      medication, and cause severe sloughing of the skin and mucous membranes. Approximately half
      of affected patients experience ocular involvement, which can lead to corneal opacity and
      vascularization, and in some patients, blindness. Corneal transplantation (corneal allograft)
      is typically unsuccessful in SJS/TENS, because of chronic inflammation at the ocular surface,
      leading to corneal neovascularization and opacity, tissue melt, ulceration, and perforation.

      The Boston keratoprosthesis, an artificial cornea developed at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear
      Infirmary (MEEI) over the last 40 years, is an FDA approved device for patients with corneal
      blindness not amenable to corneal transplantation, and has restored the sight of thousands of
      such patients, but in SJS/TENS patients remains associated with tissue melts (tissue
      ulceration), perforation, and ultimately in some, loss of the eye. K-Pro surgery is currently
      the best option for patients with SJS or TENS and corneal blindness, but these patients also
      have the worst prognosis after surgery. While the outcomes of these surgeries for patients
      with SJS or TENS have improved dramatically in the past ten years, they are still
      unsatisfactory. Remicade® has been used in a small group of patients with SJS or TENS
      undergoing K-Pro surgery, with one remarkable success. The purpose of this study is to
      explore this treatment more fully.

      For a case report detailing the use of infliximab in one patient, see the following article:
      Dohlman JG, Foster CS, Dohlman CH. "Boston Keratoprosthesis in Stevens-Johnson Syndrome: A
      case of using infliximab to prevent tissue necrosis." Digital Journal of Ophthalmology. 2009,
      Volume 15, Number 1.

      Recently developed biologics have dramatically improved functional outcomes and quality of
      life in patients with autoimmune diseases. One such agent, infliximab, acts by blocking TNF
      alpha, a protein associated with tissue melting in the cornea, and is increasingly being used
      for autoimmune eye conditions, in addition to its FDA approved indication for recalcitrant
      rheumatoid arthritis.

      The proposed study will determine the feasibility of combining infliximab with
      keratoprosthesis surgery, and will closely monitor patients for episodes of corneal melting:
      the primary outcome of the study.
    
  