
    
      To comparatively evaluate two state of the art vaporization techniques for transurethral
      prostatectomy, the Clarion Evolve Laser Vaporization System and the Olympus TURis Plasma
      Vaporization ("button" electrode) system. Both systems are approved for use by Health Canada
      for vaporization surgery of the prostate. Both techniques involve a vaporization ablation
      (laser and plasma mechanism respectively) of the prostate, rather than sequential excision
      (or cutting) of the prostate performed with our traditional TURP technique. Compared to a
      TURP, both of the two study techniques involve similar endoscopic access to the prostate,
      similar anesthetic requirements, similar post-operative catheterization but appear to differ
      in blood loss (less with vaporization techniques), hospital stay (inpatient stay for TURP
      compared to outpatient discharge for study techniques) and patient recovery (improved with
      proposed techniques).

      The laser vaporization uses a dual wavelength (980 and 1470 nm) diode laser with a fibre that
      allows for contact vaporization ablation of the prostate. The hospital already uses a Clarion
      laser system for urinary stone lithotripsy. Clarion will provide the necessary equipment for
      this platform for the duration of the trial. The plasma vaporization uses a bipolar high
      frequency generator for vaporization and coagulation. The procedure is performed using a
      near-contact hovering technique and the tissue removal process is performed in a similar
      fashion as TURP. The hospital has recently purchased the Olympus platform and the extra
      equipment required for this study will be provided by Olympus for the study. These technology
      systems will be compared in a randomized single blinded controlled study in a "technology
      naive" hospital with "technology naive" surgeons. The primary outcome will be cost with
      satisfaction, efficacy, learning curve and safety as key outcomes.
    
  