
    
      Tinnitus affects 17% of the total population and as many as 33% of the elderly and is the
      primary symptom in 60% of patients referred for audiological treatment. Tinnitus is the
      perception of sound without external stimuli. Its pathophysiological basis is unknown and
      therefore its treatment is difficult and understanding of other disorders that occur in the
      auditory system is impeded. The auditory system has a complex structure that consists of the
      organs of Corti, the afferent and efferent conduction pathways, the cortical auditory center
      and the connections that allow their integration. The pathology that develops in any of these
      parts leads to a heightened perception of sound by unknown mechanisms. Patients can describe
      tinnitus in a variety of ways, such as sea noise, rapid flow, ringing, howling and whistling.
      The measurement of otoacoustic emissions by distortion products (DPOAE) is the main method
      that allows the evaluation of the mechanical activity of the cochlea in patients with
      tinnitus. In these patients, hyperacusis plays an important role and it can often be a
      precursor to tinnitus. The aim of this study is to evaluate hearing characteristics in
      patients with and without tinnitus using DPOAE and specific tinnitus severity index (TSI) and
      tinnitus handicap inventory (THI) questionnaires in both groups.

      Research goal:

      Identify differences in tinnitus characteristics in patients with and without significant
      hearing impairment.

      Purpose of the research:

      Demonstrate that the characteristics of tinnitus depend on the presence and magnitude of the
      visual hearing impairment.

      Research participants:

      150 patients coming for further audiological treatment due to tinnitus. The data will be
      collected from an electronic database that is filled in during diagnostic processing. During
      the diagnostic processing, TSI and THI questionnaires will be filled in, a tone audiogram
      (TA) and DPOAE will be made.

      Research plan:

      A prospective cohort nonrandomized study of non-masked parallel paired groups. When receiving
      patients at the Hearing and Balance Center, the inclusion criteria for admission to the study
      are adulthood (> 18 years), tinnitus as the primary reason for referring to diagnostic
      treatment, and consent to complete two on-site tinnitus questionnaires. Exclusion criteria
      are conductive hearing impairment and incomplete questionnaires. It is planned to evaluate
      the differences in tinnitus character between groups of patients with and without significant
      hearing impairment with respect to the objective parameters of the audiogram and DPAOE.

      Primary Outcome:

      Identification of key differences in subjective and objective characteristics of tinnitus in
      patients with and without noticeable hearing impairment.

      There is no risk involved in this research.
    
  