
    
      Hepatic malignancies have a high incidence rate and can be classified into primary liver
      cancer and metastatic liver cancer according to their sources. There are three main types of
      primary liver cancer: hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), cholangiocellular carcinoma (CCC), and
      mixed hepatocellular carcinoma (both hepatocytes and cholangiolar cells). In recent years,
      the incidence and mortality of liver cancer have continued to rise. It has high incidence in
      Southeast Asia and Africa, and the number of liver cancer patients in China accounts for 55%
      of the world. However, the onset of liver cancer is occult; the degree of malignancy is high,
      and the progress rate is fast. Most patients have reached late stage or distant metastases
      when diagnosed. Imaging examination is an important method for the diagnosis and monitoring
      of liver cancer. The routine imaging examination mainly observed the morphological
      characteristics and blood supply changes of the liver lesions. The detection rates of CT and
      MRI for liver cancer can reach 81-89% and 50-80%, respectively. However, these imaging
      studies have limitations and are vulnerable to local anatomical locations and cannot be used
      to assess systemic tumor invasion and biological characteristics. Positron emission
      tomography (PET) is a molecular-level imaging technique that utilizes relatively specific
      tracers for qualitative and quantitative imaging. The good spatial and density resolutions of
      computed tomography (X-ray computed tomography, CT) play an important role in the
      localization and qualitative diagnosis of HCC. 18F-FDG PET/CT can provide functional imaging
      from the point of view of molecular biology. It not only can understand the tumor invasion of
      the whole body, but also has become an important means for qualitative diagnosis, staging,
      prognosis and therapeutic evaluation of tumors.

      As a new imaging technology, 18F-FDG PET/CT plays an increasingly important role in the
      diagnosis of primary liver cancer. 18F-FDG PET/CT reflects the glycometabolism of tumor
      tissues. The diagnosis of benign and malignant tumors is based on the difference in glucose
      metabolism between tumor cells and normal tissues. 18F-FDG is an isomer of glucose and is
      involved in the glucose metabolism process. Since it is deoxygenated, it cannot generate
      diphosphate hexose, and it cannot participate in the next step of metabolism but remains in
      the cell. In the tumor cells, due to the high expression of glucose transporter mRNA, the
      glucose transporters Glut-1 and Glut-3 levels are increased; the expression of hexokinase is
      increased; the level of glucose-6-phosphatase is down-regulated and other common factors make
      the tumor cells' 18F-FDG uptake increased.

      Previous researchers have found 18F-FDG PET/CT unsatisfactory in the diagnosis of HCC,
      especially for the diagnosis of HCC with well-differentiated tissue. The researchers also
      indicates that 18F-FDG PET/CT is not superior to traditional MRI and CT in the diagnosis of
      liver cancer. Combined with the current relevant research, it can be roughly stated that the
      positive rate of liver cancer using 18F-FDG PET/CT in diagnosing different grades of tissue
      differentiation is only about 50-70%. There appears to be a high uptake of FDG in poorly
      differentiated HCC. However, there is no such obvious phenomenon in HCC with medium or
      well-differentiated tissue. The PET/CT scans reported in all these documents are based on
      conventional static scans, i.e. the image data is based on a static take-up image of the
      tracer in tissue obtained at a fixed time point after the injection of 18F-FDG. To improve,
      the investigators propose to use dynamic data scanning, which captures the dynamic data of
      whole body tissues collected from the moment of injecting 18F-FDG to an hour. Dynamic scans
      can provide information on the dynamic changes in tracer metabolism and distribution in
      tissues over time, so they provide a richer metabolic and distributional pattern of tumor
      foci and metastases than static scans. However, the current domestic and international
      research on 18F-FDG PET/CT dynamic scan in the metastasis of hepatocellular carcinoma is very
      rare. Therefore, the aim of this study is to make up for this gap by performing a dynamic
      scan of 18F-FDG PET/CT on newly diagnosed patients with liver cancer. The lesions and/or
      metastases are performed for biopsy. Pathological and genomic studies are performed. The
      differences between tumor images and tissues are compared at the same time. 18F-FDG PET/CT
      dynamic imaging is explored in primary liver cancer metastases for the diagnostic value.
    
  