
    
      Background: Acute stress produced by hospitalization has a direct impact on the patient's
      recovery. Increased cortisol levels, the biomarker of stress, have been associated to poor
      health outcomes, especially on pediatric patients. Stress management in the hospital
      environment is essential to lower the effects of hospitalization but tend to require
      volunteers or other trained staff. With the advent of augmented reality technologies,
      providing ludic therapies to children without the need of personnel is possible. Augmented
      reality (AR) consists in overlapping digital information over physical objects or places
      creating an unique experience and the possibility of the user to interact with the
      technology. AR has been used in psychological and physical therapy with notable results. AR
      books are available in the market and are seen as a great educational tool for children. The
      aim of this study is to assess the effectiveness of AR books as a stress management tool in
      the hospital environment in a randomized cross-over study.

      Sample size: Calculated taking as reference cortisol values reported previously in
      hospitalized children in the morning. With a 90% power and a α value of 0.05, a a significant
      difference of 30% of the value before the intervention is expected. For this, a sample size
      of 28 participants will be necessary.

      Recruitment: Study participants will be recruited and enrolled in the Pediatrics Department
      of Cayetano Heredia Hospital. After signed consent by parents and written assent by each
      participant, an envelope with a random code will be opened. This code will have information
      of which intervention will be performed first. For AR intervention, a book and an electronic
      tablet will be given to the participant, for the non AR intervention (NoAR) only a book will
      be given. The book at the first intervention will be different than the book at the second
      intervention. Salivary samples will be collected before and after the intervention and a
      visual analogue scale (VAS) will be given to children to self-assess mood. After a 48 hour
      wash-out, the second intervention will take place.

      Statistical analysis plan: The decrease in cortisol levels will be calculated for each
      participant and for each treatment. The difference in the reduction (DIF) of AR group vs.
      NoAR will also be calculated. A simple linear regression model will be used with DIF as
      dependent variable, the independent variable will be the order of intervention. The intercept
      will be the average decrease difference and the confidence interval will establish the
      statistical significance. For the secondary outcomes, the VAS will be associated with
      salivary cortisol.

      Plan for missing data: All missing data will be reported as such.
    
  