
    
      The overall goal of the proposed research project is to increase uptake of long-acting
      reversible contraceptives (LARCs) among clients who receive a safe abortion at a Marie Stopes
      International - Nepal (MSI-N)/ Sunaulo Parivar Nepal (SPN) centre using a
      behaviourally-informed intervention: monthly feedback to service providers comparing their
      LARC uptake as a percentage of PAFP uptake performance to other centres. The impact of the
      intervention will be evaluated using a clustered, stepped wedge randomized controlled trial
      (RCT). The intervention will be implemented and data will be collected regularly from 36
      centres over a period of 6 months. The RCT study design is stepped wedge, meaning that all
      health centres will begin in the control group and will be randomly assigned to begin
      receiving the treatment in 4 "steps". Each step will be 1 month in duration. The primary
      outcome of interest is LARC uptake as a percentage of PAFP uptake. The secondary outcome is
      type of method selected. The intervention consists of a monthly poster that centres will
      receive which shows service providers the PAFP LARC % performance at their centre as compared
      to 3 similar centres. The intervention was developed using a behavioral science methodology,
      including interviews with clients and service providers at 9 health centres and user-testing
      of the intervention with service providers at 4 health centres. Data used for this study will
      consist of daily PAFP LARC uptake data that is already being collected and consolidated at
      centres. The data will be securely shared between centres and the MSI-N central support
      office in Kathmandu on a weekly basis. Data will be securely shared between MSI-N and ideas
      monthly. Monitoring will consist of mystery client visits at each centre two times during the
      study period. At least one interview will be conducted with each service provider through the
      study period. The investigators will manually check 5% of all medical records to confirm that
      electronic data is accurate. Service providers will undergo written consent in order that
      they may choose to participate, or choose not to participate, in the study. Individual
      clients will be opted in to having their data shared for the purpose of the study. Clients
      will be notified about data sharing through posters and interactions with service providers
      and can choose not to have their data shared. All safe abortion clients, aged 18 and older,
      are eligible to have their data shared. Data from approximately 12,000 safe abortion clients
      will be required for the study. Strict confidentiality procedures in line with Marie Stopes
      International's best practices will be put into place to ensure that information made public
      or otherwise distributed outside the PIs and other key personnel cannot be linked to any
      individual client records. Results from the study will be published in a report, among other
      outputs, and the outcomes will be shared within MSI as well as with the wider sexual and
      reproductive health (SRH) community.
    
  