
    
      Critically ill patients are at risk for the development of Critical Illness-Related
      Corticosteroid Insufficiency (CIRCI). This may present as hypotension, unresponsiveness to
      catecholamine infusions, and/or ventilator dependence. Such patients may benefit from
      administration of exogenous steroids to restore their hemodynamic stability. Cortisol is
      vitally important to the maintenance of vascular tone, endothelial integrity, vascular
      permeability, and total body water distribution. It also potentiates the vasoconstrictor
      actions of both endogenous and exogenous catecholamines. Appropriate activation of the
      hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis in the critically ill patient is essential to
      stress adaptation and maintenance of homeostasis. Common causes of adrenal insufficiency in
      the critical care setting include infection, systemic inflammation, previous glucocorticoid
      use, and sepsis . Adrenal insufficiency among critically ill patients is also known as
      relative adrenal insufficiency; there is either insufficient cortisol or a cortisol level
      that may be high in absolute terms but insufficient to respond to the degree of stress. Thus,
      serum cortisol concentrations that are normal in well patients may be inappropriately low in
      severely sick patients. This inability to mount the appropriate response increases the risk
      of death during severe illness. While the incidence of CIRCI in the critically ill has been
      under appreciated, the detrimental impact of such dysfunction is well recognized. CIRCI may
      be characterized by any of the following findings with delayed weaning from mechanical
      ventilation and hypotension refractory to fluids and vasopressors being most common
      Hypotension Unresponsiveness to catecholamine infusions Ventilator dependence Abdominal or
      flank pain High fever with negative cultures and unresponsive to antibiotic therapy
      Unexplained mental changes (i.e., apathy or depression) Electrolyte abnormalities
      (hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, hyperkalemia) Neutropenia, eosinophilia Diagnostic criteria for
      CIRCI in the critically ill are not well established, but evidence suggests that
      modifications from standard testing are warranted. Random serum cortisol levels, free
      cortisol, and delta cortisol (change in baseline cortisol at 60 minutes after ACTH
      stimulation using 250 mcg cosyntropin) are all ways to evaluate for CIRCI.
    
  