
    
      Motherhood is one of the most important milestones in a woman's life, and at the same time
      the beginning of a process in which very important responsibilities are undertaken. The
      mother needs knowledge, skills and energy to fulfill her new responsibilities. The
      development of motherhood identity is the process of learning motherhood behaviors of women.
      This process starts with the recognition of pregnancy, develops during pregnancy and
      continues after birth. Transition Theory is a suitable tool for nurses to understand the
      transition to parenting, a developmental type of transition. Appropriate nursing
      interventions tailored to the needs of pregnant women and women who have just given birth are
      needed. Targeted / predicted change in the large / large effect size of the mothers in the
      experimental group (effect size 0.80, 80% of the standard deviation) with the Health
      Promotion Monitoring Program, the sample calculation with 5% alpha error and 80% power was
      the minimum for each group. It was determined that a total of 52 people (26 *) should be
      recruited (G * Power 3.1.9.2). It was decided to include at least 32 people in each working
      group with a 20% surplus, considering that they might be lost in data collection. Women's
      experiences in transition to motherhood should be sought to propose, define, and explain
      professional interventions. In this study, a Health Promotion Program starting from 36-40
      weeks of gestation until the sixth month of birth was administered to the mothers registered
      at the primary health care center in Karatay, Konya. In this study, the investigator planned
      to increase maternal infant attachment, to increase parental self-efficacy, to keep infant
      development at the best level, thus ensuring a healthy transition for the mother.

      Duration of intervention and collecting data for the study was 11 months. Data was collected
      using information form (21 item; information about participant, parents and infant), three
      scales (Turkish Version of Maternal Attachment Inventory; parental self-efficacy scale,
      Denver II development screening test). Scales validation and reliability studies were made
      for Turkish population.
    
  