
    
      To improve the sensitivity and specificity of immunoassay, the developing trends are to lower
      the detection threshold and to minimize the cross reaction. A new assay technology called
      immunomagnetic reduction (IMR) has been developed for rapid and on-site assay with very small
      volume of sample (i.e. less than 1ml whole blood). The reagent is a solution of homogeneously
      dispersed magnetic nanoparticles, which are coated with hydrophilic surfactants and
      bioprobes. Under external multiple alternating-current (ac) magnetic fields, magnetic
      nanoparticles oscillate with the multiple ac magnetic fields via magnetic interaction. The
      reagents under the external multiple ac magnetic fields show a magnetic property, called
      mixed-frequency ac magnetic susceptibility χac. Magnetic nanoparticles bind with the
      bioprobes on the outmost shell and become larger or clustered. The χac of the reagent is
      reduced, and the concentration of the biomolecules can be measured quantitatively. Several
      papers have demonstrated that IMR can be applied to assay proteins, viruses, chemicals, and
      nucleic acids once suitable bioprobes are immobilized onto the magnetic nanoparticles.

      Rapid diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome (ACS) is a clinical and operational priority in
      busy emergency departments (ED). Since ACS is associated with a significant mortality and
      morbidity, early and correct diagnosis is of great importance. Chest pain is a frequent
      symptom in medical emergency departments and distinguishing patients with ACS within the
      chest pain group is a diagnostic challenge. Cardiac enzymes (including CPK/CK-MB, troponins,
      myoglobulin) and electrocardiography (ECG) in combination with the medical history and
      physical examination are at present the diagnostic cornerstones. Different cardiac enzymes
      are released after myocardial cell disintegration and are markers of cell necrosis, which
      might not be detected immediately after chest pain; and repeated measurements are suggested.
      Therefore novel biomarkers that rise earlier, have good diagnosis accuracy and have
      additional prognostic information are highly needed. Some publications address the potential
      benefit of the combination of multiple biomarker assays (markers of myocardial injury,
      inflammation/plaque ruptures or heart failure with different mechanism) could substantially
      increase clinical sensitivity and improve early risk stratification. However, this approach
      is rather time-consuming and not cost-effect. In the present study, a rapid IMR assay with
      multiple biomarkers is proposed and we will examine the performance of this new
      investigational IMR assays, comparison with current commercial assays.
    
  