
    
      The objective of this study is to determine whether the timing of drug administration to
      treat inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) has an effect on patient outcomes. Primary objective:
      Determine whether there is a difference in outcomes seen when patients are assigned to take
      their prescribed immunomodulator (IM) - either Azathioprine or 6-Mercaptopurine - at either a
      morning delivery time or evening delivery time.

      The Investigator hypothesize that administration time of immunomodulators (IMs) during the
      day can affect the clinical outcomes in IBD patients.

      Specific Aims Include:

        -  Determine whether morning vs. evening dosing of patients' prescribed IMs (either
           Azathioprine or 6-Mercaptopurine) could affect the subclinical markers of inflammation
           related to disease.

        -  Determine whether morning vs. evening dosing of patients' prescribed IMs (either
           Azathioprine or 6-Mercaptopurine) could affect endoscopic outcomes.

        -  Determine whether morning vs. evening dosing of IMs affect their biochemical side
           effects, as is routinely monitored as part of the patients' clinical care.

        -  Determine if outcomes correlate with patients' chronotype, as determined by standard
           questionnaires (the Owl and Lark Questionnaire and the Munich Chronotype Questionnaire).

      Description of Procedures: After signing the informed consent form, subjects will be asked to
      answer the Inflammatory Bowel Disease Questionnaire (IBDQ), the Munich Chronotype
      Questionnaire (MCTQ), the Owl and Lark Questionnaire, the Harvey Bradshaw questionnaire, the
      RU SATED questionnaire, and a demographics survey. All six of these questionnaires are
      included with this IRB. Next, patients will be assigned a time (morning or evening) to self
      administer their prescribed medication for 10 weeks. Patients who currently take their
      medication in the morning will be asked to switch to an evening delivery and patients who
      currently take their medication at night will be asked to switch to a morning delivery. The
      group assigned to morning delivery time will be told to take their medication between 6am and
      11am. The group assigned to evening delivery time will be told to take their medication
      between 6pm and 11pm. Lastly, patients will be asked to give a blood sample to test for
      complete blood count (CBC), comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP), C-reactive protein (CRP),
      methylmercaptopurine (6-MMP), and thioguanine nucleotides (6-TG). Plasma and serum isolated
      from the blood sample will be temporarily stored to measure inflammatory cytokines after
      every 20 subjects complete the study.

      Within a 6-10 week window, as part of their clinical care, subjects will come in to assess
      their clinical status while undergoing biochemical monitoring every 2-4 weeks. Data from
      their endoscopic examination, if done, will also be collected.

      After 10 weeks, the subjects will be asked to complete the IBDQ and Harvey Bradshaw
      questionnaire. In addition, a blood sample will be obtained to measure the same metabolite
      levels and other biochemical indications of disease as stated above. Again, plasma and serum
      will be isolated from the blood sample and stored.
    
  