
    
      The chest tube drainage and needle aspiration are widely used first step techniques in
      spontaneous pneumothorax, thus present randomized controlled trial (RCT) aims to compare the
      efficacy of abovementioned techniques, as well as long-term outcomes. The study protocol has
      been confirmed by the ethics committee of AJA University. In current multi-center
      single-blinded RCT, all patients admitted with primary spontaneous pneumothorax will be
      enrolled study and written consent form provided by patients, simultaneously. With due
      attention to the success rate of 18% provided in a previous study comparing primary
      spontaneous pneumothorax treatment procedures and the study power of 80% and the confidence
      coefficient of 0.05, study population calculated to include 64 patient, which increased to 70
      patients with taking 10% of falling risk into consideration. Using Randlist software,
      patients will be randomly assigned to study groups including (A) chest tube drainage and (B)
      needle aspiration. Subsequently, all patients will undergo one-year follow-up and will be
      evaluated in terms of treatment success rate and pneumothorax recurrence.

      In chest tube drainage group, while the patient is positioned in the supine position and
      subsequent to local anesthesia administration via lidocaine 2%, F16 or F20 (based on patients
      physical status) sterile plastic tube will be implemented at the level 4th or 5th intercostal
      space through the midaxillary line. However, in needle aspiration group, patients will be
      positioned semi-supine. Subsequently, G16 intravenous angiocath will be inserted through the
      midclavicular line at the level 2nd or 3rd intercostal space. The catheter needle will be
      removed and catheter will be fixed using sterile sticks. A three-way valve will be connected
      to the external end of the catheter and a 50 ml syringe will be connected to the valve. The
      air suction will be performed using 50 ml syringe till end of the air suction or up to 3.5
      liters of air suctioning.

      Hypothesis of present trial are as follows: a) repetitive needle aspiration may lead to
      higher treatment success rate in patients with primary spontaneous pneumothorax, in
      comparison to chest tube drainage, b) needle aspiration may result in reduction of hospital
      admission duration in patients with primary spontaneous pneumothorax compared to chest tube
      drainage, c) the rate of spontaneous pneumothorax recurrence during one-year follow-up might
      be lower in patients who undergo needle aspiration instead of chest tube drainage.
    
  