
    
      A randomized, placebo controlled, double-blind Clinical trial was designed. 60 Patients with
      diabetic foot ulcers in grade I and II of the classification of Wagner, with leg arm index>
      0.8 and without specific treatment for foot ulcers referred to the experimental and clinical
      Therapeutic Institute will be included. All patients give written informed consent;
      previously the protocol was approved for the bioethics committee of the CUCS, of the
      Guadalajara University, registration number 030-2010. Patients with another type of topical
      medication will be excluded. Isosorbide dinitrate spray (2.5 mg).

      Preparation of chitosan Hydrogels: The composition of gel formulation will be given prior
      training. ISDN and chitosan gel will be applied handled under aseptic conditions to the
      wound, and covered with sterile bandages. The patients will be evaluated every 2 weeks
      (macroscopic study and measurement of the ulcerated area) until 6 views. A second biopsy will
      be done one week before the finalization of the treatment of 15 weeks. The biopsies will be
      embedded on paraformaldehyde (4%) and paraffin. Sections of 5 µm were analyzed by a
      pathologist to determine hypertrophic and hyperplasic capillaries, inflammation and cellular
      matrix using Hematoxylin & eosin and Masson's trichrome stains. An immunohistochemical stain
      was also realized to evaluate several molecular markers such as α-SMA (abcam, Cambridge, MA),
      Desmin (abcam, Cambridge, MA), VEGF (abcam, Cambridge, MA) and Von Willebrand Factor
      (Chemicon, CA). (figure 1) Statistical analysis: It will be done using SPSS program for
      Windows Version 10.0, the results of quantitative variables were expressed in average and
      standard deviation. The differences between baseline and subsequent pharmacologic
      intervention measurements will be investigated with the Wilcoxon test. The Mann Whitney U
      test will be used to compare groups. Frequencies by categories as well as percentages will be
      quantified for qualitative variables. Comparisons between groups were performed with Chi2.
      For all comparisons p < 0.05 will be considered as significant.
    
  