
    
      Objective

      The health risk associated with tobacco use is high, and is even higher in people with severe
      mental illness. The underlying brain circuitry for smoking-mental illness comorbidity is
      unknown. Identifying brain comorbidity circuitry is important for new therapeutic
      development. This study will examine whether a specific brain circuitry can explain the high
      rate of smoking in patients with schizophrenia. Identifying the key brain circuits associated
      with smoking, especially smoking in a high risk population, will provide concrete biomarkers
      for new therapeutic development, and ultimately reducing the smoking related health burden.

      Study Population

      Schizophrenic patients and their family members, non-schizophrenia controls and their family
      members, including smokers and nonsmokers in each of the four groups will be included in this
      study.

      Design

        1. A cross-sectional study for all subjects at baseline. They will receive clinical and
           diagnostic interviews, functional, symptom, and cognitive testing, and MRI. They will
           also have blood drawn, to identify brain circuits and covariates associated with the
           severe smoking problem in schizophrenia.

        2. A prospective longitudinal study design where smokers will be encouraged to quit smoking
           and smoking cessation support is provided if needed, followed by retesting of imaging
           and some clinical assessments, to identify brain circuits associated smoking cessation
           or the difficulty of quitting in schizophrenia and non-schizophrenia smokers.

      Outcome Measures

      Combining event-related and resting fMRI techniques, we propose to test the hypothesis that
      an abnormal dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC) and ventral striatum (VS) circuit
      underlies the high prevalence of comorbid smoking in schizophrenia. We also propose to test
      specific clinical implications of this circuit including a within-subject event-related fMRI
      study to test the mechanistic implication of the rsFC signals, a prospective follow-up to
      test the circuit s predictive validity on smoking behavior change, and genetic studies to
      describe the path from genes to brain circuits to smoking behaviors.
    
  