
    
      Background

      Sarcoidosis is a multi-system granulomatous inflammatory disease. Pulmonary involvement is
      most common. Patients typically experience fatigue, weakness and dyspnea. Respiratory muscle
      weakness, which may be secondary to granulomatous inflammation, is associated with dyspnea
      and decreased quality of life (QOL). The disease can remit spontaneously or become chronic,
      with exacerbations and remissions. In some patients, it can progress to pulmonary fibrosis
      and death. Granulomatous inflammation is characterized primarily by accumulation of
      monocytes, macrophages and activated T-lymphocytes, with increased production of key
      inflammatory mediators, TNF-alpha, INF-gamma, IL-2 and IL-12, characteristic of a
      Th1-polarized response (T-helper lymphocyte-1 response). Corticosteroids are the current
      mainstay of treatment, but their long-term benefits are not certain. Because steroids often
      produce undesirable side effects, investigations to identify alternative therapies are
      warranted. There is sufficient evidence to test the proof of concept that pathways targeted
      by statins will have a therapeutic effect in sarcoidosis, since, in pre-clinical studies,
      statins blunt Th1-mediated inflammatory responses.

      Aims

      The study involves a double-blind placebo-controlled, randomized trial which aims to
      determine if atorvastatin administration results in less steroid use and longer steroid-free
      intervals in patients with pulmonary sarcoidosis who require prednisone treatment.

      Methods

      Patients, who are 18-70 years old, with stage II or III pulmonary sarcoidosis, diagnosed by a
      compatible clinical history and supported by a lung, lymph node, or tissue biopsy, will be
      enrolled in the study, if they require prednisone therapy. The patients will be randomly
      assigned to two groups; as prednisone is tapered, one group will receive placebo and the
      other, atorvastatin. The two study drugs will be administered for twelve months, during which
      time patients will be periodically evaluated as to their clinical status and prednisone
      requirements. Pill counts and patient diaries will be used to determine the amount of steroid
      use during the study period. Patients with pulmonary fibrosis greater than 50 percent of
      total lung volume or severe co-morbidities will be excluded from the trial.

      The primary endpoint is the duration of the steroid-sparing period. Secondary clinical and
      physiological endpoints are intended to analyze possible anti-inflammatory and beneficial
      effects of the drugs. Since there is no gold standard outcome measure in sarcoidosis, four
      categories of secondary endpoints will be used to characterize the effects of the therapeutic
      agent on the clinical course of the disease: imaging (high resolution chest CT); quality of
      life assessments (SF-36, and SGRQ), anti-inflammatory effects (biomarkers and relapse rates),
      and functional effects (CPET, PFTs). Finally, we will study the utility of exhaled nitric
      oxide and carbon monoxide in monitoring disease activity.
    
  