
    
      Total achilles rupture is a severe injury and many has long lasting functional deficit
      afterwards. Treatment options is either operative or conservative treatment. Conservative
      treatment for total Achilles rupture has become more and more popular during the last 10
      years. Nevertheless we still see a higher risk of re-rupture compared to surgery.

      Aim: The aim of the study is in patients with acute total Achilles tendon rupture to examine
      if Autologous Conditioned Plasma (ACP) promote and accelerate tendon tissue healing in
      Conservative treated total Achilles tendon rupture and thereby gives a better functional
      outcome.

      Materials and methods: Healthy males (25-60 years; n=40) with acute total achilles tendon
      ruptures is randomly assigned to either 1) ACP (~ 4 mls) or 2) placebo (saline ~ 4 mls)
      treatment. Participants will be treated on 4 successive occasions with 2 weeks (wks) interval
      during the 8 week conservative treatment with an orthoses. The injections will be performed
      under ultrasound guidance. All subjects will undergo a 8 weeks immobilization period with an
      orthoses with full weigh bearing and after that they will be guided in a proper
      rehabilitation regime during the intervention. Clinical effects will be assessed as changes
      in functional scoring system (ATLS), isometric muscle strength and muscle function
      (one-legged heel-rise test). Furthermore tendon length will be measured by ultrasound. All
      outcome measures will be recorded at baseline and again after 8 weeks immobilization (expect
      muscle strength and function), 12 weeks, 24 weeks and 52 weeks after injury.

      Results: Look at possible changes and differences between groups (ACP and Placebo) in ATLS
      scores, muscle strength, ultrasound tendon length elongation and muscle function.

      Statistics: All data will be analyzed in SigmaPlot v11 using two-way repeated measures ANOVA
      with Student-Newman-Keuls Post-hoc test. This is used to see changes over time in all groups
      (time effect) and differences between groups within time-points (group effect). All data will
      be presented as mean ± SEM time.
    
  