
    
      This is a prospective observational study. No changes in therapy will be initiated due to the
      information gathered by its protocol. All medical decisions will be based on the management
      of the clinical team. Data will be gathered during the subject's clinical visit, from the
      subject, and from the nursing staff caring for the subject.

      The Chronic Pain Behavioral Pain Scale for Adults was developed by the research team based on
      behavior pain scales used in other populations and the clinical expertise of Chronic Pain
      specialists in the Hershey Medical Center Chronic Pain department.

      Patients will be scored on the Chronic Pain Behavioral Pain Scale for Adults and the standard
      11 point numeric rating scale (Jensen, Turner et al., 1996), on intake. Scoring will be done
      by the patient's assigned nurse and a member of the research team, at the time when the
      numeric pain score is typically obtained. The patient will be scored again on both the
      Chronic Pain Behavioral Pain Scale for Adults and the standard numeric rating pain scale at
      the conclusion of their procedure, again at the time when the numerical pain score is
      typically obtained. Scoring will again be done by the patient's assigned nurse and a member
      of the research team. The Chronic Pain Behavioral Pain Scale for Adults will be tested for
      inter-rater reliability using the paired scores from the nurse and researcher for each
      subject. Concurrent Validity will be measured using comparison between the numeric rating
      scale and the behavioral pain scale on each subject at each time point. Construct validity
      will be measured by comparing the behavioral pain score before and after the interventional
      pain treatment.

      For training purposes, the assigned nurse and research team member will be provided a copy of
      the "Chronic Pain Behavioral Pain Scale for Adults" chart to be utilized during their patient
      encounters. Each team member will be individually instructed in the use of the scale
      immediately preceding their first use of the scales. This training will include a discussion
      of the elements, the definition of behaviors, and the use of the scoring system.
    
  