
    
      This study will be prospective, randomized, controlled trial. Patients will be identified for
      potential inclusion by the surgeons at HULC. The standard of clinical care is for diagnosis
      of CMC is to perform X-rays of the hand and this is done routinely. Based on these images and
      clinical evaluation, surgeons will establish a diagnosis of CMC, and provide a grading of
      severity based on the Eaton/Littler Classification on a referral pad. Eligible participants
      will then be asked to attend the Clinical Research Laboratory within HULC, where one of the
      co-investigators listed will present the letter of information and obtain informed consent.
      Patients who agree to participate will be asked to complete 3 functional outcomes
      questionnaires (i.e. DASH, PRWHE, and VAS pain scale). Bilateral wrist and thumb range of
      motion, lateral and tripod pinch strength, and grip strength will also be assessed.

      Following the initial assessment, patients will be randomized into one of two groups.
      Patients will be stratified based on their initial referral by the hand surgeon according to
      CMC OA severity results to ensure that equal numbers of participants fall into each treatment
      arm based on the Eaton Classification of their CMC OA. After randomization, patients will
      attend splinting visit #1 (based on scheduling availability) either the Hand Therapy
      Department at St. Joseph's Health Care London or Hand Therapy Canada, a private clinic in
      London. Regardless of group allocation or location of therapy visit, patients will not be
      charged for their therapy visits or for their splint.

      Splinting Visit #1

      Group one will be fit with a low temperature custom thermoplastic brace at one of the
      aforementioned clinic locations and then booked for a follow up appointment in the clinical
      research laboratory at SJHC two weeks later.

      Group two will have their hand placed in a scanner that takes multiple photographs of the
      hand and reconstructs these photos into a single 3 dimensional computer image. From there,
      one of the co-investigators (MS) will "draw" the splint, and send to a 3D printer. Patients
      will come back to a clinic location for fitting, and will then follow up 2 weeks after splint
      fitting at the clinical research laboratory 2 weeks later.

      Regardless of group allocation, each splint will have a temperature sensor placed into the
      splint. This sensor is similar to a watch battery and collects and records several thousand
      temperature readings on pre-set intervals. Participants will be told that the the sensor
      records data on position of the hand in space, but in fact, recording the temperature will
      provide information about adherence with the splinting program.

      CT Scan

      Patients undergo a 4D CT scan of bilateral thumb CMC joints. This will include scans at rest,
      while performing lateral pinch of 2kg, 5kg, and maximum pinch (if greater than 5kg). They
      will then apply their splint, and these images will be repeated while wearing the splint.

      Follow Up Visits

      Participants will be asked to wear their splint during most functional activities for 8
      weeks, with the goal of wearing their splint for at least half of their waking hours. They
      will be asked to keep a daily logbook of the amount of time spent in the splint and will keep
      these records until the 2-month visit. All participants will return to therapy once every 2
      weeks. The purpose of these follow up visits will be to download the data from the
      temperature sensors and to ensure there is no skin irritation or evidence of any skin
      breakdown from splint use.

      2-month visit

      At 2 months, participants will be asked to repeat the three functional outcomes
      questionnaires and will have their ROM and strength re-tested as in visit #1. They will also
      have a surface EMG recording of their muscle contractions while in the splint. At this point,
      the sensors will be removed from the splints for final analysis. Patients will also turn in
      their logbooks of splint usage, and complete a splinting satisfaction questionnaire. They
      will then attend a second visit to the CT scanner for a repeat imaging session exactly as
      listed above.

      Final Visit

      Participants will be call back to the clinic for a final evaluation at 12 months. At this
      point, all measures will be repeated with the exception of the CT scans.
    
  