
    
      All patients in this study must have a plastic tube (catheter) inserted into a vein under the
      collarbone. Drugs and stem cells will be given through this tube.

      Fludarabine will be given through the catheter once a day for four days. Patients will also
      receive melphalan for two days through the catheter. Patients receiving a transplant from a
      matched unrelated donor (i.e. not a blood relative) or a mismatched related donor (i.e. a
      blood relative, but not a full match) will also receive antithymocyte globulin (ATG) once a
      day for three days. ATG can help preventing graft-versus-host disease. All patients are
      expected to need blood transfusions as part of this treatment.

      Beginning two days before the transplant, tacrolimus will be given through the catheter. It
      will be given 24 hours a day until the patient can swallow. The patient will then swallow one
      or more tacrolimus pills a day for about 6 months.

      On the transplant day ("day 0"), the stem cells or bone marrow obtained from the donor will
      be infused through the catheter ("transplant"). Drugs will be given to reduce the chance of
      allergic reactions. Starting on day 7 after the transplant, filgrastim will be given through
      a needle to increase the growth of white blood cells. Methotrexate will be given by IV on
      days 1,3,6, 11 after the transplant. The patient may require blood transfusions for the
      following 2-4 weeks and sometimes longer.

      Patients with progressive ("growing") Hodgkin's disease after the transplant will initially
      be taken off their immunosuppressive medications (tacrolimus, corticosteroids). If there is
      no response to this maneuver, they will be considered for infusion of additional cells from
      their donors, with or without preceding chemotherapy Both these maneuvers may produce a
      response ("shrinkage") of the tumor. Patients with persistent but stable (not "growing")
      disease may also be treated in a similar fashion. Potential side effects of the infusion of
      additional cells include graft-versus-host disease and /or a generalized drop in the blood
      counts. Both of these conditions can be serious or life-threatening.

      Blood, urine, bone marrow and x-ray examinations will be performed as necessary to monitor
      the results of bone marrow transplantation. Patients may require blood and platelet
      transfusions. Blood tests will be done daily while hospitalized and several times a week
      until the blood counts recover. Bone marrow aspiration and biopsies will be performed prior
      to the transplant, when the donated cells show signs of engraftment, and at other times
      during the next 1 to 3 years to evaluate the growth of the transplant marrow, to evaluate
      possible recurrence of malignancy and recovery of immunity.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 50 patients will be treated on this study. If the
      initial results are discouraging, the study may be stopped after a minimum of four patients
      have been enrolled.
    
  