
    
      Chronic Granulomatous Disease (CGD) is an inherited disorder resulting from a failure to
      produce nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase, necessary for protection
      against a number of infectious organisms. Patients are subject to recurrent infections and
      inflammatory complications. The current management of these participants is limited to close
      surveillance for infections, administration of prophylactic antimicrobials, and rapid and
      aggressive treatment of suspected and documented infections with broad-spectrum antibiotics.
      Although often effective, these treatments can require long hospitalizations, impacting on
      the overall quality of life significantly, and lead to significant morbidity, such as renal
      failure and deafness. CGD patients have auto

      inflammation that may manifest as inflammatory bowel disease, hypoxic lung inflammation,
      and/or liver nodular regenerative hyperplasia with venopathy as examples.

      Currently, the only available cure for these disorders is bone marrow transplantation, which
      most commonly uses a human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-matched related sibling as the donor
      (allogeneic stem sell transplantation). However, as only 30% of participants in the general
      population have an HLA- matched related sibling, allogeneic related transplantation is often
      not an option, resulting in the need for matched unrelated donor (MUD) transplantation. The
      National Marrow Donor Program (NMDP) serves as both a national registry of volunteers who are
      willing to donate progenitor cells to eligible recipients as well as a repository of cord
      blood products. Despite continued improvement in the use of transplantation schemas including
      the development of nonmyeloablative regimens there remain significant morbidity and mortality
      associated with transplantation, in particular, graft versus host disease (GvHD) and graft
      rejection. CGD with severe autoinflammation manifested as C-reactive protein (CRP) >100
      appear to be at a significantly increased risk of severe engraftment syndrome and/or GvHD,
      based on our results to date and will be therefore be excluded from this protocol.

      GvHD is a result of the graft recognizing host antigens as foreign, typically in the presence
      of inflammation, and results in a type of iatrogenic autoimmune disease. For participants
      with non-malignant diseases, the aim of the transplant is solely to replace the defective or
      deficient cell population. Furthermore, as a graft versus tumor effect is not required,
      regimens designed to establish tolerance induction and/or stable mixed chimerism may be
      preferable for cure in this participant population; therefore, alternate transplant
      strategies can and should be used to further suppress the development of any GvHD effects.

      In a prior protocol we observed low rates of GvHD, using a nonmyeloablative conditioning
      regimen but had significant rates of graft failure and/or loss. To improve upon our results
      we therefore propose to increase the target cell dose to be infused and use post transplant
      cyclophosphamide to mitigate the increased risk of GvHD.

      For the patients with an HLA matched sibling donor (Group 1-Sibling Related) we propose using
      a busulfan-based, nonmyeloablative conditioning regimen combined with Alemtuzumab
      (Campath-1H, Campath ) an immunosuppressive monoclonal antibody currently approved by the
      U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a single treatment for patients with B-cell
      chronic lymphocytic leukemia; however, for this protocol we are using it for its mechanism of
      action as an immunosuppressive agent. For GvHD prophylaxis we will use post-transplant
      cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan ) and sirolimus (Rapamune ).

      For patients with only a MUD (Group 2-MUD) we will use a similar conditioning regimen, with a
      few modifications including the addition of total body irradiation (TBI) to enhance immune
      suppression (but with lower dose of busulfan),due to the increased risk of graft rejection
      with HLA-matched but unrelated cells, along with the posttransplant cyclophosphamide. We will
      compare the results obtained here to our previous clinical trial which did not use post
      transplant Cytoxan and where the cell dose infused was lower than the targeted dose of 10
      million CD34+ hematopoietic stem cells/kg body weight in this study, but did use the same
      conditioning regimen.
    
  