
    
      A performance evaluation study designed to assess the precision and accuracy of the LumiraDx
      Instrument, a point of care in vitro diagnostic system employing a portable diagnostic meter
      in conjunction with single use analyte test strips, for the quantitative determination of
      Prothrombin Time expressed as International Normalised Ratio (INR), as sampled from
      individuals evaluated for INR at the point of care (POC).

      The accuracy of the LumiraDx Instrument INR results will be assessed by, in the first
      instance, comparison to the INR results obtained from the same individuals as analysed by
      trained laboratory professionals using the paired venous plasma samples in the reference
      device IL ACL ELITE PRO Coagulation Analyzer. The accuracy of INR measurements of capillary
      whole blood across the range of haematocrit (25% - 55%) will be assessed using paired
      haematocrit results obtained from the HemoCue Hb 201+ on venous whole blood. The results of
      these evaluations are intended to be used for regulatory filings for the LumiraDx Instrument
      and LumiraDx INR test as an in vitro diagnostic test in the European Union (EU) and other
      relevant geographies. For information only, the accuracy of the LumiraDx Instrument INR Test
      will also be assessed by comparison to INR results from an alternative point of care
      instrument, the Roche Coaguchek PRO II.

      Adult males and females currently in receipt of vitamin K antagonist therapy will be included
      on the study. Approximately 500 subjects will be recruited to ensure that sufficient suitable
      subjects are enrolled and to allow for a small level of exclusions. The power calculation as
      well as recommendations of the FDA CLIA Waiver Guidance document (1) requires a minimum of
      360 valid subjects in total (inclusive of non-therapy subset). A subsection of the subject
      population (~50 subjects) will consist of adult males and females who fulfil all other study
      inclusion criteria but are not in receipt of vitamin K antagonist therapy. This will be done
      in order to test the lower measurement limit of the LumiraDx Instrument INR test. At the end
      of the study the Healthcare Professional will be asked to complete a User Acceptability
      Questionnaire which is intended to assess the acceptability of the LumiraDx INR system in
      terms of ease of use.
    
  