
    
      Approximately 64 patients with resected, newly-diagnosed WHO Grade IV glioma who are CMV
      positive and in which the Methylguanine Methyltransferase (MGMT) is not methylated will be
      accrued to this study before standard of care radiation therapy (RT) and concurrent TMZ, with
      the goal of treating 48 patients with dose-intensified temozolomide and pp65 loaded dendritic
      cell vaccine after completion of standard RT and TMZ.

      All enrolled patients will undergo a leukapheresis for the generation of DCs. Patients will
      then receive approximately 6 weeks of the standard of care radiation therapy (RT) and
      concurrent TMZ at a standard targeted dose of 75 mg/m2/day. For patients whose initial
      leukapheresis yields less than 3 vaccines, repeat leukapheresis may be obtained. At the
      post-RT clinic visit, a single post-RT cycle of dose-intensified TMZ (100 mg/m2/day for 21
      days) will be given. On day 23 (± 2 days) of the cycle, patients will receive the first of 3
      pp65 DC vaccines. Vaccines #1-3 will be given every two weeks (± 2 days). All patients will
      receive up to a total of 10 DC vaccines, with vaccines administered every 35 days (± 7 days)
      after the third vaccine, given bilaterally at the groin site unless progression occurs with
      no further cycles of TMZ. DC vaccines will be given intradermally (i.d.) and divided equally
      to both inguinal regions. Before the first DC vaccination, patients will receive 0.5 mL of Td
      (tetanus and diphtheria toxoids adsorbed) intramuscularly into the deltoid muscle to ensure
      adequate immunity to the tetanus antigen. Patients will undergo leukapheresis again for
      immunologic monitoring with a specific assessment of baseline antigen-specific cellular and
      humoral immune responses if needed for further DC generations 14 (± 2) days after vaccine #3.
      Prior to pp65 DC vaccination #4,(3±1) weeks after leukapheresis 2, the vaccine site will
      receive a pre-conditioning intradermal injection of Td. Up to 16 patients will receive
      111-Indium labeled DCs at the 4th vaccine followed by SPECT/CT imaging immediately, and at 1
      and 2 days after injections.
    
  