
    
      Gastric cancer is the 5th most common cancer (1 million incidences per year) and the third
      leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide (740,000 deaths per year). Unresectable
      gastric cancer is associated with a poor 5-year survival rate (< 30%) because of its late
      presentation with approximately 50% of the patients diagnosed at advanced stage with a median
      survival of about 12 months. The treatment for advanced gastric cancer patients relies mainly
      on doublet or triplet chemotherapy, but results are often limited by severe side effects of
      the aggressive regimens. Novel efficacious treatments with reduced adverse effects are highly
      desirable to improve the clinical outcome.

      Peritoneal disease is notoriously difficult to treat. In patients with histologically proven
      unresectable or recurrent gastric cancer limited to the peritoneum and/or cancer cells in
      peritoneal cytology, the combination of intraperitoneal (IP) paclitaxel with systemic
      chemotherapy seems promising. However, a phase III trial (PHOENIX-GC trial) comparing IP
      regimen with systemic chemotherapy versus systemic therapy alone in Japan did not show any
      superiority of the IP regimen.

      PIPAC is an innovative intraperitoneal chemotherapy concept that enhances the efficacy by
      taking advantage of the physical properties of gas and pressure. This results in a superior
      distribution and depth of penetration of the drug. A recent systematic review of 45 clinical
      studies on 1810 PIPAC procedures showed response rates of 50-91% for gastric cancer (median
      survival of 8 to 15 months), 71-86% for colorectal cancer (median survival of 16 months).

      To date, most phase II trials utilising PIPAC involve the use of cisplatin and doxorubicin or
      oxaliplatin. Oxaliplatin is an approved drug for systemic chemotherapy, with well documented
      use intraperitoneally via hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) as well. This
      makes is a favourable agent for PIPAC in early phase studies. The dose of oxaliplatin
      utilised for PIPAC in the literature has thus far been arbitrarily set at 92 mg/m2, which is
      approximately 80% of the drug concentration used in HIPEC. Furthermore, these studies were
      performed on patients with a recent or concurrent administration of systemic chemotherapy,
      which may make interpretation of the side effects and safety profile difficult to interpret.

      In Cohort 1 of this study, we intend to determine the safety profile and tolerability of
      PIPAC with oxaliplatin by assessment of dose limiting toxicities and the adverse event
      profile.

      Cancer immunotherapy with checkpoint inhibitor has demonstrated clinical activities and
      survival benefits as a monotherapy and in combination with other immunotherapies or
      conventional chemotherapies in multiple cancer types. Nivolumab has been showed to have
      overall survival benefit over placebo in the third line treatment of metastatic gastric
      cancer with a response rate of 11%. In the CheckMate032 trial, nivolumab, with or without
      ipilumumab, demonstrated durable responses and long-term survival. Nivolumab alone, dosed at
      3mg/kg, had a response rate of 12%.

      It is hypothesized that the delivery of PIPAC deep into the peritoneal tissue is likely to
      affect the tumor microenvironment and potentially release neoantigens which would improve
      clinical outcomes with immune checkpoint inhibition. Hence we propose an amendment to our
      trial protocol for the addition of a second cohort (Cohort 2) to combine this Phase I
      proof-of-concept study with nivolumab.

      The aim is to determine the determine the safety profile and tolerability of PIPAC
      oxaliplatin by assessment of dose limiting toxicities and the adverse event profile. With
      Cohort 2, the co-primary endpoints are the safety and efficacy of the combination of PIPAC
      oxaliplatin and IV nivolumab. Safety will be evaluated in terms of adverse events, serious
      adverse events, discontinuation of treatment due to toxicity. Efficacy will be evaluated in
      terms of the percentage of patients with 6 months of time-to-treatment failure (TTF). TTF is
      defined as the interval from treatment initiation to treatment discontinuation for disease
      progression, treatment toxicity, and death. The secondary objective is to evaluate the
      clinical and pathological response of PIPAC oxaliplatin as well as to identify the
      pharmacokinetic profile of oxaliplatin administered via PIPAC. The clinical and pathological
      response to combination treatment will also be determined. Quality of life will be evaluated.
    
  