
    
      Hearing loss is a chronic disability and a major public health concern. As the U.S.
      population ages, hearing loss prevalence rates are expected to nearly double by 2060 (Goman,
      Reed et al. 2017). Given this projection and the negative, costly impacts of untreated
      hearing loss on health outcomes, there is a national emphasis on increasing access and
      affordability of hearing healthcare (HHC) (President's Council of Advisors on Science and
      Technology 2015, National Academies of Sciences 2016). Two significant factors hinder the
      achievement of successful HHC outcomes: First, US adults face structural barriers to
      accessing HHC including high cost, and limited, inflexible points of entry into the system
      (National Academies of Sciences 2016). Second, hearing aids are often the sole intervention
      offered. While hearing aids improve speech understanding in quiet, difficulties understanding
      speech in challenging listening environments remain. Many of these difficulties can be
      addressed by including hearing assistive technology [HAT] options in the intervention plan.
      Unfortunately, hearing aid uptake is low for adults with hearing loss, and HAT usage is
      reported among only a fraction of those who use hearing aids (Southall, Gagné et al. 2009,
      Hartley, Rochtchina et al. 2010, Chien and Lin 2012, Bainbridge and Ramachandran 2014).
      Technological advances in hearing aids and telecommunications, including the widespread
      availability of "e-Audiology" applications, have the potential to expand both access and
      affordability of HHC by allowing for greater flexibility, lower costs, and personalized
      intervention plans that take into account the listening and lifestyle needs of the
      individual. There is a lack of evidence, however, as to how e-Audiology and patient
      acceptance for e-Audiology impact HHC outcomes. There is an urgent need to understand the
      efficacy of accessible, patient-centered, and comprehensive HHC alternative delivery models,
      like e-Audiology, without which the critical public health problem of untreated hearing loss
      in adults will likely worsen.

      With the long-term goal of enhancing decision-making by patients and providers and improving
      outcomes, the pilot data collected in this proposal will be used for an upcoming R01
      submission which will be responsive to the NIDCD's call for research comparing different HHC
      delivery models and the utilization of new technologies to improve care. The overall
      objectives of this work are twofold. First, we will evaluate outcomes from an e-Audiology
      service delivery model. Second, we will determine the impact of patient preferences for
      delivery model on outcomes. The rationale of the proposed study is that the results will
      enhance the evidence-base for the use of e-Audiology as a mechanism for increasing HHC access
      for diverse adult populations. Results obtained will be submitted as pilot data in an
      upcoming R01 grant application.
    
  