
    
      Gingival recession is defined as the displacement of the soft tissue margin apical to
      cementoenamel junction and it may affect single or multiple root surfaces. Gingival
      recessions are known to compromise esthetic appearance, hinder plaque control, and result in
      higher susceptibility to hypersensitivity and root caries.

      It can be the result of different predisposing anatomic features such as thin gingival
      biotype, buccal prominence of teeth, lack of keratinized tissue, high frenal attachment, or
      patient related factors such as vigorous brushing or chronic gingival inflammation.
      Recessions may be localized or generalized. Alternatively they have been classified into four
      classes on the basis of extent. Miller's Class I and Class II recession defects mainly occur
      in multiple buccal areas and the main etiologic factors include trauma from tooth brushing.
      Miller's Class III and Class IV recessions usually involve the whole mouth and is often
      related to plaque associated chronic inflammatory periodontal disease. Because of their
      traumatic etiology, multiple recessions are more frequent.

      It has been extensively demonstrated that in Miller's Class I and II single recessions,
      complete root coverage can be predictably achieved with various techniques. On the other
      hand, treatment of multiple adjacent gingival recessions is still a challenge for the
      clinician as in these cases the management of soft tissues becomes more difficult and the
      wound healing may be compromised by various factors such as width of avascular surface,
      limited blood supply, differences in the recession depth and position of the teeth. The
      ultimate goal of root coverage procedures is the complete coverage of the recession defect,
      with good esthetics and harmonious integration of the covering tissues and with minimal
      probing depths after treatment.

      A variety of surgical procedures have been used to cover exposed root surfaces such as
      Laterally Positioned Flap, Coronally Advanced Flap, Modified Coronally Advanced Flap,
      Coronally Advanced Tunnel, Modified Coronally Advanced Tunnel, Subepithelial Connective
      Tissue Graft(SCTG), Acellular Dermal Matrix(ADMA) and Guided Tissue Regeneration.

      Coronally advanced flap (CAF) and SCTG are the most predictable techniques, achieving up to
      100% root coverage. CAF alone and with various modifications have been used widely and
      successfully. Studies have stated that SCTG has not only the highest percentage of mean root
      coverage but also least variability. In spite of its promising results, SCTG has its own
      limitations, such as lack of graft availability, need for a second surgical site, proximity
      to palatine neurovascular complex and unesthetic contour at the recipient site. In some
      cases, harvesting connective tissue may be difficult in the presence of a flat palatal
      profile or if thickness of masticatory mucosa appears too thin. The additional chair time
      must also be considered and compared with that needed to perform a CAF alone. But it has been
      noted in various studies that CAF alone is not as effective as CAF with CTG, which leads to
      the attempt of finding an alternative to CTG with all the benefits and none of its drawbacks.

      Variants such as membranes, biologic modifiers, and allografts have been developed and tested
      as substitutes for CTG. Collagen matrix(CM), composed of non-crosslinked porcine collagen, is
      one such substitute. The matrix is intended to support 3D soft tissue regeneration by
      favouring blood clot stabilization and early vascularization by its excellent tissue
      integration. It consists of a superficial cell occlusive layer, and a deeper porous layer.
      The primary importance of CM lies in that it functions almost as well as CTG in procedures
      for root coverage and those performed to increase the dimensions of keratinized gingiva, at
      the same time avoiding all the negatives of the latter. The additional advantages of CM is
      its influence on the healing cascade and reduced scar retraction. Also it leads to increased
      thickness of keratinized gingiva thus remedying one of the etiolgical factors of gingival
      recession. The advent of such materials could have a revolutionary impact within the field of
      periodontics.

      But this merits further research and study in this direction to clarify the position of
      collagen matrices as a substitute for CTG in periodontal plastic surgeries. Therefore the
      need for this study is to evaluate the efficacy of collagen matrix as a definitive
      alternative for CTG and if it will be able to supplant CTG as the most effective method to
      treat gingival recessions.

      Tunnel technique in perioplastic surgery was first introduced by Allen in 1994 , and followed
      by modifications by Zabalegui(1999), Modified Coronally Advanced Tunnel(MCAT), and
      Microsurgical CAT. All these techniques have shown remarkable success with root coverage.
      MCAT technique has certain advantages over CAF/ Modified CAF as the vascular supply of the
      coronally advanced component is not compromised due to avoidance of vertical/ horizontal
      incisions.

      Recently porcine derived bioresorbable collagen matrices have shown predictable outcomes for
      augmenting keratinzed gingiva, improved wound healing, recession coverage in localized
      gingival recession and multiple recession coverage.

      However there are very few randomized controlled clinical trials in the literature that
      compare collagen matrix versus CTG in the management of MRTDs. To the best of our knowledge
      there is only one RCT that compares MCAT+CTG with MCAT+CM in the management of multiple
      gingival recessions.

      Thus aim of this study will be to compare the effectiveness of collagen versus CTG in the
      management of Millers class I and II multiple gingival recessions. The use of collagen matrix
      in combination with Modified Coronally Advanced Tunnel as a surgical technique will be
      compared for recession coverage.
    
  