
    
      Specifics objectives are:

      Assess total body vitamin A stores and hepatic reserves before and after vitamin A
      supplementation in children aged 3-5 y by deuterated-retinol dilution technique Measure
      plasma retinol, ferritin and zinc concentrations in children Measure plasma C-reactive
      protein and alpha 1 glycoprotein concentrations and malaria parasitemia Identify health,
      socioeconomic and food determinants that can influence children micronutrient status

      Study design is longitudinal with repeated measures and will be implemented in rural area.
      Five months after the passage of Vitamin A Supplementation (VAS) campaign, fifty children
      (n=50) aged 3-5y will be enrolled in the study (randomized sampling) plus 10% for drop out.
      The protocol will be explained to the mother and written consent will be obtained from her.

      Dietary intake information will be collected using 24 hour recall questionnaire, food
      frequency questionnaire and infections frequency questionnaire will be submitted to the
      mother at d-7. Anthropometric measurements (weight and height) of children will be recorded
      also at d-7.

      Subjects will receive doses of labeled vitamin A:

      6µmol of D4-Vitamin A, and 6 µmol of D8-Vitamin A per children at d0 and d44 respectively.
      Blood sampling will be done 3 times during the study: at Baseline (d-7) and 2 weeks after
      each dose of labeled vitamin A (d14 and d58). The blood will be drawn from children and
      immediately wrapped on aluminum foil and placed in a cooler while in the field. The blood
      samples will be transported to the lab and treated under dim light (centrifugate and
      separation in cryogenic vials). C - reactive protein (CRP) and alpha-1 acid glycoprotein
      (AGP) will be measured by Elisa method. Serum retinol measurement will be done by HPLC after
      ethanol hexane extraction with 200 µl of serum and vitamin A total body stores by GC-MS.

      Others micronutrient determination will be done as Iron (ferritin by Enzyme Linked
      Fluorescent Assay (ELFA)) and Zn (Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometer by flame).

      Anemia will be assessed by measuring hemoglobin (Hb) in whole blood using a HemoCue system
      (Hb-301) and malaria parasitemia will be measured using Rapid Diagnostic tests (RDT)

      Statistical analyses will be carried out with STATA / SE (Special Edition, Stata Corporation,
      Texas, USA). The results will be expressed as mean ± standard deviation and percentages. The
      variables with non Gaussian distributions will undergo a logarithmic transformation and will
      be expressed in geometric mean ± standard deviation.

      The analysis of variance (ANOVA) associated with a posteriori test (Bonferroni) will be used
      for repeated measures and Student's t test will be used for comparison of means. The Chi²
      test will be used for percentages comparison.

      The relationship between quantitative variables will be assessed with the Pearson correlation
      coefficient. Multiple and logistic regression will be performed to identify the
      socio-economic, health and dietary determinants of vitamin A status, evaluate their
      contributions and their influence on the risk of vitamin A deficiency. For all these
      statistical analysis, a significance level of 0.05 will be applied.
    
  