
    
      Before to the start of the study, physical therapists and CRA (clinical research associate)
      will be trained in the specifics of this research protocol.

      Patients aged 65 and older, with physiotherapy treatment, investigators will be offered to
      participate in the study.

      The physiotherapist of the investigative service will inform the patient of the terms of the
      study and will give the necessary information on the physical maintenance program,
      (presenting the program, verification of the correct understanding of the program and it ran
      properly, recall the entry on a calendar associated to the program booklet whenever the
      program achieved, advice on the interests of the exercises as many times as possible per
      week).

      If the patient agrees to participate, the physical therapist will give him a copy of the
      prospectus and gather written consent after a delay of 24 hours.

      The patient will receive the booklet detailing the physical exercise program and allowing him
      to record his achievement of physical exercise and its possible falls.

      Following the inclusion of the patient, the physiotherapist will inform the computerized data
      file and will proceed to randomization via Clinsight® software.

      The patient will be informed of the group in which it is randomized (with or without
      telephone coaching ) .

      The patient will receive a summons for assessments to M6 and M12 to be carried on the website
      of the investigation center . It will be recalled him to bring his book.

      Before its release SSR ( M0 ), the patient will benefit included in the initial assessment
      including a TUG ( Score Time UP and Go), VAS (Visual Analog Scale ) measures the fear of
      falling , the IADL (INSTRUMENTAL ACTIVITIES OF DAILY LIVING), the FTSST (Five Times Sit to
      Stand Test) and score the one leg balance test . The running score 4 meters. This initial
      evaluation will be conducted by the physiotherapist or the CRA by location Patients
      randomized to the control group will not receive telephone coaching . Patients will only
      record the achievement of physical exercises and the occurrence of falls in their booklet.

      Patients randomized to the experimental group will benefit from the telephone coaching , with
      5 phone calls programmed by the physiotherapist according to the most convenient times for
      the patient, due to appointments per month.

      The duration of each telephone coaching is estimated at 20mn . As patients in the control arm
      , Patients will record their physical exercise sessions and the occurrence of falls in their
      booklet.

      The telephone coaching conducted by the physiotherapist with patients is to assess the number
      of exercises performed, the number of falls may have occurred, assess the fear of falling and
      overall assessment of the patient's general condition and a self-assessment of their physical
      ability (one leg balance, fear of falling, FTSST). With this information, the therapist may
      encourage patients to practice more diligently exercises can even strengthen the practice of
      some based on its evaluation.

      Data from the telephone coaching will be recorded in the eCRF ( Case Report Form).

      A M6, the patients in both study arms will receive an evaluation including a TUG, EVA
      measures the fear of falling, the IADL, the FTSST, walking speed and score the one leg
      balance test. The number of re hospitalizations and use of a physiotherapist for motor
      rehabilitation will also be sought from the patient and her doctor if necessary. This
      evaluation will be carried out by a TEC, as part of a consultation center investigator.

      At the end of the evaluation M6, patients in the experimental arm no longer benefit from
      telephone coaching. As for patients in the control arm, they will only record their exercise
      sessions and the occurrence of falls in their booklet.

      A final evaluation of patients will be performed at M12 (same as M6) Following the visits and
      phone calls, the study data will be recorded in the eCRF by the CRA and / or physiotherapist
      investigators centers.
    
  