
    
      The aim of this study is evaluate the favourable effects of Guaran치 in memory and cognition
      in humans After approval by our Institutional Review Board, we included consenting patients
      with a histological diagnosis of early stage Breast Cancer for whom adjuvant radiation
      therapy was indicated. We excluded patients with a previous history of Radiation Therapy,
      anemia or clinical depression. We also excluded patients who were unable to grant informed
      consent or those who had medical contraindindications for the use of Guaran치 (because of its
      psycho stimulant effect) such as uncontrolled hypertension, previous history of cardiac
      arrhythmia and insomnia.

      The radiation therapy for patients who underwent mastectomy consisted of 28 fractions of
      180cGy.

      This study had a double-blind randomized design with crossover between experimental arms.
      After getting informed consent, we randomized patients at the beginning of radiation
      treatments (Phase I) to either 75 mg of Guaran치 extract daily (Group A) or to Placebo (Group
      B). Randomization was centralized by the pharmacist. Halfway through the radiation treatments
      (Phase II), we switched patients from placebo to guaran치 and vice versa. The protocol ended
      at the last session of radiation treatments (Phase III). In each of these three phases a new
      assessment of fatigue and depressive symptoms was undertaken, ie: immediately before the
      first radiation treatment (phase I); at switching (phase II) and right before the start of
      the last radiation treatment (phase III). At these three assessment points, patients had to
      complete the Chalder Fatigue Scale,4 the MD Anderson Brief Fatigue Inventory (available at
      http://www.mdanderson.org/topics/fatigue/) available in Portuguese, and the Beck Inventory
      Depression Scale II also validated in Portuguese.

      We conducted the statistical analysis of the data with the Numerical Control Software
      Solution (www.ncss.com). We employed the repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) test
      to compare tests scores within the same patient group and the ANOVA test to compare test's
      scores between the two groups (at similar phases of the study).
    
  