
    
      Anticipated Impacts on Veterans' Healthcare: The overarching goal of this research program is
      to improve the quality of end-of-life care provided to Veterans dying in VA Medical Centers
      (VAMCs), by transferring the best practices of home hospice and palliative care for the last
      days and hours of life into the inpatient setting.

      Project Background: Often, patients who are near the end of life are not recognized as
      actively dying. As a result, their suffering may not be appreciated or managed properly, and
      may even be exacerbated by usual medical care when aggressive, futile, or iatrogenically
      harmful treatments are continued. During this time, supportive and comfort care treatment
      plans can be implemented to reduce suffering and improve the quality of care provided to
      these patients. The investigative team has developed and evaluated an education-based
      intervention to teach providers how to identify patients who are actively dying and to
      implement care plans appropriate for the last days or hours of life. To facilitate use of
      these interventions, an electronic Comfort Care Order Set (CCOS) was designed and integrated
      into the Computerized Patient Record System (CPRS) to support and guide the selection of
      comfort care treatments. The effectiveness of the Comfort Care Education Intervention has
      been demonstrated in 7 VAMCs and it is ready for implementation on a broader scale.

      Project Objectives: This trial will extend this line of research by examining two methods of
      delivering this Comfort Care Education Intervention utilizing the established infrastructure
      of Palliative Care Consult Teams (PCCT): a Basic Implementation Approach using a
      teleconference to review educational materials and activate PCCTs to educate other providers,
      and an Enhanced Implementation Approach utilizing in-person, train-the-"champion" workshops
      to prepare PCCT members to be leaders and trainers at their home sites. The aims of this
      study are 1) to compare the effectiveness of the two approaches for changing provider
      behavior, as reflected in documented processes of end-of-life care, 2) to formatively
      evaluate PCCT members' experiences with and perceptions of the two approaches, and 3) to
      quantitatively evaluate PCCT members' perceptions of the training received and its impact on
      attitudes, skills, and perceived efficacy to care for patients and teach other providers.

      Project Methods: PCCTs at 47 VA Medical Centers will be recruited to participate in the trial
      and randomized to receive the Comfort Care Education Intervention using the Basic or the
      Enhanced Implementation Approach. Data on processes of end-of-life care will be abstracted
      from the CPRS medical records of Veterans who die before and after the interventions,
      including presence of an active opioid order at time of death (primary endpoint), other
      medication orders and administration, do-not-resuscitate orders, palliative care consult
      orders, location of death, presence of nasogastric tubes/intravenous lines, restraints, and
      pastoral care. Semi-structured telephone interviews will be conducted with all participating
      PCCT members to explore their perceptions of training, the process of teaching other
      providers at each site, barriers and facilitators they encountered, how prepared they felt to
      overcome these barriers, and specific needs and preferences regarding the implementation
      approach.

      Findings will provide a robust evaluation of the implementation process, and will be used to
      refine the Comfort Care Education Intervention and implementation strategies in preparation
      for nationwide dissemination of best practices for end-of-life care within the VA Healthcare
      System.
    
  