
    
      In the previous pilot study, reactivation of VZV was confirmed in 63.6% of the patients as
      having RCVS by cell mediated immune response (CMI) test and 18.2% by Saliva PCR. None of
      patients who were simply stressed showed reactivation of VZV. Considering about 20% had false
      negative results in angiographic findings of RCVS, we set the effect size as 0.63 in group of
      subjects and 0.12 in group of controls. Using alpha values of 0.05 and beta values of 0.2, we
      calculated the target number of the study. If the ratio of cases to controls is 1:2, 9
      case-patients and 18 control-patients were needed and if the ratio is 1:3, 8 case-patients
      and 24 control-patients were needed. We expect to enroll 10 case-patients and 20 to 30
      control-patients within two years, considering the drop rate of 10~20%.

      Baseline clinical information regarding age, sex, smoking history and medical comorbidities
      including hypertension (treated, systolic blood pressure ≥140 mmHg or diastolic blood
      pressure ≥90 mmHg at discharge), diabetes (treated, fasting blood glucose ≥126 mg/d),
      hyperlipidemia (treated, total cholesterol level ≥200 mg/dl or low-density lipoprotein level
      ≥140 mg/dl) and coronary artery disease will be collected on admission. Laboratory tests,
      including complete blood count, blood chemistry, c-reactive protein and erythrocyte sediment
      rate wil be performed. Images of brain MRI, MR angiography, CT angiography or digital
      substraction angiography will be gathered if present.

      Tests for VZV specific antibody responses and T-cell mediated immune response will be
      performed by VZV specific ELISA and IFN-γ ELISPOT, respectively. Result for T cell responses
      will be shown as spot number per 10^6 PBMCs. On the day of blood sample collection, plasma
      will be isolated and freezed (-80℃). Peripheral mononuclear cells will be separated from the
      remaining blood samples and keep freezed (-190℃). Melt the frozen peripheral mononuclear
      cells and inoculate them on a plate (T-Track human IFN-γ, Lophius) with anti-human IFN-γ
      antibody and inoculate VZV lysate (Microbix) 50 ug/mL on them. After incubating 24 hours, the
      staining will be performed and the spot will be read in a automated ELISPOT reader (ELR07
      reader system, Autoimmune Diagnostika GmbH).

      For statistical analysis, patients with thunderclap headache will divided into two groups
      according to the presence of RCVS. Among them, the rate of infection with varicella zoster
      virus will be compared and analyzed. Fisher's exact test, Mann-Whitney test, Pearson
      correlation will be performed. Also, logistic regression analysis will be used, and
      covariates will be adjusted if needed. Sensitivity and specificity of tests for reactivation
      of VZV and RCVS will be analyzed too.
    
  