
    
      In this prospective randomized controlled trial, informed consent forms were obtained from
      all participants and they were informed about the study based on the Declaration of Helsinki.
      The study was approved by local ethics committee of Hacettepe University (GO13/55). After
      comprehensive clinical evaluation, subjects were randomly assigned to the intervention group
      or the control group, using Random Allocation Software. The intervention group received
      scapular mobilization with upper extremity ROM exercises, the control group received only
      shoulder ROM exercises.

      Patients with a radiographically proven, closed fracture of the proximal humerus admitted to
      the emergency department of Hacettepe University Hospital, who were considered suitable for
      primary nonoperative management by the orthopedic surgeon on charge, were asked to
      participate in this investigation.

      The exclusion criteria are (1) skeletally immature patients (2) patients presenting to the
      hospital 10 days or more after injury (3) patients with open fractures or multiple trauma (4)
      pre-existing illness affecting the function of the upper limb, such as multiple sclerosis,
      paraplegia, and others (5) patients with a history of drug or alcohol abuse (6) patients with
      cooperation problems or problems in attending all scheduled study visits.

      Patients' demographics (ie, gender, age, profession, smoking, concomitant diseases,
      medication) and injury characteristics (ie, accident type, energy level of trauma,
      concomitant injuries, fracture classification) will be recorded. Patients will be asked to
      rate their upper limb function 1 week before the accident to determine their baseline DASH
      score using the extended 3-modular questionnaire.13 Normalized DASH scores range from 0
      (perfect function) to 100 (functionless extremity/joint).

      Radiographs will be obtained in anterior-posterior projection and Neer's view upon admission
      in the emergency department and after manipulation. Additional computed tomography (CT) scans
      will be ordered at the discretion of the treating surgeon. Fractures were classified
      according to the American Orthopedics and Neer scheme by the orthopedic surgeon.

      The intervention group will receive scapular mobilization after the sling will be removed.
      Scapular mobilization will be applied 3 times a week, a total of 24 sessions for 8 weeks.
      Each session lasted around 15-20 minutes. The shoulder flexion and abduction ROM exercises
      will be showed to the patients and performed 3 times, 10 sets on each day after the sling
      will be removed.

      The control group will only perform the shoulder ROM exercises. Patients will be monitored
      and physically examined on the day sling removed (approximately 4 week after injury), 3 and 6
      months after injury. Primary outcome measures comprised raw Constant scores and differences
      to the contralateral, healthy shoulder. The Constant score will show the change from baseline
      in shoulder functional outcomes at 6 months after injury) Pain levels will be measured on a
      0-10 cm (0=no pain, 10=severe pain) visual analogue scale (VAS). The Constant score, DASH,
      pain level, shoulder ROM and Beck Depression Scale will be recorded on the day sling removed
      and 6 months after injury. Plain radiographs of the injured shoulder in 2 planes were
      obtained to determine fracture healing.
    
  