
    
      Study Procedure:

      By using 4D CT scans, researchers can create images that show how air moves through the
      lungs. This new method to check lung function may make better images than the standard
      methods. Researchers will compare 4 images of how air moves through your lungs and 1 image
      while you hold your breath.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study (if the screening test is
      applicable) and you agree to take part in this study, you will be enrolled in 1 of 2 study
      groups, depending on when you join the study. There will be up to 18 participants in each
      group. In the first group, researchers will test several different methods to create images
      of how air moves through the lungs. Researchers will then select the most successful methods
      from the first group and try to do them again with the second group.

      Study Visits:

      You will have up to two visits for this study. At these visits, you will have four 4DCT scans
      performed (for Group 1) or five scans (for Group 2) using both the 4DCT and spiral CT, while
      you are breathing normally. You will also have 1 scan while you hold your breath for less
      than 20 seconds. The CT scans will take about 5 minutes each to complete. If the spiral CT
      scans for Group 2 cannot be completed on the same day as the 4DCT scans, you will be asked
      for your willingness to return at a later day to complete these.

      The 4D CT scan will cover the entire chest area using the standard dose of radiation. A
      2-inch plastic box will be placed on top of your chest to track the motion of your chest
      while you breathe during each scan. Some parts of your chest will be scanned up to 2 more
      times based on your breathing.

      The entire scanning session will take about 45 minutes to complete.

      Length of Participation:

      Your active participation on the study will be over when you have completed your study visit.

      Follow-Up Phone Call:

      Within 7 days after your last study visit, the study staff will call you to ask about any
      side effects you may be having. This call should last about 2 minutes.

      If anything unusual is found in the imaging, your cancer doctor will be told so that you can
      receive follow-up.

      This is an investigational study. The CT scans used in this study are delivered using
      FDA-approved and commercially available systems. Creating images of how air moves through the
      lungs from 4D CT scans is considered investigational.

      Up to 36 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  