
    
      First Carpometacarpal joint osteoarthritis (CMC-OA) is a common problem, being the second
      location of degenerative osteoarthritis in the hand. The pain, weakness, and swelling cause
      considerable interference in the activities of daily living, especially in activities that
      involve repetitive fist-clamp movements.

      The conservative treatment available (pain killers, physiotherapy and splints) do not always
      manage to achieve complete remission of the symptoms or prevent its recurrence. There are
      several surgical techniques to treat osteoarthritis of the first CMC. The most common
      surgical treatments used are prosthetic joint replacement and trapeziectomy. The later can be
      done as an isolated procedure or associated with tendon interposition, ligament
      reconstruction or both. The preference for indication for one treatment or another is based
      on personal experience rather than on the available studies, which are highly heterogeneous.

      In addition, the direct and indirect costs (those associated with productivity losses as a
      result of sick leave from the perspective of society) associated with the use of a CMC
      prosthesis remain unknown, with the shorter recovery time being one of the reasons for its
      implantation.

      The main objective of the study is to determine whether the trapeziometacarpal prosthesis is
      more effective, safe and cost-effective than suspension suspensionplasty. The secondary
      objective is to evaluate the functional outcome and estimate the indirect costs and the
      incremental cost-effectiveness and cost-utility (efficiency) ratios of the trapeziometacarpal
      prosthesis with respect to suspensionplasty as a treatment for osteoarthritis of the basal
      thumb joint.

      The primary outcome will be measured using the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS). Secondary
      outcomes will include Quick-DASH and health-related quality of life measured using the
      European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions Questionnaire (EQ-5D) and. In addition, we will collect
      direct and indirect costs.
    
  