
    
      SAMPLE SIZE The sample size was calculated using OpenEpi (www.openepi.com), with the sample
      size formula to compare two means, considering a confidence interval of 95%, power of 80%,
      ratio of sample size (group 2 / group 1) equal to 1, a minimum expected mean difference of 5
      points and a standard deviation of 9.5 points for both groups. Thus, the required sample size
      is 114 participants (57 intervened and 57 not intervened).

      TECHNIQUES AND PROCEDURES FOR DATA COLLECTION

      First stage: Design of the progressive web app

      In this phase, the profile of the users will be defined through a focus group. Among the
      information gathered is socio-demographic data, use of technology, current situation of the
      feeding and physical activity of the preschool, and expectations of the functions of the
      computer tool. In addition, a complementary bibliographic search will be carried out on the
      subject to expand the information necessary for the design of the PWA.

      Based on the information collected, the alpha version of the application will be developed.
      It will undergo a validation process and based on the feedback, the application will be
      improved until a beta version is developed.

      Second stage: intervention with the progressive web app (PWA)

      ANALYSIS PLAN

      The data was collected using the Magpi software. To verify the comparability of the two
      randomization groups based on the sociodemographic covariates through a descriptive analysis,
      a frequency and percentage table was constructed, which were compared by statistical tests.

      In addition, the variation of the ration consumption of the food groups, the score in each
      component of the feeding behavior and the activity of the preschool was analyzed; the
      variation of the nutritional status and quality of the components of the lunch box in the
      control and intervention group was identified; and the variation of the Z score for the
      indicator of BMI for age and the consumption of the lunch box was plotted through a chart of
      boxes.

      To determine the effect of the intervention, the differences of the measurements (post-pre)
      of the control and intervention groups were compared. For this, the Student t test was used
      for independent samples. The variables analyzed were:

        -  Variation of the dietetic quality of the preschool

        -  Variation in the nutritional status of children

        -  Variation of preschool feeding behavior

        -  Variation of the composition of the lunchbox

        -  Variation of the consumption of the lunchbox

        -  Variation of physical activity Finally, a satisfaction survey was applied to the
           intervention group and the results were presented using descriptive statistics.
    
  