
    
      Vertigo/dizziness (VD) is one of the most frequent problems in medicine with a one-year
      prevalence of 23%. Approximately 50% of the complex VD disorders (i.e., VD is the cardinal
      symptom and persists > 6 months) are not fully explained by an identifiable medical condition
      and could be labelled as somatoform vertigo/dizziness (SVD), fulfilling the criteria of
      somatoform disorder according to ICD-10 or DSM-IV, respectively. SVD shows a high comorbidity
      rate of other mental disorders, such as anxiety/phobic and depressive disorders. The majority
      of the patients with SVD suffer severe impairments in their daily and working lives and
      report a poorer quality of life compared to the patients with organic VD. Although
      preliminary evidence indicates that psychotherapy may be effective in these patients, the
      therapeutic options in the treatment of SVD remain unsatisfactory.

      In this two-armed, single-centre, randomised, controlled, open superiority clinical trial,
      the long-term efficacy of manualised, multimodal group psychotherapy, based on integrative
      psychotherapy (IPT) and tailored to SVD subgroups of mental disorders will be investigated in
      patients with SVD compared to self-help groups (SHGs). IPT describes a differentiated
      psychotherapeutic approach, which combines different therapeutic techniques, such as
      interpersonal skills and psychodynamic aspects, self-management and symptom management
      skills, psychoeducation, and relaxation techniques. Within this study, IPT is tailored to SVD
      including its common mental comorbidity.

      Patients will be recruited via routine care appointments at the German Centre for Vertigo and
      Balance Disorders, a specialised tertiary care unit at the Klinikum Großhadern
      (Ludwig-Maximilians-Universitaet, Munich).

      Our principal research questions are as follows: Will IPT result in a clinically relevant
      improvement in vertigo/dizziness-related quality of life? Does this long-term improvement
      also apply to associated mental symptoms, such as depression, anxiety and somatisation, as
      well as balance strategies measured by posturography? Is IPT in the long term superior to
      moderated SVD-SHGs? The investigators hypothesise that the patients who received IPT will
      demonstrate greater improvement concerning their vertigo-related handicap compared to the
      patients from the SHGs. The investigators will also analyse the cost-effectiveness of this
      trial.
    
  