
    
      SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES

      I (a) To analyze in depth current quality of intrapartum care by a mixed methods approach,
      including exploration of underlying challenges in care delivery and an association between
      suboptimal labour care and perinatal mortality. (b) To conduct a criterion-based audit of
      stillbirths investigating direct and indirect causes and related maternal risks.

      II. To develop locally achievable and agreed partogram-associated labour monitoring-to-action
      guidelines (the PartoMa guidelines) for strengthening the partogram use as a decision support
      tool, and study its acceptability by skilled birth attendants.

      III. To implement the PartoMa guidelines and low cost, low dose, high frequency, in-house
      training for strengthening the use of the partogram as a decision support tool, and study the
      effect on knowledge, skills, quality of intrapartum care, record keeping, and perinatal
      outcome.

      IV. To conduct a post-exit 2 years evaluation of use and effect of the PartoMa guidelines and
      recurring training.

      V. To develop an electronic smartphone application (the PartoMa app), which includes the
      PartoMa guidelines.

      VI. To estimate the cost-effectiveness of the interventions studied (specific objectives
      III-V).

      SETTING

      The East African Mnazi Mmoja Hospital (MMH) in Zanzibar is a governmental referral facility
      serving the population of Zanzibar. As East Africa in general, the Zanzibarian archipelago
      struggles with poverty and a resource constraint health system, and half of the population
      live below the basic needs poverty line.

      At the facility's Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, the yearly number of deliveries is
      approximately 12,000. Approximately 50 maternal deaths occur annually (420 deaths per 100 000
      live births). While the facility-based neonatal death rate is unknown, our baseline study
      revealed a stillbirth rate of 59 per 1000 total births, of which approximately half were
      alive at the time of admission.

      Prior to this study, maternal and perinatal death audits were not conducted routinely and
      little is known about direct and indirect causes for the perinatal deaths.

      METHODS

      This study presents a quality improvement process of intrapartum monitoring, action and
      triage. The overall study design is here presented in relation to the four specific
      objectives:

      I. The intervention-based study is based on an in-depth baseline quality of care assessment,
      which includes criterion-based audit of intrapartum management in cases of stillbirths
      compared to cases with Apgar scores of 7-10, and qualitative exploration of contributing
      causes to substandard labour management (including participant observations and in depth
      interviews).

      II. Together with local doctors and nurse-midwives, international evidence-based guidelines
      are adapted to be locally achievable (the PartoMa guidelines). Additionally, they are
      internationally peer-reviewed with the aim of representing best possible care with the
      limited resources available at the facility.

      III. A concept for reoccurring in-house training in monitoring-to-action during labour is
      developed, based on the PartoMa guidelines and implemented together with the guidelines. This
      PartoMa intervention (guidelines and reoccurring in-house training) is evaluated by comparing
      clinical practice and birth outcome (please see the specific outcome measures below) in the
      baseline period (October 2014 - January 2015) with the 9th-12th month of the intervention
      (October 2015 - January 2016).

      IV. After the first intervention year (February 2016), a local steering group takes over the
      continual implementation of the PartoMa guidelines. If the intervention is still running,
      clinical practice and birth outcome will be analysed during the 21st - 24th month of the
      intervention (October 2016 - January 2017) and compared with previous assessments.

      V. If the PartoMa guidelines show to be accepted among birth attendants and effective in
      improving quality of care, an electronic smartphone application (the PartoMa app) will be
      developed, which includes the PartoMa guidelines.

      VI. A cost-effectiveness analysis of the intervention steps is carried out.
    
  