
    
      Studies have shown that a single episode of unemployment can trigger a cascade of
      stress-related coping and behavioral processes that have deleterious effects on health.
      Notably, this cascade not only frequently results in psychological distress, but also
      accelerated weight gain (persisting up to 10 years regardless of re-employment), and elevated
      blood pressure. As such, individuals who experience unemployment are at a much higher risk
      for chronic disease development, comorbidity, and early mortality. Given inequities in the
      labor market, socioeconomically disadvantaged groups (i.e., those with less education, less
      income or wealth, and/or who are racial/ethnic minorities) are disproportionately, and more
      adversely affected by both unemployment and chronic disease, and feel this burden acutely in
      their everyday lives. Socioeconomically disadvantaged adults often receive public assistance
      benefits during unemployment episodes as well as job training and placement services through
      Department of Social Services Employment (DSS-E) programs; however, these programs do not
      include prevention-focused content to reduce the chronic disease risks that accrue during
      unemployment episodes. In addition, DSS-E efforts to help individuals succeed in securing and
      performing in a new job are often thwarted by implicit 'welfare'-related bias and
      insufficient supports in workplaces into which DSS-E clients are hired. Although the current
      absence of chronic disease prevention in DSS-E programs and lack of supports for DSS-E hires
      in workplaces compound chronic disease risks, it is also an area in which communities can
      address social determinants that are known to produce health inequities.

      The proposed study, NC Works4Health (NCW4H), builds on the strengths of long-standing
      academic-community research partnerships between this UNC at Chapel Hill (UNC) team of
      investigators and key stakeholders across health, social service, employment, and economic
      development sectors. The overall goal of this study is to test the effectiveness of a
      multilevel intervention that can be readily adopted by communities to reduce chronic disease
      risks in socioeconomically disadvantaged populations by (a) embedding prevention efforts in
      DSS-E programs at the individual level, and (b) enhancing supervisor supports for DSS-E hires
      at the employer level. Interventions at each level, and their joint effects, are designed to
      mitigate the psychological, behavioral, and clinically relevant risks for chronic disease
      onset, morbidity, and comorbidity that accrue with unemployment and the employment-entry
      transition. By collaborating across sectors to reduce health inequities, the specific aims
      will be met in two phases:

      Phase I

      With community partners and key stakeholders, make minor adaptations to two evidence-based
      interventions for use in a multilevel intervention that incorporates: (a) a chronic disease
      prevention program (CDPP) (individual level)into current DSS-E programs for unemployed
      adults, and (b) supervisor support in the workplace (employer level)into an existing network
      of employers with jobs that match the skill set of the DSS-E program population.

      Phase II

      Aim 1. To test the main effects of (a) the individual-level NC Works4Health intervention
      (Usual DSS-E + CDPP) compared to Usual DSS-E Support, and (b) the employer-level NC
      Works4Health intervention compared to usual workplace supports on primary and secondary
      outcomes, over time (at 3, 6, and 12 months from baseline), using a randomized, 2x2 factorial
      design.

      Aim 2. To test the joint effect of the individual-level + employer-level NC Works4Health
      interventions on primary and secondary outcomes, over time (at 3, 6, and 12 months from
      baseline).

      In the primary outcomes, the investigators expect to see a decrease in psychological
      distress, weight gain, and blood pressure in groups receiving the intervention at each level,
      with the greatest decreases in the outcomes observed in the group receiving both the
      individual- and employer-level interventions.

      Secondary outcomes include situational stress, coping style, health behaviors, perceived
      workplace support, health-related employment functioning and employment duration.
    
  