
    
      Smoking avoidance or cessation are essential to the prevention of lung cancer. However, not
      all smokers are able to quit smoking and, importantly, former smokers remain at increased
      risk of lung cancer compared to never smokers. Despite smoking prevention/cessation programs
      and treatment advances, lung cancer is still the leading cause of cancer-related mortality in
      the United States with more than 158,000 individuals expected to die from this disease in
      2015. Effective and safe prevention strategies are expected to be more successful in reducing
      lung cancer deaths than treatment of established disease.

      NF-kappaB (NF-kB) pathway activation underlies smoking-related inflammation and lung
      carcinogenesis, and those agents which suppress NF-κB signaling may have the potential to
      prevent lung cancer. Recent preclinical data from our group and others indicate that the
      active metabolite of vitamin D3, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25(OH)2D3], has lung cancer
      chemopreventive activity. Because systemic 1,25(OH)2D3 administration is complicated by its
      hypercalcemia-inducing properties, the investigators propose to use oral supplementation with
      vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) to safely achieve chemopreventive 1,25(OH)2D3 levels within the
      lung.

      This randomized, placebo-controlled Phase IIb study aims to evaluate the ability of 4,000 IU
      oral vitamin D3/day (in combination with a daily multivitamin) to safely convert vitamin
      D3-deficient subjects at risk of lung cancer to a vitamin D3-sufficient state.

      Study participants will be recruited from among Pittsburgh Lung Screening Study Extension
      (PLuSS-X) and PLuSS-XX participants not diagnosed with lung cancer, and from among the
      patient population seen by the PI of this protocol. The study consists of two stages, a
      screening and an intervention stage, with their own consent forms. In Stage 1 (the screening
      stage), the vitamin D3 status of subjects potentially eligible for participation in the
      intervention will be determined; in Stage 2 (the intervention stage), supplementation with
      oral vitamin D3 will be evaluated.

      Participants who fulfill the eligibility criteria and provided signed consent for Stage 2
      will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive: (A) 4,000 IU vitamin D3 plus a multivitamin
      (containing 400 IU vitamin D3) daily for one year, or (B) a placebo vitamin D3 pill plus a
      multivitamin daily for one year. Both groups will contain equal numbers of current and
      ex-smokers; in total 120 subjects will be randomized. To evaluate whether supplementation
      safely corrects vitamin D3 deficiency in this population, blood samples will be obtained at
      baseline, 3, 6, and 12 months of intervention for evaluation of 25(OH)D3 and serum calcium.
      The collected blood will also be used to facilitate biomarker assessment. Pulmonary function
      tests (PFTs) will be obtained at baseline and repeated after 12 months to determine whether
      supplementation has an effect on lung function. Sputum and nasal epithelium will be collected
      at baseline, 6 months and 12 months to facilitate biomarker assessment.

      - Study Objectives Primary Objective: To establish the 12-month conversion rate (i.e.,
      proportion of subjects whose baseline vitamin D3 deficiency is corrected after 12 months of
      supplementation).

      Secondary Objectives: To determine the 3-month and 6-month conversion rates and examine the
      effect of vitamin D3 supplementation in current and former smokers. Additionally, to examine
      the effects of vitamin D3 supplementation on biomarkers of lung cancer risk, inflammation,
      and pulmonary function.
    
  