
    
      BACKGROUND The landscape of antibiotic resistance in hospital has dramatically evolved over
      the past 10 years, with rapid change of multidrug resistant organisms (MDROs), i.e.
      decreasing rate of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and increasing
      prevalence of Extended-spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL) - producing Enterobacteriaceae in the
      community and the hospital, emergence of highly resistant bacteria (HRB) especially
      vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE) and carbapenemase-producing Enterobacteriaceae (CPE)
      that are most often imported for foreign countries.

      Schematically, the control of bacterial resistance is based on the modulation of antibiotics
      prescription and on the interruption of HRB or MDRO cross-transmission. Many recommendations
      have recently been issued for the management of patients carrying HRB or MDRO, but their
      level of knowledge and implementation in health care facilities (HCF) remains unclear.

      Knowledge and perception of resistance to antimicrobials in among health care workers (HCW)
      are influenced by individual and societal determinants, professional environment and personal
      experience. The willing of improving antimicrobial resistance awareness and changing
      behaviors requires an accurate overview of the knowledge and perceptions of the HCW within
      the French health care settings.

      OBJECTIVES The main objective is to determine the level of antimicrobial resistance knowledge
      among HCWs in France.

      The secondary objectives are: 1) to determine the antimicrobial resistance perception of HCW
      in France; 2) to measure the impact of HCF organisation and the perception on the knowledge
      of HCW; 3) to identify and analyse the drivers and barriers to change.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS The methodology used is a cross-sectional survey on one day with a
      self-administered questionnaire and semi-structured interviews with HCW (doctors, nurses and
      aides, employed or in training, and directly participating in care). This survey will be
      implemented in a random sample representative of the French HCFs. The questionnaires include
      data on HCF and individual data on respondents and evaluations regarding: the knowledge of
      HCW (landscape of resistance, the role and control of cross-transmission, the role of
      selective pressure caused by antibiotics), the perception of antimicrobial resistance (using
      the Health Belief Model), a measure of organization's workplace culture (based on leadership,
      commitment, team communication and level of stress / chaos). Semi-structured interviews have
      been planned to complement the assessment.

      JUDGING CRITERIA The main criterion is the level of knowledge with binary encoding. The
      secondary criteria are based on the psycho-social-cognitive determinants of knowledge and
      perceptions and the culture of the organisation.

      INCLUSIONS Six types of HCF (university hospital, large or small public hospitals, private
      HCFs, referral centers for cancer, and a mixed group of local hospitals, long term care and
      post-op and rehabilitation facilities, and nursing homes in each of the 5 interregional
      coordination centers for infection control (CCLIN). All eligible HCWs working during the
      survey day will be included. A minimum of 2,100 HCW is required to properly estimate the rate
      of HCW with the minimum core of knowledge (p<0.05). Actually, a larger number of 5,000 to
      10,000 participants should be included.

      All HCWs, employed or training, working during the day of the survey (day and night) in the
      selected HCF will be included except the health workers who are not involved in direct care,
      non-medical staff other than nurses or nursing auxiliary.
    
  