
    
      Sudden cardiac death (SCD) is a catastrophic event and most commonly results from acute
      ventricular tachyarrhythmias (abnormal and lethal heart rhythms). It is often triggered by
      acute coronary events, which may occur in persons without known cardiac disease or in
      association with structural heart disease. Advanced therapies such as thrombolytic agents,
      percutaneous coronary intervention, and implantable cardioverter defibrillators are of no
      value to thousands of victims who do not survive. Many instances of SCD cannot be predicted
      and any intervention directed toward the general population would have to be applied to an
      estimated 1000 persons for every 1 person in whom SCD might be prevented. Thus, it would be
      reasonable to develop new treatment strategies to improve response to resuscitative efforts.

      Prompt electrical defibrillation (electrical shocks) is the treatment of choice in persons
      who develop SCD due to ventricular fibrillation (VF) or pulseless ventricular tachycardia
      (pVT). However, in up to 25% of all cardiac arrests, patients develop shock resistant VF,
      defined as VF persisting beyond three defibrillation attempts, and 87-97% of these patients
      die. Medical therapy, including antiarrhythmic agents, sympathomimetic agents (i.e.
      stimulants), and buffers have been relegated to a secondary role since there is little
      evidence that they are of benefit and there use is considered indeterminate or class IIB.
      Furthermore, the "Guidelines 2000 for Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation and Emergency
      Cardiovascular Care" of the American Heart Association and the International Liaison
      Committee on Resuscitation recommend antiarrhythmic drugs as "acceptable" and "probably
      helpful" in the treatment of VF that persists after three or more external defibrillation
      shocks. It has been previously reported that the survival rate of hospital patients suffering
      a cardiac arrest in which epinephrine was required was only 6%. Furthermore, Dorian et al
      reported a survival to hospital admission of 22.8% in patients suffering an out of hospital
      cardiac arrest and receiving amiodarone. It is believed that the acute effects of amiodarone
      are due to the class II or beta blocking effects of the drug.

      Resuscitation can only be considered successful if the survivor has no disabling cognitive
      function. The American Heart Association/International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation
      guidelines state that with a duration of cardiac arrest of > 8 to 10 minutes, the frequency
      of significant, permanent neurologic damage becomes unacceptably high. Newer treatment
      modalities are needed to improve patient outcomes.

      Epinephrine has been used during cardiopulmonary resuscitation for more than 100 years yet
      its use has become controversial because it is associated with increased myocardial oxygen
      consumption, ventricular tachyarrhythmias, and myocardial dysfunction during the period after
      resuscitation. The current International Guidelines on Emergency Cardiac Care cite both
      epinephrine and vasopressin as acceptable vasopressor drugs for treatment of refractory VF
      but neither drug is acknowledged to be of proven benefit.

      Beta blockers might improve patient outcomes by blunting the adverse affects of a
      hyperadrenergic state that occurs during a cardiac arrest and by improving the balance
      between myocardial oxygen supply and demand. Ditchey et al showed in an animal model that
      pretreatment with a beta blocker prior to cardiac arrest followed by standard epinephrine
      therapy results in reduced myocardial injury during CPR without compromising successful
      defibrillation or post resuscitation left ventricular function.

      The current research protocol was formulated in an attempt to develop new treatment options
      for patients who develop an in-hospital VF or pVT arrest refractory to electrical
      defibrillation with the specific goal of improving patient outcomes. The trial will utilize
      pre-filled, blinded syringes of Metoprolol in patients who develop an in-hospital cardiac
      arrest due to ventricular fibrillation or pulseless ventricular tachycardia (see study
      protocol).

      Sudden cardiac death (SCD) claims approximately 250,000 persons annually in the United
      States. Ventricular fibrillation (VF) or pulseless ventricular tachycardia (pVT) appear to be
      responsible for 25-35% of all out of hospital episodes of sudden cardiac death. The reported
      average survival to hospital discharge following in-hospital arrest is just as poor at
      approximately 14-17% despite the development of widespread implementation of basic and
      advanced cardiac life support. Current American Heart Association (AHA) guidelines recommend
      prompt electrical defibrillation to reestablish organized electrical activity. Increasing
      duration of VF (i.e. "shock resistant VF") can result in two major adverse effects. First, an
      increased duration can reduce the ability to terminate the arrhythmia8. Second, if VF
      continues for more than four minutes, there is irreversible damage to the central nervous
      system and other organs. Despite aggressive efforts, successful resuscitation from
      out-of-hospital cardiac arrest occurs in only one third of patients and only about 10% of all
      patients are ultimately discharged from the hospital, many of whom are neurologically
      impaired. Also, the outcome of patients who suffer an in-hospital cardiac arrest is poor with
      reported survival to hospital discharge rates of 10-15%. Thus, despite improvements and
      advances in the treatment of heart disease, the outcome of patients experiencing SCD remains
      poor.

      Prompt and early defibrillation of VF or pVT has become the standard of care. Drug therapy
      for shock resistant VF or pVT has been relegated to a secondary role since there is little
      evidence that these agents are of benefit. As a result, their use is considered indeterminate
      or class IIB. In addition, cardiac arrest and cardiopulmonary resuscitation are extreme forms
      of stress that lead to the highest catecholamine levels ever recorded in both human or
      experimental animal models. Endogenous catecholamine concentrations are high during
      ventricular fibrillation even in the absence of epinephrine administration. Currently,
      epinephrine is the vasopressor of choice for the treatment of cardiac arrest although
      vasopressin has been used as an alternative. Of note, vasopressin has been shown to be
      superior to epinephrine in patients with asystole however, its effects were similar to those
      of epinephrine in the management of VF or pulseless electrical activity. Furthermore,
      previous studies have raised concern that epinephrine's beta adrenergic effect may increase
      the myocardial oxygen consumption of the fibrillating heart and predispose to
      post-defibrillation dysfunction and cardiac arrhythmias.

      Numerous animal studies have shown that beta adrenergic blockade reduces myocardial injury
      and improves survival. Kudenchuk, et al undertook a study in patients with out of hospital
      cardiac arrest due to ventricular fibrillation. Patients were randomized to receive either
      amiodarone or placebo after three consecutive defibrillations and one dose of epinephrine.
      The authors concluded that patients who received amiodarone had a higher rate of survival to
      hospital admission. It is felt that the beneficial effects are related to the initial class
      II or beta blocking properties of amiodarone. Furthermore, Dorian, et al reported a higher
      rate of survival to hospital admission in patients who received amiodarone as compared to
      lidocaine for shock resistant out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation. Analysis from the
      European Myocardial Infarct Amiodarone Trial and the Canadian Amiodarone Myocardial
      Infarction Trial revealed an interaction between beta-blockers and amiodarone, specifically,
      the combination group had a better survival and the interaction was statistically significant
      for arrhythmic death or resuscitated arrest.
    
  