
    
      Acute ischemic stroke (AIS) is a leading cause of adult mortality and morbidity in the United
      States, affecting over 800,000 individuals, annually, leaving many with permanent disability.
      Emergent evaluation, prompt acute treatment, and identification of stroke etiology for
      secondary prevention are key to decreasing the morbidity and mortality associated with
      cerebrovascular disease. Key to treatment and prevention is the identification of stroke
      etiology - large vessel atherosclerosis, cardioembolic phenomenon, or in-situ small vessel
      cerebrovascular disease - since primary and secondary prevention measures differ based on
      stroke subtype. The diagnosis of ischemic stroke includes a combination of patient history,
      clinical assessment, and brain imaging. However, identifying the cause of cerebrovascular
      ischemia is challenging and routinely assigned of cryptogenic origin.

      Therefore, the need is great, to understand the pathogenesis of AIS events in order to
      develop more effective preventative measures. Recent studies have identified the differential
      expression of genes in whole blood which may differentiate the major ischemic stroke types.
      Such differences may help identify AIS events that are more likely to respond to therapy
      specifically tailored to the major stroke type. Furthermore, by establishing a more robust
      standard for secondary prevention, future stroke events may be avoided.

      BASIC is a multisite prospective study with a estimated enrollment of up to 500 consecutive
      adult subjects including no more than 50 age, gender and co-morbidity matched controls
      ("Controls"). Stroke subjects will be recruited from patients who present to the Emergency
      Department (ED) or hospital with suspected AIS. Research personnel will identify potential
      patients by responding to "Brain Attack" pages from the ED to the Stroke Team for patients
      who meet current Brain Attack criteria. Following evaluation by the ED and neurology
      physicians, the clinical coordinator will verify the patient had a suspected AIS and meets
      eligibility criteria. The patient or their legal surrogate will be approached for study
      participation. Written informed consent will be obtained for all subjects enrolled.

      Control subjects will be those who present to the Emergency Department for non-stroke reasons
      but have one or more risk factors for stroke. These subjects will not have a recruitment
      window. They can be consented as they present to the hospital. Tubes will be marked as
      controls. In past studies, these have been collected during slow times in the Emergency
      Department. Once the study has reached 50 controls, the sponsor will stop enrolling for this
      group. This has been done in the past by sending the sites a communication that the control
      group quota has been reached.

      The recruitment window will be determined by time of symptom onset, time of presentation at
      ED or hospital, and ability to consent. This will include patients that present within 30
      hours of symptom onset or last known normal time and clinical evidence suggesting Acute
      Ischemic Stroke.
    
  