
    
      Longitudinal cohort studies are important for the understanding of etiological mechanisms of
      underlying hypotheses. However, it is particularly challenging to sustain participation of
      subjects in follow up visits in birth cohorts, as the observation period spans over several
      years, making it vulnerable to lose tracking subjects for several reasons. These include
      change in location of residence and lack of interest in the later stages of the study. In
      India, the traditional practice of pregnant women leaving the study area to return to their
      maternal residence for delivery. Few groups belonging to ethnic minorities, with low family
      income or low education can be at higher risk of selective attrition. In the absence of high
      follow-up rate, the results from prospective cohort studies are can be biased. Such a bias
      can occur if the reason for the loss is related to the outcome under investigation. The
      cohort studies done in India have variable rates of loss to follow-up varying from, 14-82%.
      The barriers for retaining greater proportion of study participants can be due to several
      reasons. While a number of reviews have reported different ways of improving study
      participation, little is known about the effectiveness of specific retention strategies
      deployed in retention of mothers and infants in a birth cohort.

      The proportion of pregnant women turning up for regular antenatal health checkups is poor in
      India. This is due to several reasons including lack of awareness, lack of social support,
      long waiting time, financial constraints and fear of hospital care. Evidence suggests that
      maternal education, husband's education, marital status, availability, cost, household
      income, women's employment, media exposure and previous obstetric history affects uptake of
      antenatal care services. According to National Family Health Survey (NFHS) (2014-15), only
      55.5% of women in urban Bangalore had completed the required four antenatal care visits
      during pregnancy.

      MAASTHI (Maternal Antecedents of Adiposity Studying the Transgenerational role of
      Hyperglycaemia and Insulin) is a prospective birth cohort with the aim of assessing the
      effects of glucose levels in pregnancy on the risk of adverse infant outcomes, especially in
      predicting the possible risk markers of later chronic diseases. The recruitment of the
      pregnant women in MAASTHI has begun in the month of April 2016. Of the eligible pregnant
      women only 77% completed the oral glucose tolerance tests despite offering the test free of
      cost and repeated reminders by the research team to get tested for gestational diabetes.
      After completion of OGTT, the follow ups of mother and child are conducted at birth and
      annually during the year 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the child. Despite stringent adherence of including
      only the residents of the source population, nearly 13% of the women were lost to follow-ups
      at birth. These women delivered in a different hospital mostly due to obstetric
      complications. Currently around 80 participants are recruited per month, with completion of
      all their records, anthropometry measurements, and Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT). Once
      the OGTT is done between 24-32 weeks of gestation, there is no further opportunity to meet
      them again till the delivery. The duration without contact increases the likelihood for
      attrition of future follow-ups. In the intervening period of initial contact and follow-up's,
      it is important that the research staff constantly engage with the participants through
      innovative methods. In order to improve the number of women undergoing OGTT and follow-ups,
      an intervention trial will be carried out that examines the role of innovative 1) IVR and
      2)Mother and baby workshops during the intervening time period between baseline and
      follow-up.
    
  