
    
      Introduction: Evidenced-based guidelines for the introduction of complementary feeding in
      preterm infants are not available so far. In comparison to full-term babies, there is strong
      evidence that babies less than 1500 grams have increased nutritional needs starting with the
      time of birth up to the second year of life to establish catch up growth and to reach the
      main milestones in neurological development.

      Evidence based data on feeding practices after discharge of the hospital, weaning and the
      quantity and quality of complementary food are missing. With this prospective observational
      study the investigators intend to close this knowledge gap in weaning of former preterm
      infants.

      Methods: In this prospective observational study preterm infants born with a birth weight
      <1500 g and a gestational age <32 weeks will be recruited at term corrected for prematurity
      at the neonatal outpatient clinic. Infants will be stratified according their source of milk
      intake (breast milk, formula and mixed feeding) and their introduction of solid foods (early
      complementary feeding group: <17th week of life corrected for prematurity, late complementary
      feeding group: ≥17th week of life corrected for prematurity).

      Nutritional intake will be estimated based on 24h Recalls at term and after 6 weeks of age
      corrected for prematurity. Furthermore, 3-days dietary records, an average dietary record and
      the introduction of the main food categories will be queried at 4 different time points (3
      months, 6 months, 9 months and 12 months - all corrected for prematurity) by food
      questionnaire.

      Within these visits anthropometric parameters (height, head circumference and weight), data
      on body composition (Pea Pod®, BodPod ) & bio-impedance measurements will be collected. Atopy
      will be determined by the clinical scoring system SCORAD. For follow up anthropometry and the
      neurodevelopmental outcome will be assessed by the Bayley Scale at 12 & 24 months corrected
      for prematurity and at 40 months of age. Furthermore, K-ABC II (Kaufmann assessment battery
      for children) will be performed at 66 months of age.

      Goals: With this observational study the investigators aim to identify current feeding
      practices in premature infants and their impact on growth, body composition, atopy and
      neurodevelopmental outcome.
    
  