
    
      Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) is one of the most common anxiety disorders among older
      adults. Anxiety in older adults is associated with decreased physical activity, poorer
      self-perceptions of health, decreased life satisfaction, and increased loneliness. Because
      many older adults with anxiety seek assistance in a medical setting, treatment has been
      primarily pharmacological. There is, however, limited evidence of the effectiveness of
      psychotropic medications in later life. Given the potential difficulties in prescribing
      psychotropic medications in later life(e.g., increased adverse effects, potential drug
      interactions), psychosocial treatments may be important alternatives or adjuncts.

      The treatment phase of this study lasts 6 months, during which patients will be randomly
      assigned to either cognitive behavior treatment (CBT) with an Anxiety Clinic Specialist (ACS)
      or Counselor or to Usual Care (UC). All participants will complete telephone assessments at
      baseline, 1, 2, and 3 months during the treatment phase. During the first 12 weeks, those
      assigned to CBT will also complete 10-12 weekly sessions, either in person or over the
      telephone. During the second 12 weeks, CBT patients will receive follow-up telephone booster
      calls, weekly for the first 4 weeks and biweekly for the last 8 weeks. During the treatment
      phase, UC participants will receive no treatment from study clinicians but will continue to
      receive their usual care from their current medical providers.

      At 6 months, all participants will complete a telephone assessment. CBT patients will enter a
      one year follow-up period, with telephone assessments at 12 and 18 months. UC participants
      will be offered the option to receive brief CBT after completion of the 6 month telephone
      assessment. Those who choose to participate in CBT will complete telephone assessments at 9
      and 12 months.
    
  