
    
      Modern Dentistry aims to restore what is missing, no matter what the difficulty is. As many
      patients have lost their teeth to a number of factors, either trauma or disease or lack of
      care. Now the individuals are seeking to restore the function and esthetics. The more the
      number of teeth is missing along with ridge deficiencies can present serious challenges to
      the clinician.

      Implant supported prosthesis is an attractive option for restoring edentulous or partially
      edentulous patients. However, extensive loss of the alveolar bone is a complex problem that
      faces many surgeons. This era has witnessed numerous trials and research for bone
      augmentation for the defective alveolar ridge. The goal is to create sufficient space for
      endosseous implant placement in a knife edge ridge.

      Alveolar bone resorption occurs in either a horizontal or vertical direction. It can also be
      composite. There are 3 classes of bone-grafting materials based upon the mode of action.
      Autogenous bone is an organic material and forms bone by osteogenesis, osteoinduction, and
      osteoconduction.

      Allografts such as demineralized freeze-dried bone are osteoinductive and osteoconductive and
      may be cortical and/or trabecular in nature.

      Alloplasts such as hydroxyapatite and tricalcium phosphate may be synthetic or natural, vary
      in size, and are only osteoconductive. They can be divided into three types based upon the
      porosity of the product and include dense, macroporous, and microporous materials. In
      addition, alloplastic materials may be crystalline or amorphous. These materials have
      different properties and therefore indications.

      Previous studies have shown that although the autogenous bone is considered as the Gold
      Standard of bone grafting for its osteogenic potential, many drawbacks exist which limits its
      application. For instance, donor site morbidity is of concern. Bone harvesting procedures may
      put adjacent anatomical structures at a risk of damage. During chin bone harvesting, the
      mental nerve may be pulled under undue traction and the incisive nerve become interrupted
      when the harvesting depth is inordinate. Ramus bone harvesting can damage the inferior
      alveolar nerve. In addition, some patients may be reluctant to the harvesting procedures,
      especially when extra-oral donor sites are concerned. General anesthesia is mandatory for
      such operations.

      Recent research studies have looked into modifying the surgical techniques in order to regain
      the space for an implant along with finding satisfying esthetic outcomes. The literature
      shows the positive use of ridge splitting technique and alveolar distractors, with or without
      the aid of xenograft material and/or alloplastic material.

      Starting from the early 2000s, a new drift of guided bone regeneration research blew by.
      Platelet concentrates (PC); platelet-rich plasma (PRP) and platelet-rich fibrin (PRF)] were
      used for surgical procedures in medical and dental fields, particularly in Oral and
      Maxillofacial surgery, plastic surgery and sports medicine.

      They were utilized to accelerate healing of bone graft over the bony defects, many techniques
      utilizing platelet and ﬁbrinogen concentrations have been introduced in the literature.
      Platelet is known to contain high quantities of growth factors, such as transforming growth 4
      . Factors ß-1 (TGFß-1), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), epithelial growth factor
      (EGF), insulin growth factor-I (IFG-I) and vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGF), which
      stimulates cell proliferation and upregulates angiogenesis.
    
  