
    
      The prognosis of severe (grade 3-4) and steroid refractory acute GVHD continues to be dismal.
      Sitagliptin given as GVHD-prophylaxis has recently been shown to reduce the incidence of
      acute GVHD to less than 10% with an excellent safety profile.

      In this single center and single arm phase 2 study we aim to explore the safety and efficacy
      of sitagliptin in the treatment of severe and refractory acute GVHD.

      Patient with new onset grade 3-4 acute GVHD will receive standard treatment consisting CNI
      and methylprednisolone 1-2 mg/kg/day or an equivalent dose of prednisone. Patients with
      refractory grade 2-4 acute GVHD will continue their current treatment; however
      methylprednisolone dose will be reduced to ≤ 1 mg/kg/day or an equivalent dose of prednisone.

      Oral sitagliptin will be commenced at a dose of 100 mg BID. The dose will be increased by 100
      mg every three days up to a maximal dose of 300 mg BID. In the case of significant drug
      related side effects or drug intolerance, the last tolerated dose will be resumed. Patients
      responding well to lower doses of sitagliptin, will not be given higher doses of the drug.
      Sitagliptin will be provided as long as deemed effective by the treating physician up to
      three months.

      The primary end point will be the proportion of patients achieving CR, VGPR or PR by day 28.
      The secondary endpoints will be safety profile, proportion of patients achieving CR, VGPR or
      PR by day 56, 6-month duration of response (time from first response to GVHD progression or
      death), proportion of patients discontinuing immunosuppressive treatment by 3 and 6 months,
      proportion of patients developing chronic GVHD (limited and extensive) by 6 months, time to
      response, specific organ response, biomarker profile (ST2 and REG3a), Infection profile, OS
      at 6 months, GVHD free - disease free survival at 6 months.
    
  