
    
      Clostridium difficile is an anaerobe, spore-forming bacillus. Infections with its
      toxin-producing strains are capable of causing CD associated enteral disease ranging in
      severity from mild diarrhea to fatal fulminant colitis. CD infection(CDI) occurs among
      patients who have taken antibiotics previously, suggesting that the normal gut flora is
      capable of preventing CDI. The disease is mainly treated with antibiotics, however, these
      antibiotics show high therapeutic failure and recurrence rates. There is significant interest
      in the development of alternative therapeutic strategies. Among the alternative methods only
      faecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) is gaining acceptance due to its excellent cure rate
      and low recurrence rate. FMT is a new approach to treating CDI, since no further antibiotics
      are administered, instead the normal gut flora being restored by administering faecal
      homogenisate from a healthy donor. Immediate risks of FMT are minimal, its efficacy is
      excellent,but further data is required about its short and long term safety, its most
      appropriate timing during the course of CDI and the optimal technical protocol for preparing
      the fecal homogenisate. In addition, the procedure is also challenging and the intervention
      itself is unappealing in nature. To address the challenges described above a novel faecal
      transplantation system has been designed (Burgin-Matic System, BMS), which is suitable for
      the production of faecal bacterial suspension in a standardized and controlled environment.
      Using this new approach, a multi-center,prospective,interventional clinical study involving
      two groups of patients has been designed: 1. In a non-randomized group("R") the safety and
      efficacy of FMT with the new, automated transplantation system will be assessed on 50
      patients suffering from "R"ecurrent CDI. 2. In a randomized group ("F") FMT will be compared
      with the gold standard vancomycin treatment for 2x50 patients, with their "F"irst episode of
      CDI, suffering from severe infection or at risk of developing recurrent or severe disease and
      not responding to at least 72 hours of antibiotic treatment. In the non-randomized
      group("R"), the safety and efficacy of FMT will be assessed,with the hypothesis that FMT with
      the BMS is equally safe and effective(non-inferior)as reported in the international studies.
      In the randomized group ("F") primary endpoints will be the clinical cure rate at various
      time points, global cure rate at 10 weeks, time to clinical cure and time to global cure,
      while as secondary endpoints the cost effectiveness, quality of life, mortality will be
      assessed also. Our hypothesis is, that FMT with the BMS is superior to vancomycin treatment
      in terms of primary and secondary endpoints for these patients.
    
  