
    
      Protocol number: CINC424A2X01B Full title An open label, multi-center, Phase IV rollover
      protocol for patients who have completed a prior global Novartis or Incyte sponsored
      ruxolitinib (INC424) study or ruxolitinib and panobinostat (LBH589) combination study, and
      are judged by the investigator to benefit from continued treatment.

      Brief title An open label, multi-center, Phase IV rollover protocol to evaluate long term
      safety data Sponsor and Clinical Phase: Novartis, IV Investigation type Drug Study type
      Interventional Purpose and rationale The purpose of this study is to evaluate long term
      safety data and to allow patients continued use of ruxolitinib monotherapy or combination of
      ruxolitinib and panobinostat who have been receiving treatment in a Novartis-sponsored Global
      Drug Development (GDD) or Global Medical Affairs (GMA) study or Incyte-sponsored study that
      has reached its study objectives, are not progressing on the current study treatment as
      defined by the parent protocol, have completed their obligations, and are unable to access
      ruxolitinib or combination of ruxolitinib and panobinostat outside of a clinical trial.
      Patients must be benefiting from treatment as judged by the investigator at the completion of
      the parent study.

      Primary Objective(s) To evaluate long term safety data i.e. SAEs and AEs Secondary Objectives
      To evaluate clinical benefit as assessed by the investigator.

      Study design This is a multi-center, open label study to evaluate long term safety of
      ruxolitinib monotherapy or combination of ruxolitinib and panobinostat in patients from a
      Novartis-sponsored Global Drug Development (GDD) or Global Medical Affairs (GMA) study or
      Incyte-sponsored study that has reached its study objectives, or who are not progressing on
      the current study treatment or who are on parent study and have completed their obligations
      and are unable to access ruxolitinib or combination of ruxolitinib and panobinostat, outside
      of a clinical study, and are benefiting from treatment as judged by the investigator at the
      completion of the parent study.

      Population Male and female patients who are currently enrolled in a Novartis-sponsored Global
      Drug Development (GDD) or Global Medical Affairs (GMA) study or Incyte-sponsored study that
      has reached its study objectives, or who are not progressing on the current study treatment
      as defined by the parent protocol, or who are on parent study and have completed their
      obligations and are unable to access ruxolitinib or combination of ruxolitinib and
      panobinostat outside of a clinical study. Patients must be benefiting from treatment as
      judged by the investigator at the completion of the parent study. This rollover study allows
      patients from parent studies with indications including but not limited to myelofibrosis
      (MF), polycythemia vera (PV), acute GvHD (aGvVHD) or chronic GvHD (cGvHD). The study must be
      in the process of being completed & reported.

      For Pediatric GvHD Population*:

      • Male and females ages ≥28 days to <18 years old with either grade II-IV aGvHD or grade
      II-IV SR-aGvHD or with either moderate to severe treatment-naive cGvHD or SR-cGvHD

      *Pediatric GvHD population herein refers to both pediatric and adolescents from parent
      protocols: CINC424F12201 (REACH-4) and CINC424G12201 (REACH-5).

      Key Inclusion criteria Patient is currently enrolled in a Novartis-sponsored Global Drug
      Development (GDD) or Global Medical Affairs (GMA) study or Incyte-sponsored study (where
      Incyte can delegate the sponsorship to a preferred CRO, if applicable) that is approved to
      enroll into this rollover study, and are receiving either ruxolitinib or combination of
      ruxolitinib and panobinostat, and fulfilled all of the requirements of the parent protocol.

      Patient is currently benefiting from the treatment with ruxolitinib monotherapy or
      combination of ruxolitinib and panobinostat, as determined by the investigator.

      Key Exclusion criteria Patient has been permanently discontinued from study treatment in the
      parent study due to any reason.

      Patient's indication is currently approved and reimbursed in the local country for
      ruxolitinib monotherapy or other study drugs in the combination treatment (panobinostat).

      Investigational and reference therapy INC424 / ruxolitinib / Jakavi / Jakafi (United States
      [US] brand) LBH589 / panobinostat / Farydak Efficacy assessments At every quarterly visit,
      the investigator is required to confirm that the patient continues to have clinical benefit
      and may continue receiving ruxolitinib monotherapy or combination of ruxolitinib and
      panobinostat.

      Safety assessments Frequency and nature of adverse events and serious adverse events GvHD
      Patient Population: At every quarterly visit, the investigator is required to confirm any
      infections or, second primary malignancies under Adverse Events.

      Pediatric GvHD population*: At every yearly visit, the investigator is to determine the
      Tanner staging (if applicable).

      *Pediatric GvHD population herein refers to both pediatric and adolescents from parent
      protocols: CINC424F12201 (REACH-4) and CINC424G12201 (REACH-5).

      Adolescent and Pediatric GvHD Patients: height and weight monitoring is required yearly by
      the investigator until 18 years old.

      Other assessments Not applicable Data analysis The statistical analysis will be descriptive
      only, summarizing safety data and clinical benefit as assessed by the investigator, for the
      overall population and by indication. The incidence of treatment emergent adverse events will
      be summarized by system organ class and/or preferred term, type of adverse event, severity
      (based on CTCAE grades), and relation to study treatment.

      For pediatric GvHD patients ≤18 years of age, height and Body Mass Index (BMI) will be
      summarized at yearly intervals, using descriptive statistics. All height/BMI data will be
      listed. ingThe statistical analysis will mainly focus on be imited to report frequency and
      severity of AEs and SAEs as outlined in Section 10.

      Key words JAK inhibitor, Rollover Protocol
    
  