
    
      Chronic pain (CP), defined as persistent (>6 months), non-malignant, musculoskeletal or
      generalized pain, is a prevalent and costly public health problem. CP is highly prevalent
      among Veterans; 30-40% of Veterans have moderate to severe CP. CP has a significant negative
      impact on mental health and quality of life. CP is associated with declines in physical and
      social functioning, decreased activity levels, anxiety, negative mood, and depression.
      Approximately 1.6 million Veterans Health Administration (VHA) enrolled Veterans have CP and
      psychological distress associated with mental health comorbidities, including posttraumatic
      stress disorder (PTSD; ~50%), depression (~25%), and anxiety disorder(s) (~25%). Despite this
      urgent clinical need and extraordinary economic and societal costs, there are currently no
      evidence-based psychosocial interventions that simultaneously target comorbid mental health
      symptoms and CP interference in Veterans.

      The Veterans Health Administration and National Center for Complementary and Integrative
      Health have similarly prioritized the use of complementary and integrative health approaches
      for the treatment of complex physical and mental health conditions. Currently, forty percent
      of Veterans with CP report using these approaches, and 70% of non-users would use these
      approaches if they were offered at the VA.

      Compassion meditation (CM), a meditative practice that focuses on the wish to remove
      suffering, is a contemplative practice that has promise for the amelioration of physical and
      mental health problems as well as promoting positive affect and improving quality of life. CM
      has been shown to decrease anxiety and depressive symptoms in clinical populations, and is
      associated with reductions in pain severity, pain disability, pain catastrophizing,
      psychological distress, pain-related anxiety and depression, and pain-related anger in
      civilians with CP. CBCT (Cognitively-Based Compassion Training), a manualized CM protocol, is
      associated with reduced stress-related immune responses, improved negative affect, and
      reduced suicidality and depression in civilians. CBCT has also been shown to increase social
      connectedness and positive affect, and reduce depressive and PTSD symptoms in Veterans.

      With this randomized controlled trial (RCT), the investigators will evaluate the efficacy of
      Cognitively-Based Compassion Training for Chronic Pain with Psychological Comorbidity
      (CBCT-CP+). The trial will compare CBCT-CP+ to Health Education while Living with Pain
      (H.E.L.P.) control condition, in a sample of 126 Veterans with CP conditions and
      psychological comorbidities. The rationale for the proposed study of compassion meditation
      for CP with psychological comorbidity is motivated by (1) a pressing clinical need, (2) a
      clear theoretical model, and (3) initial evidence of its safety, feasibility and potential
      positive clinical effect for improving psychiatric conditions among Veterans.

      Findings from this study could inform clinical practice and policy by investigating whether a
      compassion-based intervention targeting both CP and psychological comorbidities will improve
      treatment outcomes for Veterans. Further, results of the trial will lay the groundwork for
      multi-site studies that would attempt to determine efficacy of CBCT-CP+ across VA clinics and
      formally investigate putative mechanisms of treatment effects. This work could ultimately
      lead to better care for Veterans, greater patient and therapist satisfaction, and lower
      healthcare and societal costs.
    
  