
    
      Muscle power is one of the most important parameters in almost every athletic action, and
      expresses the ability of the human muscle to produce great amounts of force with the greatest
      possible speed. Thus, muscle power is critical for high performance in athletic actions such
      as jumping, throwing, change of direction and sprinting.

      For enhancing their muscle power, athletes comprise several resistance training programs as
      part of their training. Core exercises as long as Olympic lifting has been used in muscle
      power training. The loads that are applied regarding the accomplishment of the most favorable
      power production are varying. Training load of 0% 1RM favored power production at the
      countermovement squat jump, while loads of 56% 1rm and 80% 1RM, favored the power production
      at squat and hang clean, respectively. Additionally, In the recent years, accentuated
      eccentric training has been proposed as a new training method for the enhancement of muscle
      power. This method emphasizes the eccentric component of the muscle contraction, and there is
      evidence supporting the greater production of muscle force after accentuated eccentric
      training compared with the typical resistance exercise training method.

      Taking the above into consideration, muscle power training comprises of eccentric muscle
      actions, and the magnitude of the eccentric component depends on the emphasis that is given
      on the concentric or eccentric action, respectively, of the muscles during the exercises.
      However, eccentric muscle action, especially when unaccustomed, can lead to exercise-induced
      muscle damage (EIMD). Although concentric and isometric exercise may also lead to muscle
      injury, the amount of damage after eccentric muscle contractions is greater. EIMD, amongst
      others, is accompanied by increased levels of creatine kinase (CK) into the circulation,
      increased delayed onset of muscle soreness (DOMS), reduction of force production, reduction
      of flexibility speed.

      Despite the fact that muscle power training comprises eccentric muscle actions, and
      consequently can lead to muscle injury and muscle performance reduction during the following
      days, the recovery kinetics after acute muscle power training protocols have not been
      adequately studied. However, information regarding the recovery of the muscles after a power
      training protocol, is critical for the correct design of a training microcycle, and the
      reduction of injury risk.

      The aim of the present study is to investigate the muscle injury provoked after muscle acute
      power training using three different power training exercise protocols. Additionally, the
      effect of these protocols on muscle performance and neuromuscular fatigue indices will be
      examined.
    
  