
    
      The study will be a randomised, single-blinded study comparing oxygen with air in Chronic
      Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) patients undergoing Pulmonary Rehabilitation (PR).

      The study subjects will be patients with a confirmed diagnosis of COPD who have been accepted
      for PR and who are not hypoxemic at rest, but have exercise-induced desaturation (defined as
      a fall in oxygen saturations (SaO2) ≥4% to at least <90%, or any fall to a SaO2 <90%) and
      demonstrate positive improvement with use of ambulatory oxygen as per the British Thoracic
      Society 2015 Oxygen guidelines. It is standard practice for patients to have this assessment
      prior to commencing PR and as part of the assessment the flow rate required to increase the
      SaO2 to ≥90% during exercise will be determined. Patients will be recruited from PR programs
      at imperial college health care trust hospitals.

      The subjects will be randomised to receive either oxygen at the flow rate determined at the
      initial assessment to a maximum flow rate of 6 litres per minute, or room air. The subjects
      will then undergo a standard program of PR over 6 - 8 weeks and then undergo reassessment. 20
      patients are required in each group to detect a 30% effect size on the 6 minute walk test
      (6MWT) with 80% power at the 5% significance level and 29 patients in each group to detect a
      25% effect with 80% power. Therefore a minimum of 20 patients per group will be included.

      Baseline assessments prior to commencing PR will include symptom and quality of life
      assessments including Borg scale for assessment of breathlessness, Chronic Respiratory
      Questionnaire (CRQ), COPD Assessment Tool (CAT) and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression score
      (HAD). A 6 minute walk test (6MWT) will be carried out as this is a widely used and well
      validated tool to measure exercise capacity. A handheld dynamometer will be used to obtain
      more detailed measures of quadriceps muscle strength. In addition we will measure activity at
      home during and after PR using pedometers as this has never been investigated
      previously.These are simple devices that can be attached to patients and count the numbers of
      steps during a day and therefore provide an estimate of activity in the home environment. A
      yamax Digi-walker SW-200 pedometer will be used to count the number of steps taken per day.
      Patients will be instructed to wear the device on left side of the body all the time, except
      when sleeping or showering. Pedometer placement was standardised by placing it on the belt or
      waistband, in the midline of the thigh, consistent with the manufacturers recommendation and
      with other studies conducted previously. Patients will be record daily step counts on daily
      diary cards until their final follow up.

      The measures of exercise capacity at the follow up assessment will be carried out off oxygen
      and will be carried out by an observer blinded as to whether they received oxygen or not
      during PR. All patients will be provided with ambulatory oxygen for domiciliary use after
      completing PR.

      The hypothesis is that use of oxygen in selected patients improves exercise capacity during
      PR. The measurable aims will be exercise capacity and on-going usage of oxygen in this
      patient group.

      Primary Objective

      Assess the effects of ambulatory oxygen on outcomes from Pulmonary Rehabilitation

      Secondary Objectives

        1. Assess the proportion of patients that wish to continue to use ambulatory oxygen.

        2. Assess the usage of ambulatory oxygen following completion of Pulmonary Rehabilitation

        3. Assess whether initiation of ambulatory oxygen before or after PR has any influence on
           adherence to usage at 8 and 12 weeks.
    
  