
    
      COPD is one of the fastest growing conditions in the world, affecting over 16 million people
      in the US and over 1 million in Canada and costing society over $23 billion per annum (in the
      US). Its prevalence has risen by 41% since 1982, and the age-adjusted death rate has
      increased by 17% between 1966 and 1982 (in contrast to the decline in the age-adjusted death
      rates from all other causes during the same time period). By 2020, COPD will become the third
      leading cause of death (currently 4th representing 5% of all deaths worldwide) and 5th
      leading cause of disability (currently 12th) worldwide. Ironically, despite the rapidly
      growing public health burden of COPD, it is the most underfunded disease among all major
      causes of mortality in North America. Despite some progress in the management of COPD over
      the past two decades, there is still a paucity of efficacious therapies that can effectively
      modify the natural course of this disease.

      There is a growing interest in nocturnal non-invasive mechanical ventilation (NIMV) therapy
      for long-term COPD management for several reasons. It may restore inspiratory rate, which
      diminishes by 30% during rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, improve gas exchange, and rest
      chronically tired respiratory muscles in COPD. Indeed, several uncontrolled studies have
      provided some empirical evidence to support the use of nocturnal NIMV in COPD. However, there
      is a paucity of well-designed controlled trials evaluating this novel therapy particularly
      for COPD patients at a high-risk for morbidity and mortality.

      In this proposal, we will implement a randomized controlled trial to determine whether
      nocturnal NIMV applied for 3 months: 1) improves (disease-specific) health related quality of
      life (HRQL) of COPD patients compared to a control group of patients treated with sham NIMV
      therapy (primary outcome); 2) improves exercise tolerance and walking capacity of COPD
      patients; 3) reduces the number of clinical relapses in COPD patients; 4) improves heart rate
      variability and decreases sympathetic tone in COPD; and 5) is a "cost-effective" therapy.

      We will carefully select COPD patients ready for discharge from an acute care hospital and
      will be invited to participate in this trial. Participants will then undergo a "run-in" phase
      of 4 weeks during which their clinical status will be stabilized. Patients experiencing a
      clinical exacerbation during the "run-in" phase will be excluded from the study. After the
      "run-in" phase, patients will be randomly assigned to one of two groups: nocturnal NIMV
      therapy + standard medical therapy or "sham" + standard medical therapy. The Chronic
      Respiratory Questionnaire (CRQ) and the Health Utilities Index Mark 2/3 (HUI 2 and HUI 3)
      will be used to measure HRQL of study participants at baseline and then at 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 and
      12 weeks. We will also measure the study participants' exacerbation rate during the study
      period. A six-minute walk test will be used to determine the walking capacity of the study
      participants. In addition, 2-D echocardiography and 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic
      monitoring will be used to determine the effect of nocturnal NIMV on cardiac performance over
      a 3 month period. Finally, we will perform a comprehensive economic analysis to determine the
      costs as well as the benefits associated with the nocturnal NIMV therapy.

      We anticipate that this study will show that those treated with nocturnal NIMV therapy will
      have better HRQL at 3 months compared to those on sham therapy and this will be associated
      with improved walking capacity and decreased rates of exacerbation. We also anticipate that
      nocturnal NIMV therapy will improve heart rate variability and lower pulmonary arterial
      pressure (during daytime).
    
  