
    
      Phase 1: Formative Study

      A 3-month formative study with a community advisory group at the Modonna Center to co-design
      the study protocol (the content and delivery format of the exercise programs, recruitment and
      retention procedures and strategies, and procedures of study assessments).

      The research team and the community advisory group (n=10) met weekly with the goal of making
      FE-SaLiR appealing to older Latino adults while maintaining the integrity of Chinese medicine
      exercises. Areas modified include the sequence of the exercises, difficulty level of the
      exercises, verbal instruction, background music, and visual aids (as compared to the official
      video published by the General Administration of Sport of China), etc. An English instruction
      video with the modified components was developed for phase 2 of the proposed study.

      The group identified the barriers and enablers in health promotion programs for low-income,
      low-literacy, minority populations, and develop the strategies to engage and motivate the
      study participants.

      The advisory group also guided the investigators in developing a process evaluation plan that
      provides insightful information on the acceptability of FE-SaLiR from the study participants
      in Phase 2 of the proposed study.

      Phase 2: Pilot Intervention

      Using a three-arm design, 3 senior centers were assigned to one of three conditions: 1) Wu
      Qin Xi and Ba Duan Jin unmodified; 2) FE-SaLiR: the modified Wu Qin Xi and Ba Duan Jin; 3)
      active control. The interventions will be delivered from February 2020 to May 2020. A total
      of 60 senior adults were expected to be enrolled in the study at baseline.

      Data collection will be conducted at baseline and immediate post-intervention and include
      measures on physical and cognitive function, biometrics, health surveys, and mindfulness.

      Recruitment: Participant recruitment started 1-month before the intervention by sending
      recruitment packets to senior centers. This packet includes a study information sheet, a
      recruitment flyer, and an informed consent form.

      Process Evaluation: The process evaluation is informed by Phase I formative study.
      Qualitative and quantitative information on class attendance, home-exercise logs, class
      observation checklist, and participant's evaluation of the exercise will be collected. Focus
      group discussions will also be conducted regarding participants' experiences and with the
      goal of obtaining their input in planning a senior-friendly physical activity program.
    
  