
    
      The primary aim of this multicentre randomized controlled trial is to compare the incisional
      hernia incidence one year after planned colorectal cancer surgery performed through a midline
      incision which is closed either by a standardized small stitch 4:1 technique or with the same
      technique plus a reinforced tension-line suture. A difference in incisional hernia of 10%
      (15% without and 5% with reinforced tension-line suture) is assumed and requires inclusion of
      169 patients in each group (significance level=5%, power=80% and compensation for a 20%
      drop-out). Patients planned for colorectal surgery due to a cancer are eligible for
      inclusion. Exclusion criteria are: age below 18, ASA>3, former operation for incisional
      hernia in the midline, present hernia, perop findings of peritoneal carcinomatosis eligible
      for peritonealectomy, patient unable to take part in planned follow-up and patient not
      willing to take part in the study.

      Secondary aims are to evaluate incidences of wound dehiscence, other wound complications and
      incisional hernia after 3 years. Furthermore we aim to evaluate costs for incisional hernia
      treatment during 3 years as well as patient satisfaction and quality of life.

      Patient base-line characteristics, operative and postop characteristics will be recorded in
      inclusion- and op-protocols and protocols for clinical follow-up at 1 month, 1 and 3 years.
      Standard 1 and 3 years CT-scans will be examined for incisional hernia. At 1 and 3 years the
      patients will be asked to fill out an abdominal wall discomfort enquiry as well as the QoL
      questionnaire EQ-5D-5L.

      The study will be performed at 3 surgical clinics in the Region of Skane in Sweden: Malmö,
      Kristianstad and Ystad. Inclusion started this autumn and are estimated to be completed after
      somewhat more than 2 years. The last follow-up will thereby take place after an additional 3
      years (2022).
    
  