
    
      This open label, multicenter, before-and-after trial study was carried out in three
      hospitals, Hospital das Clínicas of São Paulo University Medical School, Hospital São Paulo
      of São Paulo Federal University and Hospital Padre Albino.

      Subsequently obtaining IRB approval (Ethical Committee N° 0616/06 HCFMUSP) and written
      informed consent, high-risk patients undergoing open major surgery under general anesthesia
      and who required ICU admission postoperatively were enrolled from June 2007 to April 2008
      (control period), followed by a phase-out period (April 2008 to July 2008) and an
      intervention period (July 2008 to June 2010).

      High-risk surgical patients were defined as those 60 years of age or older referred to
      postoperative ICU care due to the presence of at least one clinical comorbidity such as
      coronary artery disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cerebrovascular disease, poor
      nutritional status, a predicted intraoperative period greater than 6 hours or predicted acute
      massive blood loss. All of these criteria have been used in previous studies, and they were
      adopted for this study. Patients with severe aortic regurgitation, cardiac arrhythmias,
      congestive heart failure, patients undergoing renal replacement therapy, those undergoing
      palliative surgery were excluded from the study.

      Patients were enrolled into a standard fluid resuscitation period (Control group) or a
      goal-directed fluid-management group based on pulse pressure variation during the
      intervention period (Intervention group). Following the control period, the three-month
      phase-out period included education and preparation of all anesthesiology staff and logistic
      arrangements for the evaluation of fluid responsiveness using automated PPV measurements.
      Finally, the intervention period was replicated in the same season of the year as the control
      period.

      Anesthesia care and fluid management Intraoperative monitoring standards for high-risk
      patients in all institutions included electrocardiography, invasive arterial blood pressure
      catheters, pulse oximetry, temperature monitoring, and measurement of inspiratory and
      expiratory gas concentrations. Additional intraoperative monitoring such as central venous
      catheterization was indicated on an individual basis by the attending anesthesiologist. In
      the interventional phase, however, intraoperative fluid adjustment was strictly directed by
      online PPV assessment.

      In the control period, patients were given intravenous fluids at the discretion of the
      anesthesiologist based on institutional protocol using 250ml of crystalloids or 100ml of
      colloids based on central venous pressure (CVP) and mean arterial pressure (MAP)
      measurements. The aim was to keep the CVP ≥ 8mmHg and MAP ≥ 65mmHg. Fluid boluses were
      administered up to a total of 1000ml, if patients did not attain a MAP of >65 mmHg, a
      vasopressor drug was administered. During this initial phase, the anesthesiologists were
      blind to the enrollment of the patient in the study. In the interventional phase of the
      study, fluids boluses of colloids were given to maintain continuously measured PPV at 10% or
      less.

      In order to evaluate PPV during surgery, an arterial line was connected to a monitor (DX
      2020, Dixtal, São Paulo, SP, Brasil) specifically developed to detect respiratory variations
      in the arterial pressure curve, allowing for the automatic calculation of beat to beat pulse
      pressure, as previously described. PPV was calculated using the following formula:

      PPV = 100 × (PPmax - PPmin)/[(PPmax + PPmin)/2] The mean value of PPV was automatically
      calculated over three consecutive floating periods of eight respiratory cycles and the median
      value of this triple determination was displayed on the multiparameter monitor and updated
      after each new respiratory cycle. The shape of the arterial curve was checked visually for
      damping throughout the study period. The respective hemodynamic protocols in both groups were
      continued until the end of surgery.

      In the interventional period, the mechanical ventilator settings were adjusted using the
      following parameters: a) a tidal volume of 8 mL.kg-1 (ideal body weight) in volume control
      mode; b) an inspiratory time of 33% of the respiratory cycle; c) 5 cmH2O positive end
      expiratory pressure and d) respiratory rate adjusted to maintain an end-tidal capnometry of
      35 mmHg to enable the measurement of PPV.

      During the postoperative period, critical care and ward teams not involved in the
      intraoperative management or in data collection managed the patients. These individuals were
      not informed of patient allocation groups or study period.

      Data Collection and Monitoring During the study, an investigator not participating in patient
      care collected all study data prospectively up until hospital discharge or patient death.
      Age, weight, height, sex, comorbidities such as cirrhosis, chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease, hypertension, peripheral vascular disease, coronary artery disease, other cardiac
      disease, diabetes mellitus and cerebrovascular disease were recorded preoperatively as well
      as standard routine biochemical blood tests were performed. Mechanical ventilation settings,
      PPV values at 30 minutes' intervals, the use of vasopressors and inotropes and the duration
      of surgery were recorded during intraoperative. Heart rate (HR), mean arterial pressure
      (MAP), peripheral capillary oxygen saturation (SpO2), hemoglobin concentration and esophageal
      temperature were registered at the beginning and at the end of the surgical procedure. When
      available, central venous pressure (CVP) was recorded at the end of the surgery. The total
      volumes of crystalloids, colloids and blood products, percentage of patients receiving red
      blood cell transfusion, and use of vasopressors and inotropic drugs were recorded.

      After ICU admission and 24 hours later, the following parameters were collected: HR, MAP,
      SpO2, CVP and arterial lactate concentration. In the ICU, the total volumes of infused
      crystalloids, colloids and hemocomponents were recorded as well as the percentage of patients
      receiving red blood cell pack (RBCP) unit transfusion. Postoperative complications were
      assessed daily until patient discharge according to previously published criteria: 1)
      vasopressor need was named circulatory shock defined by the need for continuous
      norepinephrine infusion after adequate fluid adjustment; 2) major ICU infections (lung,
      abdominal, urinary tract, line-related sepsis or wound infections); 3) respiratory
      dysfunction, defined as recently as recent partial pressure of oxygen in arterial
      blood/fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) of <200 without prior patient history; 4) need for
      reoperation; 5) need for mechanical ventilation; 6) hematologic dysfunction, defined as a
      platelet count of < 100,000/μL or prothrombin activity of <50%; 7) bleeding events that
      needed transfusion of platelets or coagulation factors; 8) • renal dysfunction, defined as a
      urine output of <500 mL/day, a serum creatinine level of >1.9 mg/dL, or dialysis for acute
      renal failure; and/or; 9) hepatic dysfunction, defined as a serum bilirubin level of >1.9
      mg/dL. Postoperative length of stay and mortality were also recorded.

      Upon completion of data collection from each patient, an independent Data Safety and
      Monitoring Board (DSMB) member conducted data quality monitoring by comparing the collected
      study information to the information contained in institutional medical records.

      Data analysis The primary outcome of this study was postoperative length of stay. The
      secondary outcomes included the volume of infused fluids, RBCP transfusion, incidence of
      organ dysfunction, the incidence of postoperative complications and a composite outcome
      encompassing postoperative complications and hospital mortality rate. By using the minimal
      clinically significant difference between groups, eighty-one patients were required in each
      group to find a reduction of 2 days (from 14±5 days in the Control Group to 12±4 days in the
      Intervention Group), with a Type-I error of 0.05 (one-sided) and a power of 0.8.
    
  