
    
      Two common SNPs (c.919 A>G, pT307A, rs 6165 and c.2039 A>G, p.N680S, rs6166) are located in
      linkage disequilibrium in exon 10 of FSHR. The 2039 A>G variant is regularly analyzed to
      characterize the exon 10 haplotype.

      It is well known that follice-stimulating hormone (FSH) receptor (FSHR) polymorphism p.N680S
      mediates different responses to FSH in vitro, and this polymorphism is associated with the
      ovarian response in controlled ovarian hyperstimulation. In the last years, FSHR gene
      polymorphisms have been studied as potential risk factors for spermatogenetic failure. It is
      shown an influence of FSHR 2039 A>G on FSH levels and testicular volume. Trends of higher FSH
      and lower testicular volume were observed in G-allele carriers (Ala307/Ser680). Men
      homozygous for Thr307/Asn680 had a lower mean serum FSH concentration compared with men with
      other genotypes. In addition, sperm concentrations and the total sperm counts were higher and
      their testes volumes were larger. Another clinical study showed that the patients with
      heterozygous Thr/Ala + Asn/Ser combined genotype were 2.65 times more susceptible to
      infertility than the control group. It is also shown the higher sensitivity of the receptor
      in FSHR 2039 A>G AA homozygotes1-2. A recent Cochrane review showed a beneficial effect on
      live birth and pregnancy of gonadotrophin treatment for men with idiopathic male factor
      subfertility. These study suggest that the analysis of this gene represents a valid
      pharmacogenetic approach to the treatment of male infertility, confirming also the importance
      of strict criteria for the selection of patients to be treated with FSH. Which FSHR
      polymorphism can benefit from FSH treatment is clinically very important, in particular for
      what regards nonidiopathic patients. It is also relevant from a pharmacoeconomic point of
      view. In many andrological units, patients underwent adiuvant therapy with purified or
      recombinant FSH after varicocelectomy. FSH treatment in patients after varicocelectomy could
      improve spermatogenesis, but there aren't multicentric trials that confirm its validity.
      Usually, in our hospital only patients with a morphologic aspect of hypospermatogenesis
      underwent therapy with purified or recombinant FSH, because this therapy is not much useful
      in patient with Partial Sertoli-cell-only syndrome or maturation arrest. The purpose of our
      study is to correlate "non responder" patients who underwent FSH adiuvant therapy after
      varicocele surgery with a p.N680S FSHR polymorphism. Moreover the investigators suppose that
      "non responder" patients can beneficiate from a high-dose therapy with FSH.

      This is a prospective intervention study in which are recruited males with
      OligoAstenoTeratozoospermic (OAT) and varicocele. The partecipants will undergo subinguinal
      microsurgical varicocelectomy (Marmar technique) and needle aspiration testicular cytology
      (Foresta technique). One-hundred patients with a morphologic aspect of hypospermatogenesis at
      testicular cytology will take recombinant follitropin alfa 150UI i.m. 3 times/week for at
      least three month. At 3th month the partecipants will have a semen analyses, without
      interrupting the treatment, and the FSHR gene polymorphism p.N680S characterization with PCR
      in high resolution melting HRM from DNA extracted by a simple blood sample. Patients who will
      have a significative increase in at least two parameters of semen, will be considered
      "responders" while patients in which semen parameters will not improve or worsen will be
      considered "non responders". "Responders" patients will interrupt their therapy and will have
      a new semen analyses at six month to verify the maintenance of their semen parameters after
      only three months of therapy. "Non responders" patients will take a daily dose of rFSH 150 UI
      for additional three months, because the investigators suppose that men with specific
      polymorphisms who don't response to therapy need an higher dose to stimulate spermatogenesis
      and to have a spontaneous pregnancy. At 6th month also these patients will have a new semen
      analyses in order to verify if there are some improvements in their spermatogenesis.
    
  