
    
      Peri-operative hypothermia can have deleterious effects. While there is no standard
      consistent definition within the literature mild hypothermia is commonly defined as a core
      temperature between 34 and 36 °C. Mild hypothermia has been shown to increase the occurrence
      of surgical site infections, cardiac morbidity, coagulopathy leading to increased blood loss
      and transfusion requirements, impaired drug metabolism, and prolonged emergence from
      anesthesia. In addition, there is evidence that maintaining intra-operative normothermia can
      shorten hospital length of stay. Despite the fact that intra-operative temperature monitoring
      and warming are considered standard of care, peri-operative hypothermia in total joint
      arthroplasty patients remains an issue for several reasons. A large proportion of patient
      undergoing joint replacement are elderly, making them susceptible to peri-operative
      hypothermia. In addition, regional anesthesia causes vasodilation and promotes heat flow from
      the core to the periphery and impairs central and autonomic thermoregulation such that
      patients receiving neuraxial anesthesia can be particularly susceptible to perioperative
      hypothermia. Finally, core temperature monitoring is typically not used during regional
      anesthesia and hypothermia may go undetected for long periods of time.

      The primary goal of this study was to examine the incidence of hypothermia during lower
      extremity arthroplasty. A secondary aim was to identify patient and operative factors
      associated with hypothermia in order to improve future preventative strategies. Our
      hypothesis was that peri-operative hypothermia occurs in the majority of patients undergoing
      lower extremity arthroplasty. In addition, we hypothesized that certain patient and
      anesthetic factors (such as low body mass index and receiving general anesthesia) would
      increase the incidence of hypothermia.
    
  