
    
      After inclusion and exclusion criteria has been determined and approved, written informed
      consent will be obtained from the candidate. All medical history relevant to the diagnosis of
      AML will be collected.

      Screening period:

      The screening period could extend from 0 to 7 days depending on the completion of screening
      laboratory results as below.

      On day -5 (up to day -1), the patient will undergo a screening test for the following test
      items:

        -  BUN, creatinine, electrolyte, liver function test (LFT)

        -  Full blood count (FBC), including blood smear

        -  Hepatitis B/C

        -  Human T lymphocytic virus type I and II (HTLV-I/II)

        -  HIV1/2

        -  Syphilis serology

        -  Mycoplasma serology For Hepatitis B/C,HTLV-I/II, HIV1/2, Syphilis serology, and
           Mycoplasma serology, these tests obtained up to 3 months prior to day -5 can be allowed
           for using as screening result.

        -  Chest X-ray

        -  Bone marrow study including aspiration with wright's stain, biopsy, flow cytometry, and
           chromosome study (Any molecular testing for AML is optional.).

      Bone marrow biopsy can be omitted if the prior study performed within 14 days before day-5
      and the available materials (core biopsy and slides) and result can be obtained for
      pathological review. In this case, only bone marrow aspiration for Wright's stain, flow
      cytometry, and chromosome study will be performed.

      Bone marrow biopsy will be repeated if the previous result has been performed more than 14
      days prior to day -5 and/or FBC at day -5 reveals peripheral blast count higher than 10% of
      total white blood cells.

      For chromosome study (cytogenetics), the previous result before the recent line of
      chemotherapy prior to enrollment can be used for the screening data.

      On day 0, peripheral blood will then be collected, ranging from 250mL to 400mL depending on
      candidate fitness. The blood is collected into a sterile blood bag and sealed. Subsequent
      processes will be conducted in the blood bag within a closed-system to minimize contamination
      risks. FBC will be collected in order to determine the disease status. After that, the
      investigator will consider to prescribe blood transfusion for the candidate.

      On day 0 to day 3, the collected blood will be sent to the laboratory for stem cell culture,
      and a sample of the collected blood will be sent to a third-party laboratory for
      contamination testing of the following parameters:

        -  Bacterial endotoxin

        -  Total viable aerobic count

        -  Total viable count

        -  Microbial growth

        -  Mycoplasma real-time PCR test

      On day 4, the biotest results will be released and the safety profiles of the AMPC product
      must be completed and passed before the cultured stem cells may be released for treatment

      On day 5, candidates will receive an infusion of the cultured stem cells. Prior to the
      infusion, FBC and blood chemistry (BUN, Cr, electrolyte, LFT) will be collected and the
      treating doctor will first conduct an allergy skin test to determine suitability for
      reinfusion. The cultured stem cells are then reinfused intravenously into the candidate in a
      process that could take up to 2 hours

      The candidate participation will take place on day 0 to day 1 or 2 (if blood transfusion is
      required) and day 5 (period adjusted for blood transfusion if required) for peripheral blood
      collection and stem cell reinfusion respectively; with 12 month follow up after treatment;

        -  3 days post-treatment follow-up: full blood count test and blood smear, BUN, Cr,
           electrolyte, LFT

        -  10 days post-treatment follow-up: full blood count test and blood smear, BUN, Cr,
           electrolyte, LFT

        -  1 month (+/-7 days) post-treatment follow-up: full blood count test and blood smear,
           BUN, Cr, electrolyte, LFT, bone marrow study

        -  3 month (+/-7 days) post-treatment follow-up: full blood count test and blood smear,
           BUN, Cr, electrolyte, LFT, bone marrow study

        -  6 month (+/-7 days) post-treatment follow-up: full blood count test with bone marrow
           study

        -  12 month (+/-7 days) post-treatment follow-up: full blood count test with bone marrow
           study
    
  