
    
      Choline (Cho) is an essential nutrient and most Americans' diets do not achieve the
      recommended intake. Diets low in Cho are associated with liver and muscle disease and with
      suboptimal fetal development, while diets too high in choline may be associated with
      increased risk for heart disease. Cho is a required nutrient and in 1998, an Adequate Intake
      (AI) and a Tolerable Upper Limit (UL) for Cho was established In 2016, the US Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) set a Recommended Daily Intake (RDI) for Cho based on the AIs as part of
      the new Nutrition Facts label for packaged foods (published in the Federal Register on May
      27, 2016; FDA-2012-N-1210-0875, Federal Register Number:2016-11867). The AI/RDI varies by age
      and gender, but is 550 mg/d in adolescent and adult men and 425 mg/d in adult women (more in
      pregnant and lactating women) and 400 mg/day for adolescent women.

      There is no validated biomarker for choline status (the availability of the various forms of
      Cho needed to sustain optimal cellular function). Measurement of plasma Cho concentrations is
      not adequate as plasma choline is homeostatically regulated. Based on extensive preliminary
      and published data this group identified a panel of potential biomarkers that could be used
      to assess Cho status, and now they propose studies to validate this biomarker panel against
      measures of Cho pool size using isotope dilution. The largest stores of Cho are located in
      the liver, and mass resonance spectroscopy (MRS) of liver has been used in the past to assess
      Cho status in humans. This method is not practical for use as a biomarker in clinical or
      public health practice as it is expensive and the availability of the instrumentation is
      limited. Liver biopsy is risky and not practical, making measurement of hepatic Cho and Cho
      metabolites concentrations a poor choice for assessing Cho status.

      Perhaps there is a panel of biomarkers that together will more accurately and reliably
      reflect Cho status. By making measurements in people fed 3 different dietary amounts of Cho
      for two weeks at a time, and comparing the biomarker measures to body total Cho pool size
      assessed using isotope dilution (a proxy for the availability of the various forms of Cho),
      investigators will be able to identify the combination of biomarkers and algorithm for
      calculating a Cho status score that best predicts total Cho pool size, and therefore predicts
      choline nutritional status (the availability of the various forms of Cho needed to sustain
      cellular function). In this pilot study, they are seeking to test a method for using stable
      isotope dilution to measure body choline stores, and then ask how this measure correlates
      with a panel of biomarkers in plasma and with liver fat measured using Fibroscan®. Using
      isotope dilution can provide an estimate of the size of the body pool of Cho. Our proposed
      method is conceptually similar to the method for measuring total body water from a bolus dose
      of labeled water. Similar methodology was used recently in studies of metabolic flux of Cho
      in pregnant women. Isotope dilution is a well-established method used to estimate pool size
      for other nutrients, such as vitamin A. Similar to vitamin A, the major storage pools for Cho
      are in the liver, and ingested Cho is rapidly absorbed and accumulated by liver. This pilot
      study tests a method for using stable isotope dilution to measure body choline stores, and it
      correlates this measure with a panel of biomarkers in plasma and with liver fat measured
      using Fibroscan®. People who eat diets low in choline should deplete their choline (Cho)
      stores, and measurement of Cho pool size using isotope dilution should reflect this
      depletion. The investigator will identify a biomarker panel that correlates well with
      measured Cho pool size across the range of different degrees of depletion. MRS/MRI scans will
      also be performed to investigate correlation between these "gold standard" measures and the
      other methods described above.

      Participants will be consume meals we provide in two week dietary intervals with 3 different
      levels of choline with 2 week washout periods between those dietary intervals. Participants
      will receive 100% of the recommended intake (RDI) of Cho (550mg Cho/day); 50% of the RDI of
      Cho (275mg/day); and 25% of the RDI of Cho (137.5mg/day). The meal order will be randomly
      assigned and all participants will receive all diets at some point in the study. There will
      be a minimum of a two week washout between diet intervals. Both participants and researchers
      will be blinded to the diet order.

      Participants will have brief exercise challenges (Biodex) to assess muscle function as an
      additional predictor of choline status.

      To validate our isotope dilution and Fibroscan measures participants will also complete
      MRI/MRS scans.

      Saliva samples, urine, and stool samples will be collected.
    
  