
    
      We hypothesizes that the use of patient-controlled paravertebral blockade (PC-PVB) after VATS
      will be associated with lower pain scores and less pulmonary dysfunction than continuous
      paravertebral blockade (PVB).

      Following obtaining of the Local Ethics Committee approval and informed patient consent, 62
      patients, aged 18 -70 years, American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status
      II-III, undergoing elective VATS using postoperative thoracic paravertebral analgesia will be
      included in this prospective, randomized, controlled, double-blind study.

      Before operation, forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1), forced vital capacity (FVC), and
      peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR), were measured. On the morning before surgery, the patients
      will be instructed in the use of the PCA pump and a VAS. The patients will be asked to rate
      their experienced pain using the VAS from 0 to 100 mm with 0 representing no pain and 100
      representing the worst imaginable pain.

      Prior to the procedure an 18 to 20 G intravenous access will be established. Patient monitors
      includes electrocardiograph, non-invasive blood pressure, and pulse oximeter. All patients
      will be premedicated with iv midazolam 0.01-0.03 mg kg-1.

      Before the induction of general anesthesia, paravertebral space ipsilateral to the
      thoracostomy will be identified 3 cm lateral to the spinous process of T5-8 with
      ultrasound-guidance (USG) using a high-frequency linear array probe of a Sonosite MTurbo
      ultrasound machine (MicroMaxxs ultrasound system, Sonosite Inc, Bothell, WA). After the probe
      was placed at the level of the T5-6 interspace, the apex of the paravertebral space will be
      visualized as a wedge-shaped hypoechoic space surrounded by the hyperechoic line of the
      pleura below and the internal intercostal membrane above. An 18 G Tuohy needle (B. Braun,
      Germany) will be inserted in a lateral-to-medial direction using an in-plane approach and
      will be kept advancing until the needle tip penetrates the internal intercostal membrane.7 A
      20-G epidural catheter (B. Braun, Germany) will be introduced through Tuohy needle and
      advanced 3 cm into the paravertebral space. After gentle aspiration, a test dose of 3 mL of
      bupivacaine 0.25% with epinephrine 5 µg mL-1 will be administered through the catheter. If no
      significant rise in heart rate or arterial pressure will be observed, a bolus of 0.3 mL kg-1
      of bupivacaine 0.25% with epinephrine (5 µg mL-1), followed by continuous paravertebral
      infusion of bupivacaine 0.25% and fentanyl 2 µg mL-1 at 0.1 mL kg-1 h-1 intraoperatively.15

      In all patients, standard monitors and state and response entropy (SE and RE, respectively,
      GE Healthcare, Helsinki, Finland) based-depth of anesthesia will be applied. The radial
      artery will be catheterized. Anesthetic technique will be standardized in all studied
      patients. After preoxygenation, general anesthesia will be induced with propofol 1.5-3 mg
      kg-1 and target-controlled infusion (TCI) of remifentanil at an effect-site concentration
      (Ce) of 4 ng mL-1, to achieve the SE values below 50 and the difference between RE and SE
      below 10. Rocuronium (0.5 mg kg-1) will be given to facilitate the endobronchial intubation
      with a left-double lumen endobronchial tube and the correct position of its tip will be
      confirmed with a fiberoptic bronchoscope.

      Anaesthesia will be maintained with 0.7-1.5 minimum alveolar concentration of sevoflurane and
      remifentanil Ce of 2-4 ng mL-1 to maintain the SE values below 50, the difference between RE
      and SE below 10 and the mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) and heart rate <20% of baseline
      values. Rocuronium increments will be used to maintain surgical relaxation.

      Two lung ventilation (TLV) will be instituted using fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) of 0.4
      in air, tidal volume (VT) of 8 mL kg-1, inspiratory to expiratory (I: E) ratio of 1:2.5 and
      PEEP of 5 cm H2O, and respiratory rate will be adjusted to achieve an arterial carbon dioxide
      tension (PaCO2) of 4.7-6 kPa. During one-lung ventilation (OLV), the dependent lung will be
      ventilated with a FiO2 of 1.0, VT of 6 mL kg-1 and I: E ratio, PEEP, and respiratory rate,
      will be maintained as during TLV. The dependent lung will be recruited at 30-minute intervals
      by increasing the inspiratory pressure to 40 cmH2O for 10 seconds.

      All surgical procedures will be performed by the same surgeons who will be blinded for the
      study group. The VATS procedure will begin with the exploration of the pleural cavity using a
      30° video thoracoscopic camera through 1.5 cm single skin incision with the use of 1-3
      trocars which enables the thoracoscopic instruments to move the lung.

      At the end of surgery, the nondependent lung will be re-expanded, the remifentanil and
      sevoflurane will be discontinued after chest closure and skin closure, respectively, and the
      residual neuromuscular blockade will be antagonized.

      During working hours of the first 48 hours, the patients will be visited by an acute pain
      nurse and/or a consultant anesthesiologist, who will interview each patient regarding
      satisfaction with postoperative analgesia. After hours, an anesthetic registrar will be
      available to review analgesia management. All patients will receive multimodal analgesia
      consisting of regular IV paracetamol (1 g four times a day) and IV lornoxicam (8 mg two times
      a day) for postoperative pain relief.

      Breakthrough pain, defined as pain VAS > 30 mm, will be treated with a bolus of 0.1 mL kg-1
      of paravertebral medication administered through the pump. No additional medication will be
      given if the pain VAS < 30 mm. If after 15 minutes pain VAS persists greater than 30,
      additional 0.1 mL kg-1 of the paravertebral medication will be given. If the patient still
      has a pain VAS > 30 despite breakthrough pain intervention, then the patient will be
      connected to PCA with intravenous morphine 1 mg, with a lockout interval of 8 minutes and a
      maximum 4-hourly limit of 30 mg.5
    
  