
    
      Background:

        -  In CC# 00-C-0119 we were able to demonstrate that allogeneic T cells could mediate a
           clinically relevant graft-versus-tumor (GVT) effect against MBC after a
           reduced-intensity, T cell depleted allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant
           (alloHSCT).

        -  Responses were observed after establishment of complete lymphoid chimerism, which was
           frequently delayed and required the use of planned donor lymphocyte infusions (DLI). DLI
           were associated with a significant incidence of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD).

        -  In murine models, in vitro generated T cells of Th2/Tc2 phenotype can facilitate
           engraftment of HLA disparate allografts with significantly reduced GVHD as compared to T
           cell replete allografts that have not been manipulated. In addition, Th2/Tc2 cells
           provide an anti-tumor effect through the perforin/granzyme pathway.

        -  Allogeneic Th2/Tc2 cells may facilitate rapid allo-engraftment post-transplant with
           reduced GVHD. In addition, the perforin-mediated anti-tumor activity of Th2/Tc2 cells
           should provide earlier benefit compared with T-cell depleted allografts.

      Objectives:

      -To determine the safety, as defined by the incidence of acute graft-versus-host disease, and
      feasibility of administering in vitro generated donor T cells of Th2/Tc2 phenotype to augment
      a T cell depleted allograft (T cell exchange) after reduced-intensity conditioning.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients with measurable, metastatic breast cancer and an HLA matched sibling donor

        -  Patients must have received treatment with a taxane, an anthracycline, a hormonal agent
           and/or Herceptin, if the tumor expresses the respective receptors, and at least one
           treatment for metastatic disease that has not resulted in a complete response.

      Design:

        -  Donors will initially have lymphocytes collected to generate the Th2/Tc2 product and
           then have blood stem cells collected following mobilization with filgrastim. The stem
           cell product will be T-cell depleted, and the T-cell dose will be adjusted to 1 x 10(5)
           CD3+ cells/kg.

        -  Patients will receive induction (immune depleting) chemotherapy with the goal of
           reducing circulating CD4+ cell less than 50/microliter prior to proceeding to alloHSCT.

        -  Patients will receive a reduced-intensity conditioning regimen consisting of fludarabine
           and cyclophosphamide. This will be followed by infusion of the T cell depleted
           allograft, which will be supplemented with Th2/Tc2 cells (i.e. T cell exchange).

        -  Cyclosporine will be discontinued after 40 days to permit a full GVT effect. Patients
           may receive donor lymphocyte infusions at days +42, +70, +98 post-transplant to further
           potentiate a GVT effect.

        -  Patients will be enrolled in three cohorts, with escalating Th2/Tc2 cell doses (0.5 -
           12.5 x 10(7) cells/kg) given in a phase-I manner.
    
  