
    
      in is a frequent problem in persons with moderate to severe dementia and has been associated
      to different care situations. Daily observations in care homes show that pain frequently
      causes anxiety and behavioral symptoms, including agitation and opposition to nursing care. A
      key recommendation of the International Psychogeriatric Association (IPA) is the use of
      psychosocial approaches as first-line therapy for behavioral problems in persons with
      dementia. Indeed, a wide range of non-pharmacological interventions for persons with dementia
      exist, such as biofeedback, music therapy, therapeutic touch or relaxation. Most of these
      interventions have shown positive results on health status, quality of life, socialization,
      and functional capacity in dementia. However, to date, little is known on the effect of
      psychosocial interventions on care-induced pain in this population. In consequence, there is
      still a need for the development of innovative interventions.

      At a time when modern technologies are assuming a central role in our society, investigators
      are currently witnessing an important evolution of the use of social robots in healthcare
      interventions. In this research area, numerous studies have been conducted with social
      robots, such as PARO®, an animal-like robot modeled on a baby harp seal. Most of them have
      been successful in encouraging communication and/or social behaviors and also reducing
      Behavioral and Psychological Symptoms of Dementia (BPSD), loneliness, stress' levels,
      agitation and the use of pain medication. However, although these results indicate a
      potential application of robot-assisted therapies for pain management in persons with
      dementia, the use of PARO during painful care-situations is still to be investigated.

      The investigators propose a new combination of current health cares, namely to mediate
      care-induced pain with the PARO robot.

      Consequently, a randomized AB/BA crossover design will be employed. Patients will be assigned
      randomly to either phase A during which they will benefit from a systemic pain assessment and
      from the PARO robot as a therapeutic mediator, followed by phase B during which patients will
      benefit from a systemic pain assessment without the PARO robot, or phase B followed by phase
      A.
    
  