
    
      Rhabdomyolysis may be defined as a clinical or biochemical syndrome which may result from a
      large variety of diseases, trauma, or toxic insults to skeletal muscle. The damage to the
      integrity of the sarcolemma of skeletal muscle leads to the release of potentially toxic
      muscle cell components into the circulation, specifically myoglobin into the plasma.

      The three main principals of therapy for myoglobinuric renal failure include 1) correction of
      hypovolemia/ renal ischemia, 2) increase the clearance of heme proteins from both the
      circulation and the kidneys, 3) attenuate the adverse effects of heme proteins on the
      proximal tubule epithelium. Consequently, therapy for rhabdomyolysis is limited to aggressive
      rehydration with Ringer's lactate or normal saline, forced diuresis with mannitol, and
      urinary alkalinization with intravenous bicarbonate.

      Hypothesis

        1. The use of N-acetylcysteine (NAC) and continuous veno-venous hemo(dia)filtration (CRRT)
           early in the course of rhabdomyolysis as an adjunct to 'standard therapy' (rehydration,
           mannitol diuresis, systemic alkalinization) respectively decreases the nephrotoxicity
           and improves elimination of systemic myoglobin. Consequently both therapies
           independently prevent the deterioration of renal glomerular and tubular function and
           establishment of acute renal failure.

        2. There exists a positive interaction between the use of N-acetylcysteine and CRRT in the
           prevention of acute renal failure secondary to rhabdomyolysis.

      Objectives Primary objective is to compare creatinine and myoglobin clearance as well as the
      glomerular filtration rate over the course of 192 hours in patients with rhabdomyolysis
      treated with NAC, early CRRT, both CRRT and NAC or neither of the two therapies. Secondary
      objectives are to : 1) Compare excretion of urine B-NAG, B1-macroglobulin, and microalbumin,
      as indicators of renal tubular and glomerular damage over the course of 192 hours in subjects
      with rhabdomyolysis treated with NAC, early CRRT, both therapies, or neither therapies 2) To
      compare ICU and hospital mortality and length of stay as well as the proportion of subjects
      with recovery of renal function at 14 and 28 days following randomization in patients with
      rhabdomyolysis treated with NAC, early CRRT, both therapies, or neither therapies 3) To
      determine clinical and biochemical risk factors for renal failure development in subjects
      with rhabdomyolysis.
    
  