
    
      Stroke remains a leading cause of permanent disability in Taiwan and many other countries.
      The high incidence of stroke and the decreased mortality from stroke which imply the urgent
      needs for effective rehabilitation. Various contemporary rehabilitation interventions focused
      on restoring upper limb motor function have been advocated for stroke rehabilitation.
      Robot-assisted therapy (RAT), one current prominent activity-based approach, has emerged that
      incorporates therapeutic elements for success in stroke motor rehabilitation: combined with
      neuromuscular electrical stimulation and mirror therapy into its design. However, scientific
      evidence for the effects of the RAT and its combined-therapy on functional outcomes (e.g.,
      motor and daily functions) in stroke patients remains limited. Furthermore, there is a need
      to identify the proper protocol and intervention type. This research project will use
      randomized controlled trial design to address these issues.

      The main purpose of this study is to examine the treatment effects and the combined-therapy
      of the RAT by using two groups of combined-therapy with different sensory feedback and one
      group of unilateral RAT in our trail to compare the relative treatment effects to mirror
      therapy group, bilateral RAT, and conventional rehabilitation (CR) considering motor ability,
      basic daily functions, mobility, quality of life, and kinematic variables.

      The inclusion criteria of subjects are first-ever unilateral stroke with more than 3 months
      onset ; (2) an initial UL subsection of the Fugl-Meyer Assessment score of 18 to 56
      indicating moderate to severe and moderate UL movement impairment; (3) no excessive
      spasticity in any of the joints of the affected UL (shoulder, elbow, wrist, fingers); (4) be
      able to follow study instructions and perform study tasks; (5) without upper limb fracture
      within 3 months; (6) lack of participation in any experimental rehabilitation or drug studies
      during the study period; (7) welling to provide written informed consent ; and (8) able to
      realize and respond to oral instructions. Patients with neural or psychological medical
      history, recurrent stroke or attack by epilepsy during the intervention will be excluded.
      Expected sample size is 120.

      Subjects will be randomly assigned to one of the six groups: (1) robot-assisted therapy
      combined with neuromuscular electrical stimulation (RAT-NMES) ; (2) robot-assisted therapy
      combined with mirror therapy (RAT-MT) ; (3) mirror therapy group; (4) unilateral
      robot-assisted therapy group ; (5) bilateral robot-assisted therapy and (6) conventional
      rehabilitation (CR). All subjects in the study will receive treatment from registered
      occupational therapist 1.5 hours each day, five days a week for four weeks. Pretest and
      posttest will be hold before and after the intervention to check if the subjects had any
      improvement. The outcome measures are kinematic analysis of the upper and lower limb movement
      variables, the Fugl-Meyer Assessment (FMA), Medical Research Council scale (MRC), MYOTON-3,
      accelerometers, Functional Ambulation Category (FAC), Ten-meter walk test, Functional
      Independence Measure (FIM), Stroke Impact Scale (SIS), Action Research Arm Test (ARAT), Wolf
      Motor Function Test (WMFT), ABILHAND, Motor Activity Log (MAL), and Modified Ashworth Scale
      (MAS). All the data will be calculated by SPSS 13.0. Subject's age, sex, time after stroke in
      each group will be compared by descriptive statistics. The change of outcome measures after
      intervention in each group will be calculated by ANOVA to see if combined therapy had better
      effectiveness than the other groups.
    
  