
    
      This study is designed to address three interrelated needs of caregivers who recently placed
      a relative in a long-term care facility: (a) psychiatric problems, particularly depression
      and anxiety which are common among caregivers who recently placed their relative; (b)
      knowledge about the nature of long-care procedures and resident trajectories; and (c)
      end-of-life planning for the institutionalized relative. These needs will be addressed with
      an intervention that has three components: (a) a treatment protocol for depressive symptoms,
      major depression, and anxiety; (b) education about the organization and operating procedures
      of long-term care facilities, the clinical aspects of frailty, and a negotiated plan for
      caregiver participation in the care of their relative; and (c) education about resident
      trajectories in long-term care and assistance with end-of life planning. Expected outcomes
      include reduced depression and anxiety, greater satisfaction with the long-term care
      facility, and reduced service use because of an articulated end-of-life plan. Because this
      intervention is designed to reduce distress prior to the death of the placed relative, a risk
      factor for negative bereavement outcomes, we also expect lower levels of depression and
      complicated grief post-death among persons in the active treatment condition whose relative
      dies. In as much as the demand and utilization of long-term care is virtually certain to
      increase in the decades ahead, this study has the potential of providing valuable guidance in
      navigating this transition and in improving health outcomes for caregivers in the short- and
      long-term. The specific aims of this study are to:

        1. Assess the effects of an intervention targeting caregivers who recently placed a
           relative in a long-term care facility because of cognitive and/or physical disability.
           In a two group randomized clinical trial we predict that caregivers assigned to active
           treatment will have lower levels of depressive symptoms, anxiety symptoms, and greater
           satisfaction with the long-term care facility when compared to individuals assigned to
           the control condition.

        2. Assess the impact of the intervention on psychiatric outcomes and on complicated grief
           for those caregivers whose relative dies during follow up. We predict that long-term
           symptoms of depression and symptoms of complicated grief will be lower after death among
           caregivers assigned to active treatment when compared to those in the control condition.

        3. Carry out exploratory analysis to assess the effects of the intervention on
           resident-related outcomes, including number of emergency room visits and
           hospitalizations, rate of functional decline, perceived quality of life, and formal
           complaints filed on behalf of the resident. Because the intervention engages the
           caregiver in monitoring resident health status and in end-of-life planning, we predict
           that resident-related outcomes will be better in the active treatment group. Overall,
           this should be reflected in greater perceived quality of life of residents in active
           treatment when compared to residents of participants in the control condition.
    
  