
    
      Critically ill COVID-19 patients have high rates of complications, including respiratory
      failure, renal impairment, and a coagulopathic state that may exacerbate these conditions and
      contribute to additional end organ injury. Consistent with a fundamentally distinct nature of
      COVID-19-associated disease, our preliminary studies demonstrate that patients with COVID-19
      exhibit an increase in plasma viscosity. Furthermore, the researchers have found that plasma
      viscosity strongly correlates with sequential organ failure assessment (SOFA) scores, a
      mortality prediction score used in the intensive care unit (ICU), in COVID-19 infected
      patients. These results strongly suggest that altered blood flow secondary to hyperviscosity
      may contribute to end organ injury and therefore morbidity and mortality in the most
      critically ill COVID-19 patients. More detailed analysis of the potential etiology of
      COVID-19-associated plasma hyperviscosity has demonstrated that these patients also have
      significantly elevated levels of the plasma protein fibrinogen. Increased fibrinogen levels,
      which may be either entirely responsible for or at least contribute to hyperviscosity in
      these patients, may be the primary mediator of refractory hypercoagulability in this patient
      population. Thus, hyperviscosity induced by hyperfibrinogenemia may be a critical driver of
      morbidity and mortality in patients with COVID-19.

      Therapeutic plasma exchange (TPE) is the only procedure known to directly and rapidly
      decrease plasma viscosity, suggesting that TPE may improve patient outcomes in critically ill
      patients with COVID-19 by decreasing plasma viscosity and thereby enhancing blood flow.
      However, as a procedure, extensive implementation of TPE would require significant devotion
      of hospital resources, including apheresis machines and the staff needed to successfully
      conduct these procedures. The procedures alone require staff to have prolonged interactions
      with critically ill COVID-19 patients, placing them at a potentially increased risk for
      contracting COVID-19. It is therefore essential that clear and unequivocal data be generated
      in order to accurately assess the risk and benefits of this procedure for both patients and
      staff. Such data will also aid in determining the necessary resources that may be needed to
      successfully conduct TPE for this patient population.

      Participants will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive TPE or SOC. Participants in the TPE
      study arm will receive two treatments of TPE with frozen plasma on sequential days. Plasma
      viscosity will be measured before TPE (Day 1) and following the second TPE treatment (Day 3
      or 4). Participants in the SOC study arm will also have their plasma viscosity assessed on
      Days 1 and 3. Participants will be followed for the duration of their hospital stay.
    
  