
    
      After the discovery that Human Papillomavirus (HPV) infection is the necessary cause of
      cervical cancer there have been much interest in the introduction of novel screening
      strategies involving HPV DNA testing [1]. HPV DNA testing was shown to have higher
      sensitivity in detecting cervical cancer and its precursors and greater reproducibility than
      Papanicolaou (Pap) cytology screening and has been therefore proposed as the primary
      screening method for the future. In high-income countries, cases of cervical cancer continue
      to develop among unscreened and under-screened women [2]. Factors discouraging women from
      attending routine screening include fear of pain or discomfort, lack of time or perceived
      inconvenience, cultural or religious concerns, and poor socioeconomic status [3]. For a
      screening program to be effective high coverage is essential and thus attendance is a
      critical requirement.

      Because of the high sensitivity of molecular HPV testing to detect cervical cancer precursors
      there is great potential for screening coverage to be increased by inviting non-attendant to
      provide self-collected vaginal samples. Providing these women with a simple, convenient, and
      inexpensive means of self-testing may improve cervical screening participation [3].
      Self-sampling is also an attractive approach to assist screening in poor countries, which
      typically do not have structured cervical cancer screening programs while having to bear the
      greatest burden of cervical cancer morbidity and mortality [4]. Self-sampling can also
      enhance the value of post-HPV vaccination surveillance by allowing a more efficient
      monitoring of HPV type distribution in populations. Finally, self-sampling represents a good
      research tool to assist prospective studies of genital HPV infection and natural history of
      cervical neoplasia.

      Specifically for cervical cancer screening, it has been shown that self-collected
      cervicovaginal specimens from women who received proper instruction for collecting them yield
      HPV test results that are comparable to those in specimens collected by physicians [5-8].
      Women also prefer self-sampling relative to clinician-provided samples, provided that they
      can be assured that they are told how to properly collect the sample [8, 9]. Although there
      is conceivably some loss of sensitivity and specificity in screening for cervical cancer in a
      specimen that is not directly collected from the ecto- and endo-cervix the overall accuracy
      of the HPV testing results (to identify presence of cervical precancerous lesions) is still
      superior to that of physician-collected Pap smears. Therefore, replacing a more
      anatomically-correct specimen (the one collected with direct visualization of the cervix by a
      primary healthcare provider) with one collected from the vagina (and thus diluted with
      exfoliated cells from a wider epithelial surface area) is compensated by the high sensitivity
      of the molecular screening approach [6, 10, 11]. Performance of screening seems also to be
      unaffected by storage and transport of the self-sample swabs, irrespective of whether they
      have been kept dry or transferred and resuspended into a liquid transport medium [10, 12].

      A critical feature in enhancing women's acceptance and adherence with the self-sampling
      approach for cervical cancer screening and HPV surveillance studies is the convenience of the
      device used for collection. Dacron and polyester swabs are simple, common, and inexpensive.
      However, they are inconvenient and not isolated within a sheath that prevents contact of the
      sampling area with mucosal surfaces in the labia and vaginal opening. Ideally, sampling
      devices should be anatomically correct to facilitate insertion and the sampling surface that
      will retain the exfoliated cells should be protected from contact with the labia and lower
      vaginal mucosa while the device is inserted, with the objective of sampling cells that are
      mostly from the cervix and upper vaginal area.

      HPV DNA testing using self-collected cervicovaginal specimens represents a promising strategy
      to increase cervical screening participation and thus reduce rates of cervical cancer in
      countries with established cervical screening programs. Furthermore, this approach can also
      greatly improve the coverage and quality of cervical cancer screening in developing
      countries, as well as in remote regions in developed countries, e.g., aboriginal populations
      in Northern Quebec and in First Nations territories. Facilitating and improving uptake of
      cervical cancer screening would save lives, reduce costs of treating invasive cancer and
      potentially reduce inequalities in avoidable mortality caused from cervical cancer.

      (full protocol available upon request)
    
  