
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose, recommended phase II dose, and associated toxic
           effects of BMS-247550 in patients with advanced solid tumors.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic relationship of this treatment regimen
           in these patients.

        -  Assess the extent of microtubule bundle and mitotic aster formation and cell cycle
           kinetics in peripheral blood mononuclear cells in these patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine any evidence of antitumor activity of this treatment regimen in these
           patients.

        -  Evaluate the relationship between tumor response and the occurrence of mutation in the
           class 1 isotype of B-tubulin and B-tubulin isotype distribution in patients with
           advanced or recurrent solid tumors, ovarian cancer, or breast cancer treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Investigate Multi-Drug Resistance Gene (MDR1), Multidrug Resistance-associated Protein
           (MRP) Gene, and canalicular multispecific organic anion transporter 1(cMOAT) messenger
           ribonucleic acid (mRNA) and protein expression as prognosticators of tumor response in
           these patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the relationship between stathmin expression and phosphorylation status as a
           function of response in these patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Correlate the expression of proapoptotic (p53, bax, bad, and bid) and antiapoptotic
           (survivin, inhibitors of apoptotic proteins, bcl-2, and bcl-x) proteins in tumor samples
           and/or ascites with response and clinical outcome in these patients treated with this
           regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study.

        -  Part I: Patients with advanced solid tumors receive BMS-247550 IV over 1 hour every 3
           weeks. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of BMS-247550 until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Part II: Patients with ovarian, breast, or other cancer receive BMS-247550 as in the
           part I portion of the study at the MTD. Treatment continues in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed at 2 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 42-66 patients will be accrued for this study within 12-16
      months.
    
  