
    
      Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is a major cause of disability among Veterans and is the primary
      indication of knee replacement in the VA. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are
      the most commonly prescribed medications for knee OA. Though short-term studies have
      demonstrated that NSAIDs are more effective than placebo and acetaminophen, there are no
      long-term data supporting their use. This is of concern, because long-term use of NSAIDs is
      associated with significant morbidity and mortality. Guidelines have been published to
      improve safe use of NSAIDs; however, adherence to these evidence-based recommendations is low
      in the VA. There is therefore an important need to determine if the long-term use of NSAIDs
      offers any incremental benefit over safer alternatives. This is especially true for Veterans,
      a population at high risk for NSAID-induced toxicity.

      Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is an effective and safe treatment alternative for OA.
      This modality is becoming increasingly available in the VA for treatment of chronic pain as
      well as other chronic disorders such as depression, post-traumatic stress disorder and
      insomnia. CBT can be successfully administered over the telephone and thus stands to benefit
      Veterans living in more remote areas with limited access to hospital or community-based
      outpatient clinics.

      In this study, the investigators propose to conduct a 2-phase randomized withdrawal trial
      (RWT). The trial will focus on recruiting Veterans with knee OA who have been using NSAIDs
      for at least 3 months.

      In the first phase of the study, 544 Veterans with knee OA will be randomized to continue
      NSAIDs or to placebo for 4 weeks. This double-blind phase will enable us to infer whether
      placebo is non-inferior to continued NSAID use. In the second phase, subjects in the NSAIDs
      group will continue NSAIDs and those on placebo will stop taking the placebo and participate
      in a 10-week CBT program. The second, single-blind, phase will allow us to infer whether CBT
      is non-inferior to NSAIDs. All study data will be collected over the telephone thus enabling
      Veterans who have difficulty arranging transportation to the VA to participate.

      The investigators will test for between-group differences in knee pain measured using the
      well-validated Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (primary
      outcome) at 4 and 14 weeks. The investigators will also test for between group differences in
      lower extremity disability, subjects' global impression of change and use of co-therapies
      (secondary outcomes). As recommended for non-inferiority trials, the investigators will
      perform both an intent to treat and per protocol analysis. Lastly, the investigators will
      estimate the potential cost-effectiveness of the CBT protocol compared with continued NSAID
      use.

      Though it would be ideal for subjects randomized to the active study drug to continue their
      current NSAID, having the VA pharmacy formulate multiple different active drugs and
      maintaining the blind is not possible. Therefore, the investigators will include a 2-week
      run-in period where study subjects will replace their NSAID with meloxicam. Meloxicam was
      chosen as the study drug because it is the most commonly prescribed at the investigators'
      center and has a favorable safety profile compared to other NSAIDS.

      If successful, the trial will improve the quality of care delivered to Veterans with chronic
      knee pain due to OA. The proposed strategy is particularly appealing because it replaces the
      widespread use of NSAIDs with a safer alternative, enables delivery of care to Veterans with
      limited access, and is likely to be cost saving.
    
  