
    
      PURPOSE:

      The goal of The University of California Irvine Medical Center Inflammatory Bowel Disease
      Research Registry is to study IBD characteristics, response to therapy, and disease outcomes.
      The information will also serve to identify patients for future research studies.

      Objective and Specific Aims

      The objective is to develop The University of California Irvine Medical Center Inflammatory
      Bowel Disease Research Registry for the purpose of:

        1. Performance of retrospective studies on inflammatory bowel disease to assess disease
           outcomes and response to therapy.

        2. Obtaining permission from the Research Registry participants to be contacted by members
           of The University of California Irvine Medical Center Inflammatory Bowel Disease
           Research Center to identify patients that may be eligible for participation in future
           research studies.

        3. Performance of studies to quantify disease phenotypes and treatment patterns.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      Participation in The University of California Irvine Medical Center Inflammatory Bowel
      Disease Research Registry is limited to placement of a subjects' identifiable medical
      information related to inflammatory bowel disease in a database and the use of this
      information for retrospective research studies of inflammatory bowel disease.

      Patients who present or develop inflammatory bowel disease at The University of California
      Irvine Medical Center will be asked to participate in the Research Registry. Patients must
      provide written, informed consent to allow past, current and future identifiable medical
      records related to gastrointestinal hemorrhage to be placed in the study's registry. The
      medical record information that will be used for the Research Registry will be directly
      related to inflammatory bowel disease. However, since concurrent medical conditions and
      treatments, not directly related to inflammatory bowel disease may impact inflammatory bowel
      disease it is likely that all of the past, current and future identifiable medical record
      information will be placed in the Research Registry.
    
  