
    
      90 participants will be enrolled and switch to darunavir monotherapy early in pregnancy
      (before 16 weeks of amenorrhea) in order to reduce exposure to the antiretroviral
      nucleos(t)ide analogues. The study treatment during the pregnancy is: darunavir 600 mg +
      ritonavir 100 mg 2 times 24 (DRV/r) monotherapy This regimen will be started after checking
      the tolerance of DRV/r 600 mg/100 mg twice daily (recommended dosage for pregnancy in French
      national recommendations) to replace whatever prior antiretrovirals (ARVs) were used, while
      maintaining the NRTI backbone for 2 weeks. Woman already receiving a triple drug combination
      with DRV/r will proceed directly to treatment simplification. If clinical tolerance of DRV/r
      is satisfactory after 2 weeks, nucleos(t)ides will be stopped. In case of intolerance, the
      treatment will be determined by the investigator but follow-up of the patient will continue.

      No zidovudine will be administered at delivery in case of virological control, according to
      French Guidelines (Morlat Report 2015).

      After delivery, the choice of maternal antiretrovial therapy (ART) is left to the discretion
      of the clinician and patient.

      The mothers are followed up monthly until delivery and the last visit is planes at W4-W6
      postpartum. Virological efficacy and safety will be assessed monthly.

      In neonates, the prophylactic treatment, nevirapine oral solution, will be administrated as
      soon as possible in the first 12 hours of life and then for 14 days, once a day at a daily
      dose of 15 mg for a birthweight ≥ 2.5 kg ; 10 mg for a birthweight ≥ 2 kg and < 2.5 kg and 2
      mg / kg for a birthweight < 2 kg (WHO Guidelines 2013 - French Guidelines, "Morlat Report"
      2015).

      Clinical and virological monitoring will be performed at Day 3, Day 15 in case of
      hospitalization, M1, M3 and M6.

      Statistical Methods The analysis of the primary endpoint is the proportion of virological
      success (VL < 50 copies/mL at delivery among women remaining on DRV/r). All changes in
      antiretroviral therapy because of VL ≥ 50 copies/ml will be considered as failures. Women who
      change antiretroviral therapy for other reasons and/or when pregnancy outcome is before 22
      weeks of amenorrhea and < 500g (non-viable pregnancy according to WHO) will be removed from
      the denominator.

      Analysis of treatment changes, tolerance for the mother and child and factors associated with
      virological failure will be done by estimating percentages (categorical variables), average
      and median (continuous variables) with their intervals 95% confidence, overall and compared
      between the groups with virological success or failure per protocol (primary endpoint) or by
      intention to treat (secondary endpoint). The evolution of the parameters measured in children
      at birth, at 1, 3, and 6, months will be explored using non-parametric curves and compared
      between groups by repeated data taking into account the nonlinearity developments.

      No interim analysis is planned.
    
  