
    
      Study entry criteria:

      The investigators plan to collaborate with three centers to ensure the data derived from this
      study is generalizable to academic centers as a whole and also to expedite patient
      recruitment. The centers that will participate are Virginia Commonwealth University, Ochsner
      Health System and the Medical University of South Carolina.

      Patients over the age of 18 presenting to clinic with symptoms typical for reflux disease
      will be screened to determine if they wish to participate in the study. The site principal
      investigator will directly contact potential patients to see if they wish to participate. If
      they elect to participate they will be provided a copy of the informed consent 24 hours
      before their first contact with study personnel to allow time to review and determine if the
      wish to participate. All participants will sign a written informed consent.

      Patients who wish to enter into the study and have signed an informed consent will complete a
      reflux disease questionnaire (RDQ). This questionnaire consists of 12 items assessing various
      aspects of reflux disease. A score of more than 12 will be required for study entry.
      Individual with a score less than 12 will not participate further in the study.

      Standard of care for patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) not responsive to
      proton pump inhibitors (PPI) is confirmatory testing with esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) to
      evaluate for erosive esophagitis (EE) and testing for acid exposure to the lower esophagus
      with pH testing. For the purpose of this study the investigators will perform pH testing off
      acid suppressing medication. This is a standard test for determining if the patient has acid
      exposure to the esophagus. Typically patients are placed on twice daily (BID) PPI or
      sucralfate if testing reveals significant acid exposure.

      Erosive esophagitis will be differentiated from NERD by endoscopic findings aided by FICE (or
      NBI/iScan) and magnification techniques that the investigators standardly employ in clinical
      practice. Patients that are found to have EE will not participate further in the study and
      will be treated appropriately for their illness with increased acid suppression. Patients
      without EE at the time of endoscopy will be enrolled for study as presumed cases of NERD
      refractory to PPI treatment.

      After endoscopic confirmation of NERD, the probe based confocal endomicroscopy catheter will
      be inserted (CellVisio). The probe will be placed 5cm above the gastroesophageal junction
      (GEJ) defined as the top of gastric folds. Subsequently, 2.5cc of 10% fluorescein will be
      injected. The investigators will initiate a video recording of the microscopic images that is
      to start with the injection of the fluorescein and continue this video for 3 minutes. This
      video will be reviewed at a later time by 2 blinded endoscopists trained in confocal
      endomicroscopy interpretation. The goal is to see if the time to seeing fluorescein in the
      intracellular spaces correlates to response to therapy. The investigators will record time to
      first visualization of intrapapillary loops intracellular gaps, the time between
      visualization of intrapapillary loops and visualization of intracellular gaps in the entirety
      of the space between the loops. The investigators will also measurement of the general
      overall appearance. Having the recording of the microscopic images will allow a centralized
      reading time to each event and more accurate timing as the video can be stopped and reviewed
      in slow motion.

      The investigators then will perform endomicroscopic assessment in four quadrants at 2cm, 5cm
      and 10cm above the gastroesophageal junction (GEJ). This will represent a single image
      acquisition video at each measurement with 4 separate views included. Computer analysis of
      the microscopic images will determine the average cell to cell junction distance, number of
      intrapapillary capillary loops, size of those intrapapillary capillary loops and overall
      saturation with fluorescein. Biopsies of the esophagus corresponding to the endomicroscopy
      sites will be collected for microscopic analysis.

      Following endoscopy all patients will receive a 48h Bravo capsule or 24h impedance pH probe
      to quantitate acid and non-acid reflux events (if 24h probe used) . Standard calibration and
      insertion techniques provided by the manufacturer will be used. Standard symptom event
      recording for heartburn, regurgitation and non-cardiac chest pain will be used for the
      duration of the pH and impedance monitoring. A blinded investigator will interpret impedance
      and pH recording. The primary outcome will be the average Demeester Score.

      For histopathology the specimen will be fixed in 10% formalin, embedded in paraffin and
      sectioned per standard clinical protocols. An expert pathologist will review pathology
      specimen for histological changes, specifically elongation of papillae, proliferation of
      basal cells, eosinophilic infiltration and dilated intercellular spaces.

      Following their endoscopic evaluation, all patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to
      receive either twice daily proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy for 8 weeks or sucralfate
      slurry 1g four times a day for 8 weeks. The patients will not be blinded to the treatment
      they receive. The patients will be contacted by phone to assess the symptoms, medication
      compliance and tolerance and to complete a RDQ and SF-36 at week 4. They will be seen in
      clinic 8 weeks as a follow-up visit and study wrap up. The 8 week visit is standard of care
      as that is how long the investigators typically follow patients with reflux symptoms. The
      investigators will also assess disease activity with a RDQ and SF-36 at this visit as well.
      Patients without adequate response to the medication will be offered cross over to the
      alternative medication with a 4 week phone assessment and 8 week clinic visit as described
      above. The investigators plan to enroll 40 patients at each site (total of 120 patients) and
      plan an interim analysis after the first 30 patients complete the protocol.
    
  