
    
      After 40 years of considering gastrointestinal bleeding as upper or lower and largely
      ignoring the small intestine, there is accumulating evidence that the standard of care
      approach to the assessment of non-hematemesis gastrointestinal bleeding could be improved by
      early deployment of a video capsule (VCE) as the first diagnostic test. Currently, VCE is
      considered the gold standard as the diagnostic test for small intestinal bleeding. In a
      recent study at the University of Massachusetts (UMass) 336 patients who presented to the
      emergency department (ED) with complaints of gastrointestinal bleeding 36 patients (10.7%)
      were given a VCE during their stay.

      In patients with hematemesis, upper endoscopy remains the diagnostic and therapeutic modality
      of choice. However patients with melena and hematochezia may benefit from early VCE since
      both signs and symptoms provide poor localization as to the origin of bleeding. Data from
      this previous Umass study suggests that the ingestion of a VCE in the ED could quickly and
      non-invasively provide clinicians accurate data as to the origin of the bleeding. This
      information could provide a guide to further management of the patient. VCE is able to
      visualize bleeding in the esophagus, stomach, duodenum, small intestine and right colon,
      thereby eliminating the guess work of deciding which endoscopic approach to use.

      At UMass, that same study showed that of the 36 patients who received a video capsule, 26
      (72.2%) had diagnostic studies (i.e. bleeding was identified). In comparison, 152 patients
      required upper endoscopy (of which 52.9% were diagnostic) and 64 patients required
      colonoscopy (of which 47% were diagnostic). Of those 26 patients with diagnostic capsule
      studies, 13 also required upper endoscopy, 1 required a colonoscopy, and 4 required both a
      colonoscopy and endoscopy. It is important to recognize, however, that often capsule studies
      are performed after upper endoscopy and colonoscopy and performed and are found to be
      negative. This sequence is the standard of care work up of bleeding. Despite being performed
      later in the hospital course of our patients, capsule studies have a high diagnostic yield.
      In reality VCE is used uncommonly in acute bleeding because it is rarely considered in the
      context of acute GI bleeding In this study, the investigators propose the approach of using
      the video capsule as the first diagnostic test prior to colonoscopy and endoscopy; this may
      lead to a shortened time to diagnosis, a reduction in length of stay, and a reduction in
      numbers of procedures due to early, accurate localization of the source of bleeding. All of
      these components could result in better quality of care and cost containment. Further, it is
      known that 80% of patients stop bleeding spontaneously. Thus the earlier they are examined
      the more likely the origin of the bleeding is likely to be found The use of VCE has been
      approved by the FDA since 2001 for small intestinal bleeding obscure GI Bleeding. It is very
      safe and no deaths associated with its use have been reported. More than two million capsules
      have been used and complications of obstruction and perforation are extremely rare.

      Interest in the broader use of VCE is accumulating. More recently studies of VCE deployed in
      the ED, in patients with upper GI bleeding showed improved management. Our group recently
      demonstrated that the closer a VCE is performed to the time of bleeding the higher the
      likelihood of locating the sources and the higher the therapeutic intervention rate. The
      investigators also have demonstrated that the use of capsule endoscopy in patients with
      non-hematemesis gastrointestinal bleeding (NHGIB) has a higher diagnostic yield than does
      colonoscopy. With improved diagnostic yields, capsule endoscopy may help clinicians by
      providing guidance in the management of patients with NHGIB.

      This protocol is be the first attempt to prospectively examine this concept in a large
      randomized prospective trial. The questions the investigators are studying are: can early
      capsule intervention decrease time to diagnosis, numbers of procedures and hospital length of
      stay in patients with non-hematemesis gastrointestinal bleeding?
    
  