
    
      This is an open label Pilot study to evaluate the combination of Vigil™ autologous tumor cell
      immunotherapy and pembrolizumab PD-1 inhibitor in patients with incurable locally advanced or
      metastatic melanoma. Patients undergoing a standard of care surgical procedure (e.g., tumor
      biopsy, palliative resection) and meeting procurement eligibility criteria may have tumor
      harvested for Vigil™ vaccine manufacture. Patients subsequently meeting study enrollment
      criteria including manufacture of a minimum of 4 doses of Vigil™ and agreement to provide on
      treatment tumor biopsies will receive (i) Vigil™ 1 x 10e7 cells intradermal on Days 1, 15,
      29, 43 and every 3 weeks thereafter for up to 9 total doses of Vigil™ and (ii) pembrolizumab
      2 mg/kg IV starting on Day 43 and every 3 weeks thereafter for up to 6 months from study
      enrollment. Day 1 of study treatment must be within 6 weeks of tumor procurement. Tumor
      biopsy and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) for correlative studies will be
      obtained at baseline (before tumor procurement), and at Week 7 and Week 16 while on study.
      PBMCs will also be collected at Week 1 (pre-Vigil™) and end of treatment (EOT). Radiological
      assessment of tumor by immune related Response Criteria (irRC) and RECIST criteria will be
      obtained at screening (after tumor procurement) and at Week 13 and EOT.

      The primary study objective is to characterize and compare CD8+ T cell density, PD-1+ T cell
      density, and PD-L1 expression on tumor biopsy at baseline, following 3 doses (approximately 6
      weeks) of single agent Vigil™ and again following 3 doses of pembrolizumab. Secondary study
      objectives include evaluation of tolerability and safety of the combination, and to determine
      and compare IFNγ-ELISPOT result pre-procurement, at screening, after single agent Vigil™, and
      after Vigil™ plus pembrolizumab combination. Additional study objectives include determining
      best ORR by irRC criteria.
    
  