
    
      Patients will be treated with growth hormone in the form of Nutropin (a powder formulation
      that is reconstituted by the patient) or Nutropin AQ (a ready-to-use liquid) for 1 year. Both
      of these products are manufactured by Genentech, Inc. The starting dose will be 0.006 mg/kg
      given as a daily subcutaneous (SC) injection. The GH dose will be titrated 1-3 months after
      GH initiation to maintain blood levels of IGF-1 within the normal range for age and sex. The
      dose will be increased to a maximum of 0.025 mg/kg daily in adult patients <35 years and to a
      maximum of 0.0125 mg/kg daily in adult patients > 35 years. Pre-pubertal and adolescent
      patients will be dosed at 0.3 mg/kg/wk to 0.6 mg/kg/wk.

      PROCEDURES:

        1. To determine the effect of GH on body weight and lean body mass in CF, weight will be
           measured at baseline and every three months utilizing the same scale. LBM will be
           measured at baseline and every six months by dual emission x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA)
           scan.

        2. To determine the effect of GH on protein breakdown and protein synthesis in CF, protein
           turnover studies will be performed at baseline and every 6 months utilizing the stable
           isotope C-leucine and mass spectrophotometric analysis.

           Each subject will undergo 30-minute measurements of substrate oxidation and resting
           energy expenditure using hood indirect calorimetry. Substrate calculations yielding
           information on glucose oxidation and lipid oxidation will be determined using the
           methods of de Weir, and results will be correlated with measurements calculated from
           stable isotope infusion.

        3. To determine the effect of GH on hepatic glucose production (HGP) the following study
           will be performed at baseline and every 6 months.

        4. To quantify the portion of hepatic glucose production (HGP) derived from gluconeogenesis
           and glycogenolysis in the post-absorptive state. We will measure gluconeogenesis using
           the stable isotope 2H2O and measurement of the incorporation of 2H into the 6th and 2nd
           carbon of glucose, according to the method of Landau 11.

        5. To determine if GH improves the nutritional status of CF patients the following
           nutritional status indicators will be measured at 6 month intervals: retinal binding
           protein, transferrin, thyroxine binding prealbumin, albumin, and lipid profile.
           Additionally, caloric intake and food group consumption will be analyzed by a skilled
           dietitian from 3-day food journals recorded every six months.

        6. To determine if GH improves the clinical condition of CF patients, participants will
           perform pulmonary function tests, including measurement of PI and PE for estimation of
           respiratory muscle strength. Additionally, each subject's clinical status will be
           evaluated at baseline and every 3 months utilizing a modified NIH clinical status
           scoring system.

        7. To determine if GH improves the quality of life of CF patients, participants will
           complete a 15-minute questionnaire to assess quality of life. This questionnaire
           entitled "The Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire" has been recently developed and tested for
           quality. It is specific for CF patients and has been approved by the National CF
           Foundation.

        8. All patients will have random blood glucose testing per CF Foundation guidelines. If a
           patient has previously undiagnosed cystic fibrosis related diabetes (CFRD) with or
           without fasting hyperglycemia (FH), he/she will be treated with insulin for a minimum
           for 3 months prior to study enrollment. Patients in all other glucose tolerance
           categories will be allowed to participate in the study Also, patients previously treated
           with insulin will be allowed to participate if HgbA1C is < 8.5%. If not, the PI will
           adjust insulin and maximize glycemic control for 3 months before study entry. Any
           patient who develops CFRD with or without FH will be continued in the study only if
           he/she will agree to insulin therapy. If a patient refuses insulin therapy, he/she will
           be discontinued from the study. Patients will continue to be screened for glucose
           intolerance by measuring random blood glucose and HgbA1C.

        9. To further study the sustained effect of GH, all study subjects will be given the option
           of continuing on GH for an additional year. The same assessments above will be performed
           every six months for the additional year.

      Statistics:

      This is a pilot study of 40 subjects. Data will be assessed as mean and standard deviation.
      Data will then be used to compute a power analysis for a future larger study. Non-treatment
      data will be compared to treatment data with emphasis on the 12 and 18-month time points.
      Data from patients who develop CFRD while on the study, if there are any, will be analyzed
      separately from those who do not develop CFRD.
    
  