
    
      NUMOMS involves collaboration between Nurses for Newborns Foundation and Washington
      University in St. Louis. This study explores the co-location of depression treatment within
      nurse home visitation and the organizational changes needed to maintain access to
      evidence-based treatment. Problem Solving Tools (PST) was chosen as the depression treatment
      because it is well suited for use by non-mental health specialists and for in-home treatment.
      It is also a brief treatment (4-8 sessions) takes a non-pathologizing approach.

      In the first part of the study we will gather information from women and their providers to
      determine what system and treatment modifications are needed to effectively deliver
      acceptable depression treatment in home visitation programs. Based on this information, a
      panel of local and national experts will provide advice on decisions regarding the
      intervention adaptation. Once these adaptation decisions are made a small group of experts
      will adapt a PST manual for use in home visitation.

      In the second phase of the NUMOMS study we will carry out a small two-arm randomized trial
      comparing the effectiveness, acceptability, and practicality of PST provided by home
      visitation RNs versus usual care (referral to mental health specialty care).

      Significantly, NUMOMS has the potential to provide home visitation agencies with a viable
      means of access to effective and acceptable depression treatment for mothers in the face of
      policy mandates for depression screening.The specific aims are to:

        1. Adapt PST for implementation in nurse home visitation programs.

             1. Examine internal (organization and client level) and external (community and policy
                level) factors that may impact upon PST adaptation and delivery in nurse home
                visitation.

             2. Build protocols for targeting depression treatment to the woman's symptom severity
                and patient preferences.

             3. Develop and routinize protocols for supervision, clinical consultation, and risk
                assessment for PST provided by nurse home visitors.

             4. Modify protocols and systems for client tracking and outcomes.

        2. Implement a two-arm randomized pilot study comparing: PST provided by non-mental health
           home visitation nurses and referral for treatment (Care as Usual).

             1. Compare outcomes on the Beck Depression Inventory, the Patient Health
                Questionnaire-9, and Parenting Stress Index for women treated with PST by
                non-specialty RNs and Care as Usual.

             2. Track pathways and barriers to care for women referred to mental health specialty
                care or primary care for medications.

             3. Develop an R01 for a full scale randomized controlled trial using data on effect
                sizes and addressing organizational issues, infrastructure needs, and treatment
                refinements.
    
  