
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To establish the maximum tolerated dose of docetaxel when administered with oxaliplatin
           and fluorouracil in patients with metastatic or unresectable solid tumors. (Phase I)

        -  To determine the response rate in patients with metastatic or unresectable
           adenocarcinoma of the stomach or gastroesophageal junction treated with this regimen.
           (Phase II)

      Secondary

        -  To determine the dose limiting toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  To evaluate the frequency of CYP3A4, CYP3A5, and MDR polymorphisms and their impact on
           toxicity of docetaxel.

        -  To evaluate the frequency of XRCC1 and ERCC2 polymorphisms and their impact on the
           toxicity of oxaliplatin.

        -  To evaluate the frequency of DPD and TSER polymorphisms and their impact on the toxicity
           of fluorouracil.

        -  To characterize the toxicity profile of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of docetaxel.

      Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour and oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and
      fluorouracil IV continuously over 46 hours on days 1 and 2. Treatment repeats every 14 days
      for at least 2 courses in the absence of disease progression, symptomatic tumor progression,
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo blood sample collection periodically for pharmacokinetic and pharmacogenomic
      correlative studies. Plasma concentrations of docetaxel are analyzed by reverse-phase high
      performance liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry. Polymorphisms in CYP3A4/5,
      MDR, and other genes are analyzed by PCR.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 73 patients (30 for phase I and 43 for phase II) will be
      accrued for this study.
    
  