
    
      Malignant tumor has become the leading cause of death in humans, and the number one killer in
      malignant tumor is the lung cancer. Intensifying environmental pollution comes with rising of
      the incidence of lung cancer and the high mortality,what's the worst that the 5-year survival
      rate is only about 15%, accounting for first place in the malignant tumors, Exploiting for
      novel antitumor technology and products comes to arrest growing attention of the governments
      and businesses because of the uneffectively curbing of tumor threat to people's life and
      health on conventional three treatments (surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy). Biological
      and immunotherapy was voted to one of the ten big breakthrough in 2013 by Science magazine,
      and considered as a new development direction for cancer treatment in the 21st century.

      The existing immune treatment mainly includes: adoptive immune therapy, tumor vaccine
      therapy, immune checkpoint-antibody therapy and other auxiliary therapy, and the adoptive
      immunotherapy was researched and developeded former in addition the most mature treatment
      among these therapies. The adoptive immunotherapy has been carried out in many units
      primarily is the autologous DC - CIK immunotherapy,which called the Dendritic cells
      (Dendritic cells, DC) and Cytokine Induced Killer cells (Cytokine Induced Killer, CIK)
      immunotherapy. The principle of this technology is: separating of monocytes and lymphocytes
      of human peripheral blood, then ugmentated and activated by a variety of cytokines in vitro
      (e.g., IFN - gamma, IL - 1, IL - 2, anti - CD3 mAb) to a mixed lymphocyte with antigen
      presenting and broad-spectrum function of killing tumor cells. The amplifying activated
      DC-CIK intravenous back to patients, releasing of active substances such as CIK cells
      perforin,and grain enzyme B to tumor cells after combining with the tumor cells in the body,
      which dissolves the tumor cells.Meanwhile the secreting of a variety of cytokines, such as IL
      - 2, IFN - gamma and TNF alpha, improves the body's immune function, and gives the role of
      anti-tumor function.

      Existing literature report and our previous study in biological treatment center showed that
      good safety, small side effects and good tolerance for the vast majority of patients. In
      curative effect, the current report reveals DC-CIK technology has a good curative effect
      maidly on leukemia, lymphoma, ovarian cancer, stomach cancer, etc., except for lung cancer.It
      could because of the complex lung cancer tumor antigen,or weak tumor specific T cell
      response. How to improve the effectiveness of the presented lung cancer antigen and stimulate
      stronger tumor specific T cell response needs to be addressed in improving the curative
      effect of the lung cancer immunotherapy.

      In recent years checkpoint point antibody therapy has a breakthrough in tumor immunotherapy,
      including CTLA-4, PD - 1 and PD - L1. a number of clinical studies revealed the therapy of PD
      - 1 and PD - L1 antibody for advanced NSCLC, especially in lung squamous carcinoma has good
      treatment effect, and the disease objective response rate achieve 10-23%. Autologous DC/CIK
      therapy has been widely carried out in domestic,and has a good security proved by many
      clinical practice.As the lack of effective tumor antigen, there are no large randomized,
      double-blind study confirm its function in extending patient survival and preventing tumor
      progression so far. Some hospitals adopted the tumor cell lysis solution or single molecule
      protein peptide/DC united CIK technology, which means to load tumor cell lysis or single
      molecule protein peptide as a tumor antigen to DC unite with in vitro induced CIK at the same
      time.When compared to CIK therapy alone, the unit therapy can not only non-specificly damage
      tumor,but also induce the body to produce tumor-specific immune response.However most of the
      tumor antigens contained in tumor cell lysis are longevity protein that cannot be effectively
      intaken by DC,leading to limited effective antigen presented by DC to T lymphocyte. In
      addition, the tumor antigen longevity protein can exist for a long time in the natural growth
      of tumor cells, and can be recognized by the patients for its own organization,therefore
      immune tolerance inhibites the immune response affecting the effect of killing tumor. Single
      molecule protein polypeptide only induce specific immune response to a single or a few tumor
      antigen, not the mutatd tumor antigen,resulting in escape of tumor. We need to develop new
      cell treatments because of autologous DC/CIK therapy can not produce effective immune
      response ,for providing a new aiternative candidate to unite checkpoint antibody therapy in
      the future.

      Recently, Dr Hu Hong - Ming's team put forward an innovative cancer treatment strategy: using
      of autophagy role to capture tumor antigen for preparation of tumor vaccine. In this
      strategy, the blocking proteasome activity of in vitro cultured tumor cells dealed with
      Bortezomib (proteasome inhibitors) causes enrichment of short-lived protein (SLiPs) and
      misfolded proteins (DRiPs) in autophagosome,called DRibbles corpuscle. Tumor vaccine maded
      from collecting these DRibbles corpuscle preparation as, also known as the DRibble
      vaccine.Our early studies have suggested that the DRibble tumor vaccines are more powerful
      than the tumor cell vaccine, because the whole tumor cell vaccine does not contain easily
      degradated short-lived proteins which cannot be cross presented to DC efficiently. These
      short-lived protein avoid being degradated by the proteasome in the DRibble vaccine, and
      packaged into autophagosome vesicles with double membrane structure. These vesicles contain
      endogenous risk signaling molecules (such as HSP90, HMGB1, etc.), can effectively trigger the
      congenital immune response. Therefore, when co-culture with once DRibble vaccine,DC can
      effectively intake DRibble vaccine and presenting tumor related antigen to the DC surface,
      combining with MHC molecules to activate T cells, resulting in the immune response. Compared
      with whole lung cancer vaccine, DRibble lung cancer vaccines can provide a wider range of
      tumor associated antigen, make the body no longer keep the tolerance for lack of cross
      presented, which can cause strong immune response. Dr Hu Hong Ming's team have also found
      that allogeneic Dribble can induce equally effective immune response compare with autologous
      tumor cells DRibble vaccine and tumor regression, the result has been confirmed in multiple
      tumor models. Due to the lack of classic MHC molecules,DRibble vaccine proteins can be
      rapidly degradated by DC, and allogeneic DRibble vaccine would not induce adverse effects due
      to the induction of allograft immune response, remaindering it's safety and efficacy.

      DRibble surface have a large number of target molecular ligands of DC,directely combine with
      xDC cells with high expression CLEC9A on surface. xDC cells can efficiently cross presente
      antigen to DC, thus can improve the efficiency of presenting DRibble antigen. Besides, immune
      response induce by DRibble have immune memory and identify a wide variety of tumor specific
      antigen, it will amplificate palying against tumor cells regeneration and prevent tumor
      escape when stimulated again.By Providence cancer centers in the United States for nearly 10
      years of research, the safety of the DRibble has been fully validated by Ⅰ/Ⅱ clinical trials.

      Based on the above research foundation, our project intends to carry out the following
      research: 1. The curative effect and the influence of the overall survival of late-stage
      NSCLC patients after receivie new DRibble vaccine, and compared with the existing DC/CIK
      therapy efficacy, 2. Further study the mechanism of Dribble vaccine therapy effects on human
      lung cancer cells, system analysis and evaluate the clinical curative effect and promotion
      value.

      Research objects: this study intends to include ⅢA/ⅢB/Ⅳ period non-small cell lung cancer
      without radical prostatectomy (about 60% of the total number), patients who received 2-6
      courses of chemotherapy, accept or not accept radiation therapy and disease control stage.
      Selected patients were randomly divided into new immunotherapy and conventional DC/CIK
      treatment group.

      Therapeutic schedule: This trial of allogeneic DRibble vaccine unite with DC/CIK or DC/CIK
      alone for Treatment of Stage IIIA or B NSCLC. Two arms will be studied. 30 patients will be
      randomized to arm 1 and 2.

      Arm1: DRibble vaccine with DC/CIK(The experimental group) Arm2: DC/CIK(The control group)
      Methods and procedures

        1. Hospital ethics committee approval.

        2. Recruting the appropriate patients according to the inclusion criteria and exclusion
           criteria .

        3. Sign the patients informed consent

        4. The preparation of DRibble lung cancer vaccines

        5. Blood samples collection: collecte of 10ml patients peripheral blood, separate PBMC as
           before treatment reference specimens.

        6. Day 1: DRibble group guided by ultrasound in patients with inguinal lymph nodes under
           the vaccine of inject DRibble, the control group no injections

        7. Day8: collecte 50 ml peripheral blood and separate monocytes and lymphocytes

        8. Intensify immune cells amplification (biological treatment center) : using CD3
           antibodies activation, IL - 2 promotes lymphocytes proliferation for the killing
           cells;GM-CSF induce mononuclear cells differentiation for DC, joint immune treatment
           group to DRibble vaccine co-culture with DC cells for 24h in Dribble unit with DC/CIK
           group.

        9. Identification of immune cell (clinical laboratory, biological treatment center) :
           counting cell number, cell activity, the surface markers.

       10. Detection of Immune cells microbial (clinical laboratory, biological treatment center) :
           bacteria, mycoplasma and endotoxin.

       11. 20-22 days: immune cells back to patients: physiological saline washing cells, venous
           return after suspension, within a period of treatment by several times.

       12. 55 days: collecte 10 ml peripheral blood, after the separation of PBMC in vitro induced
           to DC, cocultivate with DRibble and subcutaneous injection at 60th day.

       13. Day 75: collecte 10 ml peripheral blood, separate PBMC and detecte T cell immune
           response ability.

      System evaluation the therapeutic effect and promotion value of Dribble: 1.The clinical
      evaluation of curative effect: comparing the experimental group and control group of
      progression-free survival and overall survival, drawing survival curve, and statistically
      analyzed. 2. evaluating DRibble immune response , comparing the first time collected
      peripheral blood with the treated peripheral blood and follow-up stage, immune function
      detected of testing mainly included below: in vitro testing level of DRibble specific T cells
      in the peripheral blood before and after the treatment, in order to make clear the antigen
      produced specific immune response; culturing the specific T cells in vitro,carrying out
      recognition experiment and patients autologous tumor (if successful separated) and multiple
      builded strains lung cancer cells isolated from patients in vitro, in order to make clear the
      specific T cells generated by experimental group could recognize many strains of lung cancer
      cells, means allogeneic DRibble specific T cells can response to different patient's tumor
      cells. 3. Safety evaluation indexes: adverse reaction(Redness and swelling, pain, skin
      rashes, itching, etc. Allergic reactions);The blood test index is in accordance with the
      standard(Routine blood, liver and kidney function, electrolyte, etc);The quality of life
      (Weight and BMI, blood protein level, physical strength grade, psychological, emotional
      evaluation, etc).
    
  