
    
      Background: According to literature, the treatment results in irradiated patients who develop
      intensive skin reaction after concomitant Cetuximab administration appear improved as
      compared to the results of standard combination of radiotherapy and Cisplatin. In other
      patients, no beneficial effect of Cetuximab is expected and the therapy with Cisplatin
      (concomitantly with irradiation) is more effective in this group.

      In this proposed single-institution non-randomized phase II study on patients with locally
      advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, the therapy will be adjusted to the
      grade of skin rush as recorded after the first two cycles of Cetuximab and Cisplatin, i.e.
      either with radioimmunotherapy (radiotherapy and Cetuximab) or radiochemotherapy
      (radiotherapy and Cisplatin).

      Methods: In the patients with inoperable tumors, induction chemotherapy (Docetaxel 75 mg/m2,
      Cisplatin 75 mg/m2, 5-Fluorouracil 750 mg/m2 in continuous infusion days 1-5; repeated every
      21 days for 4 cycles) will be administered. In the week before the first fraction of
      radiotherapy, all patients will receive a loading dose of Cetuximab (400 mg/m2) and
      combination of Cetuximab (250 mg/m2) and Cisplatin (30 mg/m2) during the first week of
      irradiation. After multidisciplinary assessment of the grade of skin rush, conducted at the
      end of the second week of irradiation, the patients will be grouped as follows: arm A - skin
      rush of CTCAE v3.0 grade <2 will proceed with radiochemotherapy with Cisplatin; arm B - skin
      rush of CTCAE v3.0 grade >=2 will proceed with radioimmunotherapy with Cetuximab.

      The planned number of patients included in the study is 120 (arm A - 50, arm B - 70) and
      recruitment period is 3 years. The primary objective of the study is to determine
      radiologically the complete response rate 12-14 weeks after therapy. The secondary objectives
      are locoregional control, progression-free survival and overall survival at 2 years after
      therapy, acute and late toxicity.

      Expected results: The expected complete response rate in patients treated with
      radiochemotherapy and those treated with radioimmunotherapy is 50% and 75%, respectively. We
      also expect the difference in an absolute survival gain between the groups to be 25%.
    
  