
    
      There is ample evidence that there are high rates of anxiety and depression among patients
      with end-stage lung disease. In addition, psychological dysfunction and distress seem to be
      especially prevalent in patients awaiting lung transplantation. Even though patients benefit
      from the transplant procedure with respect to long-term health-related quality of life
      (HRQoL), they also face significant challenges in terms of psychosocial adjustment after the
      transplantation. There is evidence that e.g. persistently elevated depressive symptoms are
      associated with reduced survival after lung transplantation.

      Currently, the screening process to help select among candidates for organ transplant
      typically involves considering a variety of psychosocial factors. However, it remains
      somewhat unclear which criteria are considered important in these evaluations, how
      differences in various aspects of psychosocial functioning are weighed in making the ultimate
      decision on the suitability of a patient for transplantation, and the extent to which
      pretransplant psychosocial characteristics predict the medical and psychosocial outcomes of
      the procedure. Standardized psychometric instruments with proven reliability and validity can
      prevent the danger of personal bias in the selection of candidates for transplantation. In
      addition, structured psychometric instruments can help to identify patients with multiple
      care needs and can support the development of psychosocial interventions designed to increase
      quality of life and to decrease the risk of a less favorable transplant outcome through
      modifying the factors that might place patients at risk.

      In a longitudinal prospective cohort study, psychosocial functioning will be assessed at
      multiple time points both before and after lung transplantation. Assessment of psychosocial
      functioning will be conducted using a validated, structured interview which allows a
      comprehensive evaluation of the level of adjustment in 10 aspects of psychosocial functioning
      - the Transplant Evaluation Rating Scale (TERS) - and standardized self-report instruments.
      The TERS has shown to be an important and significant predictor of several facets of somatic
      and psychosocial outcomes e.g. in patients after liver transplantation, left ventricular
      assist device implantation, and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

      For each patient, a face-to-face psychosomatic evaluation 1 year after Transplantation will
      take place during a routine clinical assessments at the Department of Respiratory Medicine.

      The following outcome parameters will be assessed:

        -  Mental disorders (current)

        -  Psychological processing of lung transplantation (including organ integration and the
           patient's relationship with the donor, chronic stress/psychological distress and the
           emotional effects of transplantation/immunosuppression

        -  Return to work one year after lung transplantation

        -  Psychological interventions during the first postoperative year

        -  Intake of (new) psychotropic medication during the first postoperative year
    
  