
    
      Veterans with PTSD have high rates of smoking (34%-86% vs. 18% in the general population) and
      have substantial difficulties with quitting tobacco. Only 23% of individuals with PTSD quit
      smoking compared to 50% of the general population. As a result, Veterans with PTSD are at
      high risk of developing severe health problems and poor physical functioning. Fifty percent
      of these long-term smokers will die of a smoking-related cause and on average, will lose 25
      years of their life compared to non-smokers. Despite the significant morbidity and mortality
      associated with smoking, no smoking cessation treatments exist that intensively target PTSD
      symptoms as an obstacle to quit smoking, although this is a significant barrier to quitting
      for many Veterans. In addition, no smoking cessation treatments have a large emphasis on
      improving the functioning of Veterans with PTSD and tobacco dependence, although both PTSD
      and tobacco use negatively affect functioning across physical, mental health, and social
      domains.

      The goal of this SPiRE project is to evaluate Acceptance and Commitment Therapy for Veterans
      with PTSD and Tobacco Use (ACT-PT), which is an acceptance and mindfulness-based smoking
      cessation treatment for Veterans with PTSD and tobacco dependence. ACT-PT specifically
      targets smoking cravings related to PTSD symptoms and memories of trauma, in addition to
      difficulties managing PTSD symptoms. negative affect and nicotine withdrawal symptoms during
      quit attempts. ACT-PT includes structured intervention components that guide Veterans to
      replace smoking as a coping strategy for PTSD symptoms and memories with alternative coping
      strategies (e.g., mindfulness, acceptance). And healthy living activities (e.g., engaging in
      work, expanding social networks, engaging in physical exercise) that are consistent with
      Veterans' values. This emphasis on substantially improving health-related quality of life and
      functioning across several areas makes ACT-PT particularly innovative and different from
      existing treatments. However, research is needed on the relative feasibility, acceptability,
      and efficacy of ACT-PT compared to standard smoking cessation treatments.

      This project involves a randomized clinical trial study of Veteran smokers with PTSD and
      tobacco dependence randomized to one of two different types of psychosocial treatment: ACT-PT
      versus the American Lung Association's Freedom From Smoking Program [FFS] with all
      participants. This study has two primary aims: 1) evaluate the relative feasibility and
      acceptability of the two interventions (including ease of recruitment, randomization
      proportion, staff and Veteran acceptance of the treatment, retention rates, treatment
      adherence, fidelity, ease of the assessment process), and 2) evaluate the preliminary
      efficacy of ACT-PT vs. FFS with the primary outcomes of tobacco use, PTSD symptoms,
      health-related quality of life, and functional impairment.
    
  