
    
      Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) is approved as a medicinal treatment under the trade name
      dronabinol but is also a drug of abuse when consumed as part of cannabis products. With the
      legalization of recreational cannabis use and increased use among pregnant women, there is
      new urgency to understand the dose-exposure relationship for THC, the mechanisms by which THC
      is eliminated from the body, and the impact of the hormonal milieu of pregnancy on these
      mechanisms. As approximately 4% of all pregnant women in the United States use cannabis,
      there is a critical need for studies evaluating how cannabis metabolism may change during
      pregnancy leading to altered exposures, pharmacology, and toxicology. Recent studies suggest
      that cannabis exposure during pregnancy may adversely affect the developing fetus, and
      administration of cannabis [or dronabinol (THC)] to pregnant women is therefore not ethical.
      Analysis of THC exposures and effects during pregnancy is significantly hindered by the lack
      of accurate, quantitative biomarkers of THC exposure and the unreliable self-report of
      cannabis use. To address these gaps, the current study is designed to 1) characterize the
      dose-exposure relationship of THC and its major metabolites 11-OH-THC and 11-nor-carboxy-THC
      in reproductive age women following consumption of dronabinol orally and 2) to determine how
      THC metabolism is altered by the pregnancy-associated hormones estradiol and cortisol.
      Existing data show that THC and its major metabolites are cleared by metabolizing enzymes
      whose activity increases during pregnancy and further has been shown to be induced
      specifically by estradiol and cortisol, hormones that are markedly increased during
      pregnancy. Based on these data, we hypothesize that increasing estradiol and cortisol
      concentrations during pregnancy will increase the clearance of THC and its metabolites,
      leading to an altered metabolism in pregnant women when compared to non-pregnant individuals.
      Our clinical study seeks to determine the magnitude of changes in THC pharmacokinetics in
      healthy female volunteers following exposures to increased estradiol and cortisol. We predict
      that increased estradiol and cortisol concentrations will result in induction of
      THC-metabolizing enzymes in the liver and intestine, resulting in increased clearance of THC
      and its metabolites. The clinical study will provide the foundation for modeling and
      simulation of THC disposition during human pregnancy. These studies will also provide seminal
      data to allow modeling of the THC metabolome in human plasma and urine as a function of THC
      dose and time after consumption, making a significant impact on development of reliable
      biomarkers of THC exposures in humans.
    
  