
    
      According to the World Health Organization (WHO), diabetes is a rapidly growing chronic
      disease. Type II diabetes mellitus (DM) accounted for 98% of diabetics in Taiwan, and 40.0%
      of them have sleep disturbance similar as other country's 38.4%, but it is much higher than
      the people who did not have diabetics (20.8%). The metabolism and physiological status of DM
      patient are easily affected by poor quality of sleep, resulting in poor blood sugar control
      and easy to lead complications. It is a very huge impact on health. So the insomnia in DM
      patient is a very important care issue for medical health team. Previous studies have found
      that long-term practice tai chi, Ba Duan Jin and other traditional Chinese medicine qigong
      can improve sleep quality, glycosylated hemoglobin and physiological indicators of type 2 DM
      insomnia. Therefore, the aim of this study is to investigate the effect of the Duo-in on
      improving sleeping quality, glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) and Traditional Chinese Medical (TCM)
      body constitution in insomnia of type 2 DM patient. It is expected that the results of this
      study could provide medical health team with reference and guidance of clinical care and home
      care of the patients with type 2 DM insomnia, and prevent the occurrence of complications and
      improve their quality of life, thereby, to reducing the cost of medical expenses.

      An experimental study is designed, there will recruit 60 type 2 DM participants come from an
      outpatient department of a medical central in central of Taiwan, randomly assigned to
      experimental or control group each of 30 participants. The participants are enrolled should
      meet: (1) type 2 DM with diagnosis of insomnia; (2) Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Inventory
      Assessment score (PSQI)> 5; (3) willing to participate in and complete the consent form. The
      intervention method: Teach Duo-in practice (give guidance Duo-in CD disc) and the DM health
      education for 20 minutes in experimental group, while the control group only give the DM
      health education in the first 12weeks, after that the control group will give them the same
      intervention as experimental group for 12weeks. The experimental group performed Duo-in three
      times a week, each time for 20 minutes for 12 weeks at home. Daily bedtime diaries will be
      recorded in both groups. The tools in this study are: the scale of participant's demographic
      data and interference factors of sleep, PSQI, TCM body constitution questionnaire (BCQ),
      HbA1C and daily bedtime diaries. Data collection will be before intervention and 4th, 8th,
      12th, 16th, 20th and 24th weeks, with PSQI, TCM body constitution, Glycated Hemoglobin
      (HbA1C) and daily bedtime diaries. The data collection on 4th, 8th, 16th and 20th week will
      mail the PSQI to the participants and ask them to answer. Data will analyze by descriptive
      and inferential statistical analysis, including frequency distribution, percentage, mean,
      standard deviation, Paired t-test, t-test, Chi -square test, the generalized estimation
      equation (GEE; to analyze the repeated measurement of different time and group) verification.
    
  