
    
      In order to achieve a 20% reduction in suicide rates by 2025, successful suicide prevention
      efforts need to optimize care delivered by primary care teams due to their increased
      likelihood of having contact with patients prior to suicide attempts. Several evidence-based
      recommendations exist in the clinical practice guidelines for primary care team members to
      improve suicide prevention at every visit with an at-risk patient (i.e., patient has a risk
      factor for suicide, such as substance use diagnosis). However, past research has shown there
      are opportunities for improvement. Successful implementation of these guidelines relies on
      the knowledge and delivery of the elements of evidence-based care, which often involves
      several primary care team members working together. In addition, the delivery must be
      patient-centered to improve success of a patient feeling comfortable enough to share
      honestly. Both are areas of deficit. Thus, leveraging the team to utilize the team skillsets
      for interactive learning to improve knowledge, patient-centered care, and address team
      processes may be ideal to overcome provider's reported barriers to providing evidence-based
      care, such as lack of self-efficacy. The proposed research will examine the use of
      evidence-based strategies to improve task-specific team processes packaged within a brief
      interactive interprofessional educational intervention called Team Education for Adopting
      Changes in Healthcare (TEACH). Matching the commonly used primary care huddle format often
      used daily for the team to review patients prior to engaging in clinical services, TEACH
      involves 4 brief (~20 minutes) team meetings with all members of the primary care teamlet,
      including the increasing number of embedded behavioral health providers in primary care to
      discuss suicide prevention. The investigators will conduct a small randomized clinical trial,
      which will examine the feasibility, acceptability, and effectiveness of TEACH on improving
      evidence-based suicide prevention care (as assessed via components in the electronic medical
      record) as well as team processes (as assessed by the Team Development measure) compared to
      standard practice (i.e., mandated didactics, electronic medical record support) within 8
      primary care teamlets. In addition, the investigators will assess the feasibility of
      recruiting at-risk Veterans to complete a structured interview regarding their experience of
      the team's suicide prevention efforts during a visit and provide objective measurement of
      evidence-based care via audio recording of a recent visit. This work aims to provide
      preliminary data supporting the use of TEACH as an adjunctive educational strategy to improve
      patient-centered evidence-based suicide prevention care. If successful, future work would
      continue to examine the effectiveness of TEACH and work towards examining implementation
      strategies to help facilitate uptake of TEACH in primary care.
    
  