
    
      Hepatocellular cancer (HCC) is the most common (≥ 95%) of liver cancers. HCC is also the
      fastest rising cause of cancer-related deaths in the U.S. HCC is particularly important for
      Texas residents. Texas has the second highest death rate from HCC in the nation. The 5-year
      HCC survival remains low (10-15%) and most patients get diagnosed at late stages. Texas
      residents notably Hispanics and African Americans are greatly affected with established HCC
      risk factors including hepatitis C virus, hepatitis B virus and alcoholic liver disease.
      Furthermore, emerging HCC risk factors, specifically the metabolic syndrome and non-alcoholic
      fatty liver disease (NAFLD), are exceptionally common in Texans.

      The goal of the Texas Hepatocellular Carcinoma Consortium (THCCC) is to reduce the death and
      suffering related to liver cancer in Texas and the world through five research projects.

      This protocol outlines Project 5 of the THCCC which is a comparative effectiveness randomized
      controlled trial of strategies to increase HCC surveillance. This is the first multi-center
      outreach intervention aimed at improving surveillance process completion among at-risk
      patients with cirrhosis.

      This study is based at 3 health systems in Texas: UT Southwestern (UTSW) Medical Center,
      Parkland Health and Hospital System (PHHS), and the Houston Veterans Affairs (VA) Medical
      Center. Across these 3 sites, we will implement and evaluate system-level mailed outreach
      interventions to identity at-risk patients with cirrhosis, promote HCC surveillance, and
      ensure timely follow-up of tests. This study uses an EMR-enabled case-finding algorithm to
      identify patients with documented cirrhosis, using ICD-9 codes, and those with unrecognized
      cirrhosis, using laboratory data.

      Over 3000 patients identified by this algorithm will be randomized to:

        -  Group 1: Usual care with opportunistic visit-based HCC surveillance.

        -  Group 2: Mailed HCC surveillance outreach with patient education and patient navigation
           services.

      The Specific Aims are:

        -  Aim 1: Compare the clinical effectiveness of the intervention strategies to increase
           completion of the HCC surveillance process.

        -  Aim 2: Compare patient-reported satisfaction and acceptability of the HCC surveillance
           strategies.

        -  Aim 3: Evaluate whether intervention effects are moderated by patient sex,
           race/ethnicity, socioeconomic status, health care utilization, and documented vs.
           unrecognized cirrhosis.
    
  