
    
      Physicians in ancient Greece understood that smelling the breath of their patients can assist
      in diagnosis. However, while this rather primitive diagnostic method hasn't changed much over
      the centuries, there has been an increasing interest in recent years in improving methods of
      noninvasive early diagnosis for numerous metabolic and infectious diseases.

      Currently, many diseases are missed and exacerbated because of delayed diagnosis. In dental
      medicine, patients tend to avoid visiting their dentist even for regular checkups, and thus
      they only appear at the clinic at a later, advanced stage of the disease, suffering of pain
      and discomfort that could have easily been prevented, and presenting late stage disease, thus
      jeopardizing the treatment outcome.

      For these reason, there is an urgent need for an inexpensive and minimally invasive
      technology that would serve as a diagnostic aid, allowing 1) efficient early detection and 2)
      treatment customization.

      Diagnostic modalities based on the detection of volatile organic compounds (henceforth VOCs),
      i.e. organic compounds with relatively high vapor pressure at room temperature, may be the
      answer for the aforementioned need.

      "Electronic Noses" for the Detection of Volatile Organic Compounds in the Exhaled Air
      Disease-specific volatile organic compounds are produced mainly through changes in specific
      biochemical pathways in the body. Following their production by either human or bacterial
      cells, VOCs may be found in body fluids, including infected cells and/or their
      microenvironment, blood, breath, and saliva, among others. Thus, VOCs released from their
      origin can be directly detected from blood and the headspace of cells.

      Numerous worldwide research groups are investigating the possibility of non-invasive VOC
      detection in the exhaled air, enabling the diagnosis of various systemic diseases6, including
      carcinomas (lung, breast and colorectal), tuberculosis, kidney failure and asthma. The VOCs
      in question are alkanes (C4-C20), methyl-alkenes and benzene derivatives, found in healthy
      individuals in concentrations of 1-20ppb (part per billion), while in disease, the
      concentration of disease-specific VOCs is increased. VOCs are suggested to be produced by the
      distressed tissue due to oxidative stress, by the liver as part of a metabolic reaction, or
      by the immune system.

      An "Electronic Nose" is a device capable to recognize the volatile composition of an air
      sample. The device consists of an array of nanoreceptors capable to transform physical or
      chemical information into an electric signal. Every receptor in the array reacts differently
      to the materials in the analyzed sample, and the combination of these responses from several
      receptors produces a unique volatile profile, distinguishable by quality (namely, which
      molecules are found in the sample?) and quantity (namely, what is the exact concentration of
      each molecule?).

      An electronic nose system for air sample analysis should usually consist of three key
      components:

        1. Breath / headspace collection device

        2. Processing device

        3. Classification algorithm. The first and most widespread such devices are based on air
           sample analysis in a Gas-Chromatography / Mass-Spectrometry (GC-MS) system. Advanced
           systems include methyl-oxide sensors (MOS) or nanoreceptors.

      A nanoreceptor-based electronic nose system (NaNose) is being developed, at the Laboratory of
      the co-PI (Prof. Haick, Faculty of Chemical Engineering, Technion, Haifa, Israel), capable of
      detecting traces of VOCs in concentrations of single parts-per-billion (1µg/l). Paired with a
      computerized system able to analyze large amounts of data from hundreds of molecules,
      detected simultaneously by an array of 20 or more receptors, this system surpasses the other
      "electronic nose" devices in terms of sensitivity and efficiency. Contrary to costly and slow
      GC-MS systems, an ideal nanomaterial-based sensor for breath testing should be sensitive at
      very low concentrations of volatile organic compounds, even in the presence of environmental
      or physiological confounding factors. It should also respond rapidly and proportionately to
      small changes in concentration and provide a consistent output that is specific to a given
      compound. When not in contact with the compounds in question, the sensor should quickly
      return to its baseline state, or be simple and inexpensive enough to be disposable.

      Air sampling with such receptors should be comparably simple, and its results may be
      interpreted automatically, which makes it suitable for cost effective screening of a large
      populations. Only positively tested patients will require conventional and unpleasant
      diagnostics to confirm the early diagnosis, before a treatment is suggested.

      Nevertheless, all existing VOC based diagnostic modalities tend to forget that the exhaled
      air is a combination of numerous origins - lungs, the upper GI tract, and the oral cavity
      with small nasal component. While the composition and volatile profiles of air from the lungs
      were thoroughly researched in the recent decade, as means to find an early diagnostic
      approach to cancer10,15, the oral component remained largely untouched.

      Micro niches in the oral cavity of healthy individuals' harbor biofilm that may contain over
      1000 different bacterial species. In the absence of active mechanical or chemical cleansing,
      biofilm accumulates, changes and matures, causing soft tissue inflammation, known as
      gingivitis. In some individuals and under certain conditions, inflammation progresses to
      periodontal disease, and the biofilm composition changes to a higher proportion of anaerobic
      Gram-negative bacteria with increased virulence and tissue-breakage capabilities. Aside of
      biofilm microorganisms, additional sources of VOCs in the oral cavity may include serum,
      gingival exudate, inflamed gum tissue, sores and lesions, pathologies associated with
      salivary glands, sinuses and nasal cavity, gastrointestinal reflux, interdental trapped food
      debris, and environmental pollutes. Hertel et al. has recently reported unique volatile
      profiles in the headspace of specific oral bacteria and fungi.

      We hypothesize that nanoreceptor-based volatolomics can be used as a diagnostic modality for
      non-invasive early diagnosis of oral diseases, based on a sample of exhaled air.

      The proposed research aims to lay the foundation for a fast, user-friendly and non-invasive
      diagnostic modality for common oral diseases in exhaled air samples, based on the NaNose.
      This will serve in the foreseeable future as a base for creation of a marketable clinical or
      home-based diagnostic device.

      Specific aims:

        1. Detection and analysis of VOCs connected with common oral diseases in the headspaces of
           microorganism samples from the oral cavities of patients diagnosed with gingivitis,
           periodontal diseases or caries, and compared to a control group of healthy patients.

        2. Characterization of volatile profiles for common oral diseases and defining specified
           diagnostic nanoreceptors.

      Desired Outcomes

        1. The results of the proposed research may lead to a revolution among dental
           professionals, as well as at home care. To date, the only way for an individual to learn
           of his oral condition is to schedule an appointment with a dentist, yet a significant
           proportion of the population avoids regular checkups and treatment. An easy tool
           enabling a simple and non-invasive air sampling at home or in a drugstore will
           significantly increase patient compliance and curability rates, and decrease healthcare
           expenditure.

        2. VOC mapping of the air originating in the oral cavity may increase the diagnostic value
           of air samples originating in the lungs, thus improving the precision, sensitivity and
           specificity of non-invasive early diagnosis of cancer, kidney failure and other internal
           diseases.

      Methods

      Stage 1 - Detection and analysis of VOCs connected with common oral diseases Known bacterial
      strains (Streptococcus mutans, Streptococcus sanguinis, Porphyromonas gingivalis,
      Fusobacterium nucleatum, Acinetobacter actinomycetemcomitans, Tannerella forsythia,
      Lactobacillus acidophilus) will be cultivated separately in sealed bottles containing
      appropriate media, enabling collection and analysis of the unique headspace inside the
      bottles. After cultivation, headspace will be collected into a Tenax absorbent tube
      (Sigma-Aldrich, 28718-U SUPELCOTenax® TA / Carboxen® 1018) and analyzed in GC-MS (Gas
      Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry). A unique volatile profile of every bacterial strain will
      be determined via a statistical analysis. The complete trial protocol is available in
      Addendum 1 below.

      Three (3) repetitions will be performed with each strain.

      Stage 2 - Characterization of volatile profiles for common oral diseases and defining
      specified diagnostic nanoreceptors The tested samples will be of oral bacterial plaque and
      infected dentin, cultivated in sealed bottles similarly to Stage 1.

      The patients will originate at the students' clinics, and the samples will be taken as part
      of their dental treatment, namely: removal of caries and infected dentin for future
      restoration, and dental calculus and plaque removal for the treatment of periodontal disease.

        1. In the beginning of the treatment session, an informed consent will be obtained from the
           patient, agreeing to the usage of removed plaque / infected dentin in research. No
           deviation from the standard treatment protocol is expected.

             1. The plaque sample of periodontal patients will be taken before gross scaling has
                commenced, with a manual tool (Gracey 5-6 curette), from the cervical area of
                mandibular incisors.

             2. The infected dentin sample of carious teeth will be taken with a manual tool (Spoon
                Excavator), after the initial form of the prepared cavity was outlined.

        2. The collected samples will be then cultivated in sealed bottles containing
           Wilkins-Chalgren medium, at 37°C for 48 hours, similarly to Stage 1 above. A bottle with
           sterile medium will be used as control.

        3. Headspace will be then collected and analyzed similarly to points 5-8 at Stage 1 above.

        4. At this point, the unique volatile profile of each patient will be linked with his
           clinical diagnosis (extent of periodontal disease / caries), and analyzed for
           statistical consistency.

        5. Data gathered in stages 1-2 will be statistically analyzed as a whole.
    
  