
    
      Current asthma guidelines in the UK are underpinned by evidence derived from randomised
      controlled trials (RCTs). Although RCT data are considered the gold standard, patients
      recruited to asthma RCTs are estimated to represent less than 10% of the UK's asthma
      population. The poor representation of the asthma population is due to a number of factors,
      such as tightly-controlled inclusion criteria for RCTs. There is, therefore, a need for more
      representative RCTs and real-life observational studies to inform existing guidelines and
      help optimise asthma outcomes.

      In response to the Montreal Protocol's ruling to phase out ozone-depleting chlorofluorocarbon
      (CFC) propellants in asthma inhalers, several hydrofluoroalkane-134a-propellant (HFA-)
      formulations of BDP have been developed. Two branded generic formulations currently available
      in the UK are Qvar® (Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd) - an extra-fine-particle (~1.1
      microns) HFA-BDP (solution) formulation and Clenil® (Chiesi Limited) - a larger particle
      (~2.9 microns) HFA-BDP (suspension) formulation.

      The extra-fine particle formulation HFA-BDP formulation (Qvar®) has been shown to improve
      total and small airway deposition relative to CFC-BDP. As a result of the more even
      distribution through both the large and small airways of the lungs and data from short-term
      randomised clinical trials (RCTs), Qvar® dosing is recommended at approximately one half the
      dose of traditional CFC-BDP (average particle size ~3.5 microns). However, the
      larger-particle Clenil® is recommended for prescribing at the same dose as traditional
      CFC-BDP.

      Further studies are required to understand whether the differences in particle size and
      airway distribution have an impact on asthma outcomes over the long-term.

      This observational study will investigate the real-world effectiveness of extra-fine HFA-BDP
      (Qvar®) as compared with larger-particle HFA-BDP (Clenil®) in patients with asthma who: were
      new to ICS therapy; received an increase in their ICS dose, or switched / changed baseline
      ICS therapy to HFA-BDP with no change in BDP-equivalent ICS dose. We hypothesise that
      differences in effectiveness might become apparent over the longer term through a
      retrospective database analysis of one-year outcomes for the diverse patient population seen
      in primary care.
    
  