
    
      Two conceptual advances occurring in the 1980's made it possible to test the hypothesis that
      significant alterations in serum lipoproteins can substantially reduce atherosclerosis
      progression or even induce regression. The first advance was in the development of
      arteriograms used in characterizing atherosclerosis, greatly reducing the number of patients
      required for the evaluation of an intervention designed to prevent coronary atherosclerosis
      progression. The second advance was the development of lovastatin that provides a
      lipid-lowering alternative much easier to tolerate than the niacin/colestipol combination
      previously used, and has been shown to be comparably effective for LDL reduction in patients
      with a family history of high cholesterol.

      A total of 270 high-risk coronary artery disease patients, not eligible for coronary artery
      bypass surgery, were recruited for the study. All patients received angiograms and were
      randomly assigned to either the lovastatin or placebo groups stratified by three baseline
      factors: sex, smoking status, and plasma cholesterol levels.

      Patients initially received lovastatin 40mg twice a day or a matching placebo. Those patients
      receiving lovastatin whose total plasma cholesterol level was less than 110mg/dL at one visit
      or 120 mg/dL on two successive visits had their dosage halved, and were maintained on the
      optimal dosage for the remainder of the study. Coronary angiography was performed prior to
      screening and at month 24 (visit 18). Angiographic assessment of both femoral arteries was
      also performed at baseline and at month 24. Noninvasive ultrasound imaging of the carotid
      arteries (including carotid intima-media thickness) was performed every 6 months. Patients
      reported to the clinic monthly for 12 months, and at two-month intervals thereafter. Plasma
      lipids, routine laboratory safety and physical examinations were also performed.
    
  