
    
      Background:

      The surgical treatment of choice for the treatment of medically refractory ulcerative colitis
      (UC) is restorative ileal pouch-anal anastomosis (IPAA), in which the patient retains fecal
      continence following colonectomy, by subsequent anastomosis of the terminal ileum and the
      rectum.

      Up to 25% of patients with UC will undergo IPAA surgery. The most common complication
      following the procedure is inflammation of the pouch (pouchitis), which is seen in up to 50%
      of patients within the first five years of surgery. Of these patients, 10-20% will develop a
      chronic inflammatory condition. The clinical symptoms of pouchitis include diarrhea, rectal
      bleeding, stomach cramps, general malaise and reduced quality of life. Endoscopic findings
      include mucosal edema, granulations, and ulcerations with mucosal frailty. In most cases, a
      causative microorganism is not identified, although infection with Clostridium difficile or
      Cytomegalovirus (CMV) have been reported.

      The most common treatment of pouchitis is empiric antibiotics, usually quinolones and
      metronidazole, or a combination of both. Following complications, removal of the pouch can
      become a last resort, and chronic pouchitis is the leading indication for 10% of these
      operations.

      The composition of microbes in the gut is known to be a key factor in the homeostasis of the
      intestine, and plays a central role in the development of CIBD. Different single
      microorganisms have previously been suggested as playing an important role in this
      development, including: Mycobacterium avium, Escherichia coli and Clostridium difficile, that
      all have invasive capabilities. Several studies have investigated the connection between the
      composition of microbes in the gut and development of pouchitis finding an increasing
      evidence for a link between dysbiosis and pouchitis.

      Method:

      Patients with chronic pouchitis are treated with fecal transplants from unrelated, healthy
      donors. The fecal transplant is from several healthy donors. The treatments are applied as
      enemas of 100 ml suspension for 14 consecutive days.

      Prior to treatment, pouchitis activity is graded using the pouchitis disease activity index
      (PDAI) based on symptoms, endoscopic and histological criteria. Patients will also complete
      self-reported questionnaires regarding pouch function, quality of life and sexuality.

      Patients are evaluated using the PDAI score 30 days following treatment together with the
      self-reported questionnaires. Longterm follow up is evaluated up to 6 months following FMT.

      Screening of FMT donors:

        1. Questionaire regarding possible contagious infectious diseases, followed by interview
           with principal investigator.

        2. Blood test for: inflammatory parameters: CRP, leucocyte count, HIV 1+2 antigen,
           Hepatitis A, B and C, CMV, EBV and HbA1c

        3. Fecal samples:

             1. Calprotectin

             2. Pathogenic bacteria (Salmonella, Campylobacter, Yersinia, Shigella), Vibrio,
                toxin-producing E. coli.

             3. Parasites, giardia spp. and cryptosporidium spp.

             4. Adenovirus, enterovirus, parechovirus

             5. Clostridium difficile

             6. Vancomycin-resistent Enterococcus faecalis and Enterococcus faecium,
                carbapenemase-producing enterobacteria and ESBL-producing E.coli.

      FMT donor exclusion criteria are:

        -  Age <20 or >65

        -  BMI <18.5 or > 28.0 kg/m2

        -  Known chronic inflammatory bowel disease, celiac disease, rheumatoid arthritis or other
           autoimmune disease, sclerosis, psoriasis, previous extensive bowel surgery

        -  In the previous 6 months:

        -  Diarrhea > 3 days in one week or bloody stools

        -  Treatment with antibiotics

        -  Risk of sexually transmitted disease, tattoos, piercings, travel to areas with high
           endemic transmission of infectious diseases or resistants microbes.
    
  