
    
      Key literature: Treatment approaches for suicide: The efficacy of various suicide prevention
      interventions has been the subject of research for some time, and includes a number of recent
      systematic reviews (e.g. Zalsman et al., 2016), and Gould, Greenberg, Velting, and Shaffer
      (2003) reviewed suicide prevention strategies specifically used with young people. Current
      national suicide prevention programs have highlighted the knowledge that suicide is a
      behaviour that stems from a complex and multifaceted set of circumstances and individual
      characteristics. These factors can be present across the human lifespan and occur across
      multiple cultural and community settings. The complex heterogeneous nature of the factors
      influencing suicide rates requires a collaborative and coordinated systems approach,
      incorporating strategies simultaneously implemented across multiple levels, including service
      systems, individualised interventions and community prevention. Despite this recognition,
      there remains a significant gap in the evidence base regarding the most effective
      interventions for use with suicide at the hospital service level.

      In 2015, the Gold Coast Mental Heath and Specialist Services (GCMHSS) undertook a review of
      frameworks for suicide prevention to guide planning and choice of interventions, as well as
      enhancing the capability of the service and staff to provide interventions aimed at
      addressing the needs of people presenting as a result of a suicide attempt. Interventions
      were sought with available evidence of efficacy, based on outcomes obtained in clinical,
      controlled trials (particularly those suitable for the top six diagnostic related groups for
      mental health presenting to the Gold Coast Hospital Health Service (GCHHS), with the aim to
      provide recommendations for service wide implementation. The top six high priority mental
      health diagnostic groups included: schizophrenia & related disorders, mood/affective
      disorders, alcohol & substance related disorders, personality disorders, suicidal behaviours,
      and stress/adjustment/situational crisis. Two of the interventions that demonstrated the
      strongest quality of evidence included the Attempted Suicide Short Intervention Program
      (ASSIP) and Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) based psychological intervention.

      This is a randomised controlled trial, with blinding of those assessing the outcomes.

      Primary outcome measures: Representation to hospital with suicide attempt and/or suicidal
      ideations within 7, 14, 30 and 90 days post intervention. Death by suicide rates will also be
      examined. Death clearly assessed as not involving self-harm will be represented as not
      completing the study.

      Secondary outcome measures: Self-reported level of suicidality, depression, anxiety, stress,
      resilience, problem solving skills and self- and therapist-reported level of therapeutic
      engagement.

      Cost-benefit measures are assessed for both interventions.

      All consumers who attempt suicide during the trial period, and are 16 years of age and older,
      will be offered the opportunity to join the trial. Specific demographic questions will
      identify the numbers of people who fall within specific target groups to enable a
      determination regarding any differences in the results being statistically significant.

      A consumer/carer representative will participate on the research team, to inform the research
      and ensure sensitivity to the experiences of consumers with lived experience.
    
  