
    
      Objective: Auditory processing disorders are common in patients with epilepsy and adversely
      impact verbal communication. The neural bases of auditory disorders remain poorly understood,
      impeding development of objective clinical tests. The overall goal of this project is to
      develop an objective clinical measure of auditory processing using computational modeling of
      functional brain connectivity. To address this goal, we will use novel functional
      connectivity methods to analyze magnetoencephalographic (MEG) and intracranial
      electrocorticographic (ECoG) recordings.

      Study Population: We will acquire MEG data from 48 patients with intractable epilepsy prior
      to their undergoing grid electrode placement for neurosurgery evaluation at Johns Hopkins
      Hospital. ECoG data will be acquired at JHU under an ongoing study. Approximately half the
      patients will have auditory processing impairments. We will also acquire MEG from 20 healthy
      control subjects with no auditory processing impairment.

      Design: Three planned studies use a within-subject, repeated measures design. The MEG studies
      will be conducted before patients have subdural electrodes implanted for intracranial
      mapping. The MEG studies and connectivity analyses will be performed at NIH. The ECoG studies
      will take place at Johns Hopkins Hospital. Data will be acquired using the same auditory
      stimuli and tasks for both the MEG and ECoG parts of the study. The same functional
      connectivity analyses will be performed on the two data sets.

      Outcome measures: The main outcome measures will be (1) functional connectivity patterns in
      intracranial ECoG data that differentiate epilepsy patients with auditory impairments from
      those without auditory impairments; and (2) corresponding patterns in MEG data. Secondary
      outcome measures will consist of relationships between the intracranial ECoG connectivity
      measures and the MEG connectivity measures.
    
  