
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To estimate the 2-year progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with newly diagnosed
           mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) treated with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin
           hydrochloride, vincristine sulfate, dexamethasone (RHCVAD), methotrexate and cytarabine
           (MTX/Ara-C), and autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) or rituximab and bendamustine
           (R-bendamustine) and autologous stem cell transplant and to select a regimen for further
           development.

        -  To assess the response rate and overall survival of patients with newly diagnosed MCL
           treated with R-HCVAD/MTX/Ara-C and ASCT or R-bendamustine and ASCT.

        -  To assess the toxicity and tolerability of R-HCVAD/MTX/Ara-C and ASCT or R-bendamustine
           and ASCT in patients with newly diagnosed MCL.

        -  To determine the prognostic value of quantitative minimal-residual disease (MRD)
           monitoring in the peripheral blood of MCL patients after induction therapy and serially
           after high-dose chemotherapy and ASCT on treatment outcome.

        -  To bank diagnostic tissue sections for future translational research studies.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to risk
      classification by Mantle Cell Lymphoma International prognostic Index (MIPI) score (low risk
      vs intermediate/high risk). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (induction therapy):

             -  Courses 1 and 3: Patients receive induction therapy comprising rituximab IV on day
                1; cyclophosphamide IV over 3 hours every 12 hours on days 2-4; doxorubicin
                hydrochloride IV over 72 hours on days 5-7; vincristine sulfate IV on days 5 and
                12; and dexamethasone IV or orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 2-5 and 12-15.
                Patients with responsive disease after course 1 proceed to course 2.

             -  Course 2 and 4: Patients receive rituximab IV on day 1; methotrexate IV over 2-22
                hours on day 2; cytarabine IV over 2 hours every 12 hours on days 3-4; and
                leucovorin calcium PO or IV on days 3-6. Patients undergo stem cell collection
                after completion of course 2.

             -  Each course is 21 days long and continues in the absence of disease progression or
                unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II (induction therapy):

             -  Course 1-6: Patients receive rituximab IV on day 1 and bendamustine hydrochloride
                IV over 30 minutes on days 1-2. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 4 courses in
                the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning 3-4 weeks
                later, patients with responsive disease receive 2 additional courses of treatment.

             -  Stem cell mobilization: Beginning within 8 weeks, patients receive rituximab IV and
                cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day 1. Patients then undergo stem cell
                collection about 26 days later.

      Consolidation therapy: Patients receive one of the following preparative regimens.

        -  BCV* chemotherapy: Carmustine IV over 2 hours on days -6 to -4; etoposide IV over 4
           hours on day -4; and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day -2.

        -  BEAM* chemotherapy: Carmustine IV over 4 hours on days -7 and -6; etoposide IV over 1
           hour twice daily and cytarabine IV over 2 hours twice daily on days -5 to -2, and
           melphalan IV on day -1.

        -  TBI, etoposide, cyclophosphamide: Patients undergo total-body irradiation (TBI)** twice
           daily on days -8 to -5. Patients also receive etoposide IV on day -4 and
           cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day -2.

        -  NOTE: * Patients 61 years of age or older receive either BCV or BEAM.

        -  NOTE: * *TBI may not be used for patients 61 years of age and older. Stem cell
           transplantation: Patients then undergo autologous peripheral blood stem cell
           transplantation on day 0.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year,
      every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually for up to 8 years from registration.
    
  