
    
      In the United States, pain accounts for nearly 20% of all primary health care visits. In the
      majority of cases, the pain is musculoskeletal and primarily affects the lower back, hips,
      and knees. Studies have shown that at least one-third of patients with pain also suffer from
      depression. It has not been determined whether treatments for depression are effective in
      patients with comorbid pain and depression. The "Stepped Care for Affective Disorders and
      Musculoskeletal Pain" (SCAMP) study will determine the most effective treatment for patients
      with pain and depression.

      This study will last 12 months and will comprise depressed and nondepressed participants.
      Nondepressed participants will receive no treatment. Depressed patients will be randomly
      assigned to receive standard of care or stepped care for 12 weeks. Standard of care may
      include cognitive therapy, antidepressant treatment, or other treatments. The stepped care
      group will receive 12 weeks of antidepressant treatment. Participants who respond to
      antidepressant treatment will continue their treatment for the duration of the study.
      Participants who do not respond to the treatment after 12 weeks will receive 6 weekly pain
      self-management sessions. During these sessions, an educator will teach participants how to
      manage their pain through exercise and relaxation techniques. Self-report scales and
      questionnaires will be used to assess participants' pain, depressive symptoms, health care
      usage and costs, and quality of life. Depressed participants will undergo assessments at
      study start and at Months 1, 3, 6, and 12. Nondepressed participants will undergo assessments
      at study start and at Months 3 and 12.

      Study hypotheses: 1) Stepped care is more effective than usual care in improving depression
      and pain. 2) Stepped care is more effective than usual care in improving health-related
      quality of life, negative pain beliefs and behaviors, reduced opiate use, and health care
      costs. 3) Patients with musculoskeletal pain who are not depressed at baseline will have an
      incidence of depression less than 20% over 12 months of follow-up, characteristics that can
      be identified as risk factors for incident depression, baseline characteristics
      distinguishing them from depressed patients, and better pain and health status outcomes,
      compared to depressed patients.
    
  