
    
      Electrosurgery is fundamental to the precise, fast and bloodless preparation of internal
      thoracic artery grafts in cardiac surgery. The fundamental performance of electrosurgical
      dissection is created by using a continuous radiofrequency energy waveform, which thermally
      ablates soft tissue, leaving a collateral damage zone of 100-400 µm. The basic mechanism of
      tissue ablation and dissection in electrosurgery involves Joule heating of the conductive
      tissue by electric current, that leads to vaporization and ionization of the water content in
      the tissue adjacent to the electrode, and ultimately to vapor expansion and tissue
      fragmentation. Tissue heated below the vaporization threshold remains in place, but can
      undergo thermal denaturation determined by the temperature levels and duration of the
      hyperthermia. Thus, to confine the collateral damage zone in tissue, both of these factors
      should be minimized.

      In contrast to continuous radiofrequency energy, pulsed electric waveforms with burst
      durations ranging from 10 to 100 µsec applied via an insulated planar electrode with 12 µm
      wide exposed edge produces a plasma-mediated, precise dissection of tissues with a lower
      collateral damage zone ranging from 2 to 10 µm. The greatly reduced zone of thermal damage,
      compared to conventional electrosurgical devices, may provide faster healing and less
      scarring.

      The PEAK PlasmaBlade (Medtronic Advanced Energy, Portsmouth, NH USA) (FDA 510(k), CE-No.
      540861, Model Number PS200-040) is an electrosurgical device that uses pulsed radiofrequency
      energy to generate a plasma-mediated discharge along the exposed rim of an insulated blade,
      creating an effective, precise cutting edge while the blade stays near body temperature.
      Plasma is an electrically conductive cloud created when the energy contacts tissue. This
      conductive cloud or "plasma" allows the radiofrequency energy to cross at much lower overall
      power levels. This use of less energy via plasma results in lower operating temperatures and
      less thermal damage. This technology has been shown to effectively dissect ophthalmologic and
      cutaneous tissues as precisely as a scalpel with the hemostatic control of conventional
      electrosurgery in clinical and experimental settings.

      Concentrating on bypass grafts, the thoracic internal arteries (ITAs) demonstrate our most
      valuable conduit for revascularization of the coronary arteries. Compared to pedicled
      arteries, skeletonized ITAs have demonstrated a tendency to better long term patency.
      Additionally, skeletonized conduits are useful in expanding the number of anastomoses per
      patient and reducing the incidence of sternal complications.

      The use of a dissection device that provides precise preparation, including optimal bleeding
      control without overly damaging the surrounding tissue, might be an optimizing factor for the
      protection of these valuable bypass grafts. The aim of this study was to compare the
      histological assessment, cardiac computed-tomography and clinical outcomes of patients
      following off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting with preparation of the ITAs by
      conventional electrosurgery and the PlasmaBlade.
    
  