
    
      Although the burden of neonatal encephalopathy is far higher in low and middle-income
      countries, the safety and efficacy data on cooling therapy from high income cooling trials
      cannot be extrapolated to these settings.

      Firstly, all high-income country clinical trials to date have provided cooling therapy along
      side optimal tertiary neonatal intensive care and cardiorespiratory support. Such tertiary
      care includes 1:1 expert nursing care, continuous clinical monitoring of vital physiological
      parameters, close attention to acid base and electrolyte balance, optimal ventilatory and
      inotropic support, parenteral nutrition, nitric oxide and cerebral function monitoring. These
      centres also have access to extra-corporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) facilities for
      infants with persistent pulmonary hypertension and meconium aspiration that may be adversely
      affected by cooling. The safety and efficacy of cooling therapy without optimal tertiary
      neonatal intensive care is unknown. Even the best resourced public sector tertiary neonatal
      units in India and other low and middle-income countries do not have the facilities and
      expertise that are comparable to the neonatal units where the high-income cooling trials were
      originally performed. The dangers of extrapolating the safety and efficacy data from high
      income country intensive care units to low and middle-income countries is well known, and has
      been recently re-emphasised by the increased mortality seen after fluid boluses in children
      with septic shock in Africa (FEAST trial). The HELIX trial will examine the safety of cooling
      therapy in under resourced public sector neonatal units in India, who do not have the
      above-mentioned facilities for providing optimal tertiary intensive care, alongside cooling
      therapy. Secondly, there are significant population differences in babies who suffer from
      encephalopathy in high-income countries and those in low and middle-income countries with a
      higher incidence of perinatal infection and meconium aspiration. Antenatal care is often
      poor, and intra uterine growth restriction and delayed hospital admission in obstructed
      labour are extremely common.

      Thus the brain injury may be more chronic and already established, such that the window
      period for cooling may be already lost by the time baby is born. Two recent NICHD hypothermia
      workshops (2011 and 2013)14 involving experts in therapeutic hypothermia have recommended
      that rigorous evaluation of cooling therapy should be urgently conducted in LMIC, to ensure
      that the benefits of one of the most important discoveries in neonatal medicine are not lost
      to the population that needs it most. Without such rigorous evaluation there may be a
      creeping introduction of cooling therapy, which is constantly sabotaged by residual safety
      concerns, and it will never be widely used in India and other LMIC.

      Cooling studies from low and middle-income countries A number of small randomised controlled
      trials have been reported from low and middle-income countries. Individual studies were small
      and of poor quality. The largest of these trials reported from China had excluded babies at
      risk of perinatal sepsis and had substantial methodological concerns. Two studies reported
      increased mortality with cooling. Meta-analysis of all these trials showed a trend towards
      reduced mortality, however this was not statistically significant (RR 0.74; 95% CI 0.4 to
      1.3). More importantly, the confidence intervals were wide and therefore significant benefits
      or harm cannot be excluded. There were no data on long term neurological follow up after
      cooling therapy. In preparation for the HELIX trial, the investigators conducted a
      feasibility study of cooling therapy using a servo controlled cooling device (Tecotherm) in
      2013/14, at Madras Medical College (MMC), Chennai. The data from 58 cooled babies with
      neonatal encephalopathy and 112 contemporary 'un matched' encephalopathic babies who had
      usual care (normothermia) admitted to the neonatal unit over a 15 month period are given
      below . Although the neonatal mortality in the cooled babies appears to be higher than the
      high-income country cooling trials, it was lower than the contemporary encephalopathic
      population at this hospital. High incidence of gastric bleeds and persistent metabolic
      acidosis were seen in both groups. The cases and controls were not matched and it is possible
      that the control babies were more unwell, and therefore had higher mortality (29% versus 54%;
      Table 1); nevertheless, these data are reassuring and support further evaluation of cooling
      therapy in a rigorous randomised controlled trial (manuscript in preparation). A paradox of
      private and public sector health care exists in India and other low and middleincome
      countries. Private hospitals are often very well equipped and have good tertiary intensive
      care facilities, but are not affordable to the low income populations. Moreover, these
      hospitals are relatively smaller (annual delivery rates of less than 2000), and have a low
      encephalopathy burden. Public sector hospitals on the other hand, tend to be much larger
      (20,000 to 30,000 deliveries per year) and offer free health care to the low income
      population. These hospitals have a huge encephalopathy burden (both inborn and out-born
      babies), but lack resources and good neonatal intensive care facilities. Thus, significant
      health benefits will occur only if the neuroprotective therapies are usable and indeed
      effective in public sector hospitals in the low and middle-income countries, rather than in
      private health care.

      The HELIX trial is carefully designed to be generalizable to all under-resourced neonatal
      units with sub optimal neonatal intensive in India and other low and middle-income countries,
      that bear a very high neonatal encephalopathy burden. However, the neonatal units need to
      have a good quality basic neonatal care, including facilities of neonatal resuscitation,
      administration of intravenous fluids, drugs and basic respiratory support, but not optimal
      cardio respiratory or 1:1 nursing care facilities. The HELIX trial will be conducted in the
      real life situation of under resourced public sector neonatal units lacking optimal tertiary
      intensive care in India. Exclusively clinical criteria will be used for case identification
      and recruitment, and no laboratory parameters, neuroimaging or cerebral function monitoring
      will be required for eligibility. The entire cooling therapy will be provided by the existing
      clinical teams, and the research team will only be involved in accurate and high quality data
      collection, so that the trial results are reflective of the routine clinical scenario.
      Clearly, the population co-morbidities and resources in Indian neonatal units are different
      to African and other low-income country neonatal units. If the HELIX trial results suggest
      that cooling is safe and effective in Indian neonatal units, the next stage would be to
      evaluate cooling therapy in under resourced neonatal units in Africa, and other low-income
      countries.

      The Helix trial is a two arm un-blinded pragmatic randomised controlled trial of whole body
      cooling versus standard care, after neonatal encephalopathy in low and middle-income
      countries. The investigators plan to randomise 408 babies in this trial, for which the
      investigators anticipate approximately 1200 babies will have to be screened for eligibility.
      The treatment duration (cooling therapy) is 72 hours, however the temperature of all
      recruited babies will be monitored during the first week after birth. Any temperature rise
      over >37.5°C will be active treated, both in the cooling and usual care arms, as fever
      increases the brain injury and adverse outcomes after neonatal encephalopathy. The
      neurological outcomes will be assessed between 18 to 22 months of age. The trial duration
      will be 4 years, consisting of a 4 week start up period, 24 month recruitment period, a 18
      month follow-up period, and 5 months for data analysis and write up.
    
  