
    
      The main objective is to describe the contents of the documents transmitted by the primary
      physician to the physiotherapists relating to the physiotherapy management of patients with
      back musculoskeletal disorders, as well as their conformity with the results of the initial
      assessment of the physiotherapist.

      The secondary objective is to evaluate the influence of the sociodemographic characteristics
      concerning the presence or the absence of diagnostic hypothesis on the primary physician
      documents transmitted to the physiotherapist.

      The research is broken down into 9 steps:

        1. Physiotherapists practicing in France will be randomly selected from the list of
           registered members of the National Regulatory Authority of Physiotherapists and drawn by
           region to obtain a representative selection of territories of these professionals,

        2. The sending of patients medical records indicated to the physiotherapy for the
           management of a musculoskeletal condition whose prescription has been carried out by a
           primary physician will start from the first contacted physiotherapist who has agreed to
           participate in the study,

        3. Each of the 60 physiotherapists contacted and who have agreed to participate in the
           study will meet face-to-face about the progress of the project and the anonymization of
           the files,

        4. Physiotherapists will be asked to provide 5 medical records of patients each. The file
           may include: the prescription of physiotherapy given to the patient by the primary
           physician and / or any associated medical report transmitted to the physiotherapist by
           the primary physician before the start of treatment,

        5. To avoid selection bias, physiotherapists will collect patient data, not opposing their
           participation in the study, presenting themselves consecutively with a first
           prescription of physiotherapy,

        6. Each physiotherapist will have to anonymise on the documents: first and last name and
           contact information of the prescribing physician as well as the first name and the last
           name of the patient appearing on the prescription and associated reports. Each
           physiotherapist will be assigned a number (1, 2, 3, etc ...), similarly for primary
           physicians who prescribed physiotherapy to patients the consultant and the patients seen
           in consultation.

      The statistical analysis will be carried out at the end of the study using SAS v9.3® Software
      under the responsibility of the clinical research unit.

      Qualitative data will be expressed as numbers (percentage). Percentage comparisons with a
      Chi2 test (prescriptions without diagnostic hypothesis compared to prescriptions with
      diagnostic hypothesis) on the factors studied as being able to influence this criteria will
      be made. Comparisons of means with a non-parametric Kruskal-Wallis (or Wilcoxon) test will be
      performed.
    
  