
    
      AZD2014 is a selective dual mTOR kinase inhibitor targeting both mTORC1 (rapamycin sensitive)
      and mTORC2 (rapamycin insensitive) complexes of mammalian Target of Rapamycin (mTOR).

      AZD2014 is a selective dual mTOR kinase inhibitor targeting both mTORC1 (rapamycin sensitive)
      and mTORC2 (rapamycin insensitive) complexes of mammalian Target Of Rapamycin (mTOR) AZD2014
      is specific for mTOR and does not inhibit other members of the PI3K superfamily.

      The PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway functions as a sensor of mitogen, energy and nutrient levels and is
      a central controller of cell growth.

      The mTOR is a protein kinase (PK) and a vital component of the PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling
      pathway. This pathway is deregulated in 50% of all human cancers and, as such, is an
      important target for inhibitors that would alleviate the unregulated proliferation of cancer
      cells . AZD2014 is selective inhibitor of mTOR kinases and inhibits signalling of both mTOR
      complexes, mTORC1 and mTORC2.

      In this study, the researchers further investigated the effect of PI3K/mTOR inhibitor as a
      paclitaxel sensitizer and/or nonspecific targeted therapy in combination with standard
      chemotherapy, paclitaxel in patients with pretreated advanced or metastatic gastric cancer
      having all negative biomarkers (PIK3CA/MEK/RAS/TP53/MET).

      AZD5363 is a highly potent adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-competitive AKT inhibitor with
      IC50<10nmol/l for all three AKT isoforms.

      AZD5363 is a highly potent adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-competitive AKT inhibitor with
      IC50<10nmol/l for all three AKT isoforms. AKT pathway is activated in various human
      cancers.Although AKT inhibitor has known showing anti-tumor activity in cell lines mutated at
      the E542, E545, or H1047 positions in preclinical study, clinical studies with AKT inhibitor
      are conducted for non-selected cancer patients.
    
  