
    
      All patients will undergo DBS surgery using regular surgical techniques. In this surgery a
      halo is attached to the skull. A CT scan is obtained. MRI - based targeting is conducted to
      identify to target location to implant the electrode deep in the brain. The patients have a
      burr hole placed just behind their hair line in the frontal lobe. Then a guide tube is
      inserted in the brain. Neurophysiological identification and confirmation of the target is
      conducted with multiple techniques including microelectrode recording to listen to single
      neurons in the brain, and macrostimulation to test clinical effect. The electrode is
      implanted and its clinical effect is tested. The halo is removed and the patient is taken to
      the recovery room. Patients will be randomized to undergo the surgery awake or asleep. Our
      current standard surgical technique is awake with intravenous anesthesia used briefly during
      drilling of a burr hole in the skull.

      But in selected cases patients have remained sedated throughout the entire surgery. Patients
      in the asleep group will have intravenous anesthesia maintained throughout the entire case.

      Standard intraoperative neurophysiological and imaging techniques will be used. In awake
      patients these techniques are used to identify and confirm that the DBS electrode is
      implanted in accurate position. These techniques include microelectrode recording where
      individual neurons are monitored as the electrode is inserted through the brain tissue. Early
      research reports suggest that sedation may affect the neuronal activity. But our preliminary
      data indicates that is still reliable under intravenous anesthesia. Macrostimulation using
      the implanted DBS electrode can suppress tremor, stiffness, and slowness of Parkinson's
      disease, and assists in confirmation of electrode position. It also causes side effects
      including tingling, and facial contractions. These methods will also be studied in the asleep
      patients. The O-arm is an intraoperative CT scanner that visualizes the DBS electrode. O-arm
      images will be obtained in the standard fashion in both groups. The accuracy of
      intraoperative imaging will be compared to standard postoperative MRI. The clinical outcome
      from these two techniques will be compared. The clinical outcome will be measured with
      standard Parkinson's disease research tools including video taped and independently rated
      motor exam, as well as the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS). Gait analysis
      will be collected using the APDM system. These will be tested before and at 3 months after
      surgery by the neurologist.
    
  