
    
      This is a phase 4 randomized open label prospective pilot study comparing the use of
      daptomycin versus vancomycin for peri-operative antibiotic prophylaxis in patients undergoing
      elective primary knee, hip or shoulder arthroplasty and are at risk for infection with
      methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus. The study population will include males and
      non-pregnant, non-lactating females 18 years of age or older, with history of
      methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus infection or colonization, and undergoing primary
      elective hip, knee or shoulder arthroplasty. The target enrollment is 100 patients, who will
      be randomized to daptomycin or vancomycin in two 50 patient study groups. After signing the
      informed consent, patients will undergo pre-enrollment nasal screening for methicillin
      resistant Staphylococcus aureus to identify eligible patients. Patients with positive MRSA
      nasal screen will proceed with enrollment and get randomized into one of the two study
      groups. In one group, patients will receive one dose of daptomycin 6 mg/kg to be infused over
      30 minutes. In this group, the infusion should be started and completed within 60 minutes of
      surgical incision. In the second group, patients will receive one dose of vancomycin 15 mg/kg
      to be infused over 1-2 hours of surgical incision according to the dose to avoid red man
      syndrome. In this group, the infusion should be started and completed within 120 minutes of
      surgical incision. After surgery, a second similar dose of vancomycin will be given 12 hours
      after the first dose to patients with creatinine clearance (CLcr.) of ≥50 ml/min. All
      patients in both groups will be asked to shower with chlorhexidine skin cleanser (HIBICLENS®)
      once daily from the neck down for 7days before surgery and apply Mupirocin ointment 2% to
      their nostrils twice daily for 5 days before surgery.

      The patients will be evaluated on the day of surgery, at 2-3 days postoperatively, on
      discharge, at one month and three months follow up visits. During these study evaluations,
      patients will be assessed clinically for signs and symptoms of wound, and prosthetic joint
      infection (including pain, tenderness, swelling, erythema, poor wound healing and wound
      drainage) prior to hospital discharge, and at one, and three months follow up visits. Blood
      work including complete blood counts, erythrocytic sedimentation rate, c-reactive protein,
      and cultures will be ordered if clinical findings suggest infection. Bacterial isolates
      causing infections will be tested locally for antibiotic susceptibilities including
      daptomycin and vancomycin and saved for further testing if needed. Adverse effects and
      tolerability will be documented with the use of both drugs in the two patient groups. Data
      will be collected and analyzed with appropriate testing. The primary endpoint will be the
      success in prevention of postoperative SSI and prosthetic joint infection at one month
      postoperative follow up visit.
    
  