
    
      This research study is designed to develop new technology using MR imaging to improve the
      brachytherapy procedure for participants with gynecologic cancer. The brachytherapy procedure
      will take place in an MRI procedure room within the Advanced Multimodality Image-Guided
      Operating (AMIGO) suite at Brigham and Women's Hospital. The purpose of the study will be to
      evaluate whether the use of an MR-tracking device will improve the placement of the
      brachytherapy catheters. This information will also be used to develop new software for
      real-time brachytherapy planning by our physics team. The investigators believe that the
      development of an MR-tracking device will allow them to better place the brachytherapy
      catheters for radiation treatment and ultimately improve outcomes for patients, including
      better local tumor control and a lower risk of side effects. The investigators will also
      evaluate new MRI protocols to better define the tumor at the time of brachytherapy. The
      brachytherapy treatment planning and delivery will follow standard of care.

      In the past, brachytherapy treatment planning and delivery for gynecologic cancer was based
      on plain-film X-rays, which did not account for the shape of the tumor, the unique anatomy of
      an individual patient or the response to pelvic radiation therapy. In the last decade,
      advances in technology have made it possible to perform the brachytherapy procedure and to
      plan the delivered radiation dose based on CT or MR imaging. The use of CT or MR imaging for
      brachytherapy planning is increasingly common in the United States, and has been shown to
      result in improved tumor controls rates and a lower risk of radiation complications. The use
      of MRI-guidance during the brachytherapy procedure is unique and this study will contribute
      the advancement of this important technology. About half of the participants in this study
      will be selected to have the MRI-guided brachytherapy procedure with the use of an
      MRI-tracking device. This device will provide real-time positioning information of the
      individual brachytherapy catheters while they are being placed and adjusted within the tumor.
      The MR-tracker will also be used to develop new software that will allow our physics team to
      generate a near-instantaneous brachytherapy plan as individual catheters are placed during
      the procedure. The investigators hope that these advances in technology will have a
      meaningful impact on further increasing tumor control and limiting the complication risk for
      our participants.
    
  