
    
      TRIAL DESIGN

      This will be a single-centre double-blind randomised-controlled feasibility study.

      TRIAL SETTING

      This study will take place at Leeds Teaching Hospital Trust (LTHT), Leeds UK. Participants
      will be approached whilst admitted as inpatients (typically the paediatric haematology
      oncology wards) and during outpatient clinics.

      METHOD

      Allocation sequence from a randomisation schedule will be generated A screening or trial ID
      number will be assigned to each participant.

      The allocation sequence will be concealed from health care professionals, participants and
      families. Only the pharmacy team involved in randomisation, allocation will not be blinded to
      allocation sequence and generation.

      Following identification, confirmation of eligibility, consent and allocation of trial ID of
      the participant, a prescription will be produced and the probiotic or placebo will be
      allocated accordingly.

      Appearance of the intervention and placebo will be similar in appearance, smell and taste.
      The placebo will include maltdextrin (a polysaccharide). Both the probiotic and placebo will
      be produced by the company Symprove.

      Participants will start the course of probiotic or placebo on the first day of their course
      of chemotherapy orally, or using an nasogastric or gastrostomy tube and will continue this
      for 14 days. Doses will be adjusted according to the age of the participant as follows:

      1-4 years:20ml once a day 4-11 years: 0.5ml/kg once a day 12-18 years: 1ml/kg once a day
      Placebo will be delivered in similar, packaging, appearance and taste.

      Participants or their parents will be asked to fill in a diary (paper or electronic using a
      web-app) daily for 21 days in total. The diary will include questions to assess nausea,
      vomiting, diarrhoea, pain and oral mucositis. An example of the patient diaries offered is
      supplied. Either the participant or parent will fill in the diary on a daily basis for a
      minimum of 21 days.

      The web-app is an electronic version of the paper diary. Participants will to chose their
      preferred method. Participants will be given the URL which they can download onto their phone
      as a web-app. Data provided by participants in the web-app will only be identified by their
      unique identification number and information will be transferred to an excel spread sheet.

      Clinical records including electronic and written records will be reviewed to investigate any
      febrile episodes and infections for incidence and duration of fever/infection and duration of
      hospital stay until afebrile for 48 hrs. Any data collected from clinical records will be
      stored on an excel web sheet which will be kept on an NHS computer. Data on the excel
      spreadsheet will be identified using their unique identification number. Data will be
      collected and analysed on an NHS computer. The person collecting the data (the principal
      investigator) is also a member of the health care team and has access to clinical records as
      part of routine care.

      Participants will be invited to participate in an optional interview exploring their
      experiences in taking part in the study. This will take up to 45 minutes and can be done over
      the phone or in person whilst in the hospital. The interviews will be recorded using an
      encrypted digital audio recorder.

      Participants who chose to decline will also be invited to a short optional interview
      exploring why they chose to decline. This will approximately be a 10 minute discussion which
      will take place when the participant/their parent disclose they have decided to decline and
      will only take place if both the participant/parent and interviewer (the chief investigator)
      is present in the hospital.
    
  