
    
      Hypothesis: Metabolites in cranberry juice, have anti-adhesive properties for uropathogenic
      bacteria but they do not disturb the normal vaginal flora.

      Study design and assays:

      A crossover study design using 12 healthy women will be conducted for 50 days. The
      anti-adhesive properties of the urine will be determined using uropathogens and changes in
      the vaginal microflora will be evaluated.

      Participants:

      The subjects will be healthy premenopausal women aged 19-45, who have no history of chronic
      urinary tract infection or have had a urinary tract infection in the past 12 months, and are
      currently not taking antibiotics or any supplements to prevent UTI, including cranberry
      juice. The subjects must not have urinary tract abnormalities, requiring catheterization for
      micturition, be pregnant, or diabetic or have allergies to berry juices. Each test phase is 1
      week (7 days) and the following protocol will be followed:

      Subjects 1-3 Test phase I: water; washout phase Test phase II: cranberries; washout phase
      Test phase III: cranberry juice- 1/day; washout phase Test phase IV: cranberry juice- 2/day

      4-6 Test phase I: cranberry juice- 2/day; washout phase Test phase II: water; washout phase
      Test phase III: cranberries; washout phase Test phase IV: cranberry juice- 1/day

      7-9 Test phase I: cranberry juice- 1/day; washout phase Test phase II: cranberry juice-
      2/day; washout phase Test phase III: water; washout phase Test phase IV: cranberries

      10-12 Test phase I: cranberries; washout phase Test phase II: cranberry juice- 1/day; washout
      phase Test phase III: cranberry juice- 2/day; washout phase Test phase IV: water

      During the washout period, the subjects will return to their normal diet with no added
      beverage or food, although again no cranberry juice can be consumed. The beverages/food to be
      taken for the 7 day phases comprise:

        1. Water - Control group

        2. Cranberry juice 1/day

        3. Cranberry juice 2/day

        4. Cranberries (dried)

      Regime and sampling:

      A mid stream urine sample will be collected to evaluate the anti-adhesive effects of the
      various treatments.

      Mid stream urine will also be collected to evaluate anti-adhesive properties of the urine,
      and determine if changes occur following washout.

      A 24 h urine will be collected after 3-4 days of each phase for urinalysis.

      Vaginal swabs will be collected to determine the effect, if any, of the foods on the
      composition of the vaginal microflora.
    
  