
    
      Study Rationale

      COVID-19, the name given to the clinical syndrome associated with the newly recognized virus
      SARS-CoV-2, has become pandemic with a mortality estimated between 1-4% and complications
      among hospitalized patients leading to up to 15-25% of hospital admissions being admitted to
      the intensive care unit (ICU).

      The term "cytokine storm" calls up vivid images of an immune system gone awry and an
      inflammatory response flaring out of control. The term has captured the attention of the
      public and the scientific community alike and is increasingly being used in both the popular
      media and the scientific literature. Indeed, a few publications have indicated an important
      part of the complications in COVID-19 are related to the cytokine storm (Huang et al. Lancet
      2020, Mehta et al. Lancet 2020).

      In a clinical study conducted in sepsis patients with Allocetra-OTS (ClinicalTrials.gov
      Identifier: NCT03925857) we observed that administration of Allocetra-OTS to patients with
      sepsis was safe and had a significant immuno-modulating effect, leading to resolution of the
      cytokine storm in these patients. There were indications that this treatment may also be
      efficacious, based on comparisons with mortality score prediction and historical
      matched-controls, and the resolution of organ dysfunction compared to matched historical
      controls.

      A recent study published by Zou et al (Lancet 2020) showed increasing odds of in-hospital
      death in these COVID-19 patients associated with older age and higher Sequential Organ
      Failure Assessment (SOFA) score on admission.

      Taken together, in patients with severe COVID-19, there may be a comparable underlying
      immunological mechanism of action as was recently demonstrated by us in sepsis; that is a
      hyper-inflammatory pathway associated with increased death. Therefore, a study of 5 patients
      was designed to determine the safety of this treatment in patients with severe COVID-19 and
      was approved by the Ministry of Health Ethical Committee. Based on the approved protocol, the
      intermediate clinical results of this trial show that the drug is safe and promising.

      Study Design

      This is a multi-center, open-label study evaluating the safety of Allocetra-OTS, in up to 24
      adult patients with severe COVID-19 and respiratory dysfunction. Subjects, who will be
      identified as suffering from COVID-19, will be recruited.

      After signing an informed consent by the patient and, within 24+6 hours following the time of
      eligibility (time 0), on Day 1, eligible recipient subjects will receive single intravenous
      (IV) administration of investigational product as described below:

      ● Allocetra-OTS treatment at 140 x 106 ±20% cells/kg body weight (screening body weight) in
      375 mL of Ringer's lactate solution.

      Subjects will be followed for efficacy and safety assessments over 28 days following
      investigational product administration.

      Subjects will be hospitalized for COVID-19, and later as medically indicated. Following IP
      administration (Day 1), subjects will be followed for efficacy and safety assessments through
      28 days. The number of visits for subjects participating in this study will be on days 3, 5,
      7±1, 14±2, and 28±2. Visits on days 7 and 14 may be done via zoom or telephone.

      Study Intervention, Route of Administration, and Dosage Form

      Allocetra-OTS is a cell-based therapeutic composed of donor early apoptotic cells.

      Patient Classification [National Institutes of Health (NIH)]-
      www.covid19treatmentguidelines.nih.gov/overview/management-of-covid-19/

      In general, adults with COVID-19 can be grouped into the following severity of illness
      categories:

        -  Asymptomatic or Pre-symptomatic Infection: Individuals who test positive for SARS-CoV-2
           by virologic testing using a molecular diagnostic (e.g., polymerase chain reaction) or
           antigen test, but have no symptoms.

        -  Mild Illness: Individuals who have any of the various signs and symptoms of COVID-19
           (e.g., fever, cough, sore throat, malaise, headache, muscle pain) without shortness of
           breath, dyspnea, or abnormal chest imaging.

        -  Moderate Illness: Individuals who have evidence of lower respiratory disease by clinical
           assessment or imaging and saturation of oxygen (SpO2) ≥94% on room air at sea level.

        -  Severe Illness: Individuals who have respiratory frequency >30 breaths per minute, SpO2
           <94% on room air at sea level, ratio of arterial partial pressure of oxygen to fraction
           of inspired oxygen (PaO2/FiO2) <300 mmHg, or lung infiltrates >50%

        -  Critical Illness: Individuals who have respiratory failure, septic shock, and/or
           multiple organ dysfunction.

      Standard of Care (SOC)

      The SOC for COVID-19 will be according to institutional standards. Institutional SOC may
      include Clexane, anti-viral agents such as Remdesivir, corticosteroids, or other agents.

      Concomitant Medications

      Prohibited medications: Significant immune-suppressing agents before developing COVID-19,
      including chronic corticosteroids > 10 mg/day, Azathioprine, Cyclosporine, Cyclophosphamide,
      and any biological treatment.

      The known SOC medications to treat COVID-19; Hydroxychloroquine, Chloroquine, and
      Azithromycin, are not known to have any possible interaction with Allocetra-OTS. Neither are
      anti-viral agents.

      Concomitant Medical Conditions

      Apart from patients with a tumor or end-stage organ condition, chronic diseases like
      cardiovascular or diabetes are allowed.
    
  