
    
      Background: Three hundred thousand (300,000) Australians are breathless at rest or on minimal
      exertion, often for years, despite optimal treatment of the underlying cause(s). This
      includes more than 70,000 people who are too breathless to leave their homes often for long
      periods of time. Underlying causes for such severe and ongoing breathlessness include chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), interstitial lung disease, heart failure,
      neurodegenerative diseases such as motor neurone disease and cachexia from any cause. The
      prevalence of chronic refractory breathlessness will continue to increase as the population
      ages because the chronic progressive diseases where breathlessness is common are increasing
      in prevalence. Nearly one half of all people experience distressing breathlessness during the
      last year of life.

      The American Thoracic Society defines breathlessness as "a subjective experience of breathing
      discomfort that consists of qualitatively distinct sensations that vary in intensity". The
      term 'dyspnoea' is used interchangeably with breathlessness, shortness of breath, breathing
      difficulty and laboured breathing.

      Internationally, no medication is registered for the symptomatic reduction of chronic
      refractory breathlessness despite recommendations from the American Thoracic Society, the
      American College of Physicians, the Canadian Thoracic Society and the American College of
      Chest Physicians that regular, low-dose morphine is the evidence-based pharmaceutical option.

      Aim: To enhance the evidence base for the pharmacological treatment of chronic refractory
      breathlessness using potential therapies compared to placebo.

      Primary objective: To compare the difference of the net clinical effect (benefits and side
      effects) on chronic refractory breathlessness in people with chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease (COPD) taking once daily, sustained release morphine at two different doses when
      compared to placebo.

      Secondary objectives.

        1. Are regular, low dose oral opioids safe, including when the dose is titrated upwards, in
           a population of people with refractory breathlessness and COPD?

        2. Do people whose breathlessness is helped by regular, low dose oral morphine get
           additional benefit by further increasing the dose of morphine?

        3. Over what period of time does benefit continue to increase once a dose level with
           benefit is achieved?

        4. What percentage of people derive clinically significant benefit at each of four dosing
           levels over and above placebo?

        5. At the lower doses, is there evidence that any benefit does not last the full 24 hours?
           (end-of-dose failure)

        6. Can we predict response, benefit and side effects from baseline demographic and clinical
           data

        7. Does the treatment of breathlessness with regular, low dose morphine have any effect on
           general health status and quality of life?

        8. Determine if there is a change in activities of daily living in those treated with
           opioids when compared to placebo.

        9. Assess any effects of each treatment on anxiety and depression.

       10. Understand the longer term benefits and side effects from sustained release morphine in
           people with COPD when compared to placebo.

       11. Do participants, while still blinded, have any preference at the end of the three week
           study?

      Sub-studies

        1. Identify pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic parameters that may help to predict which
           individuals will achieve the greatest benefit in week one of therapy (8mg/day,
           16mg/day).

        2. Identify pharmacogenomic variations in opioid receptors and signaling that may help to
           predict clinical response (benefit, side effects or no response).

        3. Study the effect on sleep in people participating in the study

        4. Compare the within trial incremental cost and cost effectiveness of the therapy

        5. Evaluate any changes in total testosterone from baseline to the end of the three month
           extension.

      Null hypothesis: In people who have COPD with refractory breathlessness, there is no
      difference in breathlessness intensity with the addition of regular, low dose oral sustained
      release morphine when compared to placebo.

      Alternative hypothesis: The addition of regular, low dose oral sustained release morphine
      reduces the intensity of breathlessness in people with COPD and that this occurs safely.

      Study design:

      A five stage, national, multi-site, double-blind, parallel arm, block randomised, placebo
      controlled factorial (dose increment) phase III study of opioids for chronic refractory
      breathlessness in people with COPD:

      Stage 0 - baseline (2 days); Stage 1 - randomisation #1 (1 week); Stage 2 - randomisation #2
      (1 week); Stage 3 - randomisation #3 (1 week); and Stage 4 - an optional blinded extension
      arm (up to 3 months).

      Stage 0. Baseline assessment: All consenting participants will complete 2 full days of
      baseline diary (morning and evening) in order to become accustomed to completing the diary
      regularly and to provide stable baseline data regarding breathlessness, symptoms and function
      (as measured by activPALR actigraphy). At completion of the 2 days, the participant will be
      reviewed, complete the remaining baseline assessments (questionnaires, measures and baseline
      safety data), and will then be eligible to be randomised the first time.

      Time period: Two full days (4 diary entries)

      Stage 1. Randomisation #1: Randomisation to mane orally: placebo OR 8mg KapanolR OR 16mg
      KapanolR. Twice daily diary. Participants randomised to KapanolR will also receive blinded
      docusate with sennosides, while those randomised to placebo will receive identical placebo.
      This is the primary outcome (end point) of the study.

      Time period: 1 week

      Stage 2. Randomisation #2: While continuing the arm assigned in Stage 1, add a randomisation
      to mane orally: placebo OR 8mg KapanolR. Twice daily diary. Participants who were randomised
      to placebo in Stage 1 and KapanolR in Stage 2 will have blinded docusate with sennosides
      replace placebo.

      Time period: 1 week

      Stage 3. Randomisation #3: While continuing the arm assigned in Stages 1 and 2, add a third
      randomisation to mane orally: placebo OR 8mg KapanolR. Twice daily diary. activPALR
      accelerometer worn this week. Participants who were randomised to placebo in Stages 1 and 2
      and KapanolR in Stage 3 will have blinded docusate with sennosides replace placebo.

      Time period: 1 week

      Stage 4. Extension (optional for each individual participant): Continue double blind
      medications from Stages 1, 2 and 3 for up to three months. Diary one day each week. A blood
      test at the end of the three months will be taken for total testosterone levels.

      Time period: up to 3 months.

      Target population: This study is for people with optimally treated people with mild, moderate
      or severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).

      Primary outcome and its assessment: Change from baseline average intensity of breathlessness
      over the previous 24 hours, measured each morning on a 11 point numerical rating scale.

      Significance: The study will answer several practical questions including whether opioids
      have a net benefit in people with COPD in reducing refractory breathlessness, whether dose
      increases beyond initial response provide a greater net benefit, the pattern of symptomatic
      response in the days after successful titration, and the proportion of people who derive a
      clinically meaningful symptomatic benefit at each dose level.

      Analysis plan: All analyses will be conducted on an intention-to-treat basis. All analyses
      will be conducted with Stata version 13.1. Missing data will be imputed using multiple
      imputation with 50 resamples drawn. The primary comparisons on which the study is powered are
      at the end of week 1: placebo compared to 8mg KapanolR daily; and placebo compared to 16mg
      KapanolR daily. Change in breathlessness in the first week between these groups will be
      evaluated using a random effects mixed model.

      Sample size calculations: All calculations assume Type I (familywise error rate (FWER)) error
      rate of 5% and Type II error rate of 20% (power of 80%) respectively. In order to account for
      attrition of 20% by the end of week 1, the study will recruit 144*100/ (100-20) = 180
      subjects.
    
  