
    
      Two groups of subjects, both without T2DM, will be studied. One group will consist of people
      who previously received a complete truncal vagotomy as part of a surgical treatment unrelated
      to this research project. The other group will be subjects who have not had a truncal
      vagotomy.

      Initially, each potential participant will be administered an oral glucose tolerance test at
      the screening visit to make sure that they do not have type 2 diabetes. They will also have a
      sham feeding test to check for the completeness (or absence) of the vagotomy. As outlined
      below, each subject will then receive 4 graded glucose infusions (GGI) and 2 meal tolerance
      tests (MTT)- each on a separate occasion following an overnight fast.

      For each GGI, the subject will be given an intravenous infusion of glucose such that blood
      glucose levels slowly increase over a 4 hour period. On separate occasions, the participant
      will also receive a primed-continuous infusion of GIP alone, xenin-25 alone, GIP plus
      xenin-25, or placebo (constant dose of 4 pmoles x kg-1 x min-1). Blood samples will be
      collected before and during the GGI for the measurement of glucose, insulin, C-peptide,
      glucagon, pancreatic polypeptide, GIP and xenin-25 levels. Insulin secretion rates will also
      be calculated. By comparing results for the two groups, we will learn if the vagus nerve
      mediates the effects of GIP, xenin-25, or the combination of GIP plus xenin-25 on insulin
      secretion in humans and thus, if this signaling circuit is impaired in humans with T2DM.

      For the MTTs, the participant will ingest a liquid meal (Boost Plus) plus acetaminophen
      (Tylenol). On separate occasions, a primed-continuous infusion of vehicle alone or xenin-25
      alone (constant dose of 12 pmoles x kg-1 x min-1) will be initiated at the same time the meal
      is ingested. Blood samples will be collected before and during the MTT for the measurement of
      acetaminophen, glucose, insulin, C-peptide, glucagon, GIP and xenin-25 levels. Insulin
      secretion rates will also be calculated. The rate of acetaminophen appearance in the blood is
      an indirect measure of the rate of gastric emptying. By comparing results for the two groups,
      we will learn if the vagus nerve mediates the effects of xenin-25 on gastric emptying in
      humans.
    
  