
    
      This is a phase 2 randomized, 3 arm (3 active doses of Recifercept), parallel group dose
      finding study of safety, tolerability, PK and efficacy

      The total number of participants is 63 in 2 age straified cohorts of 0-2 years and 6-10 years
      old.

      The study will enroll approximately 54 children with achondroplasia aged 2-10 years
      (inclusive) who will be enrolled and randomized to receive one of three doses of recifercept

        -  Low Dose

        -  Medium Dose

        -  High Dose

      A total of 18 participants will be enrolled per dose 18 per dosesuch that at least 15
      participants per dose are evaluable. An interim analysis is planned when at least 15
      participants per dose aged ≥2 to <11 years have received 6 months of treatment with
      recifercept. eDMC will review safety, PK and efficacy data to confirm ongoing positive
      benefit:risk in participants.

      Additionally, an exploratory cohort of approximately 9 children with achondroplasia, ages 0-2
      years, will be enrolled later in the study (n=3 per dose).

      Enrollment will follow an age and dose-staggered approach (descending age and ascending dose)
      with review of safety and PK data by the study team before progression to the next enrollment
      block If certain pre-defined safety signals occur then a meeting of the eDMC will be convened
      to make a decision on progression of enrollment. The PK data collected in block A will be
      used in the PopPK model (developed using healthy adult data) to confirm the dosing for
      younger children (ie, ≥2 to <6 years and 0-<2 years).

      Participants will will attend the clinic at baseline and at Day 1, 4, 8, 15, 29 & then Month
      2, 3 6, 9 & 12. Assessments include safety, blood sampling, physical examination, vital
      signs, anthropometric body measurements & patient/caregiver quality of life questionnaires

      All participants will receive recifercept for 12 months. All participants who complete the
      study and in the opinion of the investigator, continue to have a positive risk:benefit
      profile, will be offered to enroll into an open-label extension (OLE) study.
    
  