
    
      Recruitment

      Recruitment is nationwide via online ads in Gay, Bisexual, Trans, and Questioning (GBTQ)
      dating sites such as Grindr, GROWLr, Jack'd, etc. Investigators will send emails and flyers
      to partners in GBTQ and Two-Spirit organizations for them to advertise within their listservs
      and centers. Finally, investigators and project consultants will reach out to other
      researchers and community partners asking them to advertise the project within their own
      communities and organizations. Investigators expect a certain amount of "word-of-mouth"
      recruitment to occur as well.

      Screening

        -  Participants are screened over the phone using a screening script.

        -  Men who screen out will be given a community resource list either by mail or email.

        -  If a person is eligible, but declines to participate, they will be given a brief one
           item exit question regarding general reason for nonparticipation.

        -  If needed, participants are walked through the process of creating a free Second Life速
           (SL) account and downloading the SL software onto their computer.

      Online Consent

      An email is sent to the participant with consent information and baseline assessment links.
      Prior to beginning the baseline assessment in REDCap, participants will read and confirm
      their consent (click "I agree to participate" or "I do not wish to participate"). Once
      participants consent online, they are assigned a study survey ID number and take the baseline
      assessment.

      Assessments

      The assessment is conducted via Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap) a mature, secure
      web application for building and managing online surveys and databases. After completing the
      baseline assessment, participants are randomly assigned to either the Immediate or the 3-week
      Waitlist group. Participants in the immediate group will be asked to complete 3 online
      assessments (Baseline, end of intervention, and 3-month follow up). Participants in the
      Waitlist group will be asked to complete 4 an additional assessment at the end of their wait
      period. Participants will be paid in Tango gift cards for each survey completed.

      IMMEDIATE participants. After completing the Baseline assessment, they will receive an email
      containing: their Tango card information, the invitation to the private island, their unique
      Personal Identification Number (PIN) for accessing the private island as well as a Second
      Life速 How-to guide and a community resource list.

      WAITLIST participants. After completing the baseline assessment, they will enter a 3-week
      wait period. At the end of the 3-week wait period, they complete the Baseline 2 (End of
      waitlist) survey in REDCap. They will then proceed through the same steps as the Immediate
      group.

      Intervention

      The intervention in the Virtual Two Spirit (Vr2L 2Spirit) project is conducted exclusively
      online through the SL速 platform. SL is a free and 3-dimensional online virtual world
      developed by Linden Lab.

      Accessing the Vr2L 2Spirit Island

      SL速 consists of both public and private virtual spaces. The Vr2L 2Spirit island is a private
      island and only those avatars who have been authorized access by study staff are able to find
      it and enter it. Participants cannot grant access to other people.

      The Vr2L 2Spirit island.

      The island is split into three levels: 1) learning paths, 2) skill building, and 3)
      experimental. Access to the levels are locked hierarchically, meaning that until participants
      complete a lower level they will not gain access to the higher levels; however, once they
      successfully complete a level they are welcomed to return to it as often as they like.
      Participants are expected to complete each level in approximately one week; although they are
      allowed to complete it sooner and some may take a bit longer. We will encourage participants
      to move through the intervention in 3 weeks. Participants will be paid in Tango gift cards
      for each level completed whether they complete it in 2 days or in two weeks. If necessary,
      staff will use reminder emails, texts, in-world messages, and phone calls to encourage
      participants to complete the level in the allotted time.

      Participants will be informed that their avatars' actions, interactions, and conversations
      with the programmed scenarios and with other avatars are considered data, and will be
      analyzed as part of the research study.

      Level 1 - The Learning Level: 1st Week.

        1. Orientation. After the participants' avatar authentication is completed, they will
           teleport to the orientation caves. Here they will receive a brief orientation to the
           Vr2L 2Spirit island and a refresher on basic SL skills needed to successfully navigate
           the virtual experience. Afterward they are free to explore the Vr2L 2Spirit island.

        2. In-World Counseling. Participants will have the option of receiving up to two free
           Motivational Interviewing (MI) counseling sessions in the Vr2L 2Spirit island with an MI
           trained counselor. The counseling sessions will be confidential and will be an
           opportunity for participants to discuss their goals during their participation in this
           study.

        3. Learning Paths. The main component of level 1 is the learning paths. There are 4
           learning paths that cover different areas of HIV prevention: safer sex, harm reduction,
           condom use, and HIV testing. Each learning paths consists of some combination of videos,
           scripted interactions, interactive exercises, and small quests or games.

             1. Safer sex. Includes information on Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP): what it is, how
                to use it, and how to obtain it. It also covers the risks of sexual intercourse
                with multiple partners and ways participants can protect themselves and their
                partners. Additionally, it covers strategic positioning, sero-sorting and its
                risks. Finally, it addresses partner's behavior and ways in which the participant
                can protect themselves and their partner.

             2. Harm reduction. Includes a definition of harm reduction, information on how one can
                reduce harm from IDU, other substances, and binge drinking. Finally, it addresses
                how to decrease IDU risk of HIV exposure.

             3. Condom use / condom negotiation. Includes information on the different types of
                condoms, how to use them, and how to bring up and negotiate condom use with your
                partner.

             4. HIV Testing. Includes information on types of HIV tests, where to find testing
                sites, the testing experience, and what happens after your HIV results are back.

           While walking the paths, learning participants will have the opportunity to collect
           traditional medicines or materials (e.g., corn, prairie sage, birch bark, flowering
           tobacco). These collectibles can be turned into the lodge where the participant will
           learn about the traditional uses of these materials.

           As participants move through the learning paths, they will gain in-world coins for
           completing tasks. The coins gained in the Vr2L 2Spirit island are specific to the Vr2L
           2Spirit island only. Participants can use these coins to purchase in-world rewards such
           as additional customization for their avatar (e.g., clothing, hats, accessories,
           tattoos).

        4. The Lodge. It contains the MI counseling rooms, a smudging station, the collectibles
           station, the store containing avatar accessories (e.g., clothing, hats, sunglasses,
           jewelry). There is also a receptionist available to answer participants' questions.

        5. Leisure activities. Level 1 also contains many opportunities for leisure activities such
           as horseback riding, canoeing, wind surfing, drum circle and a camp fire among others.
           These activities are not a required portion of the interaction and are instead created
           to enhance the immersion experience, provide fun and relaxation alongside the learning
           experience, and allow for participants to build camaraderie with their fellow
           participants.

      Level 2 - The City Level: 2nd Week.

      The city level or skill-building level contains the clinic, the park, the bookstore, the
      Q-center, the nightclub, and the city store. The purpose of the city level is for
      participants to practice the knowledge gained in level 1 through quests, challenges, and
      role-play scenarios.

        1. Challenges. There are six city challenges created to reinforce participants' knowledge.
           All challenges must be completed before gaining access to the Level 3 - Bathhouse.

             1. HIV Test. In the clinic, the avatar will have the opportunity to take a Rapid
                Response HIV test at the clinic. The participant will have the option of selecting
                their avatar's HIV status or be randomly assigned an HIV status after taking the
                test.

             2. PrEP. If HIV negative, avatar will have the option of requesting a prescription for
                Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) at the city clinic. Participants will receive
                counseling regarding PrEP and will be able to purchase the PrEP prescription at the
                city store.

             3. Condoms. Avatars will be required to pick up free latex condoms at the city clinic.
                They also have the option of purchasing polyurethane, polyisoprene, or sheepskin
                condoms at the city store.

             4. Needle exchange. Avatars will be required to find a dirty needle in the city and
                exchange it for a clean needle at the clinic. Using the dirty or clean needle is
                not required.

             5. Book challenge. Hidden around the city landscape are six books. Every time an
                avatar finds a book, they are given a fact related to HIV prevention.

             6. Role play scenarios. More information below.

        2. Role play scenarios. Throughout the city participants will encounter a series of
           role-play scenarios related to harm reduction, safer sex, condom use, and HIV testing.
           The role-plays are scripted; however, they allow participants to make decisions
           throughout the interactions which will allow them to experience likely outcomes based on
           their choices. In order to move on to level 3, they must complete each scenario at least
           once.

             1. Drug use. This role-play will allow participants to practice the skills around harm
                reduction with intravenous drug use (IDU).

             2. Anonymous / Casual sex. This role-play allows the participant the opportunity to
                practice skills around anonymous / casual sexual intercourse.

             3. Binge drinking. This role-play allows the participant the opportunity to practice
                skills around harm reduction related to binge drinking.

             4. Condom use. This role-play allows the participant the opportunity to practice
                skills around condom use and condom use negotiation.

             5. Teaching opportunity. This role-play allows the participant the opportunity to
                assume the role of teacher. They will encounter a younger Native American man who
                has questions about the four content areas. The participant will have the
                opportunity to answer the stranger's questions thus reinforcing their own
                knowledge.

             6. HIV Testing. This role-play scenario allows the participant to gain further
                knowledge about the HIV testing experience.

        3. At the end of level 2. After completing all the city challenges, participants are
           granted access to Level 3 - Experiential.

      Level 3 - The Experiential Level: 3rd Week.

      Physically located in the city space of the Vr2L 2Spirit island, the area is nevertheless
      locked to participants until they complete all the challenges on level 2. Once participants
      have gained access, they will be in a "free play" area; although their interactions are still
      monitored and recorded. The participants is reminded of this through signage upon entering
      the locker room. There are no scripted interactions in this space. Interactions will be
      limited to other participants' avatars only.

      End of Intervention Assessment Debrief Phone Call

      On the next business day after the participant has completed one-week in Level 3 , they will
      receive the prompt to take the next online survey in REDCap.

      Participants will also be contacted to schedule a debriefing interview with study staff.
      Participants will be asked debriefing questions about their experience in the virtual world.

      Three Month Follow-up Assessment

      Approximately three months after the participant completes Level 3 of the island, they will
      receive an email asking them to complete the final (follow-up) survey.
    
  