
    
      Retroperitoneal soft-tissue sarcomas (R-STSs) are rare neoplasms, accounting for 10% to 15%
      of Soft Tissue Sarcomas (STSs), which represent 1-3% of all cancers. They may show different
      histological types, but the predominant ones in the retroperitoneal region are:
      leiomyosarcoma, liposarcoma. The most commonly encountered in the retroperitoneum is the well
      differentiated/dedifferentiated liposarcoma.

      First-line chemotherapy usually consists of doxorubicin and/or ifosfamide. These two drugs
      are the most active agents in adult STSs, with a dose-response relationship and response
      rates between 20% and 50%. However, the sarcoma community is currently doubtful as to the
      activity of ifosfamide in the subgroup of leiomyosarcomas.

      Trabectedin has been found to be mainly active in leiomyosarcoma and liposarcoma and is
      approved by European Medicines Agency (EMA) as second-line chemotherapy for STSs. Although
      the response rate observed in pre-registration studies did not exceed 10%, trabectedin
      provided disease control, with progression arrest rates exceeding 50% and Progression Free
      Survival (PFS) rates exceeding 20% at 6 months.

      Since so far no phase II studies tested the activity of trabectedin in retroperitoneal
      sarcomas, this is the specific aim of this study.

      Target population: Patients with previously treated, histologically confirmed,
      retroperitoneal leiomyosarcoma and well differentiated/dedifferentiated liposarcoma. Patients
      may be either unamenable to surgery or amenable but in whom the addition of medical treatment
      is considered clinically advisable.

      Translational studies will be performed, with the aim of characterising the tumour biological
      features associated with different response patterns to trabectedin. These assessments will
      be done in 15-20 patients who will undergo surgery after trabectedin, comparing tumour tissue
      specimens collected before and after treatment.
    
  