
    
      Indonesia's plan for elimination of schistosomiasis by 2025 requires a better understanding
      of the factors associated with infection, effective epidemiologic monitoring, and
      optimization of diagnostic and treatment strategies. In settings of low prevalence such as
      Lindu, Napu and Bada regions of Central Sulawesi, an ultrasensitive technique to diagnose
      Schistosoma japonicum is needed. A diagnostic test that is efficient, accurate and easy to
      use would facilitate collection of reliable epidemiologic information and provide and
      effective means of assessing the impact of mass drug administration (MDA).

      Primary Objective:

      To estimate the accuracy of the schistosomiasis point-of-care circulating cathodic antigen
      (POC CCA) urine test for monitoring S. japonicum infection.

      Secondary Objective

        1. To assess rates of positive testing by POC-CCA rapid urine test, serology, and molecular
           methods (PCR).

        2. To evaluate the impact of abnormal urinary findings, i.e. hematuria and markers of
           urinary tract infections (UTI), to POC-CCA rapid urine test results.

        3. To evaluate the efficacy of praziquantel administered by local primary health centers
           (Puskesmas).

        4. To assess number of schistosome infection using serology and molecular (PCR) as
           additional tests to disambiguate discordant results between KK and POC-CCA.

        5. To assess risk factors related to human schistosome infections.

        6. To estimate the proportion of soil transmitted helminths infection (STH), i.e.
           roundworms (Ascaris lumbricoides), whipworms (Trichuris trichiura), and hookworms
           (Necator americanus and Ancylostoma duodenale) in this population.

        7. To assess the association between color intensity of the POC-CCA rapid urine test band
           and the schistosome eggs per gram (EPG) of stool.

        8. To assess antibody response to schistosome infection. The number in the positive KK
           group will be 40 subjects, with the lowest estimated number is 25 subjects. Additional
           positive KK based on the re-testing KK results are expected and should increase the size
           for the positives. For the negatives, we calculated that a ratio of 4:1 negative to
           positive will be the best fit, thus 160 negative KK subjects will be enrolled.
           Additional 20% buffer to the negatives (32 negative KK subjects) will also be needed to
           estimate the specificity of POC-CCA with acceptable 95% CI. In total, we will enroll
           between 217 to 232 subjects in this study. The study will enroll all positive cases
           detected by the 2019 stool survey in Napu until the minimum sample size needed is met or
           until the data collection period has ended.
    
  