
    
      Over 100 million patients in the United States suffer from chronic pain. Chronic pain
      conditions are often debilitating, taking a toll on a patient's physical and mental welfare.
      Though a variety of pain management techniques currently exist, the most common nonsurgical
      options provide slow-acting and/or short-term relief. Medication, often in the form of
      non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and opioids, comes with an array of side
      effects such as nausea and vomiting. Medication also presents the possibility of more serious
      effects such as increased risk of heart attack and stroke, and tolerance or dependency
      issues. Surgical strategies tend to be reserved for more severe cases and are limited by the
      risks and complications typically associated with surgery including bleeding, bruising,
      scarring, and infection. A nonsurgical, minimally invasive, long-lasting approach to chronic
      pain management is desirable.

      The Cryo-Touch III is a pain management device developed for a novel, minimally invasive
      procedure using focused cold therapy to target sensory nerve tissue and offer long-lasting
      pain relief through cryoanalgesia. The device operates on the well-established cryobiology
      principle that localized exposure to controlled moderately low temperature conditions can
      alter tissue function. The therapy treats nerves with low temperatures via a cold probe in
      the form of an assembly of small diameter needles, creating a highly localized treatment zone
      around the probe. This focused cold therapy creates a conduction block that prevents nerve
      signaling.

      Though studies have proven efficacious in targeting motor nerves, the device's effect on
      sensory nerves has yet to have been investigated in the clinical setting. The goal of the
      study described herein is to evaluate the degree and duration of effect of the Cryo-Touch III
      in reducing chronic pain by targeting sensory nerves.
    
  