
    
      Background: Patients with advanced heart failure (HF) symptoms (NYHA III-IV) have poor
      quality of life and significantly impaired functional capacity despite optimal medical
      management. Exercise intolerance in HF results from multiple pathophysiological processes,
      but central hemodynamics during exercise are important determinants. In patients with
      advanced HF, intermittent levosimendan infusion is sometimes used to relieve symptoms and
      possibly improve prognosis. A short-term effect of levosimendan infusion on exercise capacity
      has previously been reported. However, the underlying mechanisms behind such an improvement,
      as well as more durable effects of levosimendan on exercise capacity in advanced chronic HF,
      have not been clearly established. Also the hemodynamic effect of levosimendan has not been
      investigated in advanced chronic HF during exercise.

      To our knowledge no previous studies have evaluated the subacute effect of levosimendan
      infusion on exercise capacity and exercise hemodynamics in patients with advanced chronic HF.
      This study will hopefully improve the understanding of the role of levosimendan in the
      management of these patients.

      Purpose: This study evaluates the subacute effect of levosimendan infusion on exercise
      capacity and exercise hemodynamics compared with placebo in patients with advanced chronic
      HF.

      Hypothesis: Treatment with 6 hours infusion of levosimendan 0.2 µg/kg/min compared with
      placebo improves exercise capacity and exercise hemodynamics evaluated by change in CO/PCWP
      (Day 0 to Day 5 (4-6) after infusion) in patients with advanced chronic HF.

      Design: The study is a prospective multi-center, double-blinded, placebo controlled
      randomized study. The study population will consist of 42 consecutive patients who meet the
      eligibility criteria. Patients will be randomized 1:1 to treatment with either levosimendan
      or placebo.
    
  