
    
      Preterm infants are eligible to the study if they they match the following inclusion
      criteria: (1) Gestational age (GA) less than 30 weeks or Birth weight less than 1500g; (2)
      They have a diagnose of RDS, and RDS Silverman score﹥5; (3) Informed parental consent has
      been obtained.

      Neonates will be randomized and assigned either to nCPAP, NIPPV or NHFOV arms with a 1:1:1
      ratio, when patients fulfill all inclusion criteria. Randomization cannot be done earlier.
      Simple randomization will be done according to a computer-generated random number table and
      will be posted in a specific secured website 24/7 available. Twins will be allocated in the
      same treatment group. Infants randomized to one arm cannot crossover to the other or
      vice-versa during the study.

      For all the groups, if the fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) requirement is persistently
      higher than 0.35-0.40 per target SpO2 89-94% and/or dyspnoea defined by Silverman score > 6
      after starting the respiratory support, newborns receive Surfactant by "INSURE" technique,
      involving endotracheal intubation by direct laryngoscopic vision, endotracheal administration
      of surfactant (Curosurf, Chiesi Pharmaceutics, Parma, Italy) 200 mg/kg and finally
      extubation.

      After the administration of surfactant, if FiO2 requirement is persistently >0.4 to keep SpO2
      89-94% or severe apnea episodes are present (defined as recurrent apnea with >3 episodes/h
      associated with heart rate <100/min or a single episode of apnea requiring bag and mask
      ventilation within a 24-hour period ) or at the blood gas (arterial or free-flowing capillary
      blood) PaCO2>60 mmHg and potential of hydrogen (pH)<7.20 obtained at least 1 hour after
      commencement of the assigned treatment, newborns are intubated and mechanically ventilated.
      For all the newborns enrolled in the study, arterial or free-flowing capillary blood gas is
      checked every 6-12 hours, a cerebral and cardiac ultrasound screening is performed within 24
      hrs. Further controls follow the routine of the ward.

      The study intervention (nCPAP, NIPPV or NHFOV) will be stopped when the above-described
      minimum parameters are reached and maintained for at least 48h with the following: (1)
      FiO2≤0.25; (2) Silverman score <3; (3)no apneas or bradycardia without spontaneous
      recovery.If a baby will desaturate (SpO2<85% with FiO2>25%) or has relevant dyspnea
      (Silverman≧3) or more than 3 apneas/d, the intervention (CPAP, NIPPV or NHFOV) will be
      restarted for at least 48h and then re-evaluated
    
  