
    
      The research questions will be does Tuning in to Kids (TIK) for teachers:

        1. lead to improved teacher meta-emotion philosophy (beliefs about emotions), teacher
           emotion awareness/regulation and wellbeing?

        2. lead to improved teacher emotion socialisation (decreased emotion dismissiveness and
           increased emotion coaching) and emotional responsiveness?

        3. lead to improvements in the kindergarten social and emotional climate and improved
           organisational functioning of the kindergarten?

        4. lead to improved child emotion vocabulary and social, emotional, behavioural
           functioning?

        5. provide a cost-effective method for improving the functioning of the FUS kindergartens?

      TIK for Teachers will aim to alter the teacher and kindergarten functioning which in turn is
      expected to impact children's emotional competence (emotion vocabulary/regulation) thereby
      impacting wider aspects of child functioning (behaviour, social functioning). In this trial
      of Tuning in to Kids in Norwegian FUS kindergartens, a cluster randomised design will be
      used. Forty-eight kindergartens, (consisting of 880 teachers), will be randomised into
      intervention or 12-month wait-list control. All kindergartens (intervention and control) will
      complete measures at baseline and 10-month follow-up (in August 2019 and then June 2020).
      Once baseline measures have been collected from all kindergartens (intervention and control),
      those in the intervention condition will receive the TIK intervention (October through to
      March). Twelve-month follow up measures will be collected in June 2020 and will be the same
      measures collected at baseline (outlined below) as well as data on intervention
      implementation (attendance dosage, feasibility, acceptability). Control kindergartens will
      receive the same measures at the same times as the intervention kindergartens and will
      receive the intervention after the 12-month waiting period (in autumn 2020).

      Tuning in to Kids for Teachers - TIK-T: Intervention

      This intervention is professional training for teachers/childcare workers. Key components
      include:

        -  Kindergarten leaders/principals and all school workers will receive an initial three
           hour briefing on the intervention in March 2019;

        -  Kindergarten leaders/lead pedagogue will attend a two-day (14 hours) professional
           training in TIK to learn to use emotion coaching with children in December 2019. This
           will give them skills to support teachers in their application of the ideas in their
           interactions with children.

        -  Childcare workers/kindergarten teachers will attend a full day training (seven hours) in
           how to use emotion coaching and in skills to understand and regulate their emotions
           January 2020;

        -  The Kindergarten leaders/education or pedagogue will deliver supervision sessions to
           assist teachers in implementation of the TIK ideas. This will be two x three hour
           sessions at monthly intervals (February, March 2020);

        -  Structured manuals will be used for intervention delivery and fidelity checklists to
           ensure adherence to the intervention.

        -  Support materials will be provided in online format/manuals for all teachers.

      Measures:

        -  a structured, validated observation measure of classroom social-emotional environment;

        -  teacher responses on questionnaires about their meta-emotion philosophy (beliefs about
           emotions), emotion awareness/regulation, emotion socialisation (emotion dismissiveness
           and emotion coaching), emotion wellbeing/mental health and perceptions of the
           functioning of the kindergarten/school;

        -  kindergarten leader's responses on questionnaires about the kindergarten environment;

        -  kindergarten organisational data on teacher absences, staff turnover etc to measure
           overall organisational functioning;

        -  parents will complete an online questionnaire about their child's emotional language,
           social/emotional/behavioural functioning and their experience of support/engagement with
           the kindergarten. The will also complete a brief measure on their emotion socialization.

        -  a small number of children (for whom parental consent is given) in eight kindergartens
           will participate in a direct assessment at the kindergarten of the child's emotion
           knowledge;

        -  costs of intervention delivery along with expected financial costs/benefits of
           (improved) organisational functioning (such as costs of staff absences, re-hiring,
           organisational problems)

        -  Intervention implementation: information will be collected from teachers/kindergarten
           leaders about intervention acceptability, feasibility and dosage/attendance.
    
  